
10-K
NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION 10-K FYE 12/31/93


PAGE 1
            UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                        Washington, D. C.  20549
                       ---------------------------
                                FORM 10-K
 (X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) of THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
      For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993.
                                   OR
 ( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
      For the transition period from                 to
                                     ---------------    ---------------
                      Commission file number 1-8339
 
                      NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
         (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
                   Virginia                               52-1188014
 ------------------------------------------------    ------------------
         (State or other jurisdiction of               (I.R.S. Employer
         incorporation or organization)              Identification No.)
 
   Three Commercial Place, Norfolk, Virginia              23510-2191
 ------------------------------------------------    ------------------
    (Address of principal executive offices)              (Zip Code)
 
 Registrant's telephone number, including area code    (804) 629-2680
                                                     ------------------
 
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 
                                             Name of each exchange
            Title of each Class              on which registered
            -------------------              ---------------------
       Norfolk Southern Corporation
       Common Stock (Par Value $1.00)       New York Stock Exchange
 
    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  NONE
 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
 reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
 Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
 shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
 and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
 days.   Yes (X) No ( )
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
 Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be
 contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy
 or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
 Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. ( )
 
  The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates
 as of February 28, 1994:  $9,531,338,460
 
  The number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes
 of common stock, as of February 28, 1994:  138,143,035 (excluding
 7,252,634 shares held by registrant's consolidated subsidiaries)
  PAGE 2



                  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

  Portions of the Registrant's definitive proxy statement (to be dated
April 4, 1994) to be filed electronically pursuant to Regulation 14A
not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year are
incorporated by reference in Part III.

  PAGE 3
                                    
                                                        -----------------
           Item                                                Page
           ----                                                ----
Part I      1.   Business......................................  4

            2.   Properties....................................  4

            3.   Legal Proceedings............................. 28

            4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
                    Holders.................................... 29

                 Executive Officers of the Registrant.......... 30


Part II     5.   Market for Registrant's Common Stock and
                    Related Stockholder Matters................ 34

            6.   Selected Financial Data....................... 35

            7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of
                    Financial Condition and Results of
                    Operations................................. 39

            8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data... 39

            9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
                    on Accounting and Financial Disclosure..... 40


Part III   10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the
                    Registrant................................. 41

           11.   Executive Compensation........................ 41

           12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
                    Owners and Management...................... 41

           13.   Certain Relationships and Related
                    Transactions............................... 41


Part IV    14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and
                    Reports on Form 8-K........................ 42

                 Index to Consolidated Financial Statement
                    Schedules.................................. 42


Power of Attorney.............................................. 46

Signatures..................................................... 46

Exhibit Index.................................................. 96

  PAGE 4
                                    
                                 PART I

Item 1.  Business.
- ------   --------
      and
Item 2.  Properties.
- ------   ----------
           GENERAL.  Norfolk Southern Corporation (Norfolk Southern)
was incorporated on July 23, 1980, under the laws of the Commonwealth
of Virginia.  On June l, 1982, Norfolk Southern acquired control of
two major operating railroads, Norfolk and Western Railway Company
(NW) and Southern Railway Company (Southern).  In accordance with an
Agreement of Merger and Reorganization dated as of July 31, 1980, and
related Plans of Merger, and the approval of the transaction by the
Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC), each issued share of NW's common
stock was converted into one share of Norfolk Southern Common Stock
and each issued share of Southern common stock was converted into 
1.9 shares of Norfolk Southern Common Stock.  The outstanding shares of
Southern's preferred stock remained outstanding without change.

           Effective December 31, 1990, Norfolk Southern transferred
all the common stock of NW to Southern, and Southern's name was
changed to Norfolk Southern Railway Company (Norfolk Southern
Railway).  As of February 28, 1994, all the common stock of NW
(100 percent voting control) is owned by Norfolk Southern Railway, and
all the common stock of Norfolk Southern Railway and 7.1 percent of
its preferred stock (resulting in 94.3 percent voting control) are
owned directly by Norfolk Southern.

           On June 21, 1985, Norfolk Southern acquired control of
North American Van Lines, Inc. and its subsidiaries (NAVL), a
diversified motor carrier.  In accordance with an Acquisition
Agreement dated May 2, 1984, and the approval of the transaction by
the ICC, Norfolk Southern acquired all the issued and outstanding
common stock of NAVL from PepsiCo, Inc.  During 1993, NAVL underwent a
restructuring (see discussion on page 7 and in Note 3 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 74) designed to enhance its
opportunities to return to profitability.

           Unless indicated otherwise, Norfolk Southern and its
subsidiaries are referred to collectively as NS.

           STOCK PURCHASE PROGRAMS.  Norfolk Southern announced on
November 24, 1987, that its Board of Directors had authorized the
purchase of up to 20 million shares of Norfolk Southern's common stock
through the end of 1990.  This program was completed in November 1989.
On October 24, 1989, the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of
up to an additional 45 million shares of common stock.  Purchases
under these programs initially were made with internally generated
cash.  Beginning in May 1990, some purchases were financed with
proceeds from the sale of short-term notes pursuant to the commercial
paper program discussed below.  On January 29, 1992, Norfolk Southern
announced that, primarily related to issues surrounding the 1991
special charge (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial

  PAGE 5


Statements on page 85), the purchase program would continue, but at a
slower pace and over a longer authorized period with purchases
dependent on market conditions, the economy, cash needs and
alternative investment opportunities.  As of December 31, 1993,
33.6 million shares had been purchased pursuant to the current program
resulting in a total of 53.6 million shares purchased and retired
since 1987 at a cost of approximately $2.2 billion.  If all 45 million
shares are purchased under the current program, the number of
outstanding shares of common stock will have been reduced by about one
third since 1987.  Purchases are made in regular brokerage
transactions on the open market at prevailing market prices and
otherwise in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission
regulations.

           In June 1989, Norfolk Southern announced that it intended
to purchase up to 250,000 shares of Norfolk Southern Railway's $2.60
Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, during the subsequent two-year
period.  In May 1991, Norfolk Southern extended the previously
announced stock purchase program through 1993.  In March 1994, Norfolk
Southern announced that it would continue purchasing up to 250,000
shares of the stock through 1996.  From June 2, 1989, through
December 31, 1993, Norfolk Southern had purchased 77,626 shares of the
preferred stock at a total cost of approximately $2.67 million.

           COMMERCIAL PAPER PROGRAM AND DEBT ISSUANCE.  In May 1990,
Norfolk Southern established a commercial paper program principally to
finance the purchase and retirement of its common stock.  Commercial
paper debt is due within one year, but a portion has been classified
as long-term because Norfolk Southern has the ability and intends to
refinance its commercial paper on a long-term basis, either by issuing
additional commercial paper (supported by a revolving credit
agreement) or by replacing commercial paper notes with long-term debt.
The original $350 million credit agreement was replaced effective
June 9, 1992, by a credit agreement expiring June 9, 1995, having a
credit limit of $400 million.  The agreement provides for interest on
borrowings at prevailing short-term rates and contains customary
financial covenants, including principally a minimum tangible net
worth requirement of $3 billion and a restriction on the creation or
assumption of certain liens.

           Norfolk Southern intends to replace the current credit
agreement with a new agreement during the first half of 1994.  It is
expected that the new credit agreement will have a term of five years,
a credit limit of $500 million and covenants similar to those included
in the current agreement.

           In January 1991, Norfolk Southern filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission a shelf registration statement on Form S-3
covering the issuance of up to $750 million principal amount of
unsecured debt securities.  On March 13, 1991, Norfolk Southern issued
and sold $250 million principal amount of its 9 percent Notes due
March 1, 2021 (9% Notes).  The 9% Notes are not redeemable prior to

  PAGE 6


maturity and are not entitled to any sinking fund.  Proceeds from the
sale of the 9% Notes were used to purchase and retire shares of
Norfolk Southern Common Stock and to retire short-term commercial
paper debt issued to fund previous share purchases.

           On February 26, 1992, Norfolk Southern issued and sold
$250 million principal amount of its 7-7/8 percent Notes due
February 15, 2004 (7-7/8% Notes).  The 7-7/8% Notes are not redeemable
prior to maturity and are not entitled to any sinking fund.  Proceeds
from the sale of the 7-7/8% Notes were used to purchase and retire
shares of Norfolk Southern Common Stock and to retire short-term
commercial paper debt.

           RAILROAD OPERATIONS.  As of December 31, 1993, NS'
railroads operated 14,589 miles of road in the states of Alabama,
Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana,
Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New York, North Carolina,
Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West
Virginia, and the Province of Ontario, Canada.  Of this total,
12,761 miles are owned, 677 miles are leased and 1,151 miles are
operated under trackage rights.  Of the operated mileage, 11,870
miles are main line and 2,719 miles are branch line.  In addition,
NS' railroads operate approximately 11,266 miles of passing,
industrial, yard and side tracks.

           NS' railroads have major leased lines in North Carolina and
between Cincinnati, Oh., and Chattanooga, Tn.  The North Carolina
leases, covering approximately 300 miles, expire at the end of 1994,
and NS' railroads are discussing possible renewals with the lessor.  If
these leases are not renewed, NS' railroads could be required to
continue using the lines subject to conditions prescribed by the ICC or
they might find it necessary ultimately to operate over an alternate
route or routes.  It is not expected that the resolution of this
matter, whether resulting in renewal of the leases, continued use of
the leased lines under prescribed conditions or operation over one or
more alternate routes, will have a material effect on NS' consolidated
financial position.  The Cincinnati-Chattanooga lease, covering about
335 miles, expires in 2026, subject to an option to extend the lease
for an additional 25 years at terms to be agreed upon.

           NS' lines carry raw materials, intermediate products and
finished goods primarily in the Southeast and Midwest and to and
from the rest of the United States and parts of Canada.  These lines
also transport overseas freight through several Atlantic and Gulf
Coast ports.  Atlantic ports served by NS include:  Norfolk, Va.;
Morehead City, N.C.; Charleston, S.C.; Savannah and Brunswick, Ga.;
and Jacksonville, Fl.  Gulf Coast ports served include:  Mobile,
Al., and New Orleans, La.

           The lines of NS' railroads reach most of the larger
industrial and trading centers of the Southeast and Midwest, with
the exception of those in central and southern Florida.  Atlanta,

  PAGE 7


Birmingham, New Orleans, Memphis, St. Louis, Kansas City (Missouri),
Chicago, Detroit, Cincinnati, Buffalo, Norfolk, Charleston, Savannah
and Jacksonville are among the leading centers originating and
terminating freight traffic on the system.  In addition to serving
other established centers, its lines reach many industries, mines
(in western Virginia, eastern Kentucky and southern West Virginia)
and businesses located in smaller communities in its service area.
The traffic corridors carrying the heaviest volumes of freight
include those from the Appalachian coal fields of Virginia, West
Virginia and Kentucky to Norfolk and Sandusky, Oh.; Buffalo to
Chicago and Kansas City; Chicago to Jacksonville (via Cincinnati,
Chattanooga and Atlanta); and Washington, D.C./Hagerstown, Md., to
New Orleans (via Atlanta and Birmingham).

           Buffalo, Chicago, Hagerstown, Jacksonville, Kansas City,
Memphis, New Orleans and St. Louis are major gateways for
interterritorial system traffic.

           MOTOR CARRIER OPERATIONS.  NAVL's principal transportation
activity is the domestic, irregular route common and contract carriage
of used household goods and special commodities between points in the
United States.  NAVL also operates as an intrastate carrier of
property in 17 states.

           Prior to its restructuring in 1993, NAVL's domestic motor
carrier business was organized into three primary divisions:
Relocation Services (RS) specializing in residential relocation of
household goods; High Value Products (HVP) specializing in office and
industrial relocations and transporting exhibits; and Commercial
Transport (CT) specializing in the transportation of truckload
shipments of general commodities.  In 1993, NAVL underwent a
restructuring involving termination of the CT Division and sale of the
operations of Tran-Star, Inc. (Tran-Star), NAVL's refrigerated
trucking subsidiary.  In 1993, NAVL discontinued CT's operations,
transferred some parts of CT's business to other divisions and began
selling CT's assets that are not needed in NAVL's other operations.
The sale of Tran-Star's operations was completed on December 31, 1993.
During 1993, the RS and HVP divisions conducted operations through
agents at 707 locations in the United States.  Agents are local moving
and storage companies that provide NAVL with such services as
solicitation, packing and warehousing in connection with the movement
of household goods and specialized products.  NAVL's domestic
operations are expected to be conducted principally through the RS and
HVP divisions in 1994 and thereafter.

           Customized Logistics Services (CLS) was established in 1993
as an operating unit of the HVP Division.  CLS' business is to focus
NAVL's resources to respond to a variety of customer needs for
integrated logistics services.  The services include emergency parts
order fulfillment, time definite transportation, and returns and
merchandise recycling services.

  PAGE 8


           NAVL's foreign operations are conducted through the RS and
HVP Divisions and through foreign subsidiaries, including North
American Van Lines Canada, Ltd.  The latter subsidiary provides motor
carrier service for the transportation of used household goods and
specialized commodities between most points in Canada through a
network of approximately 182 agent locations.  NAVL's international
operations consist primarily of forwarding used household goods to and
from the United States and between foreign countries through a network
of approximately 350 foreign agents and representatives.  NAVL's
international operations are structured to align them with the
services provided by its domestic operating divisions.  All
international household goods operations and related subsidiaries in
Alaska, Canada and Panama are assigned to the RS Division.  The
remaining international operations, which include subsidiaries in the
United States, Germany and the United Kingdom, are involved in the
transportation of selected general and specialized commodities and are
assigned to the HVP Division.

           The RS Division successfully completed its negotiations in
the first quarter of 1992 to form a joint venture company known as UTS
Europe Holding BV (UTS).  The new entity, which is headquartered in
Amsterdam, Netherlands, has been handling intra-European movement of
household goods since March 1, 1992.  NAVL has a 40 percent interest
in UTS which is comprised of approximately 70 individual shareholders
in 65 locations throughout Europe.  To date, national and regional
organizations have been formed under the UTS banner in Germany and the
Netherlands (founding members), with an 8 percent and 5 percent
interest in UTS, respectively.  In addition, the United Kingdom
(8 percent interest in UTS), Belgium (5 percent interest) and the
Scandinavian countries (5 percent interest) have also formed under the
UTS banner.

           TRIPLE CROWN OPERATIONS.  Until April 1993, Norfolk
Southern's intermodal subsidiary, Triple Crown Services, Inc. (TCS),
offered intermodal service using RoadRailer (Registered
Trademark) (RT) equipment and domestic containers.  RoadRailer(RT)
units are enclosed vans which can be pulled over highways in tractor-
trailer configuration and over the rails by locomotives.  On April 1,
1993, the business, name and operations of TCS were transferred to
Triple Crown Services Company (TCSC), a partnership formed by
subsidiaries of Norfolk Southern and Consolidated Rail Corporation
(CR).  RoadRailer(RT) equipment owned or leased by TCS (which was
renamed TCS Leasing, Inc.) is operated by TCSC.  Because NS indirectly
owns only 50 percent of TCSC (an affiliate of CR also owns
50 percent), the revenues of TCSC are not consolidated with the
results of NS.  TCSC offers door-to-door intermodal service using
RoadRailer(RT) equipment and domestic containers in the corridors
previously served by TCS, as well as service to the New York and New
Jersey markets via CR.  Major traffic corridors include those between
New York and Chicago, Chicago and Atlanta and Atlanta and New York.

  PAGE 9


           TRANSPORTATION OPERATING REVENUES.  NS' total
transportation operating revenues were $4.5 billion in 1993.  These
revenues were received for the transportation of revenue freight:
262.3 million tons by rail and 3.2 million tons by motor carrier.  Of
the rail tonnage, approximately 210.4 million tons originated on line,
approximately 222.8 million tons terminated on line (including
177.1 million tons of local traffic -- originating and terminating on
line) and approximately 6.2 million tons was overhead traffic (neither
originating nor terminating on line).

           Revenue and revenue ton mile (one ton of freight moved one
mile) contributions by principal transportation operating revenue
sources for the period 1989 through 1993 are set forth in the
following table:


  PAGE 10



  PAGE 11


           COAL TRAFFIC - The commodity group moving in largest
tonnage volume over NS' railroads is coal, coke and iron ore, most of
which is bituminous coal.  NS' railroads originated 112.1 million tons
of coal, coke and iron ore in 1993 and handled a total of
118.0 million tons.  Originated tonnage decreased 5 percent from
118.0 million tons in 1992, and total tons handled decreased 5 percent
from 124.4 million tons.  Revenues from coal, coke and iron ore, which
accounted for 27 percent of NS' total transportation operating
revenues and 36 percent of total revenue ton miles in 1993, were
$1.21 billion, a decrease of 6 percent from $1.30 billion in 1992.

           The following table shows total coal tonnage originated on
NS' lines, received from connections and handled for the five years
ended December 31, 1993:



           Of the 109.8 million tons of coal originating on NS
railroad lines in 1993, the approximate breakdown is as follows:
37.9 million tons from West Virginia, 37.6 million tons came from
Virginia, 22.9 million tons from Kentucky, 7.6 million tons from
Alabama, 1.7 million tons from Tennessee, 1.1 million tons from
Illinois, and 1.0 million tons from Indiana.  Of this NS-origin coal,
approximately 25.3 million tons moved for export, principally through
NS pier facilities at Norfolk (Lamberts Point), Va.; 20.1 million tons
moved to domestic and Canadian steel industries; 55.6 million tons of
steam coal moved to electric utilities; and 8.8 million tons moved to
other industrial and miscellaneous users.  NS' railroads moved
9.7 million tons of originated coal to various docks on the Ohio River
for further movement by barge and 5.1 million tons to various Lake
Erie ports.  Other than coal moving for export, virtually all coal
tonnage handled by NS' railroads was terminated in states situated
east of the Mississippi River.

           Total NS coal tonnage handled through all system ports in
1993 was 42.4 million.  Of this total, 65 percent moved through the
pier facilities at Lamberts Point.  In 1993, total tonnage handled at
Lamberts Point, including coastwise traffic, was 27.6 million tons, a
20 percent decrease from the 34.7 million tons handled in 1992.

  PAGE 12


           The quantities of NS coal handled for export only through
Lamberts Point for the five years ended December 31, 1993, were as
follows:



           The recession in Europe and high stockpiles of coal
overseas continued to affect NS' railroads' export coal shipments in
1993, as did the UMWA strike at several mines served by NS.  Domestic
coal was essentially flat, compared with 1992, although the market for
utility coals increased slightly because of the hot weather in our
service region and continued spot tonnage purchases.  Increased
shipments to steel producers were attributed to strike-related
problems encountered by suppliers served by other carriers; the
industrial market stayed even with the previous year.

           MERCHANDISE RAIL TRAFFIC - The merchandise traffic group
consists of Intermodal and five major commodity groupings
(Paper/Forest; Chemicals; Automotive; Agriculture; and
Metals/Construction).  Total NS railroad merchandise revenues
increased in 1993 to $2.41 billion, a 2 percent increase over 1992.
Railroad merchandise carloads handled in 1993 were 2.82 million,
compared with 2.66 million handled in 1992, an increase of 6 percent.

           Intermodal results reflect the effect of the formation, in
April 1993, of Triple Crown Services Company (TCSC), a partnership
between NS and Conrail subsidiaries (see also page 8).  This
partnership provides RoadRailer(RT) and domestic container services
previously offered by a wholly owned NS subsidiary.  Because NS owns
only 50 percent of TCSC, its revenues are not consolidated, and NS'
1993 intermodal revenues include only revenues for rail service
provided by NS to the partnership.  Excluding this partnership effect,
intermodal revenues would have increased 10 percent, and merchandise
revenues would have increased 5 percent.

           In 1993, 97.8 million tons of merchandise freight, or
approximately 68 percent of total rail merchandise tonnage handled by
NS, originated on line.  The balance of NS' railroad merchandise
traffic was received from connecting carriers (mostly railroads, with
some intermodal, water and highway as well), usually at
interterritorial gateways.  The principal interchange points for NS-
received traffic included Chicago, Memphis, New Orleans, Cincinnati,
Kansas City, Detroit, Hagerstown, St. Louis/East St. Louis, and
Louisville.

  PAGE 13


           The economy improved in 1993, but the pace of recovery was
still below the average of post-war recoveries.  All merchandise
commodity groups showed improvement over 1992.  The biggest gains were
in Intermodal, up $34.1 million (adjusted for the effect of the TCSC
partnership with Conrail); Automotive, up $28.0 million; Metals/
Construction, up $19.8 million and Agriculture, up $18.3 million.
There were smaller gains in Paper/Forest and Chemicals.

           PAPER/FOREST traffic (including paper, paperboard, wood
pulp, pulpwood, wood chips, lumber, kaolin clay and waste paper)
accounted for 11 percent of NS' total transportation operating
revenues and 13 percent of total revenue ton miles during 1993.
Compared with 1992, Paper/Forest revenues increased 1 percent and
revenue ton miles increased 3 percent.

           Weak domestic and overseas demand for paper depressed NS
shipments for much of the year.  Lumber, however, posted a 4 percent
gain in revenue due to a strong recovery in housing construction.
Moderate growth, somewhat higher than industry production, is expected
over the next few years due to growth in market share.

           CHEMICALS traffic (including petroleum products, plastics,
fertilizers, nonmetallic minerals, sulfur, chloral-alkali chemicals,
rubber, miscellaneous chemicals and waste/hazardous chemicals)
accounted for 11 percent of NS' total transportation operating
revenues and 13 percent of total revenue ton miles during 1993.
Compared with 1992, NS' total revenue for chemicals was up 0.3 percent
and revenue ton miles increased 3 percent.  The lower gain in revenue
was due to a change in the mix of traffic.

           Gains in general chemicals and plastics were offset by
weakness in movements of export fertilizer due to sluggish conditions
overseas.  Stronger growth is expected in 1994 and beyond, paced by
additional rail-truck distribution facilities for bulk chemicals.
While environmental concerns could adversely affect production of
pesticides and chlorine, increased environmental awareness is likely
to have a positive impact on movements of recyclables, hazardous
wastes and alternative fuels such as ethanol.

           AUTOMOTIVE traffic (including motor vehicles, vehicle
parts, miscellaneous transportation and ordnance, and tires) accounted
for 10 percent of NS' total transportation operating revenues and
4 percent of revenue ton miles during 1993.  Compared with 1992, NS
Automotive revenues increased 7 percent and revenue ton miles
increased 14 percent.

  PAGE 14


           The gain was due to strong demand for vehicles produced at
plants served by NS.  NS' largest customer, Ford Motor Company,
produced the top-selling automobile and truck in 1993.  In addition,
NS benefited from a full year of production at the Ford/Nissan plant
located near Avon Lake, Oh.  Successful marketing efforts, such as an
innovative program with GM for just-in-time movement of auto parts,
also contributed to the gain.

           Further growth in Automotive is expected in 1994 and
beyond, as U.S. automotive production is anticipated to increase for
the next few years.  Within this growing market, NS will pursue
innovative marketing programs and aggressive industrial development.
From 1994 to 1997, operations will begin at three new or expanded
automotive assembly plants located on NS--the second Toyota Plant at
Georgetown, Ky., in 1994; BMW at Greer, S.C., in 1995; and Mercedes-
Benz at Tuscaloosa, Al., in 1997.  The retooling of GM's Wentzville,
Mo., and Doraville, Ga., plants for van production should also
increase traffic.

           AGRICULTURE traffic (including grains and soybeans, feed
and feed ingredients, sweeteners, beverages, consumer products, and
various other agricultural and food commodities) accounted for 
7 percent of NS' total transportation operating revenues and 12 percent
of total revenue ton miles during 1993.  Compared with 1992,
agricultural revenues increased 6 percent and revenue ton miles
increased 8 percent.

           In the early part of the year, NS benefited from a record
harvest, that continued well into 1993.  During the summer, the flood
in the Midwest diverted traffic to rail that formerly moved by barge.
In the fall, good crop conditions in NS' sourcing areas and poor
conditions elsewhere produced strong NS traffic gains.

           Although the special conditions present during 1993 are not
likely to recur in 1994, a small increase in agriculture revenue is
expected, driven by growth in poultry production in the Southeast, a
prime NS feed grain market.

           METALS/CONSTRUCTION traffic (including aluminum ore, iron
and steel, aluminum products, scrap metal, machinery, sand and gravel,
cement, brick, miscellaneous construction, and nonhazardous waste)
accounted for 7 percent of NS' total transportation operating revenues
and 9 percent of total revenue ton miles during 1993.  Compared with
1992, NS' total revenues for Metals/Construction were up 7 percent and
revenue ton miles were up 13 percent.

           Most of the revenue gain was in shipments of iron and
steel, where strong industry production and new plants located on NS'
lines boosted revenue $10 million.  Shipments of construction
commodities were also strong due to a recovery in housing.

  PAGE 15


           Further gains are expected over the next few years.  NS has
initiatives under way intended to win back truck business in aluminum,
and several new movements of municipal solid waste are expected.

           INTERMODAL traffic (including trailers, containers, and
Triple Crown) accounted for 8 percent of NS' total transportation
operating revenues and 11 percent of total revenue ton miles during
1993.  Compared with 1992, intermodal revenues increased 9 percent,
and revenue ton miles increased 9 percent.

           Intermodal growth in 1993 was led by a 21 percent increase
in Triple Crown activity due to strong automotive shipments and
expansion of service to the Northeast through the partnership with
Conrail.  Container revenues were up 6 percent, a smaller increase
than previous years due to less international traffic caused by the
continuing recession in Europe and Japan.  Trailer revenue was up
11 percent, boosted by gains from haulage arrangements with truckload
carriers.

           Strong growth is expected in 1994 and for the next several
years.  TCSC should continue to grow as service is expanded to
additional markets.  Container growth is expected to improve as
recoveries overseas produce steady growth in international shipments.
Trailer business also is expected to grow, as leading truckload
carriers, such as Schneider National and J.B. Hunt, use rail for the
long-haul portion of their shipments.

           OTHER INTERMODAL primarily consists of drayage from or to
rail points and is exclusively related to Triple Crown activity (see
discussion of new partnership on page 12).  The figures shown for 1993
reflect the results of NS' wholly owned subsidiary which performed
RoadRailer(RT) services only for the first three months of 1993 (up to
the inception of the TCSC partnership).

           MOTOR CARRIER TRAFFIC - NAVL's traffic volume decreased
during 1993; total revenues from operations were $714.2 million, down
13.9 percent from 1992, including a 16.2 percent decrease resulting
from NAVL's restructuring.  NAVL's expenses decreased 11.5 percent in
1993, also resulting from the restructuring.

           NAVL's domestic motor carrier operations are conducted
primarily through its RS and HVP divisions.  In 1993, total domestic
shipments for these divisions, including the CT Division through
June 25, 1993, numbered 550,207, down 12.8 percent from 1992,
resulting from the restructuring.  Further comments about each
division follow.

  PAGE 16


           Domestic shipments of used household goods transported by
the RS Division fall into three market categories.  Approximately
50 percent of the domestic shipment volume comes from the sale of
moving services to individual consumers.  Another 35 percent comes
from corporations and other businesses that pay for the relocation of
their employees.  The remaining 15 percent is derived from military,
government and other sources.  Total domestic RS Division shipments in
1993 represented 21 percent of the NAVL domestic motor carrier
shipments transported by the three primary divisions.  Total domestic
revenues from this division were down 2 percent, compared with 1992,
and represented 38 percent of total revenues from operations.

           The HVP Division specializes in providing transportation
services in less-than-truckload (LTL) and truckload (TL) quantities to
manufacturers of sensitive products.  These products are divided into
the following categories:  office furniture and equipment, exhibits
and displays, electronic equipment, industrial machinery, commercial
relocation, LTL furniture and selected general commodities.  Total
HVP Division shipments transported in 1993, including TL and LTL,
represented 43 percent of the NAVL domestic motor carrier shipments
transported by the three primary divisions.  Revenues from this
division were up 15 percent from 1992 levels and represented
33 percent of total revenues from operations.

           The operations of the CT Division were discontinued in
1993.  Total CT Division shipments transported in 1993 represented
36 percent of NAVL's total domestic motor carrier shipments
transported for the entire year by the three primary divisions.
Revenues from this division were down 50 percent from 1992 levels and
represented 19 percent of total revenues from operations.

           FOREIGN OPERATIONS include NAVL's Canadian subsidiary,
North American Van Lines Canada, Ltd., as well as operating
subsidiaries in England, Germany and Panama.  Foreign operations
involving the transportation of household goods and selected general
and specialized commodities generated revenues of $69.5 million in
1993, down 10 percent from 1992.  Revenues from foreign operations
represented 10 percent of NAVL's total revenue.

  PAGE 17


           RAIL OPERATING STATISTICS.  The following table sets forth
certain statistics relating to NS' railroad operations during the
periods indicated:



           FREIGHT RATES.  In the pricing of freight services, NS'
railroads continued in 1993 to increase reliance on private
contracts which, coupled with traffic that has been exempted from
regulation by the ICC (e.g., boxcar and intermodal traffic),
presently account for over 80 percent of freight operating revenues.
Thus, a major portion of NS' railroads' freight business is not
economically regulated by the government.  In general, market forces
have been substituted for government regulation and now are the
primary determinant of rail service prices.

           In 1993, the ICC found NS' railroads "revenue adequate"
based on results for the year 1992.  A railroad is "revenue
adequate" under the Interstate Commerce Act when its return on net
investment exceeds the rail industry's cost of capital.  The
condition of "revenue adequacy" determines whether a railroad can
take advantage of a provision in the Interstate Commerce Act
allowing freedom to increase regulated rates by a specific
percentage.  However, with the decreasing importance of regulated
tariff traffic to NS' railroads, the ICC's "revenue adequacy"
findings have less impact than formerly.

  PAGE 18


           Pricing and service flexibility afforded by the Motor
Carrier Act of 1980 and the Household Goods Transportation Act of
1980 has resulted in NAVL's increased emphasis on innovative pricing
action in order to remain competitive.  Since 1980, NAVL has
increasingly operated as a contract carrier.  As of December 31,
1993, domestic contract carriage agreements accounted for the
following percentage of shipments:  RS Division, 31.9 percent and
HVP Division, 72.7 percent; the CT Division was discontinued in June
of 1993.

           PASSENGER OPERATIONS.  Regularly scheduled passenger
operations on NS' lines consist of Amtrak trains operating between
Alexandria and New Orleans, and between Charlotte and Selma, N.C.
Former Amtrak operations between East St. Louis and Centralia, Il.,
were discontinued by Amtrak November 3, 1993.  Commuter trains
continued operations on the NS line between Manassas and Alexandria
under contract with two transportation commissions of the
Commonwealth of Virginia, providing for reimbursement of related
expenses incurred by NS.  During 1993, a lease of the Chicago to
Manhattan, Il., line to the Commuter Rail Division of the Regional
Transportation Authority of Northeast Illinois replaced a purchase
of service agreement by which NS had provided commuter rail service
for the Authority.

           OTHER RAILWAY OPERATIONS.  Revenues from switching,
demurrage and miscellaneous services amounted to $121.5 million, or
approximately 3 percent of total transportation operating revenues,
during 1993 and $121.7 million, or approximately 3 percent of total
transportation operating revenues, in 1992.

           NONCARRIER OPERATIONS.  Norfolk Southern's noncarrier
subsidiaries engage principally in the acquisition and subsequent leasing
of coal, oil, gas and timberlands, the development of commercial real
estate and the leasing or sale of rail property and equipment.  In 1993,
no such noncarrier subsidiary or industry segment grouping of noncarrier
subsidiaries met the requirements for a reportable business segment set
forth in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 14.

           In January 1994, certain Norfolk Southern subsidiaries
purchased rights with respect to an estimated 210 million recoverable
tons of coal located primarily in eastern Kentucky and southern West
Virginia.  The cash purchase price for the acquisition was $71 million.
These coal reserves have been leased to various producers who are to
operate and mine the properties under long-term leases providing royalty
income to NS.

  PAGE 19




  PAGE 20




           The average age of the freight car fleet at December 31,
1993, was 20.8 years.  During 1993, NS retired 5,576 freight cars.  As
of December 31, 1993, the average age of the locomotive fleet was
14.6 years.  During 1993, NS retired 37 locomotives, the average age
of which was 24.7 years.  Since 1989, NS has rebodied over 14,000 coal
cars.  As a result, the remaining serviceability of the freight car
fleet is greater than is indicated by the percentage of freight cars
built in earlier years.

           NS continues freight car and locomotive maintenance
programs to ensure the highest standards of safety, reliability,
customer satisfaction and equipment marketability.  In recent years,
as illustrated in the table below, the bad order ratio has risen or
remained fairly stable primarily due to the storage of certain types
of cars which are not in high demand.  Funds were not spent to repair
cars for which present and future customers' needs could be adequately
met without such repair programs.  Also, NS' own standards of what
constitutes a "serviceable" car have risen, and NS continues a
rational disposition program for underutilized, unserviceable and
overage cars.



  PAGE 21


           TRACKAGE - All NS trackage is standard gauge, and the rail
in approximately 95 percent of the main line trackage (including
first, second, third and branch main tracks, all excluding trackage
rights) is heavyweight rail ranging from 90 to 155 pounds per yard.
Of the 23,512 miles of track maintained by NS as of December 31, 1993,
15,621 were laid with welded rail.

           The density of traffic on NS running tracks (main line
trackage plus passing tracks) during 1993 was as follows:





           MICROWAVE SYSTEM - The NS microwave system, consisting of
6,584 radio path miles, 374 active stations and 7 passive repeater
stations, provides communication services between Norfolk, Buffalo,
Detroit, Fort Wayne, Chicago, Kansas City, St. Louis, Washington,
D.C., Atlanta, New Orleans, Jacksonville, Memphis, Cincinnati and most
operating locations between these cities.  The microwave system
provides approximately 2,152,600 individual voice channel miles of
circuits, and NS began a conversion of the system from analog to
digital technology in 1993.  Conversion is under way on all microwave
facilities between St. Louis, Mo., and Danville, Ky.; the process is
also under way between Roanoke and Norfolk, Va.  The microwave
communication system is used principally for voice communications,
VHF radio control circuits, data and facsimile transmissions, traffic
control operations, AEI data transmissions, and relay of intelligence
from defective equipment detectors.  Extension of microwave
communications to low density or operations support facilities is
accomplished via microwave interface to buried fiber-optic or copper
cables.

  PAGE 22


           TRAFFIC CONTROL - Of a total of 13,438 road miles operated
by NS, excluding trackage rights over foreign lines, 5,274
road miles are governed by centralized traffic control systems and
2,734 road miles are equipped for automatic block system operation.

           COMPUTERS - Data processing facilities connect the yards,
terminals, transportation offices, rolling stock repair points, sales
offices and other key locations on NS to the central computer complex
in Atlanta, Ga.  System operating and traffic data are compiled and
stored to provide customers with information on their shipments
throughout the system.  Data processing facilities are capable of
providing current information on the location of every train and each
car on line, as well as related waybill and other train and car
movement data.  Additionally, this facility affords substantial
capacity for, and is utilized to assist management in the performance
of, a wide variety of functions and services, including payroll, car
and revenue accounting, billing, material management activities and
controls, and special studies.

           OTHER - NS has extensive facilities for support of railroad
operations, including freight depots, car construction shops,
maintenance shops, office buildings, and signals and communications
facilities.

           MOTOR CARRIER PROPERTY.

           REAL ESTATE - NAVL owns and leases real estate in support
of its operations.  Principal real estate holdings include NAVL's
headquarters complex and warehouse and vehicle maintenance facilities
in Fort Wayne, Indiana, vehicle maintenance facilities in Fontana,
California, and terminal facilities in Grand Rapids, Michigan, and
Great Falls, Montana.  NAVL also leases facilities throughout the
United States for sales offices, maintenance facilities and for
warehouse, terminal and distribution center operations.

           EQUIPMENT - NAVL relies extensively on independent
contractors (owner-operators) who supply the power equipment
(tractors) used to pull NAVL trailers.  Agents also provide a
substantial portion of NAVL's equipment needs, particularly for the
transportation of household goods, by furnishing tractors and trailers
on either a permanent or an intermittent lease basis.

           As of December 31, 1993, agents and owner-operators
together supplied 4,280 tractors, representing 71 percent of the U.S.
power equipment operated in NAVL service.  Also as of December 31,
1993, NAVL owned 6,981 trailer units, representing 73 percent of the
U.S. trailer fleet in NAVL service.  The remaining 27 percent was
provided mainly by agents and owner-operators.  Agents also provided
1,145 straight trucks, or 97 percent of such units in NAVL service.

  PAGE 23


           NAVL has an extensive program for the repair and
maintenance of its trailer equipment.  In 1993, work orders on
approximately 18,574 trailers were completed at NAVL's facility in
Fort Wayne.  As of December 31, 1993, the average age of trailer
equipment in the NAVL fleet was 6.7 years.

           COMPUTERS - NAVL relies extensively on data processing
facilities for shipment planning and dispatch functions as well as
shipment tracing.  Data processing capabilities are also utilized in
revenue processing functions, driver and agent account settlement
activity, and internal accounting and record keeping service.

           In 1993, NAVL continued implementation of
WORLDTRAC(Trademark), a satellite-based mobile communications and
position-reporting system.  The system allows NAVL, through computers
installed in cabs, to communicate instantaneously with fleet drivers
while enroute to optimize customer service and to insure customer
retention.  The ability to locate a driver and communicate instantly
has resulted in improved equipment utilization.  As of December 31,
1993, satellite units were in place on approximately 1,710 tractors
throughout the NAVL fleet.  This is a substantial decrease from 1992
due to the discontinuation of the CT Division's operations.

           ENCUMBRANCES.  A substantial portion of NS' properties is
subject to liens securing, as of December 31, 1993 and 1992,
approximately $125.9 million and $148.5 million of mortgage debt,
respectively.  In addition, certain equipment is subject to the prior
lien of equipment financing obligations amounting to approximately
$551.4 million as of December 31, 1993, and $593.7 million at
December 31, 1992.

           Many of the tractors utilized in NAVL service are purchased
by NAVL from manufacturers and resold to agents and owner-operators
under a NAVL-sponsored financing program.  At December 31, 1993, NAVL
had $27.1 million in such tractor contracts receivable.  This program
allows NAVL to generate the funds necessary to purchase the tractors
and to resell them under favorable financing terms.  The equipment is
sold under conditional sales contracts with the agents and owner-
operators.

  PAGE 24


           CAPITAL EXPENDITURES.  During the five calendar years ended
December 31, 1993, NS' capital expenditures for road, equipment and
other property were as follows:



           NS' capital spending and maintenance programs are and have
been designed to assure the Corporation's ability to provide safe,
efficient and reliable transportation services.  For 1994, NS is
planning $634 million of capital spending, of which $627 million will
be for railway projects and $7 million for motor carrier property.  NS
anticipates new equipment financing of approximately $72 million in
1994.  Looking further ahead, rail capital spending is likely to
increase moderately over the next few years.  The proposed
construction of a $100 million coal ground storage facility in Isle of
Wight County, Va., may affect capital spending in future years.
However, because of delays in the permitting process and reduced
demand for export coal, any significant spending on this project is
not expected until after 1994.  In addition to boosting capacity, this
new facility should further increase the efficiency of coal
transportation service and reduce the need for new coal hopper cars.
A substantial portion of future capital spending is expected to be
funded through internally generated cash, although debt financing will
continue as the primary funding source for equipment acquisitions.

           In January 1994, NS spent $71 million for coal reserves
(see discussion on page 18).

           ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS.  Compliance with federal, state and
local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the
environment is a principal NS goal.  To date, such compliance has not
affected materially NS' capital additions, earnings, liquidity or
competitive position.

  PAGE 25


           Costs for environmental protection for 1993 were
approximately $32.9 million, of which $28.9 million were operating
expenses and $4.0 million were capitalized.  Such NS expenditures
historically have been associated with the cleanup of real estate used
for operating and nonoperating purposes, solid/hazardous waste
handling and disposal, water pollution control, asbestos removal
projects and removal/remediation work related to underground tanks.

           To promote achievement of NS' environmental objectives and
to assure continuous improvement in its programs, environmental
engineers perform ongoing analyses of all identified sites, and --
after consulting with counsel -- any necessary adjustments to initial
liability estimates are recorded (and expensed or capitalized, as
appropriate).  Evaluations of other sites are ongoing.  NS also has
established an Environmental Policy Council, composed of senior
managers, to prescribe and direct its environmental initiatives and
undertake environmental awareness programs through which NS employees
will receive training.

           Certain NS rail subsidiaries have received notices from the
Environmental Protection Agency that they are potentially responsible
parties under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation
and Liability Act (CERCLA) which generally imposes joint and several
liability for cleanup costs.  State agencies also have notified
certain NS rail subsidiaries that they may be potentially responsible
for environmental damages, and in several instances they have agreed
voluntarily to initiate cleanup.

           For CERCLA sites and all other known environmental
incidents where loss or liability is probable, NS has recorded an
estimated liability.  The amount of that liability, which includes
estimated costs of remediation (and any associated restoration) on a
site-by-site basis, is expected to be paid over several years.
Although the estimated liability usually is expensed in the year it is
recorded, certain expenditures relating to real estate development
projects have been capitalized.  Claims, if any, against third parties
for recovery of remediation costs incurred by NS are reflected as
receivables in the balance sheet and not netted against the associated
NS liability.

           Estimates of a company's potential financial exposure even
for known environmental claims or incidents are necessarily imprecise
because of the widely varying costs of available remediation
techniques, the difficulty of determining in advance the nature and
extent of contamination and each potential participant's share of an
estimated loss, and evolving statutory and regulatory standards
governing liability.

           The risk of incurring environmental liability -- for acts
and omissions, both past and current -- is inherent in railroad
operations.  Moreover, some of the commodities, particularly those

  PAGE 26


classified as hazardous materials, in NS' traffic mix can pose special
risks, which NS and its subsidiaries work diligently to minimize.  In
addition, several NS subsidiaries have land holdings that may be
leased (and operated by others) or held for sale.  Because certain
conditions may exist on these properties for which NS ultimately may
bear some financial responsibility, there can be no assurance that NS
will not incur liabilities or costs, the amount and materiality of
which, to a single accounting period or in the aggregate, cannot be
estimated reliably now, related to environmental problems that are
latent or undiscovered.

           However, based on its assessments of the facts and
circumstances now known and after consulting with its legal counsel,
Management believes that it has recorded appropriate estimates of
liability for those environmental matters of which NS is aware.

           At year end, a grand jury investigation was under way
regarding possible violations of certain environmental statutes in
1989 at Moberly Yard, Moberly, Mo.  A more detailed report of this
incident, including information concerning its resolution since year
end, is set forth under the heading "Item 3.  Legal Proceedings."

           EMPLOYEES.   NS employed an average of 29,304 employees in
1993, compared with an average of 30,135 in 1992.  The approximate
average cost per employee during 1993 was $39,581 in wages and $18,711
in employee benefits.  Approximately 72 percent of these employees are
represented by various labor organizations.

           GOVERNMENT REGULATION.   In addition to environmental,
safety, securities and other regulations generally applicable to all
businesses, NS' railroads are subject to regulation by the ICC,
various state regulatory agencies and the Department of
Transportation.  The ICC has jurisdiction over many rates, routes,
conditions of service, and the extension or abandonment of rail lines.
The ICC also has jurisdiction over the consolidation, merger or
acquisition of control of and by rail common carriers.  The Department
of Transportation regulates certain track and mechanical equipment
standards.

           The relaxation of economic regulation of the railroads by
the ICC, started over a decade ago under the Staggers Rail Act of
1980, has continued.  The ICC has recently authorized the partial
deregulation of the charges railroads pay for the use of rail cars.
Certain transactions and classes of traffic have been exempted from
ICC regulation.  Those most significant for NS' railroads are
TOFC/COFC (i.e., "piggyback") business, rail boxcar traffic, lumber,
manufactured steel, automobiles and certain bulk commodities such as
sand, gravel, pulpwood and wood chips for paper manufacturing.
Transportation contracts on regulated shipments, after approval by the
ICC, effectively remove those shipments from regulation as well.  Over
80 percent of NS' freight revenues come from either exempt traffic or
traffic moving under ICC approved transportation contracts.

  PAGE 27


           For motor carrier operations conducted by NAVL, the ICC and
Department of Transportation remain the principal regulatory entities.
The ICC continues to exercise jurisdiction over common carrier rates,
the relationship between carriers and owner-operators, and carrier
practices relating to the transportation of household goods.  The
primary focus of the Department of Transportation is on driver
qualification and safety standards, including maximum trailer length
and width.

           COMPETITION.  There is continuing strong competition among
rail, water and highway carriers.  Price is usually only one factor of
importance as shippers and receivers choose a transport mode and
specific hauling company.  Inventory carrying costs, service
reliability, ease of handling and the desire to avoid loss and damage
during transit are increasingly important considerations, especially
for higher valued finished goods, machinery, and consumer products.
Even for raw materials, semi-finished goods, and work-in-process,
users are increasingly sensitive to transport arrangements which
minimize problems at successive production stages.

           NS' primary rail competitor is the CSX system, which
operates throughout much of the same territory served by NS.  Other
railroads also operate in parts of the territory.  NS also competes
with motor carriers, water carriers and shippers who have the
additional option of handling their own goods in private carriage.
Increasingly, cooperative strategies between railroads (such as the
TCSC partnership involving NS and CR, see page 8) and between
railroads and motor carriers enable carriers to compete more
effectively in specific markets.

           NAVL continues to face vigorous competition due to
deregulation and overcapacity in the industry that will keep profits
at a modest level.  While service remains a key issue, many shippers
now place greater emphasis on price.  For the RS Division, contract
carriage and volume discount programs dominate the corporate
relocation segment, and guaranteed price options are common to the
individual consumer segment.  Contract carriage agreements are also
utilized extensively by the HVP Division to meet the service and price
requirements of its customers.

  PAGE 28


Item 3.  Legal Proceedings
- ------   -----------------
           New Orleans, Louisiana - Tank Car Fire.  A number of
lawsuits have been filed as a result of a tank car fire which occurred
in New Orleans, La., on September 9, 1987, and resulted in the
evacuation of many residents of the surrounding area.  Plaintiffs
allege that they were injured and sustained other economic loss when a
chemical called butadiene leaked from a tank car under the control of
either CSX Transportation, Inc., or New Orleans Terminal Company (a
subsidiary of Norfolk Southern Railway) or both.  In addition to the
rail defendants, defendants in one or more of the suits include the
City of New Orleans, the owner of the tank car (General American
Transportation Corporation), the loader of the tank car (GATX
Terminals Corporation), and the shipper (Mitsui & Co. (USA Inc.)).
The suits, which are pending in the Civil District Court for the
parish of Orleans, seek damages ranging from $10,000 to
$20,000,000,000.  Management, after consulting with its legal counsel,
is of the opinion that ultimate liability will not materially affect
the consolidated financial position of NS.  This matter has been
reported previously by Norfolk Southern in Part II, Item 1, of its
Form 10-Q Reports for the quarters ending September 30, 1987, and
March 31, 1990; and in Part I, Item 3, of its Form 10-K Annual Reports
for 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991 and 1992.

           Moberly, Missouri - Burial of Paint and Solvent.  On or
about May 16 and May 23, 1991, respectively, certain employees and NW
were served with subpoenas duces tecum requiring production of various
documents and information, all related to a federal grand jury's
investigation of possible violations of certain environmental statutes
in 1989 at Moberly Yard, Moberly, Mo.  A search warrant also was
served on NW at Moberly, and various company records were seized.  A
second subpoena duces tecum was served on September 19, 1991,
concerning the relationship between Norfolk Southern Corporation and
NW.  The investigation resulted from employees' having buried
containers of paint and one container of solvent.

           NW management first learned of the incident in June 1990
from the Missouri Department of Natural Resources ("DNR").  Promptly
thereafter, NW initiated appropriate remediation efforts and notified
the National Response Center.  The burial of paint and solvent
violated long-standing NW policy and instructions.

           NW cooperated fully with the DNR; at year end 1993, the
grand jury's investigation was continuing.  The paint and paint cans
(along with the single drum which contained a solvent and appears not
to have leaked) and any associated contaminated dirt have been
excavated and properly disposed of under the DNR's direction.

  PAGE 29


           On February 23, 1994, NW settled this matter with the
federal and state governments by pleading guilty to a single violation
of the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and by making or
committing to make penalty and restitution payments of up to
$4,400,000.  Of that amount, $1.7 million is to purchase equipment for
state environmental enforcement purposes and, in line with NW's
suggestion, $1.0 million is for the Katy Trail State Park which was
damaged severely in the 1993 Missouri River flood.  In addition, NW
made certain commitments with respect to an organization-wide
environmental awareness program.

           Management believes the February 23 settlements conclude
this matter and expects to make no further reports about it.  This
matter has been reported previously by Norfolk Southern in Part II,
Item 1, of its Form 10-Q Report for the quarter ending June 30, 1991,
and in Part I, Item 3, of its Form 10-K Annual Reports for 1991 and
1992.


Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
- ------   ----------------------------------------------------
           There were no matters submitted to a vote of security
holders during the fourth quarter of 1993.

  PAGE 30


Executive Officers of the Registrant.
- -------------------------------------
           Norfolk Southern's officers are elected annually by the
Board of Directors at its first meeting held after the annual meeting
of stockholders, and they hold office until their successors are
elected.  There are no family relationships among the officers, nor
any arrangement or understanding between any officer and any other
person pursuant to which the officer was selected.  The following
table sets forth certain information, as of March 1, 1994, relating to
these officers:

                                     Business Experience during
Name, Age, Present Position                past 5 Years
- ---------------------------     ------------------------------------
David R. Goode, 53,             Present position since September
  Chairman, President and         1992.  Served as President from
  Chief Executive Officer         October 1991 to September 1992,
                                  Executive Vice President-
                                  Administration from January to
                                  October 1991 and prior thereto as
                                  Vice President-Taxation.

John R. Turbyfill, 62,          Present position since June 1993.
  Vice Chairman                   Served prior thereto as Executive
                                  Vice President-Finance.

R. Alan Brogan, 53, Executive   Present position since December
  Vice President-Transportation   1992.  Served as Vice President-
  Logistics and President-North   Quality Management from April
  American Van Lines, Inc.        1991 to December 1992, Vice
                                  President-Material Management and
                                  Property Services from July 1990
                                  to April 1991, and prior thereto
                                  as Vice President-Material
                                  Management.

Paul R. Rudder, 61,             Present position since March
  Executive Vice President-       1990.  Served as Senior Vice
  Operations                      President-Operations from
                                  October 1989 to March 1990, and
                                  prior thereto as Vice President-
                                  Engineering.

John S. Shannon, 63, Executive  Present position since June 1982.
  Vice President-Law

Thomas C. Sheller, 63,          Present position since October
  Executive Vice President-       1991.  Served prior thereto as
  Administration                  Vice President-Personnel and
                                  Labor Relations.

  PAGE 31


                                     Business Experience during
Name, Age, Present Position                past 5 Years
- ---------------------------     ------------------------------------
D. Henry Watts, 62, Executive   Present position since July 1986.
  Vice President-Marketing

Henry C. Wolf, 51, Executive    Present position since June 1993.
  Vice President-Finance          Served as Vice President-Taxation
                                  from January 1991 to June 1993,
                                  and prior thereto as Assistant
                                  Vice President-Tax Counsel.

Stephen C. Tobias, 49, Senior   Present position since October
  Vice President-Operations       1993.  Served as Vice President-
                                  Strategic Planning from December
                                  1992 to October 1993, Vice
                                  President-Transportation from
                                  October 1989 to December 1992,
                                  and prior thereto as General
                                  Manager-Western Lines.

William B. Bales, 59, Vice      Present position since August 1993.
  President-Coal Marketing        Served prior thereto as Vice
                                  President-Coal and Ore Traffic.

James C. Bishop, Jr., 57,       Present position since August
  Vice President-Law              1989.  Served prior thereto as
                                  Senior General Solicitor.

John F. Corcoran, 53, Vice-     Present position since March 1992.
  President-Public Affairs        Served prior thereto as Assistant
                                  Vice President-Public Affairs.

Thomas L. Finkbiner, 41,        Present position since August 1993.
  Vice President-Intermodal       Served as Senior Assistant Vice
                                  President-International and
                                  Intermodal from April to August
                                  1993, and prior thereto as
                                  Assistant Vice President-
                                  International and Intermodal.

James L. Granum, 57, Vice-      Present position since March 1992.
  President-Public Affairs        Served prior thereto as Assistant
                                  Vice President-Public Affairs.

James A. Hixon, 40, Vice        Present position since June 1993.
  President-Taxation              Served as Assistant Vice
                                  President-Tax Counsel from
                                  January 1991 to June 1993, and
                                  prior thereto as General Tax
                                  Attorney.

  PAGE 32


                                     Business Experience during
Name, Age, Present Position                past 5 Years
- ---------------------------     ------------------------------------
Harold C. Mauney, Jr., 55,      Present position since December
  Vice President-Quality          1992.  Served as Assistant Vice
  Management                      President-Quality Management from
                                  April 1991 to December 1992, and
                                  prior thereto as General Manager-
                                  Intermodal Transportation
                                  Services.

Donald W. Mayberry, 50,         Present position since October 1987.
  Vice President-Mechanical

James W. McClellan, 54, Vice    Present position since October
  President-Strategic Planning    1993.  Served as Assistant Vice
                                  President-Corporate Planning from
                                  March 1992 to October 1993, and
                                  prior thereto as Director-
                                  Corporate Development.

Kathryn B. McQuade, 37,         Present position since December
  Vice President-Internal Audit   1992.  Served as Director-Income
                                  Tax Administration from May 1991
                                  to December 1992, and prior
                                  thereto as Director-Federal
                                  Income Tax Administration.

Charles W. Moorman, 42, Vice    Present position since October
  President-Information           1993.  Served as Vice President-
  Technology                      Employee Relations from December
                                  1992 to October 1993, Vice
                                  President-Personnel and Labor
                                  Relations from February to
                                  December 1992, Assistant Vice
                                  President-Stations, Terminals and
                                  Transportation Planning from March
                                  1991 to February 1992, Senior
                                  Director Transportation Planning
                                  from March 1990 to March 1991, and
                                  prior thereto as Director,
                                  Transportation Planning.

Phillip R. Ogden, 53, Vice      Present position since December
  President-Engineering           1992.  Served as Assistant Vice
                                  President-Maintenance from
                                  November 1990 to December 1992,
                                  Chief Engineer-Line Maintenance
                                  North from February 1989 to
                                  November 1990, and prior thereto
                                  as Chief Engineer-Program
                                  Maintenance.

  PAGE 33


                                     Business Experience during
Name, Age, Present Position                past 5 Years
- ---------------------------     ------------------------------------
L. I. Prillaman, Jr., 50,       Present position since December
  Vice President-Properties       1992.  Served as Vice President
                                  and Controller from May 1988 to
                                  December 1992 and prior thereto
                                  as Vice President-Accounting.

Magda A. Ratajski, 43, Vice     Present position since July 1984.
  President-Public Relations

John P. Rathbone, 42, Vice      Present position since December
  President and Controller        1992.  Served as Assistant Vice
                                  President-Internal Audit from
                                  January 1990 to December 1992,
                                  and prior thereto as Director-
                                  Internal Audit.

William J. Romig, 49, Vice      Present position since April 1992.
  President and Treasurer         Served prior thereto as Assistant
                                  Vice President-Finance.

Donald W. Seale, 41, Vice       Present position since August 1993.
  President-Merchandise           Served as Assistant Vice
  Marketing                       President-Sales and Service from
                                  May 1992 to August 1993, Director-
                                  Metals, Waste and Construction
                                  from March 1990 to May 1992, and
                                  prior thereto as Director-
                                  Marketing Development.

Powell F. Sigmon, 54, Vice      Present position since October
  President-Safety, Environ-      1993.  Served as Assistant Vice
  mental and Research             President-Mechanical (Car) from
  Development                     January 1991 to October 1993, and
                                  prior thereto as General Manager-
                                  Mechanical Facilities.

Donald E. Middleton, 63,        Present position since June 1982.
  Corporate Secretary

  PAGE 34


                                 PART II


Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related
- -------  ------------------------------------------------
         Stockholder Matters.
         -------------------

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  STOCK PRICE AND DIVIDEND INFORMATION

The common stock of Norfolk Southern Corporation, owned by 51,884
stockholders of record as of December 31, 1993, is traded on the New
York Stock Exchange with the symbol NSC.  The following table shows
the high and low sales prices and dividends per share, by quarter, for
1993 and 1992.



  PAGE 35


Item 6.  Selected Financial Data.
- -------  -----------------------


  PAGE 36


Item 6.  Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- -------  -----------------------


  PAGE 37


Item 6.  Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- -------  -----------------------


  PAGE 38


Item 6.  Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- -------  -----------------------


  PAGE 39


Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- -------  -------------------------------------------------
         Condition and Results of Operations.
         -----------------------------------

           See pages 48 - 61 for "Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
- -------  -------------------------------------------


  PAGE 40


Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- -------  -------------------------------------------
                                    
           The Index to Financial Statement Schedules appears in
Item 14 on page 42.

           The financial statements and related documents for Norfolk
Southern Corporation and Subsidiaries are as follows:

                    Index to Financial Statements:          Page
                    -----------------------------           ----
          Consolidated Statements of Income
            Years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991    62-63

          Consolidated Balance Sheets
            As of December 31, 1993 and 1992                   64

          Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
            Years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991    65-66

          Consolidated Statements of Changes in
            Stockholders' Equity Years ended
            December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991                   67

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements        68-87

          Independent Auditors' Report                         88


Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
- -------  -----------------------------------------------------------
         and Financial Disclosure.
         ------------------------
           None.

  PAGE 41


                                PART III


Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.
- -------  --------------------------------------------------
Item 11. Executive Compensation.
- -------  ----------------------
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
- -------  -----------------------------------------------
         and Management.
         --------------
      and
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.
- -------  ----------------------------------------------

           In accordance with General Instruction G(3), the
information called for by Part III is incorporated herein by reference
from Norfolk Southern's definitive Proxy Statement, to be dated
April 4, 1994, for the Norfolk Southern Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held on May 12, 1994, which definitive Proxy Statement will be
filed electronically with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.
The information regarding executive officers called for by Item 401 of
Regulation S-K is included in Part I beginning on page 30 under
"Executive Officers of the Registrant."

  PAGE 42


                                 PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
- -------  -------------------------------------------------------
         Form 8-K.
         --------
(a)   The following documents are filed as part of this report:

      1.  Financial Statement Schedules:

             The following consolidated financial statement schedules
          should be read in connection with the consolidated financial
          statements:

          Index to Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules    Page
          ---------------------------------------------------    ----
          Schedule V - Property, Plant and Equipment               89
          Schedule VI - Accumulated Depreciation, Depletion
            and Amortization of Property, Plant and Equipment      90
          Schedule VII - Guarantees of Securities of Other
            Issuers                                                91
          Schedule VIII - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts     92-93
          Schedule IX - Short-Term Borrowings                      94
          Schedule X - Supplementary Income Statement
            Information                                            95

             Schedules other than those listed above are omitted for
          the reasons that they are not required, are not applicable
          or the information is included in the consolidated financial
          statements or related notes.

      2.  Exhibits

Exhibit
Number                        Description
- -------    -------------------------------------------------
  3        Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws -

   3(a)    The Restated Articles of Incorporation of Norfolk
           Southern are incorporated herein by reference
           from Exhibit 1 of Norfolk Southern's Form 10-Q
           report for the quarter ended September 30, 1989.

   3(b)    The Bylaws of Norfolk Southern, as last amended
           January 25, 1994, are incorporated herein by
           reference from Exhibit 4 of Norfolk Southern's
           Registration Statement on Form S-8, filed
           electronically on January 26, 1994.

  PAGE 43


Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
- -------  -------------------------------------------------------
         Form 8-K. (continued)
         --------

Exhibit
Number                        Description
- -------    -------------------------------------------------
  4        Instruments Defining the Rights of Security
             Holders, Including Indentures -

           In accordance with Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of
           Regulation S-K, copies of instruments of Norfolk
           Southern and its subsidiaries with respect to the
           rights of holders of long-term debt are not filed
           herewith, or incorporated by reference, but will
           be furnished to the Commission upon request.

 10        Material Contracts -

           (a)  The Agreement of Merger and Reorganization
           dated as of July 31, 1980, among NWS Enterprises,
           Inc. (name changed to Norfolk Southern Corporation
           by Certificate of Amendment issued by the State
           Corporation Commission of Virginia on November 2,
           1981), NW, Norfolk and Western Railroad Company of
           Virginia, Southern Railway Company (name changed to
           Norfolk Southern Railway Company by Certificate of
           Amendment issued by the State Corporation Commission
           of Virginia as of December 31, 1990), and Southern
           Railroad Company of Virginia and the related Plans
           of Merger (Exhibits B and C to the Agreement) are
           incorporated herein by reference from Appendix A to
           NW's and Southern's definitive Proxy Statements dated
           October 1, 1980, for NW's and Southern's Special
           Meetings of Stockholders held on November 7, 1980.

           (b)  The lease between The Cincinnati, New
           Orleans and Texas Pacific Railway Company, a
           subsidiary of Norfolk Southern Railway, as lessee,
           and the Trustees of the Cincinnati Southern
           Railway, as lessor, dated as of October 11, 1881,
           is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 5
           of Southern's 1980 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
           The Supplementary Agreement to the lease, dated as
           of January 1, 1987, is incorporated herein by
           reference from Exhibit 10(b) of Southern's 1987
           Annual Report on Form 10-K.

  PAGE 44


Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
- -------  -------------------------------------------------------
         Form 8-K. (continued)
         --------

Exhibit
Number                        Description
- -------    -------------------------------------------------
           (c)  The lease between The North Carolina
           Railroad Company, as lessor, and Norfolk Southern
           Railway, as lessee, dated as of January 1, 1896, is
           incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 6 of
           Southern's 1980 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

           (d)  The lease between Atlantic and North
           Carolina Railroad Company (The North Carolina
           Railroad Company, successor by merger, September
           29, 1989), as lessor, and Atlantic and East Carolina
           Railway Company, a subsidiary of Norfolk Southern
           Railway, as lessee, dated as of April 20, 1939, is
           incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 7 of
           Southern's 1980 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

           Management Compensation Plans
           -----------------------------
           (e)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation
           Management Incentive Plan is incorporated herein
           by reference from Exhibit 10(h) of Norfolk
           Southern's 1987 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

           (f)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation Long-Term
           Incentive Plan is incorporated herein by reference
           from Appendix A to Norfolk Southern's definitive
           Proxy Statement dated April 3, 1989, for the
           Norfolk Southern Annual Meeting of Stockholders
           held May 11, 1989.

           (g)  A copy of the Norfolk Southern Corporation
           Officers' Deferred Compensation Plan as amended
           effective January 1, 1994.

           (h)  A copy of the Directors' Deferred Fee Plan of
           Norfolk Southern Corporation as amended effective
           January 1, 1994.

           (i)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation Directors'
           Restricted Stock Plan effective January 26, 1994,
           is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 99
           to Norfolk Southern's Form S-8 filed electronically
           on January 26, 1994.

  PAGE 45


Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
- -------  -------------------------------------------------------
         Form 8-K. (continued)
         --------

Exhibit
Number                        Description
- -------    -------------------------------------------------
           (j)  The Excess Benefit Plan of Norfolk
           Southern Corporation and Participating Subsidiary
           Companies is incorporated herein by reference
           from Exhibit 10(k) of Norfolk Southern's 1988
           Annual Report on Form 10-K.

           (k)  The Directors' Pension Plan of Norfolk
           Southern Corporation is incorporated herein by
           reference from Exhibit 10(l) of Norfolk
           Southern's 1989 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 11        Computation of Earnings Per Share

 12        Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

 21        Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

 23        Consents of Experts and Counsel -

           Consent of Independent Auditors.



(b)   Reports on Form 8-K.

      No reports on Form 8-K were filed for the three months
      ended December 31, 1993.

(c)   Exhibits.

      The Exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K 
      as listed in Item 14(a)2 are filed herewith or
      incorporated herein by reference.

(d)   Financial Statement Schedules.

      Financial statement schedules and separate financial 
      statements specified by this Item are included in 
      Item 14(a)1 or are otherwise not required or are not 
      applicable.

  PAGE 46


                            POWER OF ATTORNEY
                            -----------------
         Each person whose signature appears below under "SIGNATURES"
hereby authorizes Henry C. Wolf and John S. Shannon, or either of
them, to execute in the name of each such person, and to file, any
amendment to this report and hereby appoints Henry C. Wolf and
John S. Shannon, or either of them, as attorneys-in-fact to sign on
his or her behalf, individually and in each capacity stated below, and
to file, any and all amendments to this report.


                               SIGNATURES
                               ----------
         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Norfolk Southern Corporation has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized, on this 22nd day of March, 1994.


                                   NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION


                         By   /s/ David R. Goode
                             -----------------------------------------
                             (David R. Goode, Chairman, President and
                                     Chief Executive Officer)

         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this report has been signed below on this 22nd day of March,
1994, by the following persons on behalf of Norfolk Southern
Corporation and in the capacities indicated.

         Signature                            Title
         ---------                            -----

/s/ David R. Goode
- ------------------------------     Chairman, President and Chief
   (David R. Goode)                  Executive Officer and Director
                                   (Principal Executive Officer)

/s/ Henry C. Wolf
- ------------------------------     Executive Vice President-Finance
   (Henry C. Wolf)                 (Principal Financial Officer)


/s/ John P. Rathbone
- ------------------------------     Vice President and Controller
   (John P. Rathbone)              (Principal Accounting Officer)


/s/ Gerald L. Baliles
- ------------------------------               Director
   (Gerald L. Baliles)

  PAGE 47


         Signature                            Title
         ---------                            -----


/s/ Gene R. Carter
- ------------------------------               Director
   (Gene R. Carter)


/s/ L. E. Coleman
- ------------------------------               Director
   (L. E. Coleman)



- ------------------------------               Director
   (William J. Crowe, Jr.)


/s/ T. Marshall Hahn, Jr.
- ------------------------------               Director
   (T. Marshall Hahn, Jr.)


/s/ Landon Hilliard
- ------------------------------               Director
   (Landon Hilliard)


/s/ E. B. Leisenring, Jr.
- ------------------------------               Director
   (E. B. Leisenring, Jr.)


/s/ Arnold B. McKinnon
- ------------------------------               Director
   (Arnold B. McKinnon)


/s/ Robert E. McNair
- ------------------------------               Director
   (Robert E. McNair)


/s/ Jane Margaret O'Brien
- ------------------------------               Director
   (Jane Margaret O'Brien)


/s/ Harold W. Pote
- ------------------------------               Director
   (Harold W. Pote)

  PAGE 48

                                (ITEM 7)
              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Management's Discussion and Analysis
            of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
                                    
                                    
The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with
the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes beginning on page 62 and
the Ten-Year Financial Review on page 35. The Condensed Summary provides
a brief overview of results of operations, and the text beginning under
"Results of Operations" is a more detailed analytical discussion.

CONDENSED SUMMARY OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

1993 Compared with 1992
- -----------------------
   Net income was $772.0 million in 1993, a substantial increase over the
$557.7 million reported in 1992. Earnings per share were $5.54 compared
with $3.94 in 1992. Results for 1993 were significantly affected by
required accounting changes (see Note 1 on page 68) and by an increase in
the federal income tax rate (see Note 2 on page 70). Excluding the impact
of the accounting changes and the federal tax rate increase related to
prior years, 1993 earnings would have been $594.9 million, or $4.27 per
share, a $37.2 million, or 7%, increase over 1992. Total transportation
operating revenues decreased 3%, compared with 1992. Railway operating
revenues declined 1%, primarily as a result of lower coal traffic levels
and a reduced share of certain intermodal revenues after formation of a
partnership with Consolidated Rail Corporation (Conrail). Motor carrier
operating revenues declined 14%, due to a restructuring of NAVL (see Note
3 on page 74), which resulted in the disposition of two of its
businesses. Total transportation operating expenses declined 3%, largely
a result of the restructuring of NAVL. Nonoperating income reflected in
the Consolidated Statements of Income as "Other income-net" rose $39.0
million due principally to gains from property and stock sales (see Note
4 on page 74).

1992 Compared with 1991
- -----------------------
   Net income was $557.7 million in 1992, a significant increase over the
$29.7 million reported in 1991. Earnings per share were $3.94, compared
with $0.20 in 1991. Earnings in 1991 were adversely affected by a $680
million special charge. Excluding the impact of the special charge in
1991, 1992 earnings increased by $30.3 million, or 6%, compared with
1991. Total transportation operating revenues were up 3%, compared with
1991; railway operating revenues were up 3% despite a decline in coal
traffic, and motor carrier operating revenues increased 4%. Total railway
operating expenses were down less than half of 1%, compared with 1991
(excluding the special charge). Motor carrier operating expenses
increased 9% and resulted in an operating loss of $39.7 million.
Nonoperating income declined $33.5 million, reflecting lower interest
income on less cash available to invest, lower interest rates and reduced
gains on investment-related transactions (see Note 4 on page 74).
Interest expense on debt was up 9% due to new debt issues (see Note 8 on
page 76).

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Railway Operating Revenues
- --------------------------
   Railway operating revenues were $3.75 billion in 1993, compared with
$3.78 billion in 1992 and $3.65 billion in 1991. The following table
presents a three-year comparison of revenues by market group and reflects
(in Intermodal) the effect of the formation in April 1993 of Triple Crown
Services Company (TCSC), a partnership between NS and Conrail
subsidiaries. This partnership provides RoadRailer(RT) and domestic
container services previously offered by a wholly owned NS subsidiary.
Because NS owns only 50% of TCSC, its revenues are not consolidated, and
NS' intermodal revenues include only revenues for rail service provided
by NS to the partnership. Excluding this partnership effect, intermodal
revenues would have increased 10%, and total railway operating revenues
would have increased 1%.

  PAGE 49

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Management's Discussion and Analysis
            of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
                                    


   Most NS rail traffic, particularly coal traffic, moves under
contractually negotiated rates as opposed to the typically higher
regulated tariff rates. In 1993, 91% of NS origin coal moved under
contract, compared with 88% in 1992 and 90% in 1991.



   Traffic volume increased for all market groups except coal. The large
reduction in revenue per unit/mix was due principally to the effect of
the TCSC partnership described above. The remaining reduction in the
average revenue per car was largely due to new business that was short-
haul and lowered the overall average.

  PAGE 50

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Management's Discussion and Analysis
            of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
                                    
                                    
   COAL (which includes coke and iron ore) traffic volume in 1993
decreased 6%, and revenues, which represented 32% of total railway
operating revenues, were down 6% from 1992. Coal accounted for about 97%
of this market group's volume, and 95% of coal shipments originated on
NS' lines. As shown in the following table, small tonnage gains in
utility and steel coal were more than offset by declines in export coal,
down 22%, compared with 1992.



   The export coal market continues to be weak. The recession in Europe
deepened as the year progressed. Additionally, stockpiles remain at high
levels in the United Kingdom, and two Italian coal-fired generating
stations that closed in 1992 remained closed for all of 1993. The UMWA
strike, which was settled in December 1993, also had an adverse effect on
the export market, as some U.S. producers deferred export shipments to
take advantage of higher domestic spot market prices. Although the strike
was not widespread at mines served by NS, it idled four operations that
are heavily oriented toward export shipments.
   NS' export coal business is expected to remain somewhat depressed in
1994. Expanded coal output and export capacity by foreign producers may
make this market very competitive, especially for steam coal. Export coal
opportunities for NS are expected to continue to be greatest in Europe,
and moderate growth is expected over the next five-year period.
   In contrast to the export market, domestic coal remained steady.
Extended periods of warmer-than-usual temperatures in the Southeast
resulted in increased business for a number of utility customers. NS was
able to provide coal service to some whose customary carriers were
adversely affected by flooding in the Midwest and the UMWA strike. NS
continued to do well in domestic steel markets, especially in the
Midwest. While total volumes in the domestic steel market remained
relatively flat, compared with 1992, NS was able to increase its market
share.
   The outlook for domestic NS coal traffic remains promising. New
movements of western coal to an eastern utility began late in 1993 and
are expected to reach 3 million tons in 1994 and to grow to nearly 7
million tons annually in the next few years. Changes in emissions
regulations for sulfur dioxide included in the Clean Air Act Amendments
of 1990 may increase NS utility traffic.
   Coal volume in 1992 decreased 2%, compared with 1991, and revenues
were down 3% from 1991. Traffic volume in 1991 represented NS' second
best year since the 1982 consolidation. As shown in the table above, NS
had mixed results in 1992 in the four basic coal market segments it
serves. The largest decline in coal tonnage was in export coal, down 8%,
compared with 1991. Beginning in 1992, the European economies slumped
badly, reducing demand for U.S. coal in both steel and electricity
production. Domestic utility tonnages showed the second greatest decline,
2% below 1991, reflecting weakness in the overall economy and unusually
mild weather in NS' service region. On the positive side, coal traffic to
domestic steel companies in 1992 showed improvement. Compared with 1991,
tonnage increased 15%, and NS increased its market share.

  PAGE 51

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Management's Discussion and Analysis
            of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
                                    
                                    
   MERCHANDISE TRAFFIC volume in 1993 increased 6%, and revenues
(excluding, for comparative purposes, the effect of the TCSC partnership
with Conrail) increased by $104.6 million, or 5%, compared with 1992.
Merchandise carloads handled in 1993 were 2.8 million, compared with 2.7
million in 1992. Despite the slow economic recovery, all six market
groups comprising merchandise traffic showed revenue improvement over
1992. The largest gains were in intermodal, up $34.1 million, or 10%
(excluding the TCSC effect); automotive, up $28.0 million, or 7%; and
metals/construction, up $19.8 million, or 7%.
   PAPER/FOREST traffic was about even with 1992, and revenues increased
1%. Weak domestic and overseas demand for paper depressed NS' shipments
for much of the year. Lumber, however, posted a solid 4% revenue gain due
to a strong recovery in housing construction. Moderate growth, somewhat
higher than industry production, is expected over the next few years due
to growth in market share.
   CHEMICALS traffic rose 4% over 1992; however, revenues increased less
than 1% due to a change in the mix of traffic. There were solid gains in
general chemicals and plastics, but this was offset by weakness in
movements of export fertilizer due to sluggish conditions overseas.
Stronger growth is expected in 1994 and beyond, paced by additional rail-
truck distribution facilities for bulk chemicals. While environmental
concerns could adversely affect production of pesticides and chlorine,
increased environmental awareness is likely to have a positive impact on
movements of recyclables, hazardous wastes and alternative fuels such as
ethanol.
   AUTOMOTIVE traffic rose 8%, and revenues increased 7%, compared with
1992. The gain was due to strong demand for vehicles produced at plants
served by NS. NS' largest customer, Ford Motor Company, produced the top-
selling automobile and truck in 1993. In addition, NS benefited from a
full year of production at the Ford/Nissan plant located near Avon Lake,
Oh. Successful marketing efforts, such as an innovative program with GM
for just-in-time movement of auto parts, also contributed to the higher
traffic levels. Further growth in automotive traffic is expected in 1994
and beyond, as U.S. automotive production is anticipated to increase for
the next few years. From 1994 to 1997, operations will begin at three new
or expanded automotive assembly plants located on NS' lines: the second
Toyota plant at Georgetown, Ky., in 1994; BMW at Greer, S.C., in 1995;
and Mercedes-Benz at Tuscaloosa, Al., in 1997. The retooling of GM's
Wentzville, Mo., and Doraville, Ga., plants for van production should
also increase traffic.
   AGRICULTURE traffic rose 4%, and revenues increased 6%, compared with
1992. In the early part of the year, NS benefited from a record harvest
that continued well into 1993. During the summer, the flood in the
Midwest diverted traffic to rail that formerly moved by barge. In the
fall, good crop conditions in NS' sourcing areas and poor conditions
elsewhere produced strong NS traffic gains. Although the special
conditions present during 1993 are not likely to recur in 1994, a small
increase in agriculture revenues is expected, driven by growth in poultry
production in the Southeast, a prime NS feed grain market.
   METALS/CONSTRUCTION traffic rose 9%, and revenues increased 7%,
compared with 1992. Most of the revenue gain was in shipments of iron and
steel; strong industry production and new plants located on NS' lines
boosted revenue $10 million. Shipments of construction commodities were
also strong due to a recovery in housing. Further gains are expected over
the next few years, as NS has initiatives under way intended to win back
truck business in aluminum, and several new movements of municipal solid
waste are expected.

  PAGE 52

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Management's Discussion and Analysis
            of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
                                    
                                    
   INTERMODAL traffic rose 9%, and revenues (adjusted for the effect of
the TCSC partnership) increased 10%, compared with 1992. Intermodal
revenue growth in 1993 was led by a 21% increase in Triple Crown(RT)
activity due to strong automotive shipments and expansion of service to
the Northeast. Container revenues were up 6%, a smaller increase than
previous years, reflecting reduced international traffic caused by
continuing recessions in Europe and Japan. Trailer revenues were up 11%,
boosted by gains from haulage arrangements with truckload carriers.
Strong growth in intermodal traffic is expected in 1994 and for the next
several years. TCSC should continue to grow as it expands to serve
additional markets. Container traffic is expected to improve as
recoveries overseas produce steady growth in international shipments.
Trailer business also is expected to grow, as leading truckload carriers,
such as Schneider National and J.B. Hunt, use rail for the long-haul
portion of their shipments.
   During 1992, all six merchandise market groups showed improvement over
1991. Traffic volume increased 6% and revenues increased $159.4 million,
or 7%. The largest revenue increases were in the automotive group, up
$75.6 million, or 23%, over a weak 1991. The intermodal group was up
$28.3 million, or 7%, over 1991, and the paper/forest and chemicals
groups each reported 5% revenue gains.
   The growth in the automotive group was the result of a national rise
in automobile production, especially increased production of popular
models at plants which NS serves. All segments of intermodal traffic
showed growth during 1992. Triple Crown(RT) (now TCSC), the fastest
growing segment, which accounted for 24% of intermodal traffic, began a
new domestic container service in the eastern part of the NS system, in
addition to its RoadRailer(RT) business. Paper/forest revenues improved
as the result of increased housing starts and greater paper production.
Chemical revenues were higher because of a general recovery in chemical
production over the recessionary levels of 1991.

Transportation Operating Expenses
- ---------------------------------
   Transportation operating expenses decreased 3% in 1993, compared with
1992, and decreased 14% in 1992, compared with 1991. Included in 1993's
expenses was a $50.3 million charge for restructuring NAVL's operations
(see motor carrier discussion on page 55). Included in 1991's expenses
was a $680.0 million special charge discussed below. Excluding the 1993
restructuring charge and the 1991 special charge, transportation
operating expenses decreased 5% in 1993, compared with 1992, and
increased 2% in 1992, compared with 1991.
   SPECIAL CHARGE IN 1991 (see Note 15 on page 85): By the end of 1991,
after several years of negotiations and a brief nationwide strike, new
rail labor agreements were in place that allowed NS to begin operating
trains with reduced crew sizes. The agreements also provide for future
crew size reductions. To achieve the reductions in employment and other
labor savings permitted by the new agreement, NS recorded a special
charge that included $450 million to cover the cost of future separation
payments, protective payments and amounts to buy out productivity funds.
   The special charge, which totalled $680 million, also included $187
million to write down the goodwill portion of NS' investment in NAVL and
a $43 million write-down of certain properties to be sold or abandoned.

  PAGE 53

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Management's Discussion and Analysis
            of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
                                    
                                    
   The following table compares, on a year-to-year basis, railway
operating expenses summarized by major classifications. The special
charge also is summarized, as well as comparative railway operating
expenses, excluding the special charge.



   The narrative expense analysis presented in the following paragraphs
focuses on the major factors contributing to changes in railway operating
expenses, excluding the effects of the 1991 special charge discussed
above and in Note 15 on page 85.
   COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS, which includes salaries, wages and fringe
benefits, represents about half of total railway operating expenses and
increased 1% in 1993, compared with 1992, and declined 2% in 1992,
compared with 1991.  The higher expenses in 1993 were mainly due to
accruals for postretirement and postemployment benefits which were
previously accounted for on a pay-as-you-go basis (see "Required
Accounting Changes" in Note 1 on page 68) and higher costs for stock-
based compensation plans. A voluntary early retirement program was
completed in 1993, which resulted in a $42.4 million charge in
compensation and benefits expense (see Note 11 on page 80). Also in 1993,
a $46 million credit was recorded in compensation and benefits,
reflecting a partial reversal of the 1991 special charge (see Note 15 on
page 85). Labor expenses were favorably affected by a lower average train
crew size, which was 2.6 in 1993, a moderate decline compared with 1992.
   The lower expenses in 1992, compared with 1991, were mainly due to
savings associated with reduced train crew sizes. The average train crew
size in 1992 was 2.7 compared with 3.5 in 1991.
   MATERIALS, SERVICES AND RENTS consists of items used for maintenance
of road (rail line and related structures) and equipment (locomotives and
freight cars); equipment rents representing the cost to NS of using
freight equipment owned by other railroads or private owners, less the
rent paid to NS for the use of its equipment; and the cost of services
purchased from outside contractors, including the net costs of operating
joint (or leased) facilities with other railroads. This category had the
largest decrease in 1993, compared with 1992, down 6%, but was up 10% in
1992, compared with 1991. The decrease in 1993 was largely due to the
absence of certain expenses which,

  PAGE 54

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Management's Discussion and Analysis
            of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
                                    
                                    
subsequent to March 31, 1993, were incurred by TCSC (see discussion on
page 48). The increase in 1992 largely was a result of that year's
greatly expanded equipment maintenance program. Also contributing to the
1992 increase were higher roadway maintenance activity, increased gross
ton miles, and accruals related to a lease with Canadian National
Railway.
   DEPRECIATION expense (see Note 1 "Properties" on page 68 for NS'
depreciation policy) was up 7% in 1993, compared with 1992, and up 5% in
1992, compared with 1991. The increases in both periods were due to
property additions, reflecting substantial levels of capital spending
during the three-year period ended December 31, 1993.
   DIESEL FUEL costs declined 2% in 1993, compared with 1992, and
declined 5% in 1992, compared with 1991. NS consumes substantial
quantities of diesel fuel; therefore, changes in price per gallon or
consumption have a significant impact on the cost of providing
transportation services. The lower costs in 1993 were due to a lower
price per gallon, offset in part by a 2% increase in consumption related
to the 3% increase in gross ton miles. Expenses declined in 1992,
compared with 1991, mainly due to a lower price per gallon offset
partially by increased consumption.
   CASUALTIES AND OTHER CLAIMS (which includes insurance costs, estimates
of costs related to personal injury, property damage and environmental-
related costs) declined 2% in 1993, compared with 1992, and decreased 22%
in 1992, compared with 1991. By far the largest component, personal
injury expenses, which relate primarily to the cost of on-the-job
employee injuries, has shown favorable trends since 1990, reflecting both
success in reducing accidental employee injuries and effective claims
handling. Unfortunately, the favorable trend in accidental injury claims
has been more than offset by increased costs of nonaccidental
"occupational" claims.
   The rail industry remains uniquely susceptible to both accidental
injury and occupational claims because of an outmoded law, the Federal
Employers' Liability Act (FELA), originally passed in 1908 and applicable
only to railroads. This law provides the sole basis for compensating
railroad employees who sustain job-related injuries. Under the FELA,
claimants unable to reach an agreement with the railroad concerning
compensation may file a civil suit to recover damages. In most cases, a
jury must then determine whether the claimant is entitled to any damages
and, if so, the amount. The system produces results that are
unpredictable, inconsistent and frequently unfair, at a cost to the rail
industry that is two or three times greater than the no-fault workers'
compensation systems to which nonrail competitors are universally
subject. The railroads have been unsuccessful so far in efforts to
persuade Congress to replace the FELA with a no-fault workers'
compensation act.
   OTHER expenses decreased 3% in 1993, compared with 1992, and 7% in
1992, compared with 1991. These decreases were largely the result of
favorable settlements of issues related to property and other state
taxes.
   The NS railway operating ratio (the percentage of railway operating
revenues consumed by railway operating expenses) continues to be the best
among the major railroads in the United States. NS will continue to
pursue cost-containment efforts to assure that its rail subsidiaries are
operated efficiently. The operating ratios for past six years were as
follows:



  PAGE 55

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Management's Discussion and Analysis
            of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
                                    
                                    
Other Income-Net
- ----------------
   Nonoperating income increased $39.0 million, or 40%, in 1993, compared
with 1992, but decreased $33.5 million, or 26%, in 1992, compared with
1991 (see Note 4 on page 74). The 1993 increase principally arose from
gains on stock and property sales. The 1992 decline was a result of an
absence of stock sales in 1992, coupled with a decline in interest income
due to lower cash and short-term investments balances and lower rates.

Interest Expense on Debt
- ------------------------
   Interest expense on debt decreased 10%, compared with 1992, due
principally to lower levels of equipment debt and lower interest rates on
NS' commercial paper. Interest expense increased 9% from 1991 to 1992
mainly as a result of an additional $250 million of notes issued under
NS' shelf registration statement and new equipment debt (see Note 8 on
page 76).

MOTOR CARRIER RESULTS

   Motor Carrier operations resulted in a loss of $54.9 million in 1993,
compared with a loss of $39.7 million in 1992 and income of $0.2 million
in 1991. Despite significant turnaround efforts, NAVL's persistently poor
performance in its general commodities operations led to a decision to
restructure its operations in 1993, which resulted in the disposition of
two of its businesses. The Commercial Transport Division (CT), a
truckload carrier, was liquidated, and Tran-Star (TS), a refrigerated
carrier, was sold. A restructuring charge of $50.3 million was recorded
in 1993, reflecting costs to discontinue these businesses, including
projected operating losses during the phase-out period, as well as labor,
equipment and facility-related costs. The large operating loss reported
in 1993 was almost entirely attributable to the restructuring charge.
However, results of the two remaining divisions produced an operating
profit of $14.4 million in 1993. Contributing principally to the loss in
1992 were actuarially determined increases in reserves for casualty
claims and workers' compensation, which added $27 million to operating
expenses, and accruals for litigation.
   The following table presents a three-year comparison of revenues by
principal operations. Prior year amounts have been reclassified to
reflect the transfer of a subsidiary from the RS Division to the HVP
Division.



  PAGE 56

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Management's Discussion and Analysis
            of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
                                    
                                    
   RS' revenues depend on four primary segments of household goods'
transportation: corporate national accounts, interstate C.O.D. movements,
military and international relocations. RS' 1993 revenues were even with
1992, and increased 1% in 1992, compared with 1991. Revenues in 1993 were
adversely affected by a decline in domestic military volume and fewer
Canadian shipments. These decreases were offset largely by a modest rate
increase and gains in the international household relocation segment. The
increase in 1992 revenues was due to modest rate increases and some
improvement in domestic household goods shipments. The continued
downsizing of U.S. corporations and changes in policy relative to
military staffing levels are likely to result in ongoing pressure on this
division's operating revenues.
   HVP's main line of business is transporting office products and other
sensitive equipment, as well as exhibits and displays. The division also
is capitalizing on its specialized handling expertise to generate new
revenues in the Customized Logistics Services (CLS) segment. HVP's
revenues increased 8% in 1993, compared with 1992, and in 1992, compared
with 1991. The increase in 1993 was due to the award of a significant
logistics contract by IBM, and also to the expansion of air freight
services into several new markets. The increase in 1992 was the result of
additional interstate transportation activity reflecting some improvement
in the demand for office products and an increase in revenues from
European subsidiary operations. HVP may benefit from a continued increase
in demand for office products; however, a trend toward smaller shipment
sizes will subject this operation to increasing competition from LTL
(less than truckload) carriers. Significant future revenue growth in the
CLS segment is possible as more shippers look to carriers like NAVL to
provide logistics expertise to reduce their overall shipping and handling
costs.
   CT's and TS' revenues for 1993 are reflected only through June 30,
1993. A decision to discontinue these businesses was made, and
accordingly, results subsequent to June were charged to the reserve
established for the restructuring.
   Motor carrier operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were
108%, 105% and 100%, respectively, in 1993, 1992 and 1991. Overall, the
negative operating ratio was caused by the losses sustained in the
truckload operations, which more than offset the positive results of RS
and HVP. The high operating ratio in 1993 was primarily due to the
restructuring charge and in 1992 to increased reserves for casualty
claims, litigation and workers' compensation.
   NAVL's continuing operations (excluding CT and TS) achieved a 97%
operating ratio in 1993, as compared to 102% in 1992 and 96% in 1991.
Excluding insurance reserve adjustments, the 1992 operating ratio would
have been 99%.
   Due to deregulation and overcapacity in the industry, motor carriers
will continue to face vigorous competition that will keep profits at a
modest level. For RS, contract carriage and volume discount programs
dominate the corporate relocation segment, and guaranteed price options
are common in the individual consumer segment. Contract carriage
agreements also are utilized by HVP to meet customers' service and price
requirements. However, given the elimination of unprofitable businesses,
NAVL is now positioned to compete in these markets, as well as to expand
where opportunities such as providing customized logistics solutions
present themselves.

Income Taxes
- ------------
   Income tax expense in 1993 was $349.9 million for an effective rate of
38.9%, compared with an effective rate of 36.3% in 1992 and 36.0% in
1991, excluding the special charge. Income tax expense in 1993 was
accrued under SFAS 109, rather than under the prior accounting rules (see
Note 1 on page 68). Absent the federal income tax rate increase imposed
by the Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1993, income tax expense in 1993
would have been $295.8 million for an effective rate of 32.9%. This low
effective rate was partly due to tax benefits related to the motor
carrier restructuring (see Note 3 on page 74). Current income tax expense
increased from $253.5 million in 1992 to $293.7 million in 1993,
primarily due to tax payments made in anticipation of Revenue Agent
Reports for the 1988-1989 federal income tax audit. Deferred tax expense
for 1993, compared to 1992, decreased primarily for the same reason.

  PAGE 57

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Management's Discussion and Analysis
            of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
                                    
                                    
   Current and deferred tax expenses for 1991 were affected significantly
by the special charge. Much of the tax benefit resulting from this charge
was not deductible in 1991 and therefore was recorded as a deferred tax
benefit. Excluding the payment discussed above and the federal tax rate
increase, the portion of the special charge that reversed in 1993 and
1992, combined with property-related adjustments, including depreciation,
were the principal causes for the increase in deferred tax expense over
the 1991 level.
   As a result of changes in tax law that limit or defer the timing of
deductions and recent tax rate increases, NS expects current taxes to
remain high in relation to pretax earnings (see Note 2 on page 70 for the
components of income tax expense).

Required Accounting Changes
- ---------------------------
   Effective January 1, 1993, NS adopted required accounting for
postretirement benefits other than pensions, postemployment benefits and
income taxes (see Note 1 on page 68 for a discussion of these accounting
changes). The net cumulative effect of these noncash adjustments
increased 1993's net income by $223.3 million, or $1.60 per share.  The
balance sheet effects of these accrual adjustments are reflected
primarily in "Other liabilities" for the postretirement and
postemployment benefits and in "Deferred income taxes" for the income tax
accounting change.

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

FINANCIAL CONDITION refers to the assets, liabilities and stockholders'
equity of an organization, including the value of those individual
elements in relation to each other. Generally, financial condition is
evaluated at a point in time using an organization's balance sheet (see
page 64). LIQUIDITY refers to the ability of an organization to generate
adequate amounts of cash, principally from operating results or through
borrowing power (based on net income or financial condition), to meet its
short-term and long-term cash requirements. CAPITAL RESOURCES refers to
the ability of an organization to attract investors through the sale of
either debt or equity (stock) securities.



   CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES, which is NS' principal source
of liquidity, declined 9% in 1993, compared with 1992, but was up 26% in
1992, compared with 1991. These fluctuations were primarily due to the
timing of income tax payments. In 1993, tax payments were $139.9 million
higher than in 1992, due to payments related to the 1988-1989 federal
income tax audit, higher 1993 earnings and the fact that 1992's tax
payments were low. In 1992, tax payments were $74.1 million less than
1991, primarily due to the higher tax payments in 1991 related to the
federal income tax audit for 1986 and 1987, and to estimated tax payments
in 1991 utilized in 1992.

  PAGE 58

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Management's Discussion and Analysis
            of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
                                    
                                    
   Implementation of the labor portion of the 1991 special charge also
contributed to the fluctuations in cash provided by operations. In 1993,
only $36.1 million was used for labor costs related to the special
charge, compared with $134.7 million in 1992 and $108.0 million in 1991.
The decline in 1993 was partly due to the failure to reach agreement on
terms for certain further labor savings. This situation also led to a
partial reversal of the 1991 special charge (see discussion in Note 15 on
page 85). Looking ahead, the labor portion of the special charge is
expected to continue to require the use of cash to achieve productivity
gains permitted by the agreements, although at a level somewhat lower
than previously anticipated. NS regards this cash outflow as an
investment because, in view of the high cost of labor and fringe
benefits, these payments are expected to produce significant future labor
savings. It is estimated that NS' labor-related payments will be reduced
by about $150 million per year upon full implementation of the new labor
agreements.
   Since the NS consolidation in 1982, cash provided by operating
activities has been sufficient to fund dividend requirements, debt
repayments and a significant portion of capital spending (see
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows on page 65).
   CASH USED FOR INVESTING ACTIVITIES declined 30% in 1993, compared with
1992, but was up 24% in 1992, compared with 1991. A combination of higher
proceeds from property and investment sales and reduced capital spending
yielded the improvement in 1993. Increased capital spending and the
absence of investment sales caused the 1992 over 1991 increase. Although
the high level of property and stock sales that occurred in 1993 is not
expected to continue, efforts to hold down capital spending will be
ongoing as NS seeks to maximize utilization of all its assets. In this
connection, NS continues to review its route network to identify areas
where efficiency can be enhanced by coordinated agreements with other
railroads, or through sale or abandonment.
   The following table summarizes capital spending over the last five
years, as well as track maintenance statistics and the average ages of
railway equipment.



   The average age of locomotives retired during 1993 was 24.7 years. In
recent years, NS has rebodied over 14,000 coal cars and plans to continue
that program at the rate of about 3,000 cars per year for the next
several years. This process, performed at NS' Roanoke Car Shop, converts
hopper cars into high-capacity steel gondolas or hoppers. As a result,
the remaining serviceability of the freight car fleet is greater than
indicated by the increasing average age of the freight car fleet.
   Construction of two surge silos at the coal transloading facility in
Norfolk was completed in 1993. The silos, which have a total capacity of
8,150 tons, allow for continuous dumping which reduces operating costs
and loading time.

  PAGE 59

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Management's Discussion and Analysis
            of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
                                    
                                    
   For 1994, NS is planning $634 million of capital spending, of which
$627 million will be for railway projects and $7 million for motor
carrier property. NS anticipates new equipment financing of approximately
$72 million in 1994. NS also plans to spend approximately $70 million for
coal reserves located in the Lincoln, Mingo and Logan counties of West
Virginia and in the Floyd, Johnson and Martin counties of Kentucky. This
acquisition should add approximately 210 million tons of high-volatile,
low-sulfur steam coal to NS' holdings. Looking further ahead, the
restructuring of NAVL, which was completed in 1993, is expected to reduce
the level of capital spending for motor carrier property. Rail capital
spending is likely to increase moderately over the next few years. The
proposed construction of a $100 million coal ground storage facility in
Isle of Wight County, Va., may affect capital spending in future years.
However, because of delays in the permitting process and reduced demand
for export coal, any significant spending on this project is not expected
until after 1994. In addition to adding capacity, this new facility
should further increase the efficiency of coal transportation service and
reduce the need for new coal hopper cars. A substantial portion of future
capital spending is expected to be funded through internally generated
cash, although debt financing will continue as the primary funding source
for equipment acquisitions.
   Investments (see Note 5 on page 75) decreased $122.6 million in 1993,
compared with 1992. This decline reflects a $220 million reclassification
to "Other current assets" for the cash surrender value of certain
corporate owned life insurance (COLI), which is expected to be borrowed
in April 1994, and accounts for the increase in working capital. Absent
this reclassification, "Investments" would have increased almost
$100 million, principally reflecting premium payments on COLI, which
increase the cash surrender value of the underlying insurance policies.
   CASH USED FOR FINANCING ACTIVITIES increased 32% in 1993, compared
with 1992, but had declined 27% in 1992, compared with 1991. The 1993
increase was principally a result of lower borrowing, making it the first
year in the past 5 years to produce a net reduction in debt. Debt
activity over the past five years was as follows:



   Debt requirements for 1994 are expected to remain moderate partly
because another source of cash, borrowing on the cash surrender value of
COLI, will satisfy some of 1994's cash requirements (see Note 5 on page
75 regarding COLI).
   The decline in cash used for financing activities in 1992, compared
with 1991, principally was due to purchases of fewer shares of NS stock.
Cash spent in recent years to purchase and retire stock amounted to $2.2
billion, of which $138.1 million, $177.2 million and $635.3 million was
spent in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively (see Note 14 on page 85 for
details of the stock purchase programs). Before 1991 and during 1993, a
significant portion of this total spending was from cash reserves,
whereas 1991 and 1992 purchases were funded largely through issuance of
debt.

  PAGE 60

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Management's Discussion and Analysis
            of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
                                    
                                    
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

   NS is subject to various jurisdictions' environmental laws and
regulations. Certain NS rail subsidiaries have received notices from the
Environmental Protection Agency that they are potentially responsible
parties under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act (CERCLA), which generally imposes joint and several
liability for cleanup costs. State agencies also have notified certain NS
rail subsidiaries that they may be potentially responsible for
environmental damages, and in several instances they have agreed
voluntarily to initiate cleanup.
   For CERCLA sites and all other known environmental incidents where
loss or liability is probable, NS has recorded an estimated liability.
The amount of that liability, which includes estimated costs of
remediation (and any associated restoration) on a site-by-site basis, is
expected to be paid over several years. Claims, if any, against third
parties for recovery of remediation costs incurred by NS are reflected as
receivables in the balance sheet and are not netted against the
associated NS liability. Environmental engineers perform ongoing analyses
of all identified sites, and--after consulting with counsel--any
necessary adjustments to initial liability estimates are recorded. NS
also has established an Environmental Policy Council, composed of senior
managers, to prescribe and direct its environmental initiatives.
   Estimates of a company's potential financial exposure even for known
environmental claims or incidents are necessarily imprecise because of
the widely varying costs of available remediation techniques, the
difficulty of determining in advance the nature and extent of
contamination and each potential participant's share of an estimated loss
and evolving statutory and regulatory standards governing liability.
   The risk of incurring environmental liability--for acts and omissions,
both past and current--is inherent in railroad operations. Moreover, some
of the commodities, particularly those classified as hazardous materials,
in NS' traffic mix can pose special risks that NS and its subsidiaries
work diligently to minimize. In addition, several NS subsidiaries have
land holdings that may be leased (and operated by others) or held for
sale. Because certain conditions may exist on these properties for which
NS ultimately may bear some financial responsibility, there can be no
assurance that NS will not incur liabilities or costs, the amount and
materiality of which, to a single accounting period or in the aggregate,
cannot be estimated reliably now, related to environmental problems that
are latent or undiscovered.
   However, based on its assessments of the facts and circumstances now
known and after consulting with its legal counsel, Management believes
that it has recorded appropriate estimates of liability for those
environmental matters of which the Corporation is aware.

INFLATION

   Generally accepted accounting principles require the use of historical
costs in preparing financial statements. This approach disregards the
effects of inflation on the replacement cost of property and equipment.
NS, a capital-intensive company, has approximately $12.8 billion invested
in such assets. The replacement costs of these assets, as well as the
related depreciation expense, would be substantially greater than the
amounts reported on the basis of historical costs.

  PAGE 61

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Management's Discussion and Analysis
            of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
                                    
                                    
RAIL INDUSTRY TRENDS

NS and other railroads are continuing to seek opportunities to share
traffic routes and facilities, furthering the goals of providing seamless
service to customers, making railroads more competitive with trucks and
maximizing efficiency of the respective railroads.

NS is responding to concerns regarding the emission of coal dust from in-
transit coal trains. Testing is under way of various methods of
controlling such emissions. However, at this time final results of the
testing and estimated costs that may be incurred to implement the
conclusions resulting therefrom are not available.

NS and the rail industry are continuing their efforts to replace the FELA
with a no-fault workers' compensation system, which we strongly believe
to be fairer both to the rail industry and to its employees.

  PAGE 62




                                                           (Continued)

  PAGE 63


  PAGE 64


  PAGE 65

                                                             (Continued)

  PAGE 66


  PAGE 67


  PAGE 68

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


The following notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.

1.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation
- ---------------------------
     The consolidated financial statements include Norfolk Southern
Corporation (Norfolk Southern) and its majority-owned and controlled
subsidiaries (collectively NS). The major subsidiaries are Norfolk
Southern Railway Company and North American Van Lines, Inc. (NAVL). All
significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated
in consolidation.

Cash Equivalents
- ----------------
     Cash equivalents are highly liquid investments purchased three
months or less from maturity. The carrying value approximates fair value
because of the short maturity of these investments.

Materials and Supplies
- ----------------------
     Materials and supplies, which consist mainly of fuel oil and items
for maintenance of property and equipment, are stated at average cost.
The cost of materials and supplies expected to be used in capital
additions or improvements is included in properties.

Properties
- ----------
     Properties are stated principally at cost and are depreciated using
group depreciation. Rail is primarily depreciated on the basis of use
measured by gross ton miles. The effect of this method is to write off
these assets over 42 years on average. Other properties are depreciated
generally using the straight-line method over estimated service lives at
annual rates that range from 1% to 25%. The overall depreciation rate
averaged 2.7% for roadway and 4.6% for equipment. NS capitalizes interest
on major capital projects during the period of their construction.
Maintenance expense is recognized when repairs are performed. When
properties other than land are sold or retired in the ordinary course of
business, the cost of the assets less the sale proceeds or salvage is
charged to accumulated depreciation rather than recognized through
income. Gains and losses on disposal of land, which is a nondepreciable
asset, are included in other income.

Revenue Recognition
- -------------------
     Revenue is recognized proportionally as a shipment moves from origin
to destination.

Earnings Per Share
- ------------------
     Earnings per share are computed by dividing net income by the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the
respective periods. Recent decreases in the number of shares outstanding
are the result of the stock purchase program described in Note 14.

  PAGE 69

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


1.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Balance Sheet Classification
- ----------------------------
     Beginning with 1991, the balance sheet classification of certain
revenue-related balances appears on an actual (net) basis rather than an
estimated (gross) basis due to the earlier availability of certain
settlement data with other railroads. This modification, which had no
income statement effect, resulted in large offsetting declines in
accounts receivable and accounts payable as illustrated in the Statement
of Cash Flows for 1991.

Required Accounting Changes
- ---------------------------
     Effective January 1, 1993, NS adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement
Benefits Other Than Pensions" (SFAS 106), and Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 112, "Employers' Accounting for Postemployment
Benefits" (SFAS 112). SFAS 106 requires NS to accrue the cost of
specified health care and death benefits over an employee's active
service period rather than, as was the previously prevailing practice,
accounting for such expenses on a pay-as-you-go basis. SFAS 112 requires
corporations to recognize the cost of benefits payable to former or
inactive employees after employment but before retirement on an accrual
basis. For NS, such postemployment benefits consist principally of
benefit obligations related to participants in the long-term disability
plan. NS recognized the effects of these changes in accounting on the
immediate recognition basis. The cumulative effects on years prior to
1993 of adopting SFAS 106 and SFAS 112 increased pretax expenses $360.2
million ($223.8 million after-tax), and $31.8 million ($19.7 million
after-tax), respectively (see Note 12). The impact on 1993 expenses is
not material. The pro forma effects of applying SFAS 106 and SFAS 112 on
individual prior years is not presented, as the effect on each separate
year also is not material.
     Also effective January 1, 1993, NS adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" (SFAS 109).
SFAS 109 requires a change from the deferred method of accounting for
income taxes to the asset and liability method of accounting for income
taxes. Under the asset and liability method, deferred tax assets and
liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable
to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred
tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax laws and tax
rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those
temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Under SFAS
109, the effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax
rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment
date. Under the deferred method, which applied for 1992 and prior years,
deferred income taxes were recognized for income and expense items that
were reported in different years for financial reporting purposes and
income tax purposes using the tax rate applicable for the year of the
calculation, and deferred taxes were not adjusted for subsequent changes
in tax rates. The cumulative effect on years prior to 1993 of adopting
SFAS 109 increased net income by $466.8 million (see also Note 2).
     The effect on net income and earnings per share as a result of
implementing the accounting changes was to increase net income and
earnings per share by $223.3 million and $1.60 per share, respectively.

  PAGE 70

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


2. Income Taxes

Federal Income Tax Rate Increase
- --------------------------------
     In August 1993, Congress enacted the Revenue Reconciliation Act of
1993, which increased the federal corporate income tax rate from 34% to
35%, retroactive to January 1, 1993. The tax rate increase had two
components which, as required by SFAS 109, were recognized in 1993's
earnings.
     The first component relates to the increased income tax rate's
effect on 1993's earnings, which increased the provision for income taxes
and reduced net income by $7.9 million, or $0.06 per share. The second
component increased the provision for the net deferred tax liability in
the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which reduced net income by $46.2
million, or $0.33 per share. Excluding the one-time noncash charge of
$0.33 per share, 1993's earnings per share before accounting changes
would have been $4.27.



  PAGE 71

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


2. Income Taxes (continued)



Deferred Income Tax Expense
- ---------------------------
     Some income and expense items are reported differently for financial
reporting and income tax purposes. Provisions for deferred income taxes
were made in recognition of these differences in accordance with APB
Opinion No. 11 for years prior to 1993, and SFAS 109 for 1993 (see Note 1
for an explanation of this required accounting change).

  PAGE 72

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


2. Income Taxes (continued)



  PAGE 73

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


2. Income Taxes (continued)



     Except for amounts for which a valuation allowance is provided,
Management believes the other deferred tax assets will be realized. The
valuation allowance for deferred tax assets as of January 1, 1993, was
$9.8 million. The net change in the total valuation allowance for the
year ended December 31, 1993, was an increase of $1.1 million.

Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Reviews
- --------------------------------------
     Consolidated federal income tax returns have been examined and
Revenue Agent Reports have been received for all years up to and
including 1989. The consolidated federal income tax returns for 1990
through 1992 are being audited by the IRS. Management believes that
adequate provision has been made for any additional taxes and interest
thereon that might arise as a result of these examinations.

  PAGE 74

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


3. Motor Carrier Restructuring

     On June 25, 1993, NS announced a plan to restructure its motor
carrier subsidiary by seeking buyers for the truckload freight portion of
North American Van Lines, Inc. (NAVL) which consisted of the Commercial
Transport Division (CT), a nationwide truckload carrier, and Tran-Star
(TS), a refrigerated carrier. In recent years, these businesses
contributed about one third of NAVL's revenues but, primarily due to CT,
produced operating losses. As a result of the restructuring, NS recorded
a $50.3 million pretax ($32.3 million after-tax) charge and recognized an
additional tax benefit of $36.8 million. The estimated costs of this
restructuring included projected operating losses during the phase-out
period, as well as labor, equipment and facility related costs.
Accordingly, results of operations for these businesses are excluded from
the Statement of Income after June 30, 1993.
     On December 31, 1993, NS completed a sale of TS' operations. The
proceeds from this sale are reflected in "Investment sales and other" in
the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Most of the assets and
liabilities of the CT Division were liquidated or transferred to other
NAVL divisions. CT's assets remaining at December 31, 1993, are expected
to be disposed of within the first six months of 1994 and, accordingly,
have been classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in "Other current
assets."



  PAGE 75

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements




Corporate Owned Life Insurance
- ------------------------------
     The cash surrender value of certain corporate owned life insurance
amounting to approximately $220 million, which is expected to be borrowed
in April 1994, has been reclassified in the Consolidated Balance Sheet
from "Investments" to "Other current assets."

Fair Values
- -----------
     At December 31, 1993, the fair value of investments approximated
$217 million. The fair values of marketable securities were based on
quoted market prices. At December 31, 1993 and 1992, the market value of
marketable equity securities was $14.5 million and $45.5 million,
respectively. The fair values of stock in nonmarketable securities were
estimated based on the underlying net assets. For the remaining
investments, consisting principally of corporate owned life insurance,
the carrying value approximates fair value.

Investment Write-Downs in 1991
- ------------------------------
     In 1991, NS recorded a $20 million pretax ($13.2 million after-tax)
loss to write off its remaining investment in a bank that declared
bankruptcy. This write-down, as well as investment sales transactions,
are reflected in "Other income-net" in the Consolidated Statements of
Income (see Note 4). Investment write-downs (which are noncash
transactions) are not included in the Consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows.



  PAGE 76

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


6. Properties (continued)

Noncash Property Transactions Excluded from the Consolidated Statements
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
of Cash Flows
- -------------
     Additions to "Other property" in 1991 included $66.6 million for
assets acquired from a real estate partnership in which an NS subsidiary
owns an equity interest. Of this transaction, $54 million was noncash and
relates to amounts invested in or advanced to that partnership which
previously had been classified in "Investments."

Capitalized Interest
- --------------------
     Total interest cost incurred on debt for 1993, 1992 and 1991 was
$120.2 million, $126.9 million and $117.3 million, respectively, of which
$21.6 million, $17.9 million and $17.6 million was capitalized.



8. Debt

Commercial Paper Program
- ------------------------
     In 1990, a commercial paper program was initiated principally to
finance the purchase and retirement of common stock (see Note 14). As of
December 31, 1993 and 1992, NS had $521.8 million and $520.5 million,
respectively, of notes outstanding under this program.

  PAGE 77

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


8. Debt (continued)

     Commercial paper debt is due within one year, but a portion has been
classified as long-term because NS has the ability and intends to
refinance its commercial paper on a long-term basis, either by issuing
additional commercial paper (supported by a revolving credit agreement)
or by replacing the commercial paper notes with long-term debt. The
credit agreement, which is effective through June 9, 1995, has a $400
million credit limit. A portion of the commercial paper outstanding, to
the extent of the revolving credit limit, is classified as long-term
debt. The credit agreement provides for interest at prevailing short-term
rates and contains customary financial covenants, including principally a
minimum tangible net worth requirement of $3 billion.



Debt Registration
- -----------------
   In February 1992, NS issued and sold $250 million principal amount of
its 7-7/8% notes due February 15, 2004. In March 1991, NS issued and sold
$250 million principal amount of its 9% notes due March 1, 2021. These
notes were issued under a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 filed
in 1991 with the Securities and Exchange Commission covering the issuance
of unsecured debt securities in an aggregate principal amount of up to
$750 million. Proceeds from the sale of these notes were used to purchase
and retire shares of NS common stock (see Note 14), to retire short-term
commercial paper debt issued to fund previous share purchases and for
general corporate purposes. These notes are not redeemable prior to
maturity and are not entitled to any sinking fund.

  PAGE 78

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


8. Debt (continued)





   A substantial portion of NS' properties and certain investments in
affiliated companies are pledged as collateral for much of the secured
debt.

Fair Values
- -----------
   The carrying value of short-term debt approximates fair value. The
fair value of long-term debt, including current maturities, approximated
$1.74 billion at December 31, 1993. The fair values of debt were
estimated based on quoted market prices or discounted cash flows using
current interest rates for debt with similar terms, company rating and
remaining maturity.

  PAGE 79

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


9. Lease Commitments





   Among NS' leased properties are approximately 300 miles of road in
North Carolina. The leases expire in 1994, and NS is discussing renewals
with the lessor (see also page 6).



  PAGE 80

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


11. Pension Plans

   Norfolk Southern and certain subsidiaries have defined benefit pension
plans which principally cover salaried employees. Pension benefits are
based primarily on years of creditable service with NS and compensation
rates near retirement. Contributions to the plans are made on the basis
of not less than the minimum funding standards set forth in the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. Assets in the plans
consist mainly of common stocks.





  PAGE 81

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


11. Pension Plans (continued)



Early Retirement Program
- ------------------------
   During 1993, NS completed a voluntary early retirement program for
salaried employees that resulted in a $42.4 million charge in
compensation and benefits expense. The principal benefit for those who
participated in the program was enhanced pension benefits which are
reflected in the accumulated benefit obligation at December 31, 1993.

Transfer of Pension Plan Assets
- -------------------------------
   During 1991, the NS Retirement Plan was amended to establish a Section
401(h) account for the purpose of transferring a portion of pension plan
assets in excess of the projected actuarial liability to fund current-
year medical payments for retirees. In December 1993, 1992 and 1991, $13
million, $15 million and $14.5 million, respectively, were transferred
from this account to reimburse NS for such payments. NS contributed equal
amounts to a Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association account in those
years to fund future medical costs for retirees (see Note 12).

401(k) Plan
- -----------
   Norfolk Southern and certain subsidiaries provide a 401(k) savings
plan for salaried employees. Under the plan, NS matches a portion of the
employee contributions, subject to applicable limitations. NS' expenses
under this plan were $5.2 million, $4.9 million and $4.5 million in 1993,
1992 and 1991, respectively.

  PAGE 82

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


12. Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions

   Norfolk Southern and certain subsidiaries provide specified health
care and death benefits to eligible retired employees, principally
salaried employees. Under the present plans, which may be amended or
terminated at NS' option, a defined percentage of health care expenses is
covered, reduced by any deductibles, co-payments, Medicare payments and,
in some cases, coverage provided by other group insurance policies. The
cost of such health care coverage to a retiree may be determined, in
part, by the retiree's years of creditable service with NS prior to
retirement. Death benefits are determined based on various factors,
including, in some cases, salary at time of retirement. NS continues to
fund benefit costs principally on a pay-as-you-go basis. However, in
1991, NS established a Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association (VEBA)
account to fund a portion of the cost of future health care benefits for
retirees.




  PAGE 83

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


12. Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions (continued)

   For measurement purposes, a 12% annual rate of increase in the per
capita cost of covered health care benefits was assumed for 1993; the
rate was assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 6% for 2005
and remain at that level thereafter. The health care cost trend rate has
a significant effect on the amounts reported in the financial statements.
To illustrate, increasing the assumed health care cost trend rates by one
percentage point in each year would increase the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 1993, by about $55.8
million and the aggregate of the service and interest cost components of
net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the year 1993 by about $5.1
million.
   The weighted-average discount rate used in determining the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation was 7.25%. A 6% salary increase
assumption was used for death benefits based on salary at the time of
retirement.
   The VEBA trust holding the plan assets is not expected to be subject
to federal income taxes as the assets are invested entirely in trust-
owned life insurance. The long-term rate of return on plan assets, as
determined by the growth in cash surrender value of the life insurance
policies, is expected to be 9%.
   Under collective bargaining agreements, NS and certain subsidiaries
participate in a multi-employer benefit plan, which provides certain
postretirement health care and life insurance benefits to eligible union
employees. Premiums under this plan are expensed as incurred and amounted
to $6.4 million, $6.2 million and $6.2 million in 1993, 1992 and 1991,
respectively.

13. Long-Term Incentive Plan

   Under the stockholder-approved Long-Term Incentive Plan, a
disinterested committee of the Board of Directors may grant stock
options, stock appreciation rights (SARs), and performance share units
(PSUs), up to a maximum 11,675,000 shares of Norfolk Southern common
stock. Grants of SARs and PSUs result in charges to earnings while grants
of stock options currently have no effect on earnings. Options may be
granted for a term not to exceed 10 years but may not be exercised prior
to the first anniversary date of grant. Options are exercisable at the
fair market value of Norfolk Southern stock on the date of grant.
   SARs were granted on a one-for-one basis in tandem with certain of the
stock option shares. Upon the exercise of an SAR, the optionee receives
in common stock or cash or both (as determined by the committee
administering the plan) the amount by which the fair market value of
common stock on the exercise date exceeds the option price. Exercise of
an SAR or option cancels any related option/SAR. During 1991, the
Securities and Exchange Commission issued new regulations under Section
16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In view of these new
regulations, plan participants surrendered, without cash or other
consideration, all outstanding SARs granted after 1988. Consistent with
the new regulations and the surrender of post-1988 SARs, future grants of
SARs are not anticipated at this time. SARs outstanding as of each year
end were as follows:  95,852 in 1993; 133,659 in 1992; and 203,728 in
1991.

  PAGE 84

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


13. Long-Term Incentive Plan (continued)





Performance Share Units
- -----------------------
   Performance share units, which were added to this plan by a 1989
amendment, entitle participants to earn shares of common stock at the end
of a three-year performance cycle based upon achievement of certain
predetermined corporate performance goals. PSU grants totaled 186,000 in
1991; 196,000 in 1992; and 160,500 in 1993. Shares earned and issued may
be subject to share retention agreements and held by NS for up to 5
years.
   The plan also permits the payment, in cash or in stock, of dividend
equivalents on shares of common stock covered by options and PSUs granted
after January 1, 1989, commensurate with dividends paid on common stock.
Tax absorption payments, in an amount estimated to equal the federal and
state income taxes applicable to shares of common stock issued subject to
a share retention agreement, also are authorized. Dividend equivalents
and tax absorption payments, if made, result in charges to earnings.


  PAGE 85

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


14. Stock Purchase Programs

   Since 1987, the Board of Directors has authorized the purchase and
retirement of up to 65 million shares of common stock. Purchases under
the programs initially were made with internally generated cash.
Beginning in May 1990, some purchases were financed with proceeds from
the sale of commercial paper notes. In March 1991, $250 million of long-
term notes were issued in part to repay a portion of the commercial paper
notes, as well as to provide funds for additional purchases. An
additional $250 million of long-term notes were issued in February 1992
(see Note 8 for debt details).
   On January 29, 1992, NS announced that, for reasons primarily related
to issues surrounding the 1991 special charge (see Note 15), the purchase
program would continue, but at a slower pace and over a longer authorized
period, with actual purchases dependent on market conditions, the
economy, cash needs and alternative investment opportunities.
   The recent decreases in the average number of outstanding common
shares, as disclosed in the Ten-Year Financial Review on page 36, are the
results of these purchase programs. Since the first purchases in December
1987 and through December 31, 1993, NS has purchased and retired
53,615,800 shares of its common stock under these programs at a cost of
$2.2 billion.

15. Special Charge in 1991 and Subsequent Partial Reversal in 1993

   Included in 1991 results was a $680 million special charge for labor
force reductions and asset write-downs. The special charge reduced net
income by $498 million, or $3.37 per share. The principal components of
the special charge were as follows:

Labor
- -----
   Significant new labor agreements were reached late in 1991 following a
Presidential Emergency Board's recommendations that railroads be
permitted to modify long-standing unproductive work rules. The principal
feature of the new agreements concerned a change in crew consist (the
required number of crew members on a train) from four to two members to
be implemented over a five-year period across most of NS' system. Surplus
employees whose positions were eliminated as a result of the restructured
crew size are entitled to protective pay and may be offered voluntary
separation incentives. Related to crew-consist changes, separate
agreements were reached concerning the buyout of certain productivity
funds (payments to train service employees whenever a train operates with
a reduced crew). The labor portion of the special charge amounted to
$450 million and represented the estimated costs of achieving the
productivity gains provided by these new agreements.

Goodwill
- --------
   In 1985, NS acquired all the common stock of NAVL for $369 million.
The transaction was accounted for as a purchase and included $211 million
representing cost in excess of net assets acquired (goodwill). The price
NS paid for NAVL was based on an evaluation of its earning power.
Generally, earnings since acquisition were much lower than anticipated.
In 1991, NS evaluated the carrying value of its investment in NAVL and
concluded that the goodwill portion of its investment was not recoverable
primarily because of reduced profit margins resulting from intense
competition in the motor carrier industry. As a result of this
determination, NS recorded a $187 million noncash charge against 1991
earnings (with no related tax benefit) representing the unamortized
balance of its investment in NAVL's goodwill. See also Note 3 regarding
NAVL's restructuring in 1993.

  PAGE 86

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


15. Special Charge in 1991 and Subsequent Partial Reversal in 1993
(continued)

Property
- --------
   The property portion of the special charge, which amounted to
$43 million, was for marginally productive railroad property and motor
carrier equipment assets that were scheduled for sale or abandonment.

Special Charge Reversal
- -----------------------
   Based on NS' success in eliminating reserve board positions in 1992
and 1993, and on events occurring in the third quarter of 1993, the
accrual included in the 1991 special charge related to labor was reduced
by $46 million and was reflected as a credit in compensation and benefits
expense. The principal factor contributing to the reversal was that, in
1993, agreement on terms for certain further labor savings could not be
reached. Accordingly, it became apparent that a surplus existed in the
labor portion of the provision established in the 1991 special charge.

16. Contingencies

Lawsuits
- --------
   Norfolk Southern and certain subsidiaries are defendants in numerous
lawsuits relating principally to railroad operations. While the final
outcome of these lawsuits cannot be predicted with certainty, it is the
opinion of Management, after consulting with its legal counsel, that
ultimate liability will not materially affect the consolidated financial
position of NS.

Debt Guarantees
- ---------------
   As of December 31, 1993, certain Norfolk Southern subsidiaries are
contingently liable as guarantors with respect to $37 million of
indebtedness of related entities.

Environmental Matters
- ---------------------
     NS is subject to various jurisdictions' environmental laws and
regulations. Certain NS rail subsidiaries have received notices from the
Environmental Protection Agency that they are potentially responsible
parties under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act (CERCLA), which generally imposes joint and several
liability for cleanup costs. State agencies also have notified certain NS
rail subsidiaries that they may be potentially responsible for
environmental damages, and in several instances they have agreed
voluntarily to initiate cleanup.
     For CERCLA sites and all other known environmental incidents where
loss or liability is probable, NS has recorded an estimated liability.
The amount of that liability, which includes estimated costs of
remediation (and any associated restoration) on a site-by-site basis, is
expected to be paid over several years. Claims, if any, against third
parties for recovery of remediation costs incurred by NS are reflected as
receivables in the balance sheet and are not netted against the
associated NS liability. Environmental engineers perform ongoing analyses
of all identified sites, and--after consulting with counsel--any
necessary adjustments to initial liability estimates are recorded. NS
also has established an Environmental Policy Council, composed of senior
managers, to prescribe and direct its environmental initiatives.

  PAGE 87

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


16. Contingencies (continued)

     Estimates of a company's potential financial exposure even for known
environmental claims or incidents are necessarily imprecise because of
the widely varying costs of available remediation techniques, the
difficulty of determining in advance the nature and extent of
contamination and each potential participant's share of an estimated
loss, and evolving statutory and regulatory standards governing
liability.
     The risk of incurring environmental liability--for acts and
omissions, both past and current--is inherent in railroad operations.
Moreover, some of the commodities, particularly those classified as
hazardous materials, in NS' traffic mix can pose special risks that NS
and its subsidiaries work diligently to minimize. In addition, several NS
subsidiaries have land holdings that may be leased (and operated by
others) or held for sale. Because certain conditions may exist on these
properties for which NS ultimately may bear some financial
responsibility, there can be no assurance that NS will not incur
liabilities or costs, the amount and materiality of which, to a single
accounting period or in the aggregate, cannot be estimated reliably now,
related to environmental problems that are latent or undiscovered.
     However, based on its assessments of the facts and circumstances now
known and after consulting with its legal counsel, Management believes
that it has recorded appropriate estimates of liability for those
environmental matters of which the Corporation is aware.

  PAGE 88

                      INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

The Stockholders and Board of Directors
Norfolk Southern Corporation:

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Norfolk Southern
Corporation and subsidiaries as listed in Item 8.  In connection with our
audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the
consolidated financial statement schedules as listed in Item 14(a)1.
These consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial
statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedules based
on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
Norfolk Southern Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1993 and
1992, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each
of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1993, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  Also in our
opinion, the related consolidated financial statement schedules, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements
taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 1, the Company changed its methods of accounting in
1993 by adopting the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards
Board's Statement 109, Accounting for Income Taxes; Statement 106,
Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions;
and Statement 112, Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits.



                                  /s/ KPMG Peat Marwick



Norfolk, Virginia
January 25, 1994

  PAGE 89


  PAGE 90


  PAGE 91


  PAGE 92



                                                                (continued)

  PAGE 93


  PAGE 94


  PAGE 95


  PAGE 96

                              EXHIBIT INDEX
                              -------------

Electronic
Submission
Exhibit
Number                Description                     Page Number
- ---------- -----------------------------------------  -----------
  10.g     Norfolk Southern Corporation Officers'
           Deferred Compensation Plan as amended
           effective January 1, 1994.                    97-106

  10.h     Directors' Deferred Fee Plan of Norfolk
           Southern Corporation as amended
           effective January 1, 1994.                   107-112

  11       Computation of Earnings Per Share.           113-116

  12       Computation of Ratio of Earnings
           to Fixed Charges.                                117

  21       Subsidiaries of Norfolk Southern.            118-120

  23       Consent of Independent Auditors.                 121


 
