
10-K405
NSC 10-K405 FYE 12/31/98



        
            UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                         Washington, D.C.  20549
                       ---------------------------
 
                              FORM 10-K405
 
 (X)ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998.
                                   OR
 ( )TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
    For the transition period from                 to
                                   ---------------    ----------------
                      Commission file number 1-8339
 
                      NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------
         (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
                 Virginia                              52-1188014
 ------------------------------------------------   ------------------
         (State or other jurisdiction of            (I.R.S. Employer
          incorporation or organization)            Identification No.)
 
 Three Commercial Place, Norfolk, Virginia             23510-2191
 ------------------------------------------------   ------------------
     (Address of principal executive offices)            (Zip Code)
 
 Registrant's telephone number, including area code  (757) 629-2680
                                                    ------------------
 
       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 
                                             Name of each exchange
         Title of each Class                 on which registered
         -------------------                 ---------------------
 Norfolk Southern Corporation
 Common Stock (Par Value $1.00)             New York Stock Exchange
 
    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  NONE
 
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
 reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
 Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
 shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
 and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
 days.  Yes (X)  No ( )
 
    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant
 to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be
 contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy
 or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
 Form 10-K405 or any amendment to this Form 10-K405. (X)
 
    The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates
 as of February 26, 1999:  $10,656,426,108.
 
    The number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes
 of common stock, as of February 26, 1999:  379,739,015 (excluding
 21,627,904 shares held by registrant's consolidated subsidiaries).


  PAGE 2


                  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

     Portions of the Registrant's definitive proxy statement (to be
dated April 1, 1999), to be filed electronically pursuant to
Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal
year, are incorporated by reference in Part III.


  PAGE 3


                                                        -----------------

           Item                                                Page
           ----                                                ----

Part I       1.  Business                                        4

             2.  Properties                                      4

             3.  Legal Proceedings                              17

             4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
                  Holders                                       17

                 Executive Officers of the Registrant           18

Part II      5.  Market for Registrant's Common Stock and
                  Related Stockholder Matters                   23

             6.  Selected Financial Data                        24

             7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of
                  Financial Condition and Results of
                  Operations                                    31

            7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
                  about Market Risk                             51

             8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    52

             9.  Changes in and Disagreements with
                  Accountants on Accounting and Financial
                  Disclosure                                    84

Part III    10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the
                  Registrant                                    85

            11.  Executive Compensation                         85

            12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
                  Owners and Management                         85

            13.  Certain Relationships and Related
                  Transactions                                  85

Part IV     14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule,
                  and Reports on Form 8-K                       86

                 Index to Consolidated Financial Statement
                  Schedule                                      86

Power of Attorney                                               91

Signatures                                                      91

Exhibit Index                                                   95


  PAGE 4


                                 PART I

Item 1.   Business.
- ------    --------

      and

Item 2.   Properties.
- ------    ----------

          GENERAL - Norfolk Southern Corporation (Norfolk Southern)
was incorporated on July 23, 1980, under the laws of the Commonwealth
of Virginia.  On June l, 1982, Norfolk Southern acquired control of
two major operating railroads, Norfolk and Western Railway Company
(NW) and Southern Railway Company (Southern) in accordance with an
Agreement of Merger and Reorganization dated as of July 31, 1980, and
with the approval of the transaction by the Interstate Commerce
Commission (ICC) (now the Surface Transportation Board [STB]).

          Effective Dec. 31, 1990, Norfolk Southern transferred all
the common stock of NW to Southern, and Southern's name was changed to
Norfolk Southern Railway Company (Norfolk Southern Railway).
Effective Sept. 1, 1998, NW was merged with and into Norfolk Southern
Railway.  As of Dec. 31, 1998, all the common stock of Norfolk
Southern Railway and 16.1 percent of its voting preferred stock
(resulting in 94.8 percent voting control) was owned directly by
Norfolk Southern.

          On March 28, 1998, Norfolk Southern closed the sale of its
motor carrier company, North American Van Lines, Inc. (NAVL) (see
"Discontinued Operations" on page 42 and Note 3 on page 66).  NAVL's
results of operations, financial position, and cash flows are
presented as "Discontinued operations" in the accompanying financial
statements.

          Unless indicated otherwise, Norfolk Southern and its
subsidiaries are referred to collectively as NS.

          JOINT ACQUISITION OF CONRAIL INC. - During 1997, NS and CSX
Corporation (CSX) completed the acquisition of Conrail Inc., the owner
of Consolidated Rail Corporation, the major freight railroad in the
Northeast.  Norfolk Southern Railway will begin providing rail freight
services on portions of Conrail's route system after the Closing Date,
which NS and CSX have agreed will be June 1, 1999 (see "Joint
Acquisition of Conrail" on page 44 and Note 2 on page 62).
Implementation of the Conrail transaction will expand NS' railroads'
service area considerably, adding approximately 7,200 route-miles
through an operating agreement, and giving them access to most of the
major ports on the East Coast, to New York City and the Northeast, and
to the Midwest.  In addition, the equipment fleet will be augmented by
approximately 1,100 locomotives, 27,200 freight cars, and 1,200
intermodal containers that Norfolk Southern Railway will lease from a
Conrail subsidiary on the Closing Date.


  PAGE 5


          CONTINUING OPERATIONS:

          RAILROAD OPERATIONS - As of Dec. 31, 1998, NS' railroads
operated approximately 14,400 miles of road in the states of Alabama,
Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana,
Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New York, North Carolina,
Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and West
Virginia, and in the Province of Ontario, Canada.  Of this total,
12,115 miles are owned with the balance operated under lease or
trackage rights; most of this total is main line track.  In addition,
its railroads operate 10,780 miles of passing, industrial, yard, and
side tracks.

          NS' railroads have major leased lines between Cincinnati,
Ohio, and Chattanooga, Tennessee, and in the State of North Carolina.

          The Cincinnati-Chattanooga lease, covering about 335
miles, expires in 2026, and is subject to an option to extend the
lease for an additional 25 years, at terms to be agreed upon.

          The North Carolina leases, covering approximately 330 miles,
expired by their terms at the end of 1994.  Although a lease extension
agreement was approved by the boards of both Norfolk Southern and the
North Carolina Railroad Company (NCRR), the U.S. District Court in
Raleigh ruled that there was no quorum at the stockholders' meeting
where the agreement had been approved and enjoined the parties from
performing under the extension agreement.  NCRR has suits pending
against Norfolk Southern and various subsidiaries in federal court in
Raleigh to enforce rights under the expired leases, and at the STB to
seek the establishment of terms and conditions of NS' railroads'
continued use and the compensation therefor.  NS' railroads presently
are operating over the leased lines under the requirements of federal
law, and will continue to do so until the matter has been resolved
through agreement or a decision by the STB establishing reasonable
conditions or permitting discontinuance of such operations.  Whatever
the ultimate resolution of the litigation, it is not expected to have
a material effect on NS' consolidated financial statements.

          NS' railroads carry raw materials, intermediate products,
and finished goods primarily in the Southeast and Midwest, and to and
from the rest of the United States and parts of Canada.  They also
transport overseas freight through several Atlantic and Gulf Coast
ports.  Atlantic ports served by NS include:  Norfolk, Virginia;
Morehead City, North Carolina; Charleston, South Carolina; Savannah
and Brunswick, Georgia; and Jacksonville, Florida.  Gulf Coast ports
served include Mobile, Alabama, and New Orleans, Louisiana.

          The lines of NS' railroads reach most of the larger
industrial and trading centers of the Southeast and Midwest, with the
exception of those in central and southern Florida.  Atlanta,
Birmingham, New Orleans, Memphis, St. Louis, Kansas City (Missouri),
Chicago, Detroit, Cincinnati, Buffalo, Norfolk, Charleston, Savannah,
and Jacksonville are among the leading centers originating and
terminating freight traffic on the system.  In addition, a haulage
arrangement with the Florida East Coast Railway allows NS' railroads
to provide single-line service to and from south Florida, including


  PAGE 6


the port cities of Miami, West Palm Beach, and Fort Lauderdale.  The
system's lines also reach many individual industries, mines (in
western Virginia, eastern Kentucky, and southern West Virginia) and
businesses located in smaller communities in its service area.  The
traffic corridors carrying the heaviest volumes of freight include
those from the Appalachian coal fields of Virginia, West Virginia, and
Kentucky, to Norfolk and Sandusky, Ohio; Buffalo to Chicago and Kansas
City; Chicago to Jacksonville (via Cincinnati, Chattanooga, and
Atlanta); and Washington, D.C./Hagerstown, Maryland, to New Orleans
(via Atlanta and Birmingham).

          Buffalo, Chicago, Hagerstown, Jacksonville, Kansas City,
Memphis, New Orleans, and St. Louis are major gateways for
interterritorial system traffic.

          NS' railroads and other railroads have entered into service
interruption agreements, effective Dec. 30, 1994, providing
indemnities to parties affected by a strike over specified industry
issues.  If NS were so affected, it could receive daily indemnities
from non-affected parties; if parties other than NS were affected, NS
could be required to pay indemnities to those parties.  If NS were
required to pay the maximum amount of indemnities required of it under
these agreements -- an event considered unlikely at this time -- such
liability should not exceed approximately $85 million.

          TRIPLE CROWN OPERATIONS - Until April 1993, NS' intermodal
subsidiary, Triple Crown Services, Inc. (TCS), offered intermodal
service using RoadRailer (Registered Trademark hereinafter abbreviated
RT) equipment and domestic containers.  RoadRailer(RT) units are
enclosed vans which can be pulled over highways in tractor-trailer
configuration and over the rails by locomotives.  On April 1, 1993,
the business, name, and operations of TCS were transferred to Triple
Crown Services Company (TCSC), a partnership in which subsidiaries of
NS and Conrail are equal partners.  RoadRailer(RT) equipment owned or
leased by TCS (which was renamed TCS Leasing, Inc.) is operated by
TCSC.  The revenues of TCSC since April 1, 1993, have not been
consolidated with the results of NS; however, beginning with the
Closing Date (see "Joint Acquisition of Conrail" on page 44), NS
expects to gain control of TCSC, and, therefore, include TCSC's
results in its consolidated financial statements.  TCSC offers door-to-
door intermodal service using RoadRailer(RT) equipment and domestic
containers in the corridors previously served by TCS, as well as
service to the New York and New Jersey markets via Conrail.  Major
traffic corridors include those between New York and Chicago, Chicago
and Atlanta, and Atlanta and New York.


  PAGE 7





  PAGE 8



Note:  Revenues previously reported as "other railway
       revenues" (principally switching and demurrage) have been
       allocated to revenues reported for each commodity group.

       Shipments include general merchandise and coal rail 
       carloads, and intermodal rail and RoadRailer(RT) units.


  PAGE 9


          COAL TRAFFIC - Coal, coke, and iron ore -- most of which is
bituminous coal -- is NS' railroads' principal commodity group.  They
originated 119 million tons of coal, coke, and iron ore in 1998 and
handled a total of 134 million tons.  Originated tonnage and total
tons handled remained stable compared with 1997.  Revenues from coal,
coke, and iron ore account for about 30 percent of NS' total railway
operating revenues.

          The following table shows total coal, coke, and iron ore
tonnage originated on line, received from connections, and handled for
the past five years:





          Of the 134 million tons handled, approximately 25 million
moved for export, principally through NS' pier facilities at Norfolk
(Lamberts Point), Virginia; 18 million moved to domestic and Canadian
steel industries; 83 million of steam coal moved to electric
utilities; and 8 million moved to other industrial and miscellaneous
users.

          NS' railroads moved 6 million tons of originated coal, coke,
and iron ore to various docks on the Ohio River, and 5 million tons to
various Lake Erie ports.  Other than coal for export, virtually all
coal handled by NS' railroads was terminated in states situated east
of the Mississippi River.

          Total coal handled through all system ports in 1998 was
39 million tons.  Of this total, 69 percent, or 27 million tons
(including coastwise traffic), moved through Lamberts Point, a
16 percent decrease, compared with the 32 million tons handled in
1997.


  PAGE 10


          The quantities of NS export coal handled through Lamberts
Point for the past five years were as follows:



          See the discussion of coal traffic, by type of coal, in
Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis."

          Merchandise Traffic - The merchandise traffic group consists
of intermodal and general merchandise, which consists of five major
commodity groupings: chemicals; automotive; paper, clay, and forest
products; agriculture, consumer products, and government; and metals
and construction.  Total merchandise revenues in 1998 were
$3.0 billion, a 2 percent increase, compared with 1997.  Merchandise
carloads and intermodal units handled in 1998 were 3.50 million,
compared with 3.43 million handled in 1997, an increase of 2 percent.

          In 1998, 113 million tons of merchandise freight, or
approximately 67 percent of total merchandise tonnage handled by NS,
originated on line.  The balance of merchandise traffic was received
from connecting carriers, usually at interterritorial gateways.  The
principal interchange points for NS-received traffic included Chicago,
Memphis, New Orleans, Cincinnati, Kansas City, Detroit, Hagerstown,
St. Louis/East St. Louis, and Louisville.

          Revenues in only two of the six market groups comprising
merchandise traffic improved in 1998.  The only large gain was in the
automotive group, up $74 million.

          See the discussion of general merchandise rail traffic by
commodity group and intermodal rail traffic in Part II, Item 7,
"Management's Discussion and Analysis."




  PAGE 11


          FREIGHT RATES - In 1998, NS' railroads continued their
reliance on private contracts and exempt price quotes as their
predominant pricing mechanisms.  Thus, a major portion of NS'
railroads' freight business is not currently economically regulated by
the government.  In general, market forces have been substituted for
government regulation and now are the primary determinant of rail
service prices.

          In 1998, NS' railroads were found by the STB to be "revenue
adequate" based on results for the year 1997.  A railroad is "revenue
adequate" under the applicable law when its return on net investment
exceeds the rail industry's composite cost of capital.

          The revenue adequacy measure is one of several factors
considered by the STB when it is called upon to rule on the
reasonableness of regulated rates.

          PASSENGER OPERATIONS - Regularly scheduled passenger
operations on NS' lines consist of Amtrak trains operating between
Alexandria and New Orleans, and between Charlotte and Selma, North
Carolina.  Commuter trains are operated on the NS line between
Manassas and Alexandria under contract with two transportation
commissions of the Commonwealth of Virginia.  Both of these services
are under contracts providing for reimbursement of related expenses
incurred by NS.  NS also leases the Chicago to Manhattan, Illinois,
line to the Commuter Rail Division of the Regional Transportation
Authority of Northeast Illinois.

          After the Closing Date (see "Joint Acquisition of Conrail"
on page 44), Norfolk Southern Railway will operate that portion of
Conrail's routes and assets allocated to Conrail's wholly owned
subsidiary, Pennsylvania Lines LLC.  As a result, Norfolk Southern
Railway will provide freight service over lines with significant
ongoing Amtrak and commuter passenger operations, and will conduct
freight operations over some trackage owned by Amtrak or by commuter
entities.

          NONCARRIER OPERATIONS - NS' noncarrier subsidiaries engage
principally in the acquisition and subsequent leasing of coal, oil,
gas, and timberlands, the development of commercial real estate, and
the leasing or sale of rail property and equipment.  In 1998, no such
noncarrier subsidiary or industry segment grouping of noncarrier
subsidiaries met the requirements for a reportable business segment
set forth in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131.


  PAGE 12


          RAILWAY PROPERTY:




* Includes equipment leased to outside parties and equipment subject
  to equipment trusts, condition sale agreements, and capitalized
  leases.


  PAGE 13




          The average age of the freight car fleet at Dec. 31, 1998,
was 23.6 years.  During 1998, 1,338 freight cars were retired.  As of
Dec. 31, 1998, the average age of the locomotive fleet was 15.4 years.
During 1998, 52 locomotives, the average age of which was 20.6 years,
were retired.  The average age of retired locomotives decreased in
1998 due to:  (1) a disproportionate share of early retirements due to
casualties and service failures, and (2) retention of older units in
anticipation of the Closing Date.  Since 1988, about 27,000 coal cars
have been rebodied.  As a result, the remaining serviceability of the
freight car fleet is greater than may be inferred from the high
percentage of freight cars built in earlier years.

          Ongoing freight car and locomotive maintenance programs are
intended to ensure the highest standards of safety, reliability,
customer satisfaction, and equipment marketability.  In past years,
the freight car bad order ratio reflected the storage of certain types
of cars which were not in high demand.  The ratio has declined more
recently as a result of a disposition program for underutilized,
unserviceable, and overage revenue cars.  In this connection, an
orderly disposition of 17,000 freight cars, begun in October 1994, was
completed in 1997.  The locomotive bad order ratio rose in 1997,
particularly in the early months of the year as older units required
additional servicing and some new units were out-of-service related to
warranty work.  By year-end 1997, the locomotive bad order ratio had
returned to a more historic level.




  PAGE 14


          TRACKAGE - All NS trackage is standard gauge, and the rail
in approximately 95 percent of the main line trackage (including
first, second, third, and branch main tracks, all excluding trackage
rights) ranges from 100 to 140 pounds per yard.  Of the 22,382 miles
of track maintained as of Dec. 31, 1998, 15,955 were laid with welded
rail.



                * Excludes trackage rights.



          MICROWAVE SYSTEM - The NS microwave system, consisting of
7,610 radio path miles, 417 active stations, and 4 passive repeater
stations, provides communications between most operating locations.
The microwave system is used principally for voice communications,
VHF radio control circuits, data and facsimile transmissions, traffic
control operations, AEI data transmissions, and relay of intelligence
from defective equipment detectors.

          TRAFFIC CONTROL - Of a total of 12,784 road miles operated
by NS, excluding trackage rights over foreign lines, 5,400 road miles
are governed by centralized traffic control systems (of which 560
miles are controlled by data radio from 43 microwave site locations),
and 2,500 road miles are equipped for automatic block system
operation.

          COMPUTERS - Data processing facilities connect the yards,
terminals, transportation offices, rolling stock repair points, sales
offices, and other key system locations to the central computer
complex in Atlanta, Georgia.  Operating and traffic data are compiled
and stored to provide customers with information on their shipments
throughout the system.  Data processing facilities are capable of



  PAGE 15


providing current information on the location of every train and 
each car on line, as well as related waybill and other train and car 
movement data.  Additionally, these facilities afford substantial 
capacity for, and are utilized to assist management in the performance 
of, a wide variety of functions and services, including payroll, 
car and revenue accounting, billing, material management activities 
and controls, and special studies.

          NS has under way a project to review, and modify as
necessary, computer and other systems for Year-2000 compliance.  See
discussion of Year-2000 compliance efforts on page 46 in Part II,
Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis."

          OTHER - The railroads have extensive facilities for support
of operations, including freight depots, car construction shops,
maintenance shops, office buildings, and signals and communications
facilities.

          ENCUMBRANCES - Certain railroad equipment is subject to the
prior lien of equipment financing obligations amounting to
approximately $725 million as of Dec. 31, 1998, and $601 million at
Dec. 31, 1997.

          CAPITAL EXPENDITURES - Capital expenditures for road,
equipment, and other property for the past five years were as follows
(including capitalized leases):



          Capital spending and maintenance programs are and have been
designed to assure the ability to provide safe, efficient, and
reliable transportation services.  For 1999, NS has budgeted
$1.07 billion of capital spending, of which $300 million are initial
outlays for facilities and equipment related to the Conrail
transaction.  Capital spending is expected to remain at historically
high levels, as projects related to the operation of Conrail's routes
and assets will continue after the Closing Date.

          ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS - Compliance with federal, state, and
local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the
environment is a principal NS goal.  To date, such compliance has not
affected materially NS' capital additions, earnings, liquidity, or
competitive position.  See the discussion of "Environmental Matters"
on page 48 in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis,"
and in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 80.


  PAGE 16


          EMPLOYEES - NS employed an average of 24,300 employees in
1998, compared with an average of 25,817 (which includes 2,407 NAVL
employees) in 1997.  The approximate average cost per employee during
1998 was $49,700 in wages and $17,600 in employee benefits.

          Approximately 85 percent of NS' railroad employees are
represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements
with 15 different labor organizations.  The agreements currently in
force will remain in effect through Dec. 31, 1999, and thereafter
until new agreements are reached or until the Railway Labor Act's
procedures are exhausted.

          GOVERNMENT REGULATION - In addition to environmental,
safety, securities, and other regulations generally applicable to all
businesses, NS' railroads are subject to regulation by the STB, which
succeeded the ICC on Jan. 1, 1996.  The STB has jurisdiction over some
rates, routes, conditions of service, and the extension or abandonment
of rail lines.  The STB also has jurisdiction over the consolidation,
merger, or acquisition of control of and by rail common carriers.  The
Department of Transportation regulates certain track and mechanical
equipment standards.

          The relaxation of economic regulation of railroads, begun
over a decade ago by the ICC under the Staggers Rail Act of 1980, has
continued under the STB, and additional rail business could be
exempted from regulation in the future.  Significant exemptions are
TOFC/COFC (i.e., "piggyback") business, rail boxcar traffic, lumber,
manufactured steel, automobiles, and certain bulk commodities such as
sand, gravel, pulpwood, and wood chips for paper manufacturing.
Transportation contracts on regulated shipments effectively remove
those shipments from regulation as well.  Over 80 percent of NS'
freight revenues come from either exempt traffic or traffic moving
under transportation contracts.

          Efforts will be made in 1999 to re-subject the rail industry
to unwarranted federal economic regulation.  The Staggers Rail Act of
1980, which substantially reduced such regulation, encouraged and
enabled rail carriers to innovate and to compete for business, thereby
contributing to the economic health of the nation and to the
revitalization of the industry.  Accordingly, NS and other rail
carriers vigorously will oppose these counterproductive efforts to re-
impose or to authorize re-imposing such economic regulation.

          COMPETITION - There is continuing strong competition among
rail, water, and highway carriers.  Price is usually only one factor
of importance as shippers and receivers choose a transport mode and
specific hauling company.  Inventory carrying costs, service
reliability, ease of handling, and the desire to avoid loss and damage
during transit are increasingly important considerations, especially
for higher valued finished goods, machinery, and consumer products.
Even for raw materials, semi-finished goods, and work-in-process,
users are increasingly sensitive to transport arrangements which
minimize problems at successive production stages.


  PAGE 17


          NS' primary rail competitor is the CSX system; both operate
throughout much of the same territory, and implementation of the
Conrail transaction should extend the area in which they compete.
Other railroads also operate in parts of the territory.  NS also
competes with motor carriers, water carriers, and with shippers who
have the additional option of handling their own goods in private
carriage.

          Certain cooperative strategies between railroads and between
railroads and motor carriers enable carriers to compete more
effectively in specific markets.


Item 3.   Legal Proceedings.
- ------    -----------------

          None.


Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
- ------    ---------------------------------------------------

          There were no matters submitted to a vote of security
holders during the fourth quarter of 1998.


  PAGE 18


Executive Officers of the Registrant.
- ------------------------------------

          Norfolk Southern's officers are elected annually by the
Board of Directors at its first meeting held after the annual meeting
of stockholders, and they hold office until their successors are
elected.  There are no family relationships among the officers, nor
any arrangement or understanding between any officer and any other
person pursuant to which the officer was selected.  The following
table sets forth certain information, as of March 1, 1999, relating to
these officers:

                                   Business Experience During Past
Name, Age, Present Position        Five Years
- ---------------------------        -----------------------------------

David R. Goode, 58,                Present position since September
  Chairman, President, and          1992.
  Chief Executive Officer

L. I. Prillaman, 55,               Present position since August 1,
  Vice Chairman and                 1998.  Served as Executive Vice
  Chief Marketing Officer           President-Marketing from October
                                    1995 to August 1998, and prior
                                    thereto was Vice President-
                                    Properties.

Stephen C. Tobias, 54,             Present position since August 1,
  Vice Chairman and                 1998.  Served as Executive Vice
  Chief Operating Officer           President-Operations from July
                                    1994 to August 1998, and prior
                                    thereto was Senior Vice President-
                                    Operations.

Henry C. Wolf, 56,                 Present position since August 1,
  Vice Chairman and                 1998; prior thereto was
  Chief Financial Officer           Executive Vice President-Finance.

James C. Bishop, Jr., 62,          Present position since March
  Executive Vice President-         1996; prior thereto was Vice
  Law                               President-Law.

R. Alan Brogan, 58,                Present position since April 1,
  Executive Vice President-         1998; prior thereto was Executive
  Corporate                         Vice President-Transportation
                                    Logistics.

John F. Corcoran, 58,              Present position since August
  Senior Vice President-            1997; prior thereto was Vice
  Public Affairs                    President-Public Affairs.


  PAGE 19


                                   Business Experience During Past
Name, Age, Present Position        Five Years
- ---------------------------        -----------------------------------

Jon L. Manetta, 60,                Present position since August 1,
  Senior Vice President-            1998.  Served as Vice President-
  Operations                        Transportation & Mechanical from
                                    December 1995 to August 1998,
                                    Vice President-Transportation
                                    from June 1994 to December 1995,
                                    and prior thereto was Assistant
                                    Vice President-Transportation.

James W. McClellan, 59,            Present position since August 1,
  Senior Vice President-            1998; prior thereto was Vice
  Planning                          President-Strategic Planning.

Phillip R. Ogden, 58,              Present position since August 1,
  Senior Vice President-            1998; prior thereto was Vice
  Engineering                       President-Engineering.

Paul N. Austin, 55,                Present position since September 22,
  Vice President-                   1998.  Served as Vice President-
  Human Resources and               Personnel and Assistant to
  Assistant to Chairman             Chairman from September 1, 1998,
                                    to September 21, 1998, Vice
                                    President-Personnel from June
                                    1994 to September 1998, and prior
                                    thereto was Assistant Vice
                                    President-Personnel.

David A. Cox, 63,                  Present position since December
  Vice President-                   1995; prior thereto was Assistant
  Properties                        Vice President-Industrial
                                    Development.

Timothy P. Dwyer, 49,              Present position since August 23,
  Vice President-                   1998.  Served as Senior Vice
  Marketing Services                President-Operations of Conrail
                                    from June 1998 to August 1998,
                                    Senior Vice President-Unit Train
                                    Service Group of Conrail from
                                    November 1994 to June 1998, and
                                    prior thereto was Vice President-
                                    Unit Train Service Group of
                                    Conrail.

Thomas L. Finkbiner, 46,           Present position since August 1993.
  Vice President-
  Intermodal

Nancy S. Fleischman, 51,           Present position since August
  Vice President                    1997; prior thereto was Assistant
                                    Vice President-Strategic
                                    Planning.


  PAGE 20


                                   Business Experience During Past
Name, Age, Present Position        Five Years
- ---------------------------        -----------------------------------

Robert C. Fort, 54,                Present position since December
  Vice President-                   1996; prior thereto was Assistant
  Public Relations                  Vice President-Public Relations.

John W. Fox, Jr., 51,              Present position since October
  Vice President-                   1995; prior thereto was Assistant
  Coal Marketing                    Vice President-Coal Marketing.

James L. Granum, 62,               Present position since March 1992.
  Vice President-
  Public Affairs

Lewis D. Hale, Jr., 52,            Present position since August 1,
  Vice President-                   1998.  Served as Assistant Vice
  Transportation                    President-Mechanical from
                                    December 1995 to August 1998, and
                                    prior thereto was General Manager
                                    Western Region.

James A. Hixon, 45,                Present position since June 1993.
  Vice President-
  Taxation


Thomas C. Hostutler, 62,           Present position since August 16,
  Vice President-                   1998; prior thereto was Senior
  Internal Audit                    Assistant Vice President-
                                    Corporate Accounting.

H. Craig Lewis, 54,                Present position since August 1,
  Vice President-                   1998.  Served as Regional Vice
  Corporate Affairs                 President from August 1997 to
                                    August 1998, and prior thereto
                                    was a partner in a Pennsylvania 
                                    law firm.

Mark D. Manion, 46,                Present position since August 1,
  Vice President-                   1998.  Served as General Manager
  Mechanical                        Western Region from December 1995
                                    to August 1998, Assistant Vice
                                    President-Transportation from
                                    July 1994 to December 1995, and
                                    prior thereto was Division
                                    Superintendent, Lake Division.

Harold C. Mauney, Jr., 60,         Present position since August 1997.
  Vice President-                   Served as Vice President-
  Public Affairs                    Operations Planning and Budget
                                    from December 1996 to August
                                    1997, and prior thereto was Vice
                                    President-Quality Management.


  PAGE 21


                                   Business Experience During Past
Name, Age, Present Position        Five Years
- ---------------------------        -----------------------------------

Donald W. Mayberry, 55,            Present position since December
  Vice President-                   1995; prior thereto was Vice
  Research and Tests                President-Mechanical.

Kathryn B. McQuade, 42,            Present position since August 16,
  Vice President-                   1998; prior thereto was Vice
  Financial Planning                President-Internal Audit.

Charles W. Moorman, 47,            Present position since October
  Vice President-                   1993.
  Information Technology

John P. Rathbone, 47,              Present position since December
  Vice President and                1992.
  Controller

William J. Romig, 54,              Present position since April 1992.
  Vice President and
  Treasurer

John M. Samuels, 55,               Present position since January
  Vice President-                   1998.  Served as Vice President-
  Operations Planning               Operating Assets of Conrail from
  and Budget                        January 1996 to January 1998,
                                    Vice President-Mechanical of
                                    Conrail from November 1994 to
                                    January 1996, and prior thereto
                                    was Vice President-Engineering of
                                    Conrail.

Donald W. Seale, 46,               Present position since August 1993.
  Vice President-
  Merchandise Marketing

Robert S. Spenski, 64,             Present position since June 1994;
  Vice President-                   prior thereto was Senior
  Labor Relations                   Assistant Vice President-Labor
                                    Relations.

Rashe W. Stephens, Jr., 57,        Present position since December
  Vice President-                   1996; prior thereto was Assistant
  Quality Management                Vice President-Public Affairs.

Charles J. Wehrmeister, 49,        Present position since August 1,
  Vice President-                   1998.  Served as Assistant Vice
  Safety and Environmental          President-Safety and
                                    Environmental from January 1995
                                    to August 1998, and prior thereto
                                    was Division Superintendent,
                                    Virginia Division.


  PAGE 22


                                   Business Experience During Past
Name, Age, Present Position        Five Years
- ---------------------------        -----------------------------------

William C. Wooldridge, 56,         Present position since March 1996;
  Vice President-                   prior thereto was General
  Law                               Counsel-Corporate.

Dezora M. Martin, 51,              Present position since April 1995;
  Corporate Secretary               prior thereto was Assistant
                                    Corporate Secretary-NS.


  PAGE 23


                                 PART II


Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related
- ------    ------------------------------------------------
          Stockholder Matters.
          -------------------

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  STOCK PRICE AND DIVIDEND INFORMATION
                               (Unaudited)




  PAGE 24


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.
- ------    -----------------------




  PAGE 25


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- ------    -----------------------


All share and per share amounts have been restated to reflect the
Sept. 5, 1997, three-for-one stock split.

NOTES:
(1)  1998 and 1997 results include several Conrail-related items.
     These principally consist of: (1) interest expense of $402
     million in 1998 and $264 million in 1997 on debt issued to
     finance NS' share of the NS/CSX joint acquisition of Conrail
     stock, (2) NS' equity in earnings of Conrail, net of
     amortization, of $194 million in 1998 and $117 million in 1997,
     (3) integration costs of $119 million in 1998 and $3 million in
     1997, and (4) credit facility costs including a $77 million
     charge in 1997 incurred in conjunction with certain now-
     terminated commitments that provided financing for NS' then-
     proposed acquisition of all Conrail stock. These items reduced
     net income by $156 million, or 41 cents per diluted share, in
     1998, and $107 million, or 29 cents per diluted share, in 1997.

(2)  In 1998, NS sold all the common stock of its motor carrier
     subsidiary, North American Van Lines, Inc. (NAVL), for $207
     million, and recorded a $90 million pretax ($105 million, or 28
     cents per diluted share, after-tax) gain. Accordingly, NAVL's
     results of operations, financial position, and cash flows are
     presented as "Discontinued operations."


  PAGE 26


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- ------    -----------------------



  PAGE 27


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- ------    -----------------------



All share and per share amounts have been restated to reflect the
Sept. 5, 1997, three-for-one stock split.

NOTES:
(3)  1993 results include an increase in the provision for income
     taxes reflecting a 1% increase in the federal income tax rate,
     which reduced net income by $54 million, or 13 cents per diluted
     share. "Discontinued operations" includes a $50 million pretax
     restructuring charge for the disposition of two NAVL businesses.
     Net income also reflects two accounting changes, the cumulative
     effect of which increased 1993 net income by $223 million, or
     53 cents per diluted share: a change in accounting for income
     taxes increased net income by $467 million, with a corresponding
     reduction in deferred taxes, and changes in accounting for
     postretirement and postemployment benefits decreased net income
     by $244 million.

(4)  1991 operating expenses include a $483 million special charge
     primarily for labor force reductions. "Discontinued operations"
     includes a $197 million charge primarily for the write-down of
     the goodwill portion of NS' investment in NAVL. These charges
     reduced net income by $498 million, or $1.12 per diluted share.


  PAGE 28


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- ------    -----------------------




  PAGE 29


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- ------    -----------------------



All share and per share amounts have been restated to reflect the
Sept. 5, 1997, three-for-one stock split.


  PAGE 30


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- ------    -----------------------

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                             Table of Graphs
             Included with the Eleven-Year Financial Review



       Since 1983, NS' first full year after consolidation,
       the annual dividend has grown at a compound annual rate
       of 6.5%. Stockholders received a dividend yield of 2.5%
       in 1998, compared with less than 1.2% for all S&P 500
       stocks.


  PAGE 31


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 Management's Discussion and Analysis of
              Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction
with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes beginning on
page 54 and the Eleven-Year Financial Review beginning on page 24.


SUMMARIZED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

1998 Compared with 1997
- -----------------------
     Net income in 1998 was $734 million, an increase of 2%, and
includes a $105 million gain from the sale of NS' former motor carrier
subsidiary, North American Van Lines, Inc. (NAVL) (see Note 3 on
page 66). Income from continuing operations, which excludes both
NAVL's results of operations prior to its sale and the gain from its
sale, was $630 million, a decrease of 10%. Included in both of these
results were Conrail-related items that are estimated to have reduced
income from continuing operations by $156 million in 1998 and
$107 million in 1997 (see Note 2 on page 62). Excluding the effects of
these items, income from continuing operations would have been down
2%, attributable to a decline in income from railway operations.
     Diluted earnings per share of $1.93 were up 2%. Diluted earnings
per share from continuing operations of $1.65 were down 10%. Excluding
the effects of the Conrail-related items, diluted earnings per share
from continuing operations would have been down 3%.

1997 Compared with 1996
- -----------------------
     Net income in 1997 was $721 million, a decrease of 6%. Income
from continuing operations was $699 million, down 7%. Excluding the
effects of Conrail-related items, net income would have been up 8%
over 1996's record result, and income from continuing operations would
have been up 7%. Income from railway operations increased 4%.
Increased nonoperating income (see Note 4 on page 67) and a lower
effective income tax rate (see Note 5 on page 67) also contributed to
the improvement in net income.
     Diluted earnings per share of $1.90 were down 5%. Diluted
earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.84 were down 6%.
Excluding the effects of the Conrail-related items, both earnings per
share amounts would have been up 9% over 1996's record result.



      Excluding Conrail-related items, income from railway
      operations decreased 4% in 1998, compared with the record
      result of 1997.

     *1998 and 1997 include Conrail-related integration expenses.
      Excluding such expenses, income from railway operations would
      have been $1,171 million in 1998 and $1,216 million in 1997.
      1995 excludes a $34 million charge for an early retirement
      program.


  PAGE 32


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

DETAILED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Railway Operating Revenues
- --------------------------
     Railway operating revenues were $4.2 billion in 1998, compared
with $4.2 billion in 1997 and $4.1 billion in 1996. The following
table presents a three-year comparison of revenues by market group.



     In 1998, revenue increases in the automotive and metals and
construction groups were offset by revenue decreases in the remaining
market groups. As shown in the following table, volume gains were more
than offset by lower revenue per unit. However, almost all of the
volume increase and revenue per unit decrease reflect the effects of
the new mixing centers (see the discussion under the "Automotive"
caption, below). Revenues for the remaining market groups declined
$76 million, $58 million of which resulted from lower traffic volume
and $18 million of which resulted from lower revenue per unit. In
1997, revenues increased or remained steady for all market groups, and
volume gains produced all of the revenue improvement.



     Following the Closing Date of the Conrail transaction (see "Joint
acquisition of Conrail," on page 44), total railway operating revenues
are expected to increase by about one-half: coal revenues are expected
to increase by about one-third; general merchandise revenues are
expected to increase by about one-half; and intermodal revenues are
expected to about double.


  PAGE 33


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

     COAL tonnage was unchanged in 1998, but revenues decreased 4%; an
increase in utility tonnage, especially shorter-haul (lower average
revenue) traffic, offset decreases in longer-haul (higher average
revenue) export and domestic metallurgical traffic. Coal revenues
represented 30% of total railway operating revenues in 1998, and 89%
of coal shipments originated on NS' lines. In 1997, coal tonnage
increased 3%, primarily due to increased export and utility tonnage;
however, revenues decreased slightly as a result of shorter hauls.



     Utility coal traffic increased 9% in 1998, due to rising
electricity production in NS' service area, the return of some traffic
to rail, and increased business from several customers.
     In 1997, utility coal traffic increased 2%. Several of NS'
utility customers shifted more generation to coal-fired plants, as
some nuclear power plants experienced downtime. New business resulting
from innovative marketing efforts also contributed to the increase.
     The near-term outlook for utility coal remains positive. U.S.
demand for electricity continues to increase at a rate greater than
generation capacity is being added, and coal-fired generation
continues to be the cheapest marginal source of electricity. Increased
price competition resulting from utility deregulation could cause
utilities to seek to reduce costs and increase plant utilization.
These factors, coupled with excess capacity at certain low-cost, coal-
fired generating plants, could provide an opportunity for utility coal
volume growth. However, competitive pressures on utilities to reduce
costs also could put price pressure on generation source fuels,
including NS-delivered coal.
     Moreover, many of the mines served by NS produce coals that
satisfy both the Phase I and Phase II requirements of the Clean Air
Act Amendments. In addition, an increasing bank of sulfur dioxide
allowances held by many NS-served utilities should continue to provide
a market for other NS-served mines for nearly a decade. However,
several recently adopted or proposed environmental regulations could
increase the cost of coal-fired generation.
     After the Closing Date, NS will gain direct access to 27 utility
plants and to mines with an abundant supply of low-cost, high-quality
steam coal located on Conrail lines.

     Export coal tonnage decreased 14% in 1998, due to weak economies
in Asia and a strong U.S. dollar. The dollar gained 20% or more
compared with the currencies of countries (such as Australia, South
Africa, and Indonesia) that provide the primary competition for U.S.
export coal. A significant decline in Asian demand for coal created
supplies that competed at deeply discounted prices with U.S. export
coal in Europe and South America. Steam coal exports declined to
0.4 million tons in 1998, compared with 1.7 million tons in 1997. U.S.
low-sulfur coals were not price-competitive due to the strength of the
dollar. In addition, natural gas has displaced much of the coal-fired
generation in Europe.


  PAGE 34


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

     In 1997, export coal tonnage increased 7%, reaching the highest
level since 1992. Higher metallurgical coal demand from NS-served
producers caused growth in shipments to Japan. Increased metallurgical
coal exports to Holland and Romania and increased shipments to Brazil
early in the year also contributed to the improvement.
     The same factors that led to the decrease in 1998 volume are
expected to continue in 1999. The Asian recession in steel production
showed signs of moving into Europe in late 1998. In addition,
competition from Australian coal is expected to intensify, and U.S.
coal exports may drop further if demand decreases for blast furnace
raw materials in Western Europe. Finally, the recent Kyoto Protocol on
climate change, if adopted, could put added downward pressure,
worldwide, on coal-fired power demand.
     Conrail and its coal-producing customers are well established in
the export steam coal market, which might help NS achieve greater
levels of participation. Furthermore, current NS and Conrail coal
exporters should benefit from being able to ship their coal single-
line through both Baltimore, Md., and Norfolk, Va.

     Steel coal domestic traffic declined 14% in 1998, due to plant
closures, reduced blast furnace operations, and the continuation of
aggressive producer pricing of higher volatile metallurgical coals not
located on NS' lines.
     In 1997, steel coal domestic traffic increased 5%, due to growth
in coke and iron ore shipments that more than offset decreased
metallurgical coal shipments.
     Steel coal domestic traffic is expected to be adversely affected
by competition in domestic and foreign steel markets. Producers in
weak markets such as Russia, Japan, and Brazil are exporting much of
their steel at low prices to the United States and Canada.
Furthermore, with the reduction in blast-furnace capacity, coke
production in the United States continues to decline. Advanced
technologies that allow production of steel using little or no coke
could cause this market to decline slowly in the long term. However,
alternative uses for steel coal are increasing, and NS continues to
pursue opportunities for the movement of noncoking coal used in
alternative iron-making technologies.
     With its access to the Northeast after the Closing Date, NS
expects to increase its participation in shipments of raw materials
for the steel industry by gaining single-line access to most domestic
integrated steel plants and merchant coke plants.

     Other coal traffic, primarily steam coal shipped to manufacturing
plants, was largely unchanged in 1998 and 1997.



          Revenues decreased 4% in 1998 due to lower export
          traffic. Total tonnage handled in 1998 was equal to
          1997, as increased utility coal tonnage offset
          decreased export and steel coal tonnage. This group
          includes utility coal, export coal, domestic
          metallurgical coal, industrial coal, coke, and iron
          ore.


  PAGE 35


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

     GENERAL MERCHANDISE traffic volume increased 5%, and revenues
increased 2%, in 1998, driven by higher automotive revenues. In 1997,
both general merchandise traffic volume and revenues increased 3%, as
all market groups, except the agriculture, consumer products, and
government group posted revenue gains.

     Chemicals traffic volume decreased 1%, and revenues decreased 2%,
in 1998, the first decline since 1989. The weak economies in Asia and
softness in certain domestic markets adversely affected shipments of
products for the vinyl, polyester, and pulp markets. In addition,
nationwide rail service problems, particularly early in the year,
caused some customers to divert traffic to truck and barge. However,
several NS-served facilities with new and expanded plant capacity
increased shipments of plastics and petroleum products, somewhat
offsetting these negative effects. NS also increased traffic through
its Thoroughbred Bulk Transfer (TBT) facilities that handle chemicals
and bulk commodities to customers not located on its lines.
     In 1997, chemicals traffic volume increased 5%, and revenues
increased 4%, as fertilizer and plastics markets strengthened. In
addition, the harsh winter resulted in increased movements of liquid
petroleum gas, and industrial chemicals remained strong throughout the
year.
     The chemicals market group is expected to rebound in 1999,
supported by plant expansions, expected increases in U.S. chemical
production, and extended market reach made possible by new TBT
facilities.
     After the Closing Date, NS will gain a competitive route to
northern New Jersey, where Conrail currently originates or terminates
annually about 40,000 carloads of chemicals.



          Revenues decreased $11 million, or 2%, in 1998, the
          only decline this decade. This group includes
          fertilizers, sulfur, and related chemicals, petroleum
          products, chlorine and bleaching compounds, plastics,
          industrial chemicals, chemical wastes, and municipal
          wastes.

     Automotive carloads increased 35%, and revenues increased 15%, in
1998, exceeding the record levels achieved in 1997. Finished vehicles
led the growth, as carloads increased 54% and revenues increased 19%,
primarily due to new business through the Ford mixing centers. Full
production volume at the Mercedes-Benz plant in Vance, Ala., and the
Toyota minivan line at Georgetown, Ky., also contributed to the
increases. Vehicle parts traffic volume and revenues remained steady
despite the effects of the mid-year strike at General Motors.
     A substantial portion of the 1998 increase in carloads resulted
from the nature of the mixing centers. Previously, carloads of
vehicles went from plant to distribution center, where vehicles were
classified and loaded onto trucks for transport to dealers. Now,
carloads of vehicles, mostly in unit-train service, go from plant to
the mixing centers, where vehicles are sorted by destination and
loaded onto other trains in a mix suitable for direct transport to
dealers. As a result, carload counts have been increased: each vehicle
that is handled through the centers arrives on one carload and departs
on another carload. This hub-and-spoke method of distribution is
intended to improve Ford's delivery logistics and reduce its inventory
costs and order-to-delivery times.


  PAGE 36


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

     In 1997, automotive traffic volume increased 2%, and revenues
rose 1%. A 12% increase in auto parts traffic volume more than offset
a 3% decline in vehicles traffic that resulted from industrywide
railcar shortages, rail traffic congestion, unexpected downtime at
certain plants, and modest sales for some of the models transported by
NS.
     The automotive market group is expected to continue to experience
growth in 1999, supported by the Ford mixing centers, a new Toyota
truck assembly plant at Princeton, Ind., two new just-in-time rail
parts distribution facilities, and the introduction of a new BMW sport
utility vehicle to be produced at Greer, S.C.
     After the Closing Date, NS will gain direct access to 15 assembly
plants, and NS will serve 32 of the 58 rail-served assembly plants in
the United States. NS' network of auto distribution terminals will
increase from 26 to 38.



          Revenues increased $74 million, or 15%, in 1998. Since
          1993, revenues have increased $140 million, or 33%.
          This group includes finished vehicles for BMW,
          DaimlerChrysler, Ford, General Motors, Honda, Isuzu,
          Jaguar, Land Rover, Mazda, Mitsubishi, Nissan, Saab,
          Subaru, Suzuki, Toyota, and Volkswagen, and auto parts
          for Ford, DaimlerChrysler, General Motors, and Toyota.
          Since 1988, eight of 11 major new automotive plants in
          the East have located on NS lines.

     Paper, clay, and forest products traffic volume decreased 3%, and
revenues declined 1%, in 1998. Traffic volume increases in the first
three quarters were offset by a sudden and pronounced weakness in the
paper industry in the fourth quarter, adversely affecting shipments of
paper, wood fiber, and kaolin clay. Decreased domestic and foreign
demand resulted in both widespread paper mill downtime late in the
year and indefinite closure of several NS-served paper mills.
Shipments of lumber and wood products partially offset the effects of
these declines, posting record carloads and revenues due to continued
strong demand from the housing construction industry.
     In 1997, paper, clay, and forest products traffic volume rose 4%,
and revenues increased 5%. Shipments of wood chips increased, as did
lumber traffic, supported by demand for southern yellow pine to
replace timber from Pacific Northwest sources. Kaolin clay traffic
also increased, and shipments of paper products were up slightly.
     The paper industry is expected to continue to experience reduced
demand in 1999, due to the weak economies in Asia and consolidation
within the industry. Moreover, growth in lumber is expected to slow,
as housing starts are forecast to decline from the record levels of
1998.
     After the Closing Date, NS will have direct access to 33 paper
mills and 26 lumber reload centers located on Conrail lines.


  PAGE 37


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------



          Revenues decreased $5 million, or 1%, in 1998. This
          group includes lumber and wood products, pulpboard and
          paper products, wood fibers, woodpulp, scrap paper, and
          clay. NS serves 50 paper mills, more than 30 lumber
          reload centers, and numerous general commodity
          warehouses.

     Agriculture, consumer products, and government traffic volume
declined 3%, and revenues decreased 2%, in 1998. Weak export and
soybean meal markets adversely affected shipments. Sweeteners volume
and revenues declined, as a strong beet sugar crop negatively affected
cane sugar shipments out of the South. Increased revenues from grain,
soybeans, and feed ingredients from the longer-haul Southeast feed and
corn processing markets somewhat offset the effects of the declines.
     In 1997, agriculture, consumer products, and government traffic
volume decreased 3%, and revenues decreased 1%. Most of the decline
resulted from decreases in the bulk agriculture commodities. Weak
export markets, declines in corn shipments to processors, and an
unfavorable soybean market resulting from higher prices led to traffic
declines that began early in the year.
     Moderate growth is expected in 1999; low prices and an abundant
supply should continue to increase domestic consumption of corn for
feed and processing. In addition, moderating worldwide competition
should lead to a small recovery in the U.S. export market.
     After the Closing Date, NS expects to increase its direct-line
accessed grain elevator capacity by about 10%.



          Revenues decreased $8 million, or 2%, in 1998. This
          group includes grain, soybeans, animal feed, feed
          ingredients, sweeteners, food oils, flour, beverages,
          canned goods, consumer products, and items for the
          military.

     Metals and construction traffic volume was unchanged, and
revenues increased 1%, in 1998. The strong performance in the metals
market during 1997 was repeated in the first half of 1998, due to
improved efficiency at integrated mills and the continued growth of
new mini-mills and steel processors in NS' service territory. However,
the domestic metals market weakened in the second half of 1998, due to
an increase in the supply of lower-priced, imported steel.
Construction traffic and revenues increased, due to increased highway
and housing construction activity in the Southeast.
     In 1997, both traffic and revenues in metals and construction
increased 4%. Construction traffic benefited from increased highway
building activity in the Southeast. Metals traffic increased due to
gains in domestic sheet steel movements resulting from record steel
production and increased pipe shipments.


  PAGE 38


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

     The metals and construction market group is expected to grow
moderately in 1999. Production at new industries locating on NS' lines
is expected to mitigate traffic losses attributable to imports of
steel and scrap metal. Traffic is expected to continue to benefit from
increased highway construction activity.
     After the Closing Date, NS will have direct access to 43 steel
production facilities and 38 metal distribution centers located on
Conrail lines.



          Revenues increased $5 million, or 1%, in 1998, marking
          the seventh consecutive year of growth. Since 1993,
          revenues have increased $64 million, or 21%. This group
          includes steel, aluminum products, machinery, scrap
          metals, cement, aggregates, bricks, and minerals.

     INTERMODAL traffic volume decreased 2%, and revenues decreased
1%, in 1998. The decline, which was the first in 12 years, resulted
from a service network redesign that was implemented in August. The
redesign is expected to improve on-time performance and eliminate
complexity, thereby positioning NS to achieve the traffic volume
anticipated from the Conrail transaction. As a result, trailer traffic
volume declined 16%, but this decrease was largely offset by increases
in both container traffic volume and revenues (respectively, 2% and
5%) and Triple Crown Services Company (TCSC) traffic volume and
revenues (respectively, 5% and 9%). NS' intermodal revenues includes
rail-haul services performed for TCSC (a partnership in which
subsidiaries of NS and Conrail are equal partners). After the Closing
Date, NS expects to gain control of TCSC and, therefore, include
TCSC's results in its consolidated financial statements.
     In 1997, intermodal traffic volume increased 11%, and revenues
increased 12%, each setting a record. Capacity expansions on major
terminals and trains, combined with a healthy domestic and
international economy, enabled NS to achieve the third year of double-
digit growth in four years. Volume increases were balanced, and NS
outperformed the market in all intermodal traffic segments. Container
traffic volume increased 12%, supported by new steamship business
under contract.
     Intermodal revenues are expected to increase in 1999, supported
by the redesigned service network, expanded terminal capacity, and
extension of NS' double-stack services.
     After the Closing Date, NS will gain direct-line access to the
Northeast consumer markets and most major East Coast ports. This,
along with the inclusion of TCSC's revenues in NS' reported revenues,
is expected nearly to double NS' intermodal revenues.


  PAGE 39


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------



          Revenues decreased $8 million, or 1%, in 1998, the
          first decline in 12 years. This group handles trailers,
          domestic and international containers, Triple Crown
          equipment, and equipment for intermodal marketing
          companies, international steamship lines, truckers, and
          other shippers.

Railway Operating Expenses
- --------------------------
     Railway operating expenses increased 5% in 1998, while
carloadings increased 1%. The expense increase was mostly attributable
to Conrail-related integration expenses, and additional expenses,
including start-up costs, related to the Ford mixing centers. Railway
operating expenses increased only 3% in 1997, despite a 5% increase in
traffic volume.
     As a result, the railway operating ratio, which measures the
percentage of railway revenues consumed by railway expenses, was 75.1%
in 1998, compared with the record-low 71.3% in 1997 and 71.6% in 1996.
NS' railway operating ratio continues to be the best among the major
railroads in the United States.
     In addition to reflecting Conrail-related integration expenses,
the railway operating ratio in 1998 was also adversely affected by a
change in traffic mix related to growth in automotive traffic coupled
with the change in coal traffic mix. Automotive traffic includes some
of NS' most time-sensitive and resource-intensive business, requiring
more trains, increased handling costs, and higher equipment rents.
     The railway operating ratio is expected to be even higher in
1999, due to expenses associated with the portion of Conrail's routes
and assets that NS will operate, as well as additional integration
expenses, prior to and after the Closing Date, and because the Closing
Date is later than previously anticipated.
     The following table shows the changes in railway operating
expenses summarized by major classifications.



     Compensation and benefits, which represents about half of total
railway operating expenses, increased 6% in 1998, and only slightly in
1997.


  PAGE 40


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

     In 1998, higher wages and salaries -- results of additional
staffing in anticipation of the Closing Date and union wage increases,
including the effect of an increase in the BLE bonus fund -- were
offset somewhat by lower accruals for pension benefits, due to
favorable investment returns on pension plan assets. Also contributing
to the increase were new FRA train inspection requirements and a
higher Railroad Unemployment Tax rate.
     In 1997, higher wages resulting from union wage increases and
additional train and engine employees were offset by lower fringe
benefit and incentive compensation costs. The decline in fringe
benefit costs was largely due to favorable investment experience on
pension plan assets. To a large extent, productivity improvements and
train efficiencies offset the effects of the higher traffic volume.

     Materials, services, and rents includes items used for the
maintenance of the railroads' lines, structures, and equipment; the
costs of services purchased from outside contractors, including the
net costs of operating joint (or leased) facilities with other
railroads; and the net cost of equipment rentals. This category of
expenses increased 18% in 1998 and 10% in 1997.
     The 1998 increase was principally due to Conrail-related
integration costs and higher-than-anticipated mixing center costs
associated with the increase in automotive traffic. Higher equipment
rents and locomotive repair expenses also contributed to the increase.
     The 1997 increase resulted primarily from higher volume-related
intermodal expenses, as well as from higher equipment rents, partially
a result of a change in the mix of received versus forwarded traffic.
Higher locomotive repair expenses and costs for contract programmers
to make computer processes Year-2000 compliant (see "Year-2000
compliance" discussion under "Other matters," below) also contributed
to the increase.
     Equipment rents, which represent the cost to NS of using
equipment (mostly freight cars) owned by other railroads or private
owners, less the rent paid to NS for the use of its equipment, were up
18% in 1998 and 11% in 1997. The 1998 increase was due to: (1) rents
for equipment needed to support the increase in automotive traffic;
(2) reduced rents received from the leasing of owned locomotives; and
(3) increased lease expenses for equipment obtained to meet
anticipated demand after the Closing Date. These increases were
somewhat offset by higher receipts on NS-owned freight cars and auto
racks.
     The 1997 increase was due to a 5% increase in overall traffic and
a shift in traffic mix. Carloadings in other railroads' and privately
owned freight cars were up 7%, due to growth in traffic received from
other railroads. Trailer and container loadings, moving mostly on
privately owned flatcars, were up 11%. These increased costs were
mitigated somewhat by higher receipts from short-term leases of
locomotives to various railroads.
     Locomotive repair costs increased in 1998 and 1997 due to the
higher traffic levels and an increase in the average number of
locomotives in service, reflecting retention of older units.

     Depreciation expense (see Note 1, "Properties," on page 61 for
NS' depreciation policy) was up 4% in 1998 and 3% in 1997. Increases
in both years were due to property additions, reflecting recent
substantial levels of capital spending.

     Diesel fuel costs declined 23% in 1998 and 3% in 1997. The 1998
decrease was due to a 26% drop in the average price per gallon, which
was the lowest since 1988, somewhat offset by a 3% increase in
consumption. The 1997 decrease was due to the net effect of a 5% drop
in the average price per gallon and a 3% increase in consumption.


  PAGE 41


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

     Casualties and other claims expenses (including the estimates of
costs related to personal injury, property damage, and environmental
matters) decreased 23% in 1998 and were unchanged in 1997. The 1998
decline was due to cost recoveries from third parties and lower
accruals for environmental remediation costs and to reduced personal
injury expenses. In 1997, a reduction in personal injury expenses was
offset by higher freight damage costs.
     The largest component of casualties and other claims expense is
personal injury costs. Although NS experienced an increase in the
number of reportable employee injuries in 1998, the number of claims
declined, compared with 1997. Costs associated with employee and third-
party injuries were lower in 1998, continuing the favorable trend
experienced in recent years. However, these improvements were
partially offset by an increase in costs related to so-called
"occupational" injuries. Within the past decade, there has been a
dramatic increase in the number of these types of claims. In 1998,
almost two-thirds of the total employee injury cases settled and one-
third of settlement payments made were related to occupational claims.
These claims do not generally relate to a specific accident or event,
but rather result from a claimed exposure over time to some condition
of employment. As a result, many of these claims are asserted by
employees who have retired or who no longer work for NS. NS continues
to work actively to eliminate all accidents and exposure risks and to
control associated costs.
     The rail industry remains uniquely susceptible to litigation
involving job-related accidental injury and occupational claims
because of an outmoded law, the Federal Employers' Liability Act
(FELA), originally passed in 1908 and applicable only to railroads.
This law, which covers employee claims for job-related injuries,
promotes an adversarial claim environment and produces results that
are unpredictable and inconsistent, at a far greater cost to the rail
industry than the no-fault workers' compensation system to which
nonrail competitors and other employers are universally subject. The
railroads have been unsuccessful so far in efforts to persuade
Congress to replace FELA with a no-fault workers' compensation system.
     NS maintains substantial amounts of commercial insurance for
potential third-party liability and property damage losses. However,
it also retains reasonable levels of risk through self-insurance. In
1998, in recognition of ever-increasing jury awards, NS elected to
increase the limit of liability insurance maintained, which did not
result in a significant increase in premium expense.

     Other expenses increased 11% in 1998 and 1% in 1997. The 1998
increase was principally due to: (1) higher property and other taxes,
due to the effects of favorable adjustments in prior years resulting
from settlements with taxing authorities, and (2) increased travel
expenses, mostly attributable to planning for the Conrail transaction.

Income Taxes
- ------------
     Income tax expense in 1998 was $215 million, for an effective
rate of 25%, compared with an effective rate of 30% in 1997 and 35% in
1996. Excluding the equity in Conrail's after-tax earnings, the
effective rate was 33% in 1998 and 34% in 1997.
     The effective rates in all three years were below the statutory
federal and state rates -- results of investments in corporate-owned
life insurance and in coal-seam gas properties and of favorable
adjustments upon filing the prior year tax returns. In addition, 1998
benefited from favorable adjustments resulting from settlement of
federal income tax years 1993-1994. 1997 benefited from favorable
adjustments of accrued liabilities for state income taxes. 1996
benefited from favorable adjustments resulting from settlement of
federal income tax years 1990-1992.


  PAGE 42


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

Discontinued Operations
- -----------------------
     Income from discontinued operations includes the $105 million
after-tax gain from the sale of NAVL (see Note 3 on page 66). Motor
carrier operations in 1998 (January 1 through March 28) produced a
$1 million loss; these same operations produced income of $22 million
in 1997 and $17 million in 1996.

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY, AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     Cash provided by operating activities, NS' principal source of
liquidity, decreased $260 million, or 23%, in 1998, and $48 million,
or 4%, in 1997. Since consolidation in 1982, cash provided by
operating activities has been sufficient to fund dividend
requirements, debt repayments, and a significant portion of capital
spending. The decrease in 1998 was principally the result of the
decline in income from operations and higher interest payments related
to the debt issued in mid-1997 in connection with the Conrail
transaction. The decrease in 1997 was primarily the result of higher
interest payments.



       Cash provided by operations declined in 1998, due to Conrail-
       related items that consumed a substantial amount of cash.

     * Excluding Conrail-related items, cash provided by operations
       would have been $1,240 million in 1998 and $1,241 million in
       1997.

     Cash used for investing activities in 1998, 1997, and 1996
includes costs related to NS' acquisition in 1997 of a 58% economic
interest in Conrail, and 1998 includes proceeds from the sale of NAVL.
Excluding the investment in Conrail and NAVL sale proceeds, cash used
for investing activities increased 8% in 1998 and 50% in 1997. Property
additions account for most of the recurring spending in this category.
     The following tables show capital spending, track, and equipment
statistics for the past five years. Capital expenditures include
amounts relating to capitalized leases, which are excluded from the
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (see Note 8 "Capital lease
obligations" on page 72).



       NS' capital expenditures have increased 66% since 1993 --
       demonstrating commitment to make the investments necessary
       to support safe, efficient operations and revenue growth.


  PAGE 43


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

     Capital expenditures increased 14% in 1998 and 18% in 1997. The
increase in 1998 was due to significant outlays for roadway projects
and equipment in anticipation of the Closing Date. The increase in
1997 was due to higher roadway additions that included construction
costs for four Ford mixing centers.





     The 1998 decrease in the average age of retired locomotives
resulted from: (1) a disproportionate share of early retirements due
to casualties and service failures, and (2) retention of older units
in anticipation of the Closing Date.
     Since 1988, NS has rebodied about 27,000 coal cars, and plans to
continue that program. This work, performed at NS' Roanoke Car Shop,
converts hopper cars into high-capacity steel gondolas or hoppers. As
a result, the remaining service life of the freight car fleet is
greater than may be inferred from the increasing average age shown in
the corresponding table.
     NS began an orderly disposition of approximately 17,000 freight
cars in October 1994. This was completed in 1997, and "Property sales
and other transactions" in the 1997 and 1996 Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows includes proceeds from such dispositions.
     For 1999, NS has budgeted $1.07 billion of capital expenditures,
of which $300 million is related to Conrail properties to be operated
by NS after the Closing Date. Some of the Conrail-related projects may
be constructed by Conrail, which would reduce NS' capital spending.
     Approximately $650 million of the total projected spending is for
roadway projects, including nearly $400 million for rail and bridge
program work. Also included are projects to improve signaling and
communications; track improvements, such as installation of second
main lines and passing sidings to increase line capacity and upgrade
service; and new and expanded intermodal and auto distribution
terminals.
     Equipment purchases of almost $390 million include 138 six-axle,
high-adhesion locomotives; multi-level automobile racks; high-cubic
capacity, 60-foot boxcars for automotive parts; and covered coil cars
to handle steel traffic. Also included in equipment spending is
$87 million to support ongoing programs to improve equipment
utilization, including the coal car rebody program and rebuilding of
multi-level automobile racks, high-cubic capacity boxcars, covered
hopper cars, and open-top coil cars.
     Capital expenditures are expected to remain at historically high
levels, as projects related to the operation of Conrail's routes and
assets will continue after the Closing Date.


  PAGE 44


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

     Cash used for financing activities was $252 million in 1998 and
included proceeds from the sale of additional commercial paper and
equipment trust certificates. Cash provided by financing activities in
1997 included net proceeds from the issuance of $4.3 billion principal
amount of unsecured notes and proceeds from the sale of commercial
paper to finance NS' share of the cost of acquiring Conrail stock.
Also included was $72 million of credit facility costs related to
certain now-terminated commitments under credit agreements that were
in place to support NS' tender offer for all shares of Conrail. Debt
repayments in 1998 and 1997 included repayment of some commercial
paper. NS' debt-to-total capitalization ratio was 56% at the end of
1998 and 58% at the end of 1997.
     Cash spent to purchase and retire common stock was $389 million
in 1996. On Oct. 23, 1996, NS announced that the share purchase
program had been suspended (see Note 13 on page 78).
     NS currently has in place a $2.8 billion credit facility to
support its commercial paper program. In addition, NS registered
$1 billion of securities on Form S-3 (see Note 8 on page 70). During
1999, as in prior years, NS expects to finance a portion of its
equipment acquisitions using equipment trusts and other traditional
mechanisms.


JOINT ACQUISITION OF CONRAIL

     NS and CSX, through a jointly owned entity, control Conrail (see
Note 2 on page 62). NS will begin providing rail freight services on
portions of Conrail's route system after the Closing Date, which NS
and CSX have agreed will be June 1, 1999. Selection of that date
permits additional programming and testing of information technology
and other systems necessary for safe and efficient integration of
operations -- matters as to which the parties must give assurances
required under the STB's order approving the transaction.
     NS has negotiated (or has out for ratification) all but two of
the labor implementing agreements necessary for closing. Arbitration
awards (which set forth the implementing agreement provisions) have
been received in the remaining two cases.
     NS plans to implement its own information technology systems on
the portion of Conrail's routes and assets it will operate. While some
systems will be operational on the Closing Date, others --
particularly the transportation systems -- will be integrated
geographically over a period of several months after the Closing Date.
Accordingly, some of Conrail's systems are being modified to be
compatible with NS' systems. Most of this programming is completed,
and testing has begun. Moreover, in the Shared Assets Areas, many of
Conrail's existing systems will continue to be used and, therefore,
must be able to work with both NS' and CSX's systems and be made
Year-2000 compliant (see also the discussion on page 46 concerning
Conrail's Year-2000 compliance efforts).
     In anticipation of the Closing Date, NS has accumulated resources
to enable it to operate its portion of Conrail's routes and assets.
This has included maintaining or increasing its work force
(particularly hiring and training additional train crews and
management employees), acquiring or leasing equipment based on
projected requirements, and beginning expansions to its facilities.
These actions have resulted in increased operating expenses in 1998,
and expenses of this type are anticipated to continue even after the
Closing Date.
     The Closing Date marks the point at which Norfolk Southern
Railway Company (NSR) actually can begin to operate certain of the
assets and routes of Conrail, thereby permitting NS to begin to
realize many of the anticipated transaction benefits. Realization of
these benefits is dependent upon, among other things: (1) successful
integration of NS' portion of Conrail's system into its railroad
system; (2) successful operations within the Shared Assets Areas; and
(3) successful coordination of NSR's (and CSXT's) operations with the


  PAGE 45


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

Shared Assets Areas' operations. In addition, increased rail 
competition in the Northeast could affect the extent of benefits 
realized. A failure by NS or CSX to integrate successfully their 
respective portions of Conrail, including information technology 
systems, could have a substantial impact on NS' financial position, 
results of operations, or liquidity.

Conrail's Results of Operations, Financial Condition, and Liquidity
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
     Conrail's net income was $267 million in 1998, compared with
$7 million in 1997. Both years included transactions related to the
acquisition and control of Conrail by NS and CSX that were excluded in
determining NS' equity in earnings of Conrail.
     Conrail's operating revenues increased $98 million, or 3%, in
1998, due to a 4% increase in traffic volume, as all market groups
except automotive posted increases for the year.
     Conrail's operating expenses decreased $95 million, or 3%, in
1998, and included a $170 million charge ($105 million after taxes)
for severance benefits covering nonunion employees and $132 million
($82 million after taxes) of other charges and reserves. Operating
expenses in 1997 included a $221 million charge in conjunction with
the termination of the Conrail ESOP (which had no related income tax
effect) and a $173 million charge ($142 million after taxes) for stock
compensation and executive severance costs related to the change in
ownership. In addition, Conrail's operating expenses reflect
transition-related expenses of $149 million in 1998 (principally
technology integration costs and employee stay bonuses) and
$114 million in 1997 (principally investment banking, legal and
consulting fees and employee stay bonuses). Excluding the effects of
the acquisition-related compensation and transition costs, operating
expenses increased 3%, compared with the 4% increase in traffic
volume. Volume-related expense increases and higher casualty and other
claims expenses were offset somewhat by lower diesel fuel costs.
     Conrail's cash provided by operations decreased $157 million, or
18%, in 1998, principally due to the higher incentive compensation
payments and transition-related costs. Cash generated from operations
has been the principal source of liquidity and is primarily used for
capital expenditures and debt repayments. Capital expenditures totaled
$550 million in 1998, and included $214 million for track program work
and $198 million of equipment acquisitions. Debt repayments in 1998
were $119 million.
     Conrail had a working capital deficit of $202 million at Dec. 31,
1998, compared with a deficit of $254 million at Dec. 31, 1997. The
deficit at year-end 1998 includes $234 million of employee-related
liabilities, such as severance and stay bonus accruals, which are
expected to be funded using assets from an employee benefits trust and
Conrail's over-funded pension plan.
     During 1998, Conrail terminated its status as an SEC registrant
and, therefore, it presently cannot issue any publicly traded
securities. Conrail also terminated its $440 million uncollateralized
bank credit facility that was used for general corporate purposes and
to support its now-terminated commercial paper program. Conrail should
continue to have sufficient cash flow to meet its ongoing obligations
both before and after the integration of rail operations with NS and
CSX.
     NS' equity in earnings of Conrail, net of amortization, was
$194 million in 1998, and $117 million in 1997 (see Note 2).


  PAGE 46


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

OTHER MATTERS

Year-2000 Compliance
- --------------------
     General -- In October 1995, NS initiated a project to review and
modify, as necessary, its computer applications, hardware, and other
equipment to make them Year-2000 compliant. NS has engaged outside
consultants and independent contractors to assist with its Year-2000
project. The progress of the project is reviewed regularly by NS'
senior management and by the Board's Audit Committee. The project is
organized into three principal areas: mainframe systems, nonmainframe
systems, and enterprise systems (operations and embedded processors),
and for each such system involves: inventory, assessment, remediation,
testing, and implementation. NS expects to have all business-critical
systems remediated, tested, and implemented by mid-1999.

     State of readiness -- For mainframe systems (data center
infrastructure, purchased or leased software, and mainframe
applications), remediation and unit testing for business-critical
systems are in the final stages. Systems testing and implementation
began in February 1999, and both are expected to be substantially 
completed in June 1999 but require use of the same resources needed 
for testing related to the Conrail transaction (see "Joint 
acquisition of Conrail," above).
     For most business-critical nonmainframe and enterprise systems,
assessment has been completed. Remediation of some systems has begun,
and completion for all business-critical systems is expected by April
1999. Testing and implementation will follow with expected completion
for business-critical systems by mid-year 1999.
     NS also has initiated formal communications with third parties
having a substantial relationship to its business (including other
railroads, significant suppliers, larger customers, and financial
institutions) to determine the extent to which NS may be vulnerable to
any such third party's failure to achieve Year-2000 compliance. Thus
far, NS has no information that indicates that a significant third
party may be unable to provide goods or services or to request NS'
services because of Year-2000 issues.

     Cost -- NS has allocated existing information technology
resources and has incurred incremental costs, mostly for contract
programmers and consultants, in connection with its Year-2000
compliance project. Since the project began, Management estimates that
up to 10% of NS' in-house programming resources have been used for
Year-2000 compliance efforts. The effects of deferring other
information technology projects to accommodate the Year-2000 effort
have been minor. Incremental costs incurred through Dec. 31, 1998,
which were expensed, are immaterial to NS' results of operations.
Total incremental costs are expected to be approximately $25 million.

     Contingency plans -- In all areas, the project includes extensive
testing to ensure that remediation successfully addresses Year-2000
compliance. Rather than adopting contingency plans, NS has established
a series of initiatives to focus on business-critical systems to
ensure continued operations in the event of a Year-2000 problem. If
contingency plans for business-critical systems are warranted, they
will be developed as needed.

     Conrail -- As a part of its preparations to integrate its
railroad system with a portion of Conrail's system, NS is working with
Conrail and CSX to ensure that certain Conrail computer applications,
hardware, and other equipment are Year-2000 compliant. Conrail's core
transportation system is being made Year-2000 compliant, with a
projected completion date for all programming and testing of September
1999. Conrail's other information technology systems are expected to


  PAGE 47


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

be replaced by NS and CSX systems within six months after the 
Closing Date, or by Dec. 1, 1999. A delay in replacing these systems, 
which are not Year-2000 compliant, could result in their failure. 
Conrail also has under way a project to inventory, assess, and 
remediate all of its business-critical enterprise systems that 
will continue to operate after the Closing Date. This Conrail 
project is scheduled for completion in June 1999.

     Risks -- Failure to achieve Year-2000 compliance -- by NS, other
railroads, its principal suppliers and customers, and certain
financial institutions with which it has relationships -- could
negatively affect NS' ability to conduct business for an extended
period. Unanticipated delays in either the Conrail systems integration
effort or the Year-2000 project could adversely affect NS' ability to
complete the other. Management believes that NS will be successful in
its Year-2000 compliance effort; however, there can be no assurance
that all NS information technology systems and components will be
fully Year-2000 compliant. In addition, other companies on which NS
systems and operations rely may or may not be fully compliant on a
timely basis, and any such failure could have a material adverse
effect on NS' financial position, results of operations, or liquidity.

Market Risks and Hedging Activities
- -----------------------------------
     NS does not engage in the trading of derivatives. NS manages its
overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by issuing both
fixed- and floating-rate debt instruments and by entering into
interest-rate hedging transactions to achieve a targeted mix within
its debt portfolio.
     Of NS' total debt outstanding (see Note 8 on page 70), all is
fixed-rate debt, except for commercial paper and $348 million of
capital leases. As a result, NS' debt subject to interest rate
exposure totaled $2.2 billion on Dec. 31, 1998. A 1% increase in
interest rates would increase NS' total annual interest expense
related to all its variable debt by approximately $22 million.
Management considers it unlikely that interest rate fluctuations
applicable to these instruments will result in a material adverse
effect on NS' financial position, results of operations, or liquidity.
     The average interest rate on commercial paper was 6.0% on
Dec. 31, 1998 and 1997. During 1998, interest rates on NS' commercial
paper ranged from 5.2% to 6.4%.
     The capital leases, which carry an average fixed rate of 7.1%,
were effectively converted to variable rate obligations using interest
rate swap agreements. On Dec. 31, 1998, the average pay rate under
these agreements was 6.1%, and the average receive rate was 7.1%.
During 1998, the effect of the swaps was to reduce interest expense by
$3 million. A portion of the lease obligations is payable in Japanese
yen. NS hedged the associated exchange rate risk at the inception of
each lease with a yen deposit in Japan sufficient to fund the yen-
denominated obligation. As a result, NS is exposed to financial market
risk relative to Japan. Counterparties to the interest rate swaps and
Japanese banks holding yen deposits are major financial institutions
believed by Management to be creditworthy.

Accounting Changes and New Accounting Pronouncements
- ----------------------------------------------------
     As discussed in Note 1 under "Required Accounting Changes" on
page 61, NS adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS)
No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income," and SFAS No. 132,
"Employers' Disclosures About Pension and Other Postretirement
Benefits," in 1998.
     During 1998, SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities," and AICPA Statement of Position 98-1
(SOP 98-1), "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed
or Obtained for Internal Use," were issued. NS expects to adopt
SFAS 133 effective Jan. 1, 2000, and SOP 98-1 effective Jan. 1, 1999.
Neither adoption is expected to have a material effect on NS'
consolidated financial statements.


  PAGE 48


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

Lawsuits
- --------
     Norfolk Southern and certain subsidiaries are defendants in
numerous lawsuits relating principally to railroad operations.
     The Corporation is the defendant in a class action suit filed in
federal district court in Birmingham, Ala., on behalf of African
Americans currently employed or working since Dec. 16, 1989, who
allege that the Corporation has discriminated against them in
promotion to nonagreement positions because of their race. The nonjury
trial on liability, which the Corporation vigorously defended,
concluded in June 1997, and the matter is with the court for
requesting briefs and decision. In the meantime, the parties have
begun mediation of the case.
     On Sept. 8, 1997, a state court jury in New Orleans returned a
verdict awarding $175 million in punitive damages against The Alabama
Great Southern Railroad Company (AGS), a subsidiary of Norfolk
Southern Railway Company, all of the common stock of which is owned by
NS. The verdict was returned in a class action suit involving some
8,000 individuals who claim to have been damaged as the result of an
explosion and fire that occurred in New Orleans on Sept. 9, 1987, when
a chemical called butadiene leaked from a tankcar.
     The jury verdict awarded a total of nearly $3.2 billion in
punitive damages against four other defendants in the same case: two
rail carriers, the owner of the car, and the shipper. Previously, the
jury had awarded nearly $2 million in compensatory damages to 20
individuals. Shortly after the trial, the Supreme Court of Louisiana
ruled that, under the Louisiana Class Action Statute, the trial court
cannot enter a judgment for punitive damages until all compensatory
damages have been determined. In view of the number of individual
plaintiffs claiming compensatory damages, this process could take
years.
     As of Feb. 19, 1999, the trial court had not ruled on motions
filed by defendants seeking relief from the jury's verdicts. The trial
court has, however, ordered that another case involving 20 plaintiffs
be set for trial on March 22, 1999. The defendants are challenging in
the Louisiana Supreme Court the trial court's action in setting
additional cases for trial prior to a final determination of the
validity of the original trial.
     Management will continue to monitor the progress of this
litigation, and will, if necessary, pursue appropriate appeals.
Management believes that the jury verdicts are both grossly excessive
and without factual or legal justification.
     While the final outcome of these matters and other lawsuits
cannot be predicted with certainty, it is the opinion of Management,
based on known facts and circumstances, that the amount of NS'
ultimate liability is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on
NS' financial position, results of operations, or liquidity.

Environmental Matters
- ---------------------
     NS is subject to various jurisdictions' environmental laws and
regulations. It is NS' policy to record a liability where such
liability or loss is probable and its amount can be estimated
reasonably. Claims, if any, against third parties for recovery of
clean-up costs incurred by NS are reflected as receivables (when
collection is probable) in the balance sheet and are not netted
against the associated NS liability. Environmental engineers regularly
participate in ongoing evaluations of all identified sites and in
determining any necessary adjustments to initial liability estimates.
NS also has established an Environmental Policy Council, composed of
senior managers, to oversee and interpret its environmental policy.
     Operating expenses for environmental matters totaled
approximately $4 million in 1998, $21 million in 1997, and $25 million
in 1996, and capital expenditures totaled approximately $7 million in
1998 and $6 million in both 1997 and 1996. Operating expenses were
substantially lower in 1998 compared with recent years, principally due


  PAGE 49


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

to a combination of increased recoveries from third parties of amounts 
paid by NS in prior years for environmental clean-up and remediation, 
and favorable development experience on identified sites. 
Operating expenses in 1999 are expected to return to a level more 
consistent with that experienced prior to 1998. Capital expenditures 
in 1999 are expected to be somewhat higher than in 1998.
     As of Dec. 31, 1998, NS' balance sheet included a reserve for
environmental exposures in the amount of $56 million (of which
$12 million is accounted for as a current liability), which is NS'
estimate of the probable clean-up and remediation costs based on
available information at 132 identified locations. On that date,
15 sites accounted for $23 million of the reserve, and no individual
site was considered to be material. NS anticipates that much of this
liability will be paid out over five years; however, some costs will
be paid out over a longer period.
     At some of the 132 locations, certain NS subsidiaries, usually in
conjunction with a number of other parties, have been identified as
potentially responsible parties by the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) or similar state authorities under the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, or
comparable state statutes, which often impose joint and several
liability for clean-up costs.
     At one such site, the EPA alleged in 1995 that AGS and certain
other potentially responsible parties (PRP) were responsible for past
and future clean-up and monitoring costs at the Bayou Bonfouca NPL
Superfund site located in Slidell, La. The EPA indicated that it has
expended $140 million at the site and expects to expend still more in
connection with its groundwater "pump and treat" program. Because all
other solvent PRP had settled or been dismissed, and because of an
unfavorable district court ruling in February 1999, NS agreed to
settle all claims by the EPA and Louisiana for $13 million, thereby
avoiding litigation and possible appeal costs.
     With respect to known environmental sites (whether identified by
NS or by the EPA or comparable state authorities), estimates of NS'
ultimate potential financial exposure for a given site or in the
aggregate for all such sites are necessarily imprecise because of the
widely varying costs of currently available clean-up techniques, the
likely development of new clean-up technologies, the difficulty of
determining in advance the nature and full extent of contamination and
each potential participant's share of any estimated loss (and that
participant's ability to bear it), and evolving statutory and
regulatory standards governing liability.
     The risk of incurring environmental liability -- for acts and
omissions, past, present, and future -- is inherent in the railroad
business. Some of the commodities in NS' traffic mix, particularly
those classified as hazardous materials, can pose special risks that
NS and its subsidiaries work diligently to minimize. In addition,
several NS subsidiaries own, or have owned, land used as operating
property, or which is leased or may have been leased and operated by
others, or held for sale.
     Because environmental problems may exist on these properties that
are latent or undisclosed, there can be no assurance that NS will not
incur environmentally related liabilities or costs with respect to one
or more of them, the amount and materiality of which cannot be
estimated reliably at this time. Moreover, lawsuits and claims
involving these and other now-unidentified environmental sites and
matters are likely to arise from time to time. The resulting
liabilities could have a significant effect on financial condition,
results of operations, or liquidity in a particular year or quarter.
     However, based on its assessments of the facts and circumstances
now known, Management believes that it has recorded the probable costs
for dealing with those environmental matters of which the Corporation
is aware. Further, Management believes that it is unlikely that any
identified matters, either individually or in the aggregate, will have
a material adverse effect on NS' financial position, results of
operations, or liquidity.


  PAGE 50


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

Labor Agreements
- ----------------
     Approximately 85% of NS' railroad employees are represented by
labor unions under collective bargaining agreements with 15 different
labor organizations. The agreements currently in force will remain in
effect through Dec. 31, 1999, and thereafter until new agreements are
reached or the Railway Labor Act's procedures are exhausted.

Inflation
- ---------
     Generally accepted accounting principles require the use of
historical cost in preparing financial statements. This approach
disregards the effects of inflation on the replacement cost of
property. NS, a capital-intensive company, has most of its capital
invested in such assets. The replacement cost of these assets, as well
as the related depreciation expense, would be substantially greater
than the amounts reported on the basis of historical cost.

Trends
- ------
     - Federal economic regulation -- Efforts may be made in 1999 to
re-subject the rail industry to unwarranted federal economic
regulation. The Staggers Rail Act of 1980, which substantially reduced
such regulation, encouraged and enabled rail carriers to innovate and
to compete for business, thereby contributing to the economic health
of the nation and to the revitalization of the industry. Accordingly,
NS and other rail carriers vigorously will oppose these
counterproductive efforts to re-impose or to authorize re-imposing
such economic regulation.

     - Reduction of "greenhouse" gases -- In December 1997,
international environmental officials meeting in Kyoto, Japan, agreed
to reduce substantially the emission of so-called "greenhouse" gases
by 2010. Agreement on such reductions was reached on the basis of
questionable scientific evidence and in spite of the fact that the
burden of the reduction regimen will be borne disproportionally by
developed nations such as the United States. NS, the rail industry,
and a wide variety of other affected constituencies in the United
States expect to assure that, prior to a Senate vote on the proposed
treaty, the public and governmental authorities have available to them
additional scientific information and data concerning other effects
that are likely to result from implementation.

     - Utility deregulation -- Deregulation of the electrical utility
industry is expected to increase competition among electric power
generators; deregulation over time would permit wholesalers and
possibly retailers of electric power to sell or purchase increasing
quantities of power to or from far-distant parties. The effects of
deregulation on NS and on its customers cannot be predicted with
certainty; however, NS serves a number of efficient power producers
and is working diligently to assure that its customers remain
competitive in this evolving environment.

Forward-Looking Statements
- --------------------------
     This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations and other sections of this Annual Report
contain forward-looking statements that are based on current
expectations, estimates, and projections. Such forward-looking
statements reflect Management's good-faith evaluation of information
currently available. However, because such statements are based upon,
and therefore can be influenced by, a number of external variables
over which Management has no, or incomplete, control, they are not,
and should not be read as being, guarantees of future performance  


  PAGE 51


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations. (continued)
          -----------------------------------

or of actual future results; nor will they necessarily prove 
to be accurate indications of the times at or by which any such 
performance or result will be achieved. Accordingly, actual outcomes 
and results may differ materially from those expressed in such 
forward-looking statements. This caveat has particular importance 
in the context of all such statements that relate to Year-2000 
compliance and to the realization and the timing of benefits
expected to result from consummation of the Conrail transaction.



Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.
- -------   ----------------------------------------------------------

          The information required by this item is included in Item 7,
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" on page 47 under the heading "Market Risks and
Hedging Activities."


  PAGE 52


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
- ------    -------------------------------------------





NOTE:  All per share amounts have been restated to reflect the 
       Sept. 5, 1997, three-for-one stock split.


  PAGE 53


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

               Index to Financial Statements:                   Page
               -----------------------------                    ----

          Consolidated Statements of Income
            Years ended December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996         54

          Consolidated Balance Sheets
            As of December 31, 1998 and 1997                      55

          Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
            Years ended December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996         57

          Consolidated Statements of Changes in
            Stockholders' Equity
            Years ended December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996         59

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements              60

          Independent Auditors' Report                            83


      The Index to Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule appears
in Item 14 on page 86.


  PAGE 54


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


  PAGE 55


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------


                                                       (continued)

  PAGE 56


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------






See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


  PAGE 57


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------




  PAGE 58


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------







See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


  PAGE 59


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


  PAGE 60


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

The following notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.


1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Description of Business
- -----------------------
     Norfolk Southern Corporation is a Virginia-based holding company
engaged principally in the transportation of freight by rail,
currently operating approximately 14,400 route miles primarily in the
Southeast and Midwest. After the Closing Date (see Note 2), operations
will extend into the Northeast. The consolidated financial statements
include Norfolk Southern Corporation (Norfolk Southern) and its
majority-owned and controlled subsidiaries (collectively NS). Norfolk
Southern's major subsidiary is Norfolk Southern Railway Company (NSR).
Financial results of a former motor carrier subsidiary, North American
Van Lines, Inc. (NAVL), are reflected as "Discontinued operations"
(see Note 3). All significant intercompany balances and transactions
have been eliminated in consolidation.
     The railroad transports raw materials, intermediate products, and
finished goods classified in the following market groups: coal; paper,
clay, and forest products; chemicals; automotive; agriculture,
consumer products, and government; metals and construction; and
intermodal. Except for coal, all groups are approximately equal in
size based on revenues; coal accounts for about 30% of total railway
operating revenues. Ultimate points of origination or destination for
some of the freight (particularly coal bound for export and intermodal
containers) are outside the United States.
     Through a jointly owned entity, Norfolk Southern and CSX
Corporation (CSX) own the stock of Conrail Inc., which owns the major
freight railroad in the Northeast that operates approximately 10,800
route miles. Norfolk Southern has a 58% economic and 50% voting
interest in the jointly owned entity (see Note 2).

Use of Estimates
- ----------------
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires Management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results
could differ from those estimates.

Cash Equivalents
- ----------------
     "Cash equivalents" are highly liquid investments purchased three
months or less from maturity.

Investments
- -----------
     Marketable equity and debt securities are reported at amortized
cost or fair value, depending upon their classification as securities
"held-to-maturity," "trading," or "available-for-sale." On Dec. 31,
1998 and 1997, all "Short-term investments," consisting primarily of
United States government and federal agency securities, were
designated as "available-for-sale." Accordingly, unrealized gains and
losses, net of taxes, are recognized in "Accumulated other
comprehensive income."


  PAGE 61


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

Materials and Supplies
- ----------------------
     "Materials and supplies," consisting mainly of fuel oil and items
for maintenance of property and equipment, are stated at average cost.
The cost of materials and supplies expected to be used in capital
additions or improvements is included in "Properties."

Properties
- ----------
     "Properties" are stated principally at cost and are depreciated
using group depreciation. Rail is depreciated primarily on the basis
of use measured by gross ton-miles. The effect of this method is to
depreciate these assets over 42 years on average. Other properties are
depreciated generally using the straight-line method over estimated
service lives at annual rates that range from 1% to 17%. In 1998, the
overall depreciation rate averaged 2.8% for roadway and 4.0% for
equipment. NS capitalizes interest on major capital projects during
the period of their construction. Additions to properties, including
those under lease, are capitalized. Maintenance expense is recognized
when repairs are performed. When properties other than land and
nonrail assets are sold or retired in the ordinary course of business,
the cost of the assets, net of sale proceeds or salvage, is charged to
accumulated depreciation rather than recognized through income. Gains
and losses on disposal of land and nonrail assets are included in
"Other income" (see Note 4).
     NS reviews the carrying amount of properties whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that such carrying amount may not be
recoverable based on future undiscounted cash flows or estimated net
realizable value. Assets that are deemed impaired as a result of such
review are recorded at the lower of carrying amount or fair value.

Revenue Recognition
- -------------------
     Revenue is recognized proportionally as a shipment moves from
origin to destination.

Derivatives
- -----------
     NS does not engage in the trading of derivatives. NS has entered
into a limited number of derivative agreements to hedge interest rate
exposures on certain components of its debt portfolio. All of these
derivative instruments are designated as hedges, have high correlation
with the underlying exposure, and are highly effective in offsetting
underlying price movements. Accordingly, payments made or received
under interest rate swap agreements are recorded in the income
statement with the corresponding interest expense. Payments made to
hedge interest rate exposure related to the anticipated issuance of
debt were deferred as a reduction of the debt proceeds and are being
amortized to interest expense over the life of the underlying debt.

Required Accounting Changes
- ---------------------------
     Effective Jan. 1, 1998, NS adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income"
(SFAS 130). This statement requires presentation of comprehensive
income (net income plus all other changes to net assets from nonowner
sources) and its components in the financial statements. NS presents
comprehensive income in its Consolidated Statements of Changes in
Stockholders' Equity and has reclassified prior years' amounts to
conform to the new presentation. Adoption of SFAS 130 had no impact on
total stockholders' equity or net income (see Note 13).


  PAGE 62


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

     NS adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 132
(SFAS 132), "Employers' Disclosures about Pension and Other
Postretirement Benefits," in its 1998 Annual Report. SFAS 132 revises
disclosures about pension and other postretirement benefit plans, but
does not change the measurement or recognition of liabilities
associated with such plans (see Note 11).

Reclassifications
- -----------------
     Certain amounts in the financial statements and notes thereto
have been reclassified to conform to the 1998 presentation.


2.   JOINT ACQUISITION OF CONRAIL

Background and Overview
- -----------------------
     On April 8, 1997, NS and CSX agreed jointly to acquire Conrail
Inc. (Conrail), the owner of Consolidated Rail Corporation, the major
freight railroad in the Northeast.
     On May 23, 1997, NS and CSX, through a jointly owned entity,
completed the acquisition of tendered Conrail stock which they placed
in a voting trust pending the issuance and effectiveness of the
Surface Transportation Board's (STB) written decision approving their
joint application to control Conrail. NS has a 58% economic and 50%
voting interest in the jointly owned entity, and CSX has the remainder
of the economic and voting interests.
     On June 17, 1997, NS and CSX executed the Transaction Agreement,
dated as of June 10, 1997, which generally outlined the methods of
governing and operating Conrail and its subsidiaries when they became
subject to NS' and CSX's joint control.
     On Aug. 22, 1998, the STB's written decision approving the
control application became effective (the "Control Date"). As a
result, NS and CSX: (1) dissolved the voting trust, and (2) are
authorized, among other things, to implement the transactions
contemplated in the Transaction Agreement. A new Conrail Board of
Directors was elected which consists of an equal number of NS-
appointed and CSX-appointed directors.
     It is expected that Conrail's operations will continue
substantially unchanged until NS and CSX commence operating the
respective Conrail properties that will be leased to their railroad
subsidiaries, an event that NS and CSX have agreed will occur on June
1, 1999 (the "Closing Date"). A failure by NS or CSX to integrate
successfully their respective portions of Conrail, including
information technology systems, could have a substantial impact on NS'
financial position, results of operations, and liquidity.
     After the Closing Date, NS and CSX will provide substantially all
rail freight services on Conrail's route system, perform or be
responsible for performance of most services incident to customer
freight contracts, and employ the majority of Conrail's work force.
From time to time, NS and CSX, as the indirect owners of Conrail, may
need to fund Conrail's cash requirements through capital
contributions, loans, or advances.
     Until the Closing Date, NS' railroad subsidiaries will continue
to have transactions in the normal course of business with Conrail's
railroad subsidiary.

The Transaction Agreement and Operating Agreements
- --------------------------------------------------
     The Transaction Agreement provides, among other things, that
after the Closing Date, the railroads of NS and CSX (Norfolk Southern
Railway Company [NSR] and CSX Transportation, Inc. [CSXT],
respectively) will: (1) separately operate, pursuant to operating and
lease agreements with two limited liability companies (Pennsylvania
Lines LLC [PRR] and New York Central Lines LLC [NYC]) that will be
wholly owned by Conrail, portions of the routes and assets now owned


  PAGE 63


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

2.   JOINT ACQUISITION OF CONRAIL (continued)

and operated by Conrail (the "Allocated Assets"), and (2) have joint 
and exclusive access to other Conrail properties that will continue 
to be owned and operated by Conrail (the "Shared Assets Areas"). Conrail 
will continue to provide certain system support operations for the 
benefit of itself, NSR, and CSXT. All pre-existing Conrail obligations, 
including environmental liabilities, will remain obligations of Conrail 
(or, in some cases, of PRR or NYC).
     The Operating Agreement between NSR and PRR, which governs all
nonequipment assets to be used by NSR, will have an initial 25-year
term, renewable at the option of NSR for two 10-year terms; payments
under that agreement will be fair market rental values that are
subject to adjustment every six years to reflect changes in such
values. NSR also will lease from PRR a number of equipment assets at
fair market rentals. NS' payments to PRR under the Operating Agreement
and equipment lease agreements will be significant in amount. In
addition, all costs necessary to operate the PRR assets will be borne
by NSR.
     CSXT will enter into an Operating Agreement and lease agreements
with NYC that contain terms and conditions identical to those in the
comparable agreements between NSR and PRR, and it will bear all costs
necessary to operate the NYC assets.
     NSR also will pay a portion of the costs (CSXT will pay the
remainder) to operate over the Shared Assets Areas, which will be
based on fair value and percentage usage.
     Many employees of Conrail will be employed by NS or NSR, and, in
some cases, relocated at NS' or NSR's cost. Some Conrail employees not
hired by either NS or CSX will remain at Conrail and perform services
in the Shared Assets Areas or carry out general corporate functions.
Other Conrail employees were or will be separated from service, after
a transition period, and will be entitled to contractual or
STB-imposed severance benefits. The Transaction Agreement provides
that: (1) separation costs related to Conrail's nonunion employees are
to be borne by Conrail, and (2) separation costs related to Conrail's
union employees are to be borne primarily by either NSR or CSXT.
     NS will direct the appointment of the directors of PRR, and CSX
will direct the appointment of the directors of NYC. It is expected
that the directors of PRR and NYC will have control over the daily
operations of these companies, but certain key decisions, including
all modifications and changes to either Operating Agreement, must be
made by the Conrail board. By virtue of their indirect ownership of
Conrail, NS and CSX will each have an indirect economic interest of
58% and 42%, respectively, in both PRR and NYC.

Investment in Conrail
- ---------------------



  PAGE 64


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

2.   JOINT ACQUISITION OF CONRAIL (continued)

     NS is amortizing this excess based principally on the estimated
remaining useful lives of Conrail's property and equipment, net of the
related deferred tax effect of the differences in tax and accounting
bases for certain assets. At Dec. 31, 1998, the difference between NS'
investment in Conrail and its share of Conrail's underlying net equity
was $4.1 billion, and the related amortization amounted to $72 million
annually.
     NS' investment in Conrail includes $165 million ($101 million
after taxes) of costs that will be paid by NS. These costs consist
principally of: (1) contractual obligations to Conrail employees
imposed by the STB when it approved the transaction, and (2) costs to
relocate Conrail employees. Most of NS' costs are expected to be paid
in the two years following the Closing Date, and $60 million of such
are classified on NS' balance sheet as "Current liabilities." However,
certain contractual obligations by their terms will be paid out over a
longer period and are classified as "Other liabilities" on NS' balance
sheet. In 1998, NS charged $5 million of costs to these liabilities.
     Conrail's underlying net equity reflects liabilities recognized
by Conrail primarily for separations of nonunion employees and for
change-in-control obligations. In 1997 and 1998, Conrail recorded $550
million of after-tax charges for these liabilities (see "Summary
financial information -- Conrail," below).
     The liabilities recorded by NS and Conrail are based on
preliminary estimates of separation, relocation, and other labor-
related contractual obligations to Conrail employees. These liability
estimates, along with the fair value allocation, may be modified as
more information becomes available, as Management's integration plans
evolve, and as labor implementing agreements are negotiated. Severance
and relocation plans are expected to be finalized shortly after the
Closing Date. As a consequence, amounts ultimately included in the
allocation could differ from the original estimates; however, any such
differences are not now expected to be material to NS' financial
position, results of operations, or liquidity. As definitive plans are
determined and communicated, costs, if any, for severing or relocating
NS employees and for disposing of NS facilities will be charged to
operating expense.

Income and Pro Forma Effects
- ----------------------------
     Since May 23, 1997 (the date on which NS and CSX completed their
joint acquisition of Conrail stock), NS' financial statements have
reflected its 58% economic interest in Conrail, using the equity
method of accounting. NS' Consolidated Statements of Income for the
years ended Dec. 31, 1998 and 1997, include several Conrail-related
items. Increasing NS' income over these periods is its equity in the
earnings of Conrail, net of amortization, adjusted for the effects of
certain transactions related to the acquisition and control of Conrail
by NS and CSX. Decreasing NS' income over the same periods are
principally: (1) interest expense on debt issued to finance NS' share
of the joint acquisition of Conrail stock, (2) credit facility costs,
including a $77 million charge expensed in the first quarter of 1997
related to a previous attempt to acquire 100% of Conrail's stock, and
(3) integration expenses (which have been included in "Railway
operating expenses").


  PAGE 65


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

2.   JOINT ACQUISITION OF CONRAIL (continued)

     Had NS acquired its investment in Conrail on Jan. 1, 1997, NS'
net income and diluted earnings per share for the year ended Dec. 31,
1997, would have been $671 million and $1.77, respectively. These pro
forma results reflect only the application of the equity method of
accounting and the specific financing costs previously identified.
They reflect neither costs of operating PRR's assets nor any synergies
expected to result from NS' operation of PRR's assets and access to
the Shared Assets Areas. Accordingly, such results do not include or
otherwise take into account any potential increase in NS' revenues or
operating income, estimated cost savings, effects of increased
competition in the Northeast, or future integration costs. The effects
of the foregoing will be substantial. As a result, this pro forma
information is not, and is not intended to be, indicative of the
results of operations after the Closing Date. Following the Closing
Date and commencement of operations over lines leased from PRR and in
the Shared Assets Areas, NS will begin to report rail operating
revenues and expenses associated with these leased assets in its
financial statements.

Summary Financial Information -- Conrail
- ----------------------------------------
     The following summary financial information was provided by
Conrail's Management and should be read in conjunction with Conrail's
audited financial statements included as an exhibit to NS' Annual
Report on Form 10-K for 1998 filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.



Note: This Conrail financial information includes the effects of the
following transactions that related to the acquisition and control of
Conrail by NS and CSX, and, accordingly, were excluded in determining
NS' equity in Conrail's net income. Conrail's operating expenses for
1998 include a $187 million after-tax charge for the following:
(1) $105 million for estimated nonunion severance obligations and
(2) $82 million of other charges and reserves. Conrail's operating
expenses for 1997 included the following: (1) a $221 million (no
related tax effect) charge in conjunction with the termination of the
Conrail ESOP and (2) a $142 million after-tax charge for transaction-
related stock compensation costs and change-in-control benefits.


  PAGE 66


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

2.   JOINT ACQUISITION OF CONRAIL (continued)




3.   DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS -- MOTOR CARRIER

     On March 28, 1998, NS sold all the common stock of North American
Van Lines, Inc. (NAVL), its motor carrier subsidiary. Total proceeds
from the sale were $207 million, resulting in a $90 million pretax
gain ($105 million, or 28 cents per basic and diluted share, after
taxes). The higher after-tax gain was the result of differences
between book and tax bases and the realization of deferred tax
benefits.


     "Net assets of discontinued operations" of $101 million at
Dec. 31, 1997, consisted of $192 million of current assets,
$100 million of long-term assets, $130 million of current liabilities,
and $61 million of long-term liabilities.


  PAGE 67


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------




5.   INCOME TAXES


Reconciliation of Statutory Rate to Effective Rate
- --------------------------------------------------


Tax Benefit Leases
- ------------------
     In January 1995, the United States Tax Court issued a preliminary
decision that disallowed some of the tax benefits a subsidiary of NS
purchased from a third party pursuant to a safe harbor lease agreement
in 1981. The Tax Court finalized this decision in February 1997, and
all avenues of appeal have been exhausted. NS has requested payment
and filed suit to collect from the third party in accordance with
indemnification provisions of the lease agreement, and Management
believes that this receivable will be collected.

Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities
- -----------------------------------
     Certain items are reported in different periods for financial
reporting and income tax purposes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
were recorded in recognition of these differences. Except for amounts
for which a valuation allowance is provided, Management believes the
deferred tax assets will be realized.


Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Reviews
- --------------------------------------
     Consolidated federal income tax returns have been examined and
Revenue Agent Reports have been received for all years up to and
including 1994. The consolidated federal income tax returns for 1995
and 1996 are being audited by the IRS. Management believes that
adequate provision has been made for any additional taxes and interest
thereon that might arise as a result of IRS examinations.





  PAGE 70


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

6.   PROPERTIES (continued)

Capitalized Interest
- --------------------
     Total interest cost incurred on debt in 1998, 1997, and 1996 was
$537 million, $402 million, and $128 million, respectively, of which
$21 million, $17 million, and $12 million was capitalized.





8.   DEBT

Shelf Registration
- ------------------
     In November 1998, NS filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 covering the
issuance of up to $1 billion of securities; as of Dec. 31, 1998, no
such securities had been issued.


  PAGE 71


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

8.   DEBT (continued)



     The railroad equipment obligations and the capitalized leases are
secured by liens on the underlying equipment.


  PAGE 72


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

8.   DEBT (continued)

Commercial Paper
- ----------------
     Commercial paper debt is due within one year, but has been
classified as long-term because NS has the ability through a $2.8
billion credit agreement to convert this obligation into longer term
debt. The credit agreement expires in 2002 and provides for interest
on borrowings at prevailing rates. NS intends to refinance the
commercial paper either by issuing additional commercial paper or by
replacing commercial paper notes with long-term debt.

Capital Lease Obligations
- -------------------------
     During 1998, 1997, and 1996, NSR entered into capital leases
covering new locomotives. The related capital lease obligations,
totaling $127 million in 1998, $64 million in 1997, and $108 million
in 1996, were reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as debt,
and, because they were noncash transactions, were excluded from the
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The lease obligations carry an
average stated interest rate of 6.5% for those entered into in 1998,
7.0% for those entered into in 1997, and 6.5% for those entered into
in 1996. All were effectively converted to variable rate obligations
using interest rate swap agreements. The interest rates on these
obligations are based on the six-month London Interbank Offered Rate
and are reset every six months with changes in interest rates
accounted for as an adjustment of interest expense over the terms of
the leases. As of Dec. 31, 1998, the average interest rate on these
locomotive leases was 6.1%. As a result, NS is exposed to the market
risk associated with fluctuations in interest rates. To date, the
effects of the rate fluctuations have been favorable and not material.
Counterparties to the interest rate swap agreements are major
financial institutions believed by Management to be creditworthy.

Debt Covenants
- --------------
     NS is subject to various financial covenants with respect to its
debt and under its credit agreement, including a minimum net worth
requirement and certain restrictions on issuance of further debt. At
Dec. 31, 1998, NS believes it was in compliance with all debt
covenants.


9.   LEASE COMMITMENTS

     NS is committed under long-term lease agreements, which expire on
various dates through 2067, for equipment, lines of road, and other
property. Future minimum lease payments are as follows (these amounts
do not include payments under the Operating Agreement and lease
agreements with PRR - see Note 2):


  PAGE 73


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------









11.  PENSIONS AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS



     Of the pension plans included above, the nonqualified pension
plans were the only plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in
excess of plan assets. These plans' accumulated benefit obligations
were $72 million at Dec. 31, 1998, and $62 million at Dec. 31, 1997.
These plans' projected benefit obligations were $77 million at
Dec. 31, 1998, and $66 million at Dec. 31, 1997. Because of the nature
of such plans, there are no plan assets in the nonqualified plans.
     After the Closing Date, when Conrail employees are hired by NS,
should any pension obligation be assumed by NS that was earned under
the Conrail plan, such obligation will be transferred to the NS plans,
along with pension assets.


  PAGE 75


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

11.  PENSIONS AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS (continued)

     NS amended its qualified pension plans, effective after the
Closing Date, to conform certain provisions of its plan with the
Conrail plan and to provide prior service credit to Conrail employees
for benefits under the NS plan. The amendment, as it relates to NS
employees, increased the pension benefit obligation at Dec. 31, 1998,
by $40 million. The amendment, as it will relate to former Conrail
employees hired by NS, will result in a further increase to the
pension benefit obligation.




     For measurement purposes, increases in the per capita cost of
covered health care benefits were assumed to be 8.0% for 1999 and 9.8%
for 1998. The rate was assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate
rate of 5.0% for 2003 and remain at that level thereafter.


     Under collective bargaining agreements, NS and certain
subsidiaries participate in a multi-employer benefit plan, which
provides certain postretirement health care and life insurance
benefits to eligible agreement employees. Premiums under this plan are
expensed as incurred and amounted to $5 million in 1998 and $4 million
in each of 1997 and 1996.

401(k) Plans
- ------------
     Norfolk Southern and certain subsidiaries provide 401(k) savings
plans for employees. Under the plans, NS matches a portion of employee
contributions, subject to applicable limitations. NS' expenses under
these plans were $10 million in 1998, $9 million in 1997, and
$8 million in 1996.


12.  LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN

     Under the stockholder-approved Long-Term Incentive Plan, a
committee of nonemployee directors of the Board may grant stock
options, stock appreciation rights (SARs), restricted stock, and
performance share units (PSUs), up to a maximum 53,025,000 shares of
Norfolk Southern Common Stock ("Common Stock"). Options may be granted
for a term not to exceed 10 years but may not be exercised prior to
the first anniversary of the date of grant. Options are exercisable at
the fair market value of Common Stock on the date of grant.
     The plan also permits the payment -- on a current or a deferred
basis and in cash or in stock -- of dividend equivalents on shares of
Common Stock covered by options or PSUs granted after Dec. 31, 1989,
in an amount commensurate with dividends paid on Common Stock. Tax
absorption payments, in amounts estimated to equal the federal and
state income taxes applicable to shares of Common Stock issued subject
to a share retention agreement, also are authorized.

Accounting Method
- -----------------
     NS applies APB Opinion 25 and related interpretations in
accounting for awards made under the plan. Accordingly, PSUs,
restricted stock, dividend equivalents, tax absorption payments, and
SARs result in charges to net income, while stock options have no
effect on net income. Related compensation costs were $25 million in
1998, $29 million in 1997, and $35 million in 1996. Had such
compensation costs been determined in accordance with SFAS 123, net
income would have been $718 million in 1998, $714 million in 1997, and
$763 million in 1996; basic earnings per share would have been $1.90
in 1998, $1.90 in 1997, and $2.01 in 1996; and diluted earnings per
share would have been $1.89 in 1998, $1.89 in 1997, and $1.99 in 1996.
These pro forma amounts include compensation costs as calculated using
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with an expected option life of
five years; risk-free interest rates of 5.5% in 1998, 6.3% in 1997,
and 5.2% in 1996; stock-price volatilities of 15% in 1998, 16% in
1997, and 18% in 1996; and, because dividend equivalents are paid, no
dividend yield was assumed.


  PAGE 77


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

12.  LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (continued)



     Except for those granted during 1998, all outstanding options
were exercisable on Dec. 31, 1998. The difference between the weighted
average exercise prices for all outstanding options and those
exercisable on Dec. 31, 1998, was not significant.



Performance Share Units
- -----------------------
     PSUs provide for awards based upon achievement of certain
predetermined corporate performance goals at the end of a three-year
cycle. PSU grants and grant-date fair values were 565,500 and $32.16
in 1998; 529,500 and $29.46 in 1997; and 601,200 and $26.02 in 1996,
respectively. PSUs may be paid in the form of shares of Common Stock,
cash, or a combination. Shares earned and issued may be subject to
share retention agreements and held by NS for up to five years.


  PAGE 78


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

12.  LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (continued)

Shares Available and Issued
- ---------------------------



13.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
- --------------------------------------


     "Unrealized gains on securities" included reclassification
adjustments for gains realized in income from the sale of the
securities of less than $1 million in each year.

Undistributed Earnings of Equity Investees
- ------------------------------------------
     "Retained income" includes undistributed earnings of equity
investees, principally attributable to NS' equity in the earnings of
Conrail, of $314 million at Dec. 31, 1998, and $120 million at
Dec. 31, 1997.

Stock Split
- -----------
     On July 22, 1997, the Board of Directors approved an amendment of
the Articles of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized
shares of Common Stock from 450 million to 1,350 million in connection
with a three-for-one split to stockholders of record on Sept. 5, 1997.
This stock split, with no change in the par value of $1 per share,
resulted in the issuance of approximately 266 million additional
shares of Common Stock. All share and per share amounts in this report
have been restated to reflect the split.


  PAGE 79


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

13.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (continued)

Stock Purchase Programs
- -----------------------
     Since 1987, the Board of Directors has authorized the purchase
and retirement of up to 285 million shares of Common Stock. Purchases
under the programs have been made with internally generated cash, and
with proceeds from the sale of commercial paper notes and from the
issuance of long-term debt.
     Since the first purchases in December 1987 and through Oct. 22,
1996, NS had purchased and retired 205.6 million shares of its Common
Stock under these programs at a cost of $3.2 billion.
     On Oct. 23, 1996, NS announced that the stock purchase program
had been suspended. Reinstatement of the program and any purchases
thereunder are dependent on the economy, cash needs, and alternative
investment opportunities.


14.  EARNINGS PER SHARE



     The options granted in 1998 were excluded from the calculation of
diluted earnings per share in the third and fourth quarters because
their exercise price exceeded the average market price of Common
Stock.
     There are no adjustments to "Net income" or "Income from
continuing operations" for the diluted earnings per share
computations.


  PAGE 80


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

15.  FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS



     Quoted market prices were used to determine the fair value of
marketable securities, all of which were classified as "available-for-
sale." Underlying net assets were used to estimate the fair value of
other investments. The fair values of debt were estimated based on
quoted market prices or discounted cash flows using current interest
rates for debt with similar terms, company rating, and remaining
maturity. The fair value of interest rate swaps were estimated based
on discounted cash flows, reflecting the difference between estimated
future variable-rate payments and future fixed-rate receipts.
     Carrying amounts of marketable securities reflect unrealized
holding gains of $9 million on Dec. 31, 1998, and $8 million on
Dec. 31, 1997. Sales of "available-for-sale" securities were
immaterial for years ended Dec. 31, 1998 and 1997.


16.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Lawsuits
- --------
     Norfolk Southern and certain subsidiaries are defendants in
numerous lawsuits relating principally to railroad operations. While
the final outcome of these lawsuits cannot be predicted with
certainty, it is the opinion of Management, based on known facts and
circumstances, that the amount of NS' ultimate liability is unlikely
to have a material adverse effect on NS' financial position, results
of operations, or liquidity.

Environmental Matters
- ---------------------
     NS is subject to various jurisdictions' environmental laws and
regulations. It is NS' policy to record a liability where such
liability or loss is probable and its amount can be estimated
reasonably. Claims, if any, against third parties for recovery of
clean-up costs incurred by NS are reflected as receivables in the
balance sheet and are not netted against the associated NS liability.
Environmental engineers regularly participate in ongoing evaluations
of all identified sites and in determining any necessary adjustments
to initial liability estimates. NS also has established an
Environmental Policy Council, composed of senior managers, to oversee
and interpret its environmental policy.


  PAGE 81


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

16.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (continued)

     As of Dec. 31, 1998, NS' balance sheet included a reserve for
environmental exposures in the amount of $56 million (of which
$12 million is accounted for as a current liability), which is NS'
estimate of the probable clean-up and remediation costs based on
available information at 132 identified locations. On that date, 15
sites accounted for $23 million of the reserve, and no individual site
was considered to be material. NS anticipates that much of this
liability will be paid out over five years; however, some costs will
be paid out over a longer period.
     At some of the 132 locations, certain NS subsidiaries, usually in
conjunction with a number of other parties, have been identified as
potentially responsible parties by the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) or similar state authorities under the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, or
comparable state statutes, which often impose joint and several
liability for clean-up costs.
     With respect to known environmental sites (whether identified by
NS or by the EPA or comparable state authorities), estimates of NS'
ultimate potential financial exposure for a given site or in the
aggregate for all such sites are necessarily imprecise because of the
widely varying costs of currently available clean-up techniques, the
likely development of new clean-up technologies, the difficulty of
determining in advance the nature and full extent of contamination and
each potential participant's share of any estimated loss (and that
participant's ability to bear it), and evolving statutory and
regulatory standards governing liability.
     The risk of incurring environmental liability -- for acts and
omissions, past, present, and future -- is inherent in the railroad
business. Some of the commodities in NS' traffic mix, particularly
those classified as hazardous materials, can pose special risks that
NS and its subsidiaries work diligently to minimize. In addition,
several NS subsidiaries own, or have owned, land used as operating
property, or which is leased or may have been leased and operated by
others, or held for sale. Because environmental problems may exist on
these properties that are latent or undisclosed, there can be no
assurance that NS will not incur environmentally related liabilities
or costs with respect to one or more of them, the amount and
materiality of which cannot be estimated reliably at this time.
Moreover, lawsuits and claims involving these and other now-
unidentified environmental sites and matters are likely to arise from
time to time. The resulting liabilities could have a significant
effect on financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity in
a particular year or quarter.
     However, based on its assessments of the facts and circumstances
now known, Management believes that it has recorded the probable costs
for dealing with those environmental matters of which the Corporation
is aware. Further, Management believes that it is unlikely that any
identified matters, either individually or in the aggregate, will have
a material adverse effect on NS' financial position, results of
operations, or liquidity.

Change-In-Control Arrangements
- ------------------------------
     Norfolk Southern has compensation agreements with officers and
certain key employees that become operative only upon a change in
control of the Corporation, as defined in those agreements. The
agreements provide generally for payments based on compensation at the
time of a covered individual's involuntary or other specified
termination and for certain other benefits.

Debt Guarantees
- ---------------
     As of Dec. 31, 1998, certain Norfolk Southern subsidiaries are
contingently liable as guarantors with respect to $113 million of
indebtedness of related entities.


  PAGE 82


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

16.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (continued)

Year-2000 Compliance
- --------------------
     NS has under way a project to review and modify, as necessary,
its computer applications, hardware, and other equipment to make them
Year-2000 compliant. NS has also initiated formal communications with
third parties having a substantial relationship to its business,
including other railroads, significant suppliers, larger customers,
and financial institutions, to determine the extent to which NS may be
vulnerable to such third parties' failures to achieve Year-2000
compliance.
     Failure to achieve Year-2000 compliance -- by NS, or by any such
third party, including Conrail and CSXT -- could negatively affect NS'
ability to conduct business for an extended period. There can be no
assurance that all NS information technology systems and components
will be fully Year-2000 compliant; in addition, other companies on
which NS' systems and operations rely may or may not be fully
compliant on a timely basis, and any such failure could have a
material adverse effect on NS' financial position, results of
operations, or liquidity.


  PAGE 83


                      INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



The Stockholders and Board of Directors
Norfolk Southern Corporation:

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Norfolk
Southern Corporation and subsidiaries as listed in the index in
Item 8. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial
statements, we have also audited the consolidated financial statement
schedule listed in Item 14(a)2. These consolidated financial
statements and this consolidated financial statement schedule are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and this
consolidated financial statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well
as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to
above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position
of Norfolk Southern Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31,
1998 and 1997, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December
31, 1998, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
Also in our opinion, the related consolidated financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.




/s/ KPMG LLP

Norfolk, Virginia
January 26, 1999


  PAGE 84


Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
- ------    -----------------------------------------------------------
          and Financial Disclosure.
          ------------------------

          None.


  PAGE 85


                                PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.
- -------   --------------------------------------------------

Item 11.  Executive Compensation.
- -------   ----------------------

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
- -------   -----------------------------------------------
          and Management.
          --------------

          and

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.
- -------   ----------------------------------------------

          In accordance with General Instruction G(3), the information
called for by Part III is incorporated herein by reference from
Norfolk Southern's definitive Proxy Statement, to be dated April 1,
1999, for the Norfolk Southern Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held on May 13, 1999, which definitive Proxy Statement will be filed
electronically with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.  The
information regarding executive officers called for by Item 401 of
Regulation S-K is included in Part I hereof beginning on page 18 under
"Executive Officers of the Registrant."


  PAGE 86


                                 PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on
- -------   ------------------------------------------------------
          Form 8-K.
          --------

(a)       The following documents are filed as part of this report:

     1.   Index to Consolidated Financial Statements:          Page
          ------------------------------------------           ----

          Consolidated Statements of Income
            Years ended December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996        54

          Consolidated Balance Sheets
            As of December 31, 1998 and 1997                     55

          Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
            Years ended December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996        57

          Consolidated Statements of Changes in
            Stockholders' Equity
            Years ended December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996        59

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             60

          Independent Auditors' Report                           83


     2.   Financial Statement Schedule:

          The following consolidated financial statement 
          schedule should be read in connection with the 
          consolidated financial statements:

          Index to Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule   Page
          --------------------------------------------------   ----

          Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts        93

          Schedules other than the one listed above are 
          omitted either because they are not required or 
          are inapplicable or because the information is 
          included in the consolidated financial statements 
          or related notes.


  PAGE 87


Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on
- -------   ------------------------------------------------------
          Form 8-K. (continued)
          --------

     3.   Exhibits

Exhibit
Number                      Description
- -------   --------------------------------------------------

   3      Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws -

   3(i)   The Restated Articles of Incorporation of Norfolk Southern
          Corporation are incorporated herein by reference from
          Exhibit 3(i) to Norfolk Southern's 1995 Annual Report in
          Form 10-K.

   3(ii)  The Bylaws of Norfolk Southern Corporation, as amended
          January 26, 1999, are filed herewith.

   4      Instruments Defining the Rights of Security Holders,
          Including Indentures -

          Indentures related to the issuance of notes in the
          principal amount of $4.3 billion are incorporated herein
          by reference from Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2 to Norfolk Southern
          Corporation's Amendment No. 3 to Form S-3, Registration No.
          333-24051 filed on May 12, 1997.
                                          
          In accordance with Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K,
          copies of other instruments of Norfolk Southern Corporation and
          its subsidiaries with respect to the rights of holders of
          long-term debt are not filed herewith, or incorporated by
          reference, but will be furnished to the Commission upon
          request.

  10      Material Contracts -

          (a)  The Transaction Agreement, dated as of June 10, 1997,
               by and among CSX, CSX Transportation, Inc., Registrant,
               Norfolk Southern Railway Company, Conrail Inc.,
               Consolidated Rail Corporation and CRR Holdings LLC,
               with certain schedules thereto, is incorporated herein
               by reference from Exhibit 10 to Norfolk Southern
               Corporation's Form 8-K filed electronically on June 30,
               1997.


  PAGE 88


Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on
- -------   ------------------------------------------------------
          Form 8-K. (continued)
          --------

Exhibit
Number                      Description
- -------   --------------------------------------------------

          (b)  The Supplementary Agreement, entered into as of
               January 1, 1987, between the Trustees of the Cincinnati
               Southern Railway and The Cincinnati, New Orleans and
               Texas Pacific Railway Company (the latter a wholly
               owned subsidiary of Norfolk Southern Railway) -
               extending and amending a Lease, dated as of October 11,
               1881 (both the Lease and Supplementary Agreement,
               formerly incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10(b)
               to Southern's 1987 Annual Report on Form 10-K) - is
               incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(a) to
               Norfolk Southern's 1994 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

          Management Compensation Plans
          -----------------------------

          (c)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation Management Incentive
               Plan, as amended effective January 1, 1996, is
               incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(b) to
               Norfolk Southern's 1995 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

          (d)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation Executive Management
               Incentive Plan, effective January 1, 1996, is
               incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(c) to
               Norfolk Southern's 1995 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

          (e)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation Long-Term Incentive
               Plan, as amended effective November 24, 1998, is filed
               herewith.

          (f)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation Officers' Deferred
               Compensation Plan, as amended effective November 24,
               1998, is filed herewith.

          (g)  The Directors' Deferred Fee Plan of Norfolk Southern
               Corporation, as amended effective May 9, 1996, is
               incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(f) to
               Norfolk Southern's Form 10-Q Report for the quarter
               ended June 30, 1996.

          (h)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation Directors' Restricted
               Stock Plan, effective January 1, 1994, as restated
               November 24, 1998, is filed herewith.


  PAGE 89


Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on
- -------   ------------------------------------------------------
          Form 8-K. (continued)
          --------

Exhibit
Number                      Description
- -------   --------------------------------------------------

          (i)  Form of Severance Agreement, dated as of June 1, 1996,
               between Norfolk Southern Corporation and certain
               executive officers (including those defined as "named
               executive officers" and identified in the Corporation's
               Proxy Statement for the 1997 and 1998 Annual Meeting of
               Stockholders) is incorporated herein by reference from
               Exhibit 10 to Norfolk Southern's Form 10-Q Report for
               the quarter ended June 30, 1996.

          (j)  Norfolk Southern Corporation Supplemental (formerly,
               Excess) Benefit Plan, effective as of January 1, 1996,
               is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(i)
               to Norfolk Southern Corporation's 1996 Annual Report on
               Form 10-K.


          (k)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation Directors' Charitable
               Award Program, effective February 1, 1996, is
               incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(j) to
               Norfolk Southern's Form 10-Q Report for the quarter
               ended June 30, 1996.

          (l)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation Directors' Pension
               Plan, as amended effective June 1, 1996, is
               incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(k) to
               Norfolk Southern's Form 10-Q Report for the quarter
               ended June 30, 1996.

          (m)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation Outside Directors'
               Deferred Stock Unit Program, as amended on
               September 23, 1997, is incorporated herein by reference
               from Exhibit 10(m) to Norfolk Southern's 1997 Annual
               Report on Form 10-K.

          (n)  The Excess Long-Term Disability Plan of Norfolk
               Southern Corporation and Participating Subsidiary
               Companies, effective October 1, 1995, is incorporated
               herein by reference from Exhibit 10(m) to Norfolk
               Southern's Form 10-Q Report for the quarter ended
               June 30, 1996.

          (o)  Description of Norfolk Southern Corporation's
               1999 Special Incentive Bonus Program, adopted
               November 24, 1998, is filed herewith.


  PAGE 90


Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on
- -------   -------------------------------------------------------
          Form 8-K. (continued)
          --------

Exhibit
Number                      Description
- -------   --------------------------------------------------

  12      Statement re:  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed
          Charges.

  21      Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

  23      Consents of Experts and Counsel -

          (a)  Consent of KPMG LLP.
          (b)  Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

  27      Financial Data Schedule.

  99      Conrail Inc. 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.



(b)       Reports on Form 8-K.

          The Registrant filed no reports on Form 8-K for the three
          months ended December 31, 1998.

(c)       Exhibits.

          The Exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K as
          listed in Item 14(a)3 are filed herewith or incorporated
          herein by reference.

(d)       Financial Statement Schedules.

          Financial statement schedules and separate financial
          statements specified by this Item are included in
          Item 14(a)2 or are otherwise not required or are not
          applicable.


  PAGE 91


                            POWER OF ATTORNEY
                            -----------------
          Each person whose signature appears below under "SIGNATURES"
hereby authorizes Henry C. Wolf and James C. Bishop, Jr., or either of
them, to execute in the name of each such person, and to file, any
amendment to this report and hereby appoints Henry C. Wolf and
James C. Bishop, Jr., or either of them, as attorneys-in-fact to sign
on his or her behalf, individually and in each capacity stated below,
and to file, any and all amendments to this report.


                               SIGNATURES
                               ----------
          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Norfolk Southern Corporation has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized, on this 23rd day of March, 1999.


                            NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION


                         By /s/ David R. Goode
                            -----------------------------------------
                            (David R. Goode, Chairman, President, and
                               Chief Executive Officer)



          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this report has been signed below on this 23rd day of March,
1999, by the following persons on behalf of Norfolk Southern
Corporation and in the capacities indicated.

Signature                          Title
- ---------                          -----

/s/ David R. Goode                    
- ------------------------------     Chairman, President, and Chief
(David R. Goode)                     Executive Officer and Director
                                   (Principal Executive Officer)


/s/ Henry C. Wolf
- ------------------------------     Vice Chairman and
(Henry C. Wolf)                      Chief Financial Officer
                                   (Principal Financial Officer)


/s/ John P. Rathbone
- ------------------------------     Vice President and Controller
(John P. Rathbone)                 (Principal Accounting Officer)


/s/ Gerald L. Baliles
- ------------------------------     Director
(Gerald L. Baliles)


  PAGE 93


Signature                          Title
- ---------                          -----



/s/ Carroll A. Campbell, Jr.
- ------------------------------     Director
(Carroll A. Campbell, Jr.)


/s/ Gene R. Carter
- ------------------------------     Director
(Gene R. Carter)


/s/ L. E. Coleman
- ------------------------------     Director
(L. E. Coleman)


/s/ Steven F. Leer
- ------------------------------     Director
(Steven F. Leer)


/s/ T. Marshall Hahn, Jr.
- ------------------------------     Director
(T. Marshall Hahn, Jr.)


/s/ Landon Hilliard
- ------------------------------     Director
(Landon Hilliard)


/s/ Arnold B. McKinnon
- ------------------------------     Director
(Arnold B. McKinnon)


/s/ Jane Margaret O'Brien
- ------------------------------     Director
(Jane Margaret O'Brien)


/s/ Harold W. Pote
- ------------------------------     Director
(Harold W. Pote)


  PAGE 93


                                                       Schedule II
                                                       Page 1 of 2

              Norfolk Southern Corporation and Subsidiaries
              ---------------------------------------------




(1) Includes revenue overcharges provided through charges to operating 
    revenues, and transfers from other accounts.

(2) Payments and reclassifications to/from accounts payable.

(3) Payments and reclassifications to/from other liabilities.



Note: Prior year amounts have been conformed with the current year
      presentation, which excludes valuation and qualifying accounts 
      of discontinued operations.



                                                             (continued)


  PAGE 94


                                                       Schedule II
                                                       Page 2 of 2

              Norfolk Southern Corporation and Subsidiaries
              ---------------------------------------------




(1) Includes revenue overcharges provided through charges to 
    operating revenues, and transfers from other accounts.

(2) Payments and reclassifications to/from accounts payable.

(3) Payments and reclassifications to/from other liabilities.



Note: Prior year amounts have been conformed with the current year 
      presentation, which excludes valuation and qualifying accounts 
      of discontinued operations.


  PAGE 95


                              EXHIBIT INDEX
                              -------------

Electronic
Submission
Exhibit                                                         Page
Number                        Description                     Number
- ---------- -------------------------------------------------  ------

  3  (ii)  The Bylaws of Norfolk Southern Corporation,
           as amended January 26, 1999, and effective
           May 14, 1998.                                      96-106

 10  (e)   The Norfolk Southern Corporation Long-Term
           Incentive Plan, as amended effective
           November 24, 1998.                                107-126

 10  (f)   The Norfolk Southern Corporation Officers'
           Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended
           effective November 24, 1998.                      127-134

 10  (h)   The Norfolk Southern Corporation Directors'
           Restricted Stock Plan, as restated
           November 24, 1998.                                135-136

 10  (o)   Description of Norfolk Southern Corporation's
           1999 Special Incentive Bonus Program,
           adopted November 24, 1998.                            137

 12        Statement re:  Computation of Ratio of Earnings
           to Fixed Charges.                                     138

 21        Subsidiaries of Norfolk Southern Corporation.     139-140

 23  (a)   Consent of KPMG LLP.                                  141

 23  (b)   Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.                142

 27        Financial Data Schedule (This exhibit is
           required to be submitted electronically
           pursuant to the rules and regulations of
           the Securities and Exchange Commission and
           shall not be deemed filed for purposes of
           Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933
           or Section 18 of the Securities Exchange
           Act of 1934).                                         143

 99        Conrail Inc. 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.  144-173

Exhibits 3(ii), 10(e), 10(f), 10(h), 10(o), and 27 are not included in
copies assembled for public dissemination.  If you have a need for
this type of information, we will be pleased to send it to you.  Write
to:
                                    
                      Office of Corporate Secretary
                      Norfolk Southern Corporation
                         Three Commercial Place
                      Norfolk, Virginia 23510-9219

