
10-K405
NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION 10-K405 FYE 12/31/97


 PAGE 1
            UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                        Washington, D. C.  20549
                        ------------------------ 
 
                              FORM 10-K405
 
 (X)ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997.
                                   OR
 ( )TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
    For the transition period from                 to
                                    ---------------    ---------------
                      Commission file number 1-8339
 
                      NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------
         (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
                   Virginia                               52-1188014
 ------------------------------------------------     ------------------
       (State or other jurisdiction of                 (I.R.S. Employer
       incorporation or organization)                 Identification No.)
 
   Three Commercial Place, Norfolk, Virginia              23510-2191
 ------------------------------------------------     ------------------
    (Address of principal executive offices)              (Zip Code)
 
 Registrant's telephone number, including area code    (757) 629-2680
                                                      ------------------
 
       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 
                                              Name of each exchange
           Title of each Class                 on which registered
           -------------------                ---------------------
   Norfolk Southern Corporation
   Common Stock (Par Value $1.00)            New York Stock Exchange
 
    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  NONE
 
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
 reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
 Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
 shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
 and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
 days.   Yes (X) No ( )
 
    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant
 to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be
 contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy
 or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
 Form 10-K405 or any amendment to this Form 10-K405. (X)
 
    The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates
 as of February 28, 1998:  $13,018,725,432
 
    The number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes
 of common stock, as of February 28, 1998: 378,039,214 (excluding
 21,757,902 shares held by registrant's consolidated subsidiaries)
  PAGE 2


                  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

     Portions of the Registrant's definitive proxy statement (to be
dated April 1, 1998), to be filed electronically pursuant to
Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal
year, are incorporated by reference in Part III.
  PAGE 3


                                                        -----------------

           Item                                                Page
           ----                                                ----
Part I      1.   Business                                        4

            2.   Properties                                      4

            3.   Legal Proceedings                              21

            4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
                    Holders                                     21

                 Executive Officers of the Registrant           22


Part II     5.   Market for Registrant's Common Stock and
                    Related Stockholder Matters                 26

            6.   Selected Financial Data                        27

            7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of
                    Financial Condition and Results of
                    Operations                                  34

            8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    52

            9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
                    on Accounting and Financial Disclosure      81


Part III   10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the
                    Registrant                                  81

           11.   Executive Compensation                         81

           12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
                    Owners and Management                       81

           13.   Certain Relationships and Related
                    Transactions                                81


Part IV    14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and
                    Reports on Form 8-K                         82

                 Index to Consolidated Financial Statement
                    Schedule                                    82


Power of Attorney                                               87

Signatures                                                      87

Exhibit Index                                                   91
  PAGE 4


                                 PART I

Item 1.   Business.
- ------    --------

      and

Item 2.   Properties.
- ------    ----------

          GENERAL - Norfolk Southern Corporation (Norfolk Southern)
was incorporated on July 23, 1980, under the laws of the Commonwealth
of Virginia.  On June l, 1982, Norfolk Southern acquired control of
two major operating railroads, Norfolk and Western Railway Company
(NW) and Southern Railway Company (Southern) in accordance with an
Agreement of Merger and Reorganization dated as of July 31, 1980, and
with the approval of the transaction by the Interstate Commerce
Commission (ICC) (now the Surface Transportation Board {STB}).

          Effective Dec. 31, 1990, Norfolk Southern transferred all
the common stock of NW to Southern, and Southern's name was changed to
Norfolk Southern Railway Company (Norfolk Southern Railway).  As of
Dec. 31, 1997, all the common stock of NW (100 percent voting control)
was owned by Norfolk Southern Railway, and all the common stock of
Norfolk Southern Railway and 16.1 percent of its voting preferred
stock (resulting in 94.8 percent voting control) was owned directly by
Norfolk Southern.

          On June 21, 1985, Norfolk Southern acquired control of North
American Van Lines, Inc. and its subsidiaries (NAVL), a diversified
motor carrier.  In accordance with an Acquisition Agreement dated May
2, 1984, and with the approval of the transaction by the ICC, Norfolk
Southern acquired all the issued and outstanding common stock of NAVL.
During 1993, NAVL underwent a restructuring (see discussion on
page 17) designed to enhance its opportunities to return to
profitability.  On Jan. 12, 1998, NS announced that it signed an
agreement to sell all the common stock of NAVL.  The transaction is
subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to be
consummated before May 31, 1998; NS expects to report a gain on this
sale.  NAVL's results of operation, financial position and cash flows
are presented as "Discontinued operations" in the accompanying
financial statements.

          Unless indicated otherwise, Norfolk Southern and its
subsidiaries are referred to collectively as NS.

          JOINT ACQUISITION OF CONRAIL INC. - During 1997, NS and CSX
Corporation (CSX) completed the acquisition of Conrail Inc. equity
(see "Joint Acquisition of Conrail" on page 47).

          CONTINUING OPERATIONS:

          RAILROAD OPERATIONS - As of Dec. 31, 1997, NS' railroads
operated approximately 14,400 miles of road in the states of Alabama,
Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana,
Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New York, North Carolina,
Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West
  PAGE 5


Virginia, and in the Province of Ontario, Canada.  Of this total,
12,101 miles are owned with the balance operated under lease or
trackage rights; most of this total is main line track.  In addition,
its railroads operate 10,838 miles of passing, industrial, yard and
side tracks.

          NS' railroads have major leased lines between Cincinnati,
Ohio, and Chattanooga, Tennessee, and in the State of North Carolina.

          The Cincinnati-Chattanooga lease, covering about 335
miles, expires in 2026, and is subject to an option to extend the
lease for an additional 25 years, at terms to be agreed upon.

          The North Carolina leases, covering approximately 330 miles,
expired by their terms at the end of 1994.  Although a lease extension
agreement was approved by the boards of both Norfolk Southern and the
North Carolina Railroad Company (NCRR) and by the stockholders of
NCRR, the U.S. District Court in Raleigh ruled that there was no
quorum at the stockholders' meeting and enjoined the parties from
performing under the extension agreement.  NCRR has suits pending
against Norfolk Southern and various subsidiaries in federal court in
Raleigh to enforce rights under the expired leases and at the STB to
seek the establishment of terms and conditions of NS' railroads'
continued use and the compensation therefor.  Also, certain NCRR
stockholders earlier had filed four separate, and still pending,
derivative actions challenging the adequacy of the rental terms in the
extension agreement.  NS' railroads presently are operating over the
leased lines under the requirements of federal law, and will continue
to do so until the matter has been resolved through agreement or a
decision by the STB establishing reasonable conditions or permitting
discontinuance of such operations.  Whatever the ultimate resolution
of the litigation, it is not expected to have a material effect on NS'
consolidated financial statements.

          NS' lines carry raw materials, intermediate products and
finished goods primarily in the Southeast and Midwest and to and from
the rest of the United States and parts of Canada.  These lines also
transport overseas freight through several Atlantic and Gulf Coast
ports.  Atlantic ports served by NS include:  Norfolk, Virginia;
Morehead City, North Carolina; Charleston, South Carolina; Savannah
and Brunswick, Georgia; and Jacksonville, Florida.  Gulf Coast ports
served include:  Mobile, Alabama, and New Orleans, Louisiana.

          The lines of NS' railroads reach most of the larger
industrial and trading centers of the Southeast and Midwest, with the
exception of those in central and southern Florida.  Atlanta,
Birmingham, New Orleans, Memphis, St. Louis, Kansas City (Missouri),
Chicago, Detroit, Cincinnati, Buffalo, Norfolk, Charleston, Savannah
and Jacksonville are among the leading centers originating and
terminating freight traffic on the system.  In addition, a haulage
arrangement with the Florida East Coast Railway allows NS' railroads
to provide single-line service to and from south Florida, including
the port cities of Miami, West Palm Beach and Fort Lauderdale.  The
system's lines also reach many individual industries, mines (in
western Virginia, eastern Kentucky and southern West Virginia) and
businesses located in smaller communities in its service area.  The
traffic corridors carrying the heaviest volumes of freight include
those from the Appalachian coal fields of Virginia, West Virginia 
  PAGE 6


and Kentucky to Norfolk and Sandusky, Ohio; Buffalo to Chicago and 
Kansas City; Chicago to Jacksonville (via Cincinnati, Chattanooga 
and Atlanta); and Washington, D.C./Hagerstown, Maryland, to New 
Orleans (via Atlanta and Birmingham).

          Buffalo, Chicago, Hagerstown, Jacksonville, Kansas City,
Memphis, New Orleans and St. Louis are major gateways for
interterritorial system traffic.

          Implementation of the Conrail transaction should expand
NS' service area considerably, giving it access to most of the major
ports on the East Coast, to New York City and the Northeast, and to
the Midwest.  Additional information is provided in "Management's
Discussion and Analysis," beginning on page 34, and in Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

          NS' railroads and other railroads have entered into
service interruption agreements, effective Dec. 30, 1994, providing
indemnities to parties affected by a strike over specified industry
issues.  If NS were so affected, it could receive daily indemnities
from non-affected parties; if parties other than NS were affected,
NS could be required to pay indemnities to those parties.  If NS
were required to pay the maximum amount of indemnities required of
it under these agreements -- an event considered unlikely at this
time -- such liability should not exceed approximately $85 million.

          TRIPLE CROWN OPERATIONS - Until April 1993, Norfolk
Southern's intermodal subsidiary, Triple Crown Services, Inc. (TCS),
offered intermodal service using RoadRailer (Registered Trademark
hereinafter abbreviated RT) equipment and domestic containers.
RoadRailer(RT) units are enclosed vans which can be pulled over
highways in tractor-trailer configuration and over the rails by
locomotives.  On April 1, 1993, the business, name and operations of
TCS were transferred to Triple Crown Services Company (TCSC), a
partnership in which subsidiaries of Norfolk Southern and Conrail are
equal partners.  RoadRailer(RT) equipment owned or leased by TCS
(which was renamed TCS Leasing, Inc.) is operated by TCSC.  Because NS
indirectly owns only 50 percent of TCSC, the revenues of TCSC are not
consolidated with the results of NS.  TCSC offers door-to-door
intermodal service using RoadRailer(RT) equipment and domestic
containers in the corridors previously served by TCS, as well as
service to the New York and New Jersey markets via Conrail.  Major
traffic corridors include those between New York and Chicago, Chicago
and Atlanta, and Atlanta and New York.  NS expects to succeed to
Conrail's interest in TCSC, if its joint control application with CSX
is approved.
  PAGE 7


  PAGE 8

  PAGE 9


          COAL TRAFFIC - Coal, coke and iron ore -- most of which is
bituminous coal -- is NS' railroads' principal commodity group.  They
originated 119 million tons of coal, coke and iron ore in 1997 and
handled a total of 134 million tons.  Originated tonnage increased
2 percent from 117 million tons in 1996, and total tons handled
increased 3 percent from 130 million tons in 1996.  Revenues from
coal, coke and iron ore account for about 31 percent of NS' total
railway operating revenues.


          Of this 119 million tons, approximately 28 million moved for
export, principally through NS' pier facilities at Norfolk (Lamberts
Point), Virginia; 19 million moved to domestic and Canadian steel
industries; 64 million of steam coal moved to electric utilities; and
8 million moved to other industrial and miscellaneous users.

          NS' railroads moved 9 million tons of originated coal, coke
and iron ore to various docks on the Ohio River, and 5 million tons to
various Lake Erie ports.  Other than coal for export, virtually all
coal handled by NS' railroads was terminated in states situated east
of the Mississippi River.
  PAGE 10


          Total coal handled through all system ports in 1997 was
45 million tons.  Of this total, 71 percent, or 32 million tons
(including coastwise traffic), moved through Lamberts Point, a
7 percent increase, compared with the 30 million tons handled in 1996.

          See the discussion of coal traffic, by type of coal, in
Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on page 34.

          MERCHANDISE TRAFFIC - The merchandise traffic group consists
of Intermodal and five major commodity groupings:  Paper, Clay, and
Forest Products; Chemicals; Automotive; Agriculture, Government, and
Consumer Products; and Metals and Construction.  Total merchandise
revenues in 1997 were $2.92 billion, a 5 percent increase, compared
with 1996.  Merchandise carloads handled in 1997 were 3.43 million,
compared with 3.24 million handled in 1996, an increase of 6 percent.

          Intermodal results, for 1993 and later, reflect the effect
of the formation, in April 1993, of TCSC, a partnership between
subsidiaries of NS and Conrail (see also page 6).  This partnership
provides RoadRailer(RT) service previously offered by a wholly owned
subsidiary of NS.  Because NS currently owns only 50 percent of TCSC,
its revenues are not consolidated.  NS' intermodal revenues include
only revenues for rail service NS provides the partnership.

          In 1997, 111 million tons of merchandise freight, or
approximately 67 percent of total merchandise tonnage handled by NS,
originated on line.  The balance of merchandise traffic was received
from connecting carriers, usually at interterritorial gateways.  The
principal interchange points for NS-received traffic included Chicago,
Memphis, New Orleans, Cincinnati, Kansas City, Detroit, Hagerstown,
St. Louis/East St. Louis and Louisville.

          Revenues in five of the six market groups comprising
merchandise traffic improved in 1997.  The largest gains were in
Intermodal, up $60 million; Paper, Clay, and Forest Products, up
$26 million; and Chemicals, up $25 million.

          See the discussion of merchandise rail traffic by commodity
group in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on
page 34.
  PAGE 11


          FREIGHT RATES - In 1997, NS' railroads continued their
reliance on private contracts and exempt price quotes as their
predominant pricing mechanisms.  Thus, a major portion of NS'
railroads' freight business is not economically regulated by the
government.  In general, market forces have been substituted for
government regulation and now are the primary determinant of rail
service prices.

          In 1997, NS' railroads were found by the STB to be
"revenue adequate" based on results for the year 1996.  A railroad
is "revenue adequate" under the applicable law when its return on
net investment exceeds the rail industry's composite cost of
capital.

          The revenue adequacy measure is one of several factors
considered by the STB when it is called upon to rule on the
reasonableness of regulated rates.

          PASSENGER OPERATIONS - Regularly scheduled passenger
operations on NS' lines consist of Amtrak trains operating between
Alexandria and New Orleans, and between Charlotte and Selma, North
Carolina.  Commuter trains are operated on the NS line between
Manassas and Alexandria under contract with two transportation
commissions of the Commonwealth of Virginia.  Both of these services
are under contracts providing for reimbursement of related expenses
incurred by NS.  NS also leases the Chicago to Manhattan, Illinois,
line to the Commuter Rail Division of the Regional Transportation
Authority of Northeast Illinois.

          Should the Conrail transaction become effective as
proposed, NS will accommodate substantially increased Amtrak and
commuter passenger mileage and will conduct significant freight
operations over trackage owned by Amtrak or by commuter entities.
  PAGE 12


          NONCARRIER OPERATIONS - Norfolk Southern's noncarrier
subsidiaries engage principally in the acquisition and subsequent leasing
of coal, oil, gas and timberlands, the development of commercial real
estate and the leasing or sale of rail property and equipment.  In 1997,
no such noncarrier subsidiary or industry segment grouping of noncarrier
subsidiaries met the requirements for a reportable business segment set
forth in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 14.

          RAILWAY PROPERTY:

  PAGE 13


          The average age of the freight car fleet at Dec. 31, 1997,
was 23.0 years.  During 1997, 2,250 freight cars were retired.  As of
Dec. 31, 1997, the average age of the locomotive fleet was 15.3 years.  
During 1997, 78 locomotives, the average age of which was 23.3 years, 
were retired.  Since 1988, more than 25,100 coal cars have been 
rebodied.  As a result, the remaining serviceability of the freight 
car fleet is greater than may be inferred from the high percentage 
of freight cars built in earlier years.

          Ongoing freight car and locomotive maintenance programs
are intended to ensure the highest standards of safety, reliability,
customer satisfaction and equipment marketability.  In past years,
the freight car bad order ratio reflected the storage of certain
types of cars which were not in high demand. The ratio has declined
more recently as a result of a disposition program for
underutilized, unserviceable and over-age revenue cars.  In this
connection, an orderly disposition of 17,000 freight cars, begun in
October 1994, was completed in 1997.  The locomotive bad order ratio
rose in 1997, particularly in the early months of the year as older
units required additional servicing and some new units were
out-of-service related to warranty work.  By year-end, the
locomotive bad order ratio had returned to a more historic level.

  PAGE 14


          TRACKAGE - All NS trackage is standard gauge, and the rail
in approximately 95 percent of the main line trackage (including
first, second, third and branch main tracks, all excluding trackage
rights) ranges from 100 to 140 pounds per yard.  Of the 22,427 miles
of track maintained as of Dec. 31, 1997, 15,878 were laid with welded
rail.


          MICROWAVE SYSTEM - The NS microwave system, consisting of
7,610 radio path miles, 417 active stations and 4 passive repeater
stations, provides communications between most operating locations.
The microwave system is used principally for voice communications,
VHF radio control circuits, data and facsimile transmissions, traffic
control operations, AEI data transmissions and relay of intelligence
from defective equipment detectors.

          TRAFFIC CONTROL - Of a total of 12,784 road miles operated
by NS, excluding trackage rights over foreign lines, 5,400 road miles
are governed by centralized traffic control systems (of which
560 miles are controlled by data radio from 43 microwave site
locations) and 2,500 road miles are equipped for automatic block
system operation.

          COMPUTERS - Data processing facilities connect the yards,
terminals, transportation offices, rolling stock repair points, sales
offices and other key system locations to the central computer complex
in Atlanta, Ga.  Operating and traffic data are compiled and stored to
provide customers with information on their shipments throughout the
system.  Data processing facilities are capable of providing current
information on the location of every train and each car on line, as
  PAGE 15


well as related waybill and other train and car movement data.
Additionally, these facilities afford substantial capacity for, and
are utilized to assist management in the performance of, a wide
variety of functions and services, including payroll, car and revenue
accounting, billing, material management activities and controls, and
special studies.

          NS has underway a project to review, and modify as
necessary, computer and other systems for Year-2000 compliance.  As of
December 1997, most of NS' mainframe computer programs have been
reviewed.  This mainframe project is expected to be completed by the
end of 1998.  Failure to achieve Year-2000 compliance -- by NS, other
railroads, its suppliers, and its customers -- could negatively affect
NS' ability to conduct business for an extended period.  Management
believes that NS' project will be completed on time and that the
chance of failure is remote.

          OTHER - The railroads have extensive facilities for support
of operations, including freight depots, car construction shops,
maintenance shops, office buildings, and signals and communications
facilities.

          ENCUMBRANCES - Certain railroad equipment is subject to the
prior lien of equipment financing obligations amounting to
approximately $601 million as of Dec. 31, 1997, and $594 million at
Dec. 31, 1996.  In addition, a portion of NS' properties is subject to
liens securing, as of Dec. 31, 1997, and 1996, approximately
$1 million and $51 million of mortgage debt, respectively.

          Capital spending and maintenance programs are and have been
designed to assure the ability to provide safe, efficient and reliable
transportation services.  For 1998, NS has budgeted $903 million of
capital spending, of which $149 million are initial outlays for
facilities and equipment related to the Conrail transaction.  Capital
spending is expected to be affected significantly by Conrail-related
expenditures, which are anticipated to add approximately $500 million
(net of predicted savings) over the next three years.
  PAGE 16


          ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS - Compliance with federal, state and
local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the
environment is a principal NS goal.  To date, such compliance has not
affected materially NS' capital additions, earnings, liquidity or
competitive position.

          See the discussion of "Environmental Matters" on page 49 in
Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis" beginning on
page 34, and in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on
page 78.

          EMPLOYEES - NS employed an average of 25,817 employees in
1997, compared with an average of 25,830 in 1996.  The approximate
average cost per employee during 1997 was $46,604 in wages and $17,279
in employee benefits.  Approximately 74 percent of these employees are
represented by various labor organizations.

          As of the end of 1997, NS had negotiated labor agreements
with all of its unions.  The accords with the 13 union organizations,
which include compensation settlements in line with other major
industries, will not be due for change until after January 1, 2000.

          GOVERNMENT REGULATION - In addition to environmental,
safety, securities and other regulations generally applicable to all
businesses, NS' railroads are subject to regulation by the STB, which
succeeded the ICC on Jan. 1, 1996.  The STB has jurisdiction over some
rates, routes, conditions of service, and the extension or abandonment
of rail lines.  The STB also has jurisdiction over the consolidation,
merger or acquisition of control of and by rail common carriers.  The
Department of Transportation regulates certain track and mechanical
equipment standards.

          The relaxation of economic regulation of railroads, begun
over a decade ago by the ICC under the Staggers Rail Act of 1980, has
continued under the STB and additional rail business could be exempted
from regulation in the future.  Significant exemptions are TOFC/COFC
(i.e., "piggyback") business, rail boxcar traffic, lumber,
manufactured steel, automobiles and certain bulk commodities such as
sand, gravel, pulpwood and wood chips for paper manufacturing.
Transportation contracts on regulated shipments, which no longer
require regulatory approval, effectively remove those shipments from
regulation as well.  Over 80 percent of NS' freight revenues come from
either exempt traffic or traffic moving under transportation
contracts.

          Efforts will be made in 1998 to re-subject the rail industry
to unwarranted federal economic regulation. The Staggers Rail Act of
1980, which substantially reduced such regulation, encouraged and
enabled rail carriers to innovate and to compete for business, thereby
contributing to the economic health of the nation and to the
revitalization of the industry. Accordingly, NS and other rail
carriers vigorously will oppose these counterproductive efforts to re-
impose or to authorize re-imposing such economic regulation.
  PAGE 17


          COMPETITION - There is continuing strong competition among
rail, water and highway carriers.  Price is usually only one factor of
importance as shippers and receivers choose a transport mode and
specific hauling company.  Inventory carrying costs, service
reliability, ease of handling and the desire to avoid loss and damage
during transit are increasingly important considerations, especially
for higher valued finished goods, machinery and consumer products.
Even for raw materials, semi-finished goods and work-in-process, users
are increasingly sensitive to transport arrangements which minimize
problems at successive production stages.

          NS' primary rail competitor is the CSX system; both operate
throughout much of the same territory, and implementation of the
Conrail transaction should extend the area in which they compete.
Other railroads also operate in parts of the territory.  NS also
competes with motor carriers, water carriers and with shippers who
have the additional option of handling their own goods in private
carriage.

          Certain cooperative strategies between railroads and between
railroads and motor carriers enable carriers to compete more
effectively in specific markets.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS - MOTOR CARRIER:

          DOMESTIC OPERATIONS - NAVL's principal transportation
activity is the domestic, irregular route common and contract carriage
of used household goods and special commodities between points in the
United States.  NAVL also operates as an intrastate carrier of
property in 33 states.  Prior to its restructuring in 1993, NAVL's
domestic motor carrier business was organized into three primary
divisions: Relocation Services (RS) specializing in residential
relocation of used household goods; High Value Products (HVP)
specializing in office and industrial relocations and transporting
exhibits; and Commercial Transport (CT) specializing in the
transportation of truckload shipments of general commodities.  In
1993, NAVL underwent a restructuring involving termination of the
CT Division and sale of the operations of Tran-Star, Inc. (Tran-Star),
NAVL's refrigerated trucking subsidiary.  In 1993, NAVL discontinued
CT's operations, transferred some parts of CT's business to other
divisions and began selling CT's assets that were not needed in NAVL's
other operations.  The sale of Tran-Star's operations was completed on
Dec. 31, 1993.

          During 1997, the RS and HVP divisions conducted operations
through a network of approximately 380 agents with over 600 locations
in the United States.  Agents are local moving and storage companies
that provide NAVL with such services as solicitation, packing and
warehousing in connection with the movement of household goods and
specialized products.  NAVL's future domestic operations are expected
to be conducted principally through the RS and HVP divisions.

          Customized Logistics Services (CLS) was established in 1993
as an operating unit of the HVP Division.  CLS' business is to focus
NAVL's resources to respond to a variety of customer needs for
integrated logistics services.  The services include emergency parts
order fulfillment, time-definite transportation and in-transit merge
programs (delivering an entire order, merged from multiple
manufacturing points, to a customer at one time).
  PAGE 18


          FOREIGN OPERATIONS - NAVL's foreign operations are conducted
through the RS and HVP Divisions and through foreign subsidiaries,
including North American Van Lines Canada, Ltd.  The Canadian
subsidiary provides motor carrier service for the transportation of
used household goods and specialized commodities between most points
in Canada through a network of approximately 138 agent locations.
During 1996, certain administrative functions related to the Canadian
operations were transferred to NAVL's Fort Wayne, Indiana,
headquarters.

          NAVL's international operations consist primarily of
forwarding used household goods to and from the United States and
between foreign countries through a network of approximately
350 foreign agents and representatives.  NAVL's international
operations are structurally aligned with the services provided by its
domestic operating divisions.  All international household goods
operations and related subsidiaries in Alaska and Canada are assigned
to the RS Division.  The remaining international operations, which
include subsidiaries in the United States, Germany and the United
Kingdom, are involved in the transportation of selected general and
specialized commodities and are assigned to the HVP Division.

          MOTOR CARRIER TRAFFIC - Motor carrier revenues increased
1 percent to $942 million in 1997, due to gains in all segments of the
HVP Division.  These HVP gains were partly offset by shortfalls in RS
attributable to volume declines.  In 1996, motor carrier revenues were
$930 million, up 4 percent from 1995, attributable to gains in both
divisions.

          DOMESTIC OPERATIONS are conducted through NAVL's RS and HVP
divisions.  In 1997, total domestic shipments for these divisions were
392,455, up 2 percent from 1996.

          RS - Domestic shipments of used household goods transported
by the RS Division fall into three market categories.  Approximately
53 percent of the domestic shipment volume comes from the sale of
moving services to individual consumers.  Another 37 percent comes
  PAGE 19


from corporations and other businesses that pay for the relocation of
their employees.  The remaining 10 percent is derived from military,
government and other sources.  Total domestic RS Division shipments in
1997 represented 25 percent of the NAVL domestic motor carrier
shipments transported by the two primary divisions.  Total domestic
revenues from this division were down 2 percent, compared with 1996,
and represented 52 percent of total revenues from operations.

          HVP - The HVP Division specializes in providing
transportation services in less-than-truckload (LTL) and truckload
(TL) quantities of sensitive products.  These products are divided
into the following categories:  office furniture and equipment,
exhibits and displays, electronic equipment, industrial machinery,
commercial relocation, LTL furniture and selected general commodities.
Total HVP Division shipments transported in 1997, including TL and
LTL, represented 75 percent of the NAVL domestic motor carrier
shipments transported by the two primary divisions.  Revenues from
this division were up 6 percent from 1996 levels and represented
40 percent of total revenues from operations.

          FOREIGN OPERATIONS include NAVL's Canadian subsidiary, North
American Van Lines Canada, Ltd., as well as operating subsidiaries in
England and Germany.  Foreign operations involving the transportation
of used household goods and selected general and specialized
commodities generated revenues of $77 million in 1997, down 2 percent
from 1996.  Revenues from foreign operations represented 8 percent of
NAVL's total revenues.

          FREIGHT RATES - Pricing and service flexibility afforded
by the Motor Carrier Act of 1980 and the Household Goods
Transportation Act of 1980 has resulted in NAVL's increased emphasis
on innovative pricing action in order to remain competitive.  Since
1980, NAVL has increasingly operated as a contract carrier.  As of
Dec. 31, 1997, domestic contract carriage agreements accounted for
33 percent of RS Division shipments and 68 percent of HVP Division
shipments.

          MOTOR CARRIER PROPERTY:

          REAL ESTATE - NAVL owns and leases real estate in support of
its operations.  Principal real estate holdings include NAVL's
headquarters complex and warehouse and vehicle maintenance facilities
in Fort Wayne, Indiana, vehicle maintenance facilities in Fontana,
California, and terminal facilities in Grand Rapids, Michigan, and
Great Falls, Montana.  NAVL also leases facilities throughout the
United States for sales offices, maintenance facilities and for
warehouse, terminal and distribution center operations.

          EQUIPMENT - NAVL relies extensively on independent
contractors (owner-operators) who supply the power equipment
(tractors) used to pull NAVL trailers.  Agents also provide a
substantial portion of NAVL's equipment needs, particularly for the
transportation of household goods, by furnishing tractors and trailers
on either a permanent or an intermittent lease basis.
  PAGE 20


          As of Dec. 31, 1997, agents and owner-operators together
supplied 3,352 tractors, representing 98 percent of the U.S. power
equipment operated in NAVL service.  Also as of Dec. 31, 1997,
NAVL owned 2,915 trailer units, representing 54 percent of the U.S.
trailer fleet in NAVL service.  The remaining 46 percent was provided
mainly by agents and owner-operators.  Agents and owner-operators also
provided 997 straight trucks, or 97 percent of such units in NAVL
service.

          NAVL has an extensive program for the repair and maintenance
of its trailer equipment.  In 1997, approximately 24,000 work orders
were completed at NAVL's facility in Fort Wayne.  As of Dec. 31, 1997,
the average age of trailer equipment in the NAVL fleet was 8.5 years.

          ENCUMBRANCES - Many of the tractors utilized in NAVL service
are purchased by NAVL from manufacturers and resold to agents and
owner-operators under a NAVL-sponsored financing program.  At Dec. 31,
1997, NAVL had $19 million in such tractor contracts receivable.  This
program allows NAVL to generate the funds necessary to purchase the
tractors and to resell them under favorable financing terms.  The
equipment is sold under conditional sales contracts with the agents
and owner-operators.

          COMPUTERS - NAVL relies extensively on data processing
facilities for shipment planning and dispatch functions as well as
shipment tracing.  Data processing capabilities are also utilized in
revenue processing functions, driver and agent account settlement
activity, and internal accounting and record keeping service.

          GOVERNMENT REGULATION - For motor carrier operations
conducted by NAVL, the Department of Transportation and the STB are
the principal regulatory entities.  The STB exercises jurisdiction
over the relationship between carriers and owner-operators, and
carrier practices and common carrier rates relating to the
transportation of household goods.  The primary focus of the
Department of Transportation is on driver qualification and safety
standards, including maximum trailer length and width.

          COMPETITION - NAVL continues to face strong competition due
to deregulation and overcapacity in the industry that will keep
profits at a modest level.  While service remains a key issue, many
shippers now place greater emphasis on price.  For the RS Division,
contract carriage and volume discount programs dominate the corporate
relocation segment, and guaranteed price options are common to the
individual consumer segment.  Contract carriage agreements are also
utilized extensively by the HVP Division to meet the service and price
requirements of its customers.
  PAGE 21


Item 3.    Legal Proceedings.
- ------     -----------------

          The Conrail-related litigation (and related negotiations)
reported previously by NS in Part II, Item 1, of its Form 10-Q
Report for the quarter ending Sept. 30, 1996, and in Part I,
Item 3, of its Form 10-K Report for the year ending Dec. 31,
1996, either have been terminated or are believed to have been
rendered moot by the various agreements reached with CSX during the
year concerning the operation of certain Conrail assets and routes.

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
- ------    ---------------------------------------------------

          There were no matters submitted to a vote of security
holders during the fourth quarter of 1997.
  PAGE 22


Executive Officers of the Registrant.
- ------------------------------------

          Norfolk Southern's officers are elected annually by the
Board of Directors at its first meeting held after the annual meeting
of stockholders, and they hold office until their successors are
elected.  There are no family relationships among the officers, nor
any arrangement or understanding between any officer and any other
person pursuant to which the officer was selected.  The following
table sets forth certain information, as of March 1, 1998, relating to
these officers:

                                        Business Experience during
Name, Age, Present Position                   past 5 Years
- ---------------------------        -----------------------------------

David R. Goode, 57,                Present position since September
  Chairman, President and           1992.
  Chief Executive Officer

James C. Bishop, Jr., 61,          Present position since March
  Executive Vice President-Law      1996; prior thereto was Vice
                                    President-Law.

R. Alan Brogan, 57,                Present position since December
  Executive Vice President-         1992.
  Transportation Logistics
  (and President-North American
  Van Lines, Inc.)

L. I. Prillaman, 54,               Present position since October
  Executive Vice President-         1995; prior thereto was Vice
  Marketing                         President-Properties.

Stephen C. Tobias, 53,             Present position since July 1994.
  Executive Vice President-         Served as Senior Vice President-
  Operations                        Operations from October 1993 to
                                    July 1994, and prior thereto was
                                    Vice President-Strategic
                                    Planning.

Henry C. Wolf, 55,                 Present position since June 1993;
  Executive Vice President-         prior thereto was Vice President-
  Finance                           Taxation.

John F. Corcoran, 57,              Present position since August 1,
  Senior Vice President-            1997; prior thereto was Vice
  Public Affairs                    President-Public Affairs.
  PAGE 23


                                        Business Experience during
Name, Age, Present Position                   past 5 Years
- ---------------------------        -----------------------------------

Paul N. Austin, 54,                Present position since June 1994.
  Vice President-Personnel          Served as Assistant Vice
                                    President-Personnel from
                                    February 1993 to June 1994, and
                                    prior thereto was Director-
                                    Compensation.

David A. Cox, 61,                  Present position since December
  Vice President-Properties         1995; prior thereto was
                                    Assistant Vice President-
                                    Industrial Development.

Thomas L. Finkbiner, 45,           Present position since August 1993.
  Vice President-Intermodal         Served as Senior Assistant Vice
                                    President-International and
                                    Intermodal from April to August
                                    1993, and prior thereto was
                                    Assistant Vice President-
                                    International and Intermodal.

Nancy S. Fleischman, 50,           Present position since August
   Vice President                   1997.  Served as Assistant Vice
                                    President-Strategic Planning
                                    from November 1993 to August
                                    1997, and prior thereto was
                                    Senior General Attorney.

Robert C. Fort, 53,                Present position since December
  Vice President-                   1996; prior thereto was Assistant
  Public Relations                  Vice President-Public Relations.

John W. Fox, Jr., 50,              Present position since October
  Vice President-                   1995.  Served as Assistant Vice
  Coal Marketing                    President-Coal Marketing from
                                    August 1993 to October 1995, and
                                    prior thereto was General Manager-
                                    Eastern Region.

Thomas J. Golian, 64,              Present position since October
  Vice President                    1995.  Served as Executive
                                    Assistant to the Chairman,
                                    President and CEO from April
                                    1993 to October 1995, and prior
                                    thereto was Special Assistant to
                                    the President.

James L. Granum, 61,               Present position since March 1992.
  Vice President-
  Public Affairs
  PAGE 24


                                        Business Experience during
Name, Age, Present Position                   past 5 Years
- ---------------------------        -----------------------------------

James A. Hixon, 44,                Present position since June 1993;
  Vice President-Taxation           prior thereto was Assistant Vice
                                    President-Tax Counsel.

Jon L. Manetta, 59,                Present position since December
  Vice President-                   1995.  Served as Vice President-
  Transportation & Mechanical       Transportation from June 1994 to
                                    December 1995, Assistant Vice
                                    President-Transportation from
                                    October 1993 to June 1994,
                                    Assistant Vice President-
                                    Strategic Planning from January
                                    to October 1993, and prior
                                    thereto was Director-Joint
                                    Facilities and Budget.

Harold C. Mauney, Jr., 59,         Present position since August 1,
  Vice President-                   1997.  Served as Vice President-
  Public Affairs                    Operations Planning and Budget
                                    from December 1996 to August
                                    1997, and prior thereto was Vice
                                    President-Quality Management.

Donald W. Mayberry, 54,            Present position since December
  Vice President-                   1995; prior thereto was Vice
  Research and Tests                President-Mechanical.

James W. McClellan, 58,            Present position since October
  Vice President-                   1993; prior thereto was Assistant
  Strategic Planning                Vice President-Corporate Planning.

Kathryn B. McQuade, 41,            Present position since December
  Vice President-Internal Audit     1992.

Charles W. Moorman, 46,            Present position since October
  Vice President-                   1993; prior thereto was Vice
  Information Technology            President-Employee Relations.

Phillip R. Ogden, 57,              Present position since December
  Vice President-Engineering        1992.

John P. Rathbone, 46,              Present position since December
  Vice President and                1992.
  Controller

William J. Romig, 53,              Present position since April 1992.
  Vice President and
  Treasurer
  PAGE 25


                                        Business Experience during
Name, Age, Present Position                   past 5 Years
- ---------------------------        -----------------------------------

John M. Samuels, 54,               Present position since January 16,
  Vice President-Operations         1998.  Served as Vice President-
  Planning and Budget               Operating Assets of Conrail from
                                    January 1996 to January 1998,
                                    Vice President-Mechanical of
                                    Conrail from November 1994 to
                                    January 1996, and prior thereto
                                    was Vice President-Engineering
                                    of Conrail.

Donald W. Seale, 45,               Present position since August 1993;
  Vice President-                   prior thereto was Assistant Vice
  Merchandise Marketing             President-Sales and Service.

Robert S. Spenski, 63,             Present position since June 1994;
  Vice President-                   prior thereto was Senior
  Labor Relations                   Assistant Vice President-Labor
                                    Relations.

Rashe W. Stephens, Jr., 56,        Present position since December
  Vice President-                   1996.  Served as Assistant Vice
  Quality Management                President-Public Affairs from
                                    February 1993 to December 1996,
                                    and prior thereto was Director,
                                    EEO and Manpower Planning.

William C. Wooldridge, 54,         Present position since March 1996;
  Vice President-Law                prior thereto was General
                                    Counsel-Corporate.

Dezora M. Martin, 50,              Present position since April 1995.
  Corporate Secretary               Served as Assistant Corporate
                                    Secretary-NS from October 1993
                                    to April 1995, and prior thereto
                                    was Assistant Corporate
                                    Secretary-Planning.
  PAGE 26


                                 PART II


Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related
- ------    ------------------------------------------------
          Stockholder Matters.
          -------------------

  PAGE 27


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.
- ------    -----------------------

  PAGE 28


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- ------    -----------------------

  PAGE 29


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- ------    -----------------------

  PAGE 30


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- ------    -----------------------

  PAGE 31


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- ------    -----------------------

  PAGE 32


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- ------    -----------------------

  PAGE 33


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data. (continued)
- ------    -----------------------

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                             Table of Graphs
                            Included with the
                      Eleven-Year Financial Review


  PAGE 34


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Management's Discussion And Analysis
            Of Financial Condition And Results Of Operations

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with
the Consolidated Financial Statements (beginning on page 54) and Notes
(beginning on page 60) and the Eleven-Year Financial Review (beginning on
page 27).

SUMMARIZED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

1997 Compared With 1996
- -----------------------
     Net income in 1997 was $721 million, a decrease of 6%. However,
1997's results reflect several Conrail-related items, primarily interest
expense on the $5.8 billion of debt incurred to finance the acquisition,
which reduced net income by $107 million (see Note 2 on page 62).
Excluding the effects of these items, net income was up 8% over 1996's
record result. Income from railway operations increased 4%. Increased
nonoperating income (see Note 4 on page 64) and a lower effective income
tax rate (see Note 5 on page 65) also contributed to the improvement in
net income.
     As required by a new accounting pronouncement, NS is reporting two
earnings per share amounts on the face of the income statement: basic and
diluted. "Basic" earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income
by the average number of shares outstanding during the period. "Diluted"
earnings per share reflects the dilutive effect of all unexercised stock
options and projected performance awards under the Long-Term Incentive
Plan.
     Diluted earnings per share of $1.90 were down 5%. Excluding the
effects of the Conrail-related items, diluted earnings per share were up
9% over 1996's record result.
     On Jan. 12, 1998, NS announced that it had reached an agreement to
sell all the common stock of its motor carrier subsidiary, North American
Van Lines, Inc. (NAVL) (see Note 3 on page 64). Accordingly, NAVL's
results are presented, net of taxes, as "Discontinued operations," and
all prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to this
presentation. NS expects to report a gain upon consummation of the NAVL
sale in 1998.

1996 Compared With 1995
- -----------------------
     Net income in 1996 was a record $770 million, an increase of 8%.
However, 1995's results included a $34 million early retirement charge
that reduced net income by $20 million. Excluding the effects of that
charge, 1996 net income was up 5%. The improvement was due to increased
income from railway operations, reflecting a 2% increase in railway
operating revenues and a less than 1% increase in railway operating
expenses (excluding the early retirement charge), which more than
compensated for decreased nonoperating income. Included in 1995
nonoperating income was a $31 million gain from the partial redemption of
a real estate partnership interest. Interest expense on debt was up 2%, a
result of interest expense on $200 million of debt issued in September
1996.
     Record diluted earnings per share of $2.01 for 1996 were up 12% (8%,
excluding the effects of the early retirement charge). The greater
improvement in earnings per share compared with net income was the result
of the stock purchase program, which was suspended on Oct. 23, 1996, and
to date has not been resumed (see Note 15 on page 77).
  PAGE 35


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------


DETAILED RESULTS OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS

Railway Operating Revenues
- --------------------------
     Railway operating revenues were $4.2 billion in 1997, compared with
$4.1 billion in 1996, and $4.0 billion in 1995. The following table
presents a three-year comparison of revenues by market group.

     In 1997, revenues increased or remained steady for all market
groups. In 1996, revenues increased in all market groups except in the
paper, clay, and forest products group, and the agriculture, government,
and consumer products group. As shown in the following table, volume
gains produced all of the revenue improvement in 1997 and most of the
improvement in 1996.

  PAGE 36


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------

     Coal tonnage increased 3% in 1997, primarily due to increased export
and utility tonnage; however, revenues decreased slightly as a result of
a shorter length of haul. Coal revenues represented 31% of total railway
operating revenues in 1997, and 89% of coal shipments originated on NS'
lines. In 1996, coal tonnage increased 4%, and revenues increased 3%,
principally due to increased utility and export tonnage.

     Utility coal traffic increased 2% in 1997, despite the unusually
cool weather in late spring and early summer that moderated demand for
domestic steam coal. Several utility customers in the NS service region
shifted more generation to coal-fired plants, as some nuclear power
plants experienced downtime. New business resulting from innovative
marketing efforts also contributed to the increase.
     In 1996, utility coal traffic volume increased 6%, primarily due to
nuclear generator downtime and market share gains in the Southeast.
     The near-term outlook for utility coal remains positive, as coal-
fired generation continues to be the cheapest marginal source of
electricity. Normalized U.S. electricity demand continues to increase at
a rate greater than generation capacity is being added. Increased
electricity price competition expected from utility deregulation could
cause utilities to seek to reduce costs and increase plant utilization.
These factors, coupled with excess capacity at low-cost, coal-fired
generation plants, could provide an opportunity for coal volume growth.
However, competitive pressures on utilities to reduce costs also could
transfer price pressure to generation source fuels, including NS-
delivered coal.
     Moreover, a significant number of the mines served by NS produce
coals that satisfy both the Phase I and Phase II requirements of the
Clean Air Act Amendments. Adoption of tighter restrictions on the
emission of nitrous oxides, as proposed by the Environmental Protection
Agency, however, could impose added cost burdens on some coal-fired
plants. Furthermore, if implemented, the greenhouse gas emission targets
proposed for the United States at the Global Climate Summit in Kyoto,
Japan, in December 1997 also could increase the cost of coal-fired
generation and adversely affect coal traffic.
     The portion of Conrail's properties that NS proposes to operate
serves 27 coal-fired utility plants and mines with an abundant supply of
low-cost, high-quality steam coal.
     Export coal tonnage increased 6% in 1997, reaching the highest
level since 1992. Higher metallurgical coal demand and increased sales
from NS-served producers caused growth in shipments to Japan. Increased
metallurgical coal exports to Holland and Romania and increased shipments
to Brazil early in the year also contributed to the improvement.
     Export coal tonnage increased 5% in 1996, as NS benefited from
increases in steam coal exports to Italy and metallurgical shipments to
Germany, a result of reduced subsidies to German coal producers that
enhanced the competitiveness of U.S. coal. Increased exports of U.S. coal
to Brazil also contributed to the improvement.
  PAGE 37


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------

     Metallurgical coal exports are expected to remain stable through
2000. The high-quality coking coals from mines on NS should keep its
export metallurgical coal competitive. However, the current relative
strength of the U.S. dollar vs. the currencies of several other major
coal-producing nations has put U.S. coal at a price disadvantage. A
gradual decline in export metallurgical coal tonnage is projected over
the long term, as new steel-making technologies take market share from
traditional coke-based producers. Export demand for steam coal is
expected to increase over the long term, and NS is working to increase
its participation in this market.
     Conrail and its coal-producing customers are well established in
the export steam coal market, which, assuming approval of the Conrail
transaction, should help NS achieve greater levels of participation.
Furthermore, current NS and Conrail coal exporters should benefit from
being able to ship their coal single-line through Baltimore, Md., and
Norfolk, Va.
     Steel coal domestic traffic increased 4% in 1997, due to growth in
coke and iron ore shipments. Metallurgical coal traffic declined,
primarily due to prolonged aggressive producer pricing of higher volatile
metallurgical coals not located on NS' lines. In 1996, traffic decreased
7%, a result of the aggressive high-volatile coal pricing.
     With the reduction in U.S. blast-furnace capacity, coke production
in the United States continues to decline. Advanced technologies that
allow production of steel using little or no coke could cause this market
to decline slowly over the long term. However, NS is working to
participate in the movement of non-coking coal used by technologies such
as pulverized coal injection and coal-based, direct-reduced iron, in
order to mitigate the potential decline in traditional metallurgical
shipments.
     The Conrail transaction, if approved, should increase NS'
participation in shipments of raw materials for the steel industry by
means of new single-line routes with access to most domestic integrated
steel plants and merchant coke plants.
     Other coal traffic, primarily steam coal shipped to manufacturing
plants, decreased 3% in 1997, principally due to the unusually cool late
spring and early summer weather and to allocation of equipment to other
markets. Other coal traffic increased 14% in 1996, mostly reflecting
gains from other modes of transportation. This market is expected to
remain stable in coming years.

  PAGE 38


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------

     MERCHANDISE traffic volume and revenues each increased 3% in 1997,
as all market groups, except the agriculture, government, and consumer
products group, posted gains. In 1996, merchandise volume decreased
slightly, as gains in automotive, intermodal, and chemicals traffic were
more than offset by declines in the remaining market groups. However,
higher average revenues in 1996 resulted in a 2% revenue improvement.
     CHEMICALS traffic increased 5%, and revenues increased 4% in 1997.
Plastics, chlor-alkali, and nonhazardous waste markets strengthened
during 1997. Petroleum and industrial chemicals volume also increased. In
1996, chemicals traffic volume grew 3%, and revenues increased 4%, as
fertilizer and plastics markets strengthened. In addition, the harsh
winter resulted in increased movements of liquid petroleum gas, and
industrial chemicals remained strong throughout the year.
     The chemicals market group should continue to show moderate growth
through 1998, based on industrial expansion projects and expected
increases in national chemical production.
     If approved, the Conrail transaction should give NS a competitive
route from the southwest to northern New Jersey, where Conrail currently
originates or terminates annually about 40,000 carloads of chemicals.

     PAPER, CLAY, AND FOREST products traffic rose 4%, and revenues
increased 5% in 1997. Shipments of wood chips led the growth, as three
major on-line wood-chip plants began full production. Lumber traffic also
increased as Southern yellow pine from NS' service territory continued to
replace timber from Pacific Northwest sources. Kaolin clay traffic
increased, and shipments of paper products were up slightly in a mature
industry where strong competition continues between rail and truck
transportation. In 1996, paper, clay, and forest products revenues and
traffic each declined 5%, due to the overall downturn in the paper and
forest products industry.
     The paper, clay, and forest products market group is expected to
experience modest growth in 1998, bolstered by increased printing paper
production in the Southeast and increased wood-chip volume when two
additional plants come on line.
     The Conrail transaction, if approved, will give NS access to 35
additional paper mills and 39 additional lumber reload centers.
  PAGE 39


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------

     AUTOMOTIVE traffic increased 2%, and revenues rose 1% in 1997, both
reaching the highest levels in this group's history. Auto parts drove the
growth as volume increased 12%. Vehicle traffic decreased 3%, due to
industrywide railcar shortages, service disruptions in the West,
unexpected downtime at certain plants and modest sales for some of the
models transported by NS. In 1996, automotive traffic rose 8%, and
revenues increased 9%. Auto parts traffic increased 21% and vehicle
traffic increased 3%, largely a result of new just-in-time rail centers
and all NS-served assembly plants being on-line.
     The automotive group is expected to experience growth in 1998. When
fully operational, the Ford mixing centers are expected to increase NS'
vehicle business with Ford. Full production at the Mercedes-Benz plant in
Vance, Ala., and Toyota's new minivan line at Georgetown, Ky., also
should support growth. Parts traffic is expected to continue to grow,
supported by increased volumes on NS' just-in-time network, specifically
less-than-truckload traffic moving from Detroit to Mexico.
     If approved, the Conrail transaction will provide NS access to 13
additional assembly plants with an annual production of more than 2.6
million vehicles, and NS' network of automobile distribution facilities
will increase from 22 to 39.

     AGRICULTURE, GOVERNMENT, AND CONSUMER products traffic decreased
3%, and revenues decreased 1% in 1997. Most of the decline resulted from
decreases in the bulk agriculture commodities. Weak export markets,
declines in corn shipments to processors, and an unfavorable soybean
market resulting from higher prices led to traffic declines that began
early in the year. In 1996, agriculture, government, and consumer
products traffic declined 4%, and revenues were flat. Despite strong
demand for feed grains in the Southeast, grain traffic was affected
  PAGE 40


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------

adversely by poor crops and strong export demand that left NS receivers
competing for limited supplies. Slight average revenue growth occurred,
resulting primarily from longer hauls, as receivers obtained grain
supplies from the West.
     The agriculture, government, and consumer products group is
expected to experience moderate growth in 1998 due to improved soybean
and corn crops. NS also should benefit from the on-line location of one
new feed mill and three new wheat mills during the year.
     The Conrail transaction, if approved, is expected to increase NS-
accessed grain elevator capacity by about 10%.

     METALS AND CONSTRUCTION traffic and revenues each increased 4% in
1997. Construction traffic on NS experienced strong gains in 1997,
primarily due to increased highway building activity in the Southeast.
Metals traffic increased due to gains in domestic sheet steel movements
resulting from record steel production and increased pipe shipments. In
1996, metals and construction traffic declined 2%, but revenues were up
1%. Construction carloads fell behind in early 1996 due to inclement
weather and were flat the rest of the year; however, higher average
revenues more than offset the volume decline. In the metals market, NS'
shipments remained strong due to a healthy domestic steel market, which
has added capacity, as efficiency at integrated mills and new steel
processing facilities has improved.
     Moderate growth is expected in 1998, supported by several new
metals projects coming on-line, and continued growth in construction
traffic.
     If approved, the Conrail transaction will give NS access to 11
additional steel mills.

  PAGE 41


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------

     INTERMODAL traffic volume increased 11%, and revenues increased 12%
in 1997, each exceeding the records set in 1996. Capacity expansions on
major terminals and trains, combined with a healthy domestic and
international economy, enabled NS to achieve the third year of double-
digit growth in four years. Volume increases were balanced, allowing NS
to outperform the market in all traffic segments. Container traffic
volume increased 12%, supported by strength in new steamship business
under contract.
     In 1996, driven by increased domestic container and Triple Crown
Services Company (TCSC) volume, intermodal traffic volume increased 5%,
and revenues increased 3%, each reaching a record level. EMP, the
container equipment-sharing arrangement with Union Pacific and Conrail,
contributed significantly to the domestic growth. International container
volume declined only slightly, despite an industry slowdown that began in
the spring and lasted until the fall. NS' overall market share improved
slightly due to new international business and the continued domestic
container and TCSC growth.
     NS' intermodal volume is expected to remain strong, although growth
in 1998 is not expected to equal the double-digit performance of 1997.
New train services between Greensboro and Chicago, and St. Louis and
Atlanta are expected to attract less-than-truckload and other premium
service customers. Rate actions to improve balance and margin are
expected to be implemented throughout the year and to contribute to
traffic moderation.
     The Conrail transaction, if approved, should result in significant
growth in intermodal revenues, as NS will benefit from direct access to
most major East Coast ports.

Railway Operating Expenses
- --------------------------
     Railway operating expenses increased 3% in 1997, despite a 5%
increase in traffic volume. In 1996, railway operating expenses decreased
slightly; however, 1995's expenses included a $34 million charge for an
early retirement program (see Note 12 on page 71). Excluding that charge,
1996 railway operating expenses increased 1% on a 2% increase in traffic
volume.
     As a result, the railway operating ratio, which measures the
percentage of railway revenues consumed by railway expenses, was a record
71.3 in 1997, compared with 71.6 in 1996, and 73.5 (72.7 excluding the
early retirement charge) in 1995. NS' railway operating ratio continues
to be the best among the major railroads in the United States.
     Even before the Conrail transaction is approved, NS expects to
incur expenses related to integration efforts, and, as a result, the
railway operating ratio is anticipated to be higher in 1998.
  PAGE 42


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------

     COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS, which represents about half of total
railway operating expenses, increased slightly in 1997, but decreased 5%
(3% excluding the effect of the early retirement charge) in 1996.
     In 1997, higher wages resulting from contract wage increases and
additional train and engine employees were offset by lower fringe benefit
and incentive compensation costs. The decline in fringe benefit costs was
largely due to favorable investment experience on pension plan assets.
Productivity improvements and train efficiencies offset the effects of
the higher traffic volume to a large extent.
     The 1996 decrease (excluding the effect of the 1995 early retirement
charge) was principally attributable to: (1) reduced employment resulting
from the 1995 early retirement program and productivity improvements due
to ongoing reductions in train-crew sizes and train efficiencies and (2)
reduced costs for fringe benefits, principally medical costs for salaried
employees. These decreases were somewhat offset by increases attributable
to higher volume and increased wage rates resulting from new labor
agreements.
     MATERIALS, SERVICES, AND RENTS includes items used for the
maintenance of the railroads' lines, structures, and equipment; the costs
of services purchased from outside contractors, including the net costs
of operating joint (or leased) facilities with other railroads; and the
net cost of equipment rentals. This category of expenses increased 10% in
1997 and 1% in 1996.
     The 1997 increase resulted principally from higher volume-related
intermodal expenses, as well as higher equipment rent costs, partially a
result of a change in the mix of received vs. forwarded traffic. Higher
locomotive repair expenses and costs for contract programmers to make
computer processes Year-2000 compliant (discussed below) also contributed
to the increase. The 1996 increase also resulted from higher volume-
related intermodal expenses, as well as higher equipment rent costs that
more than offset lower locomotive and car-repair costs.
     Equipment rents, which represent the cost to NS of using equipment
(mostly freight cars) owned by other railroads or private owners, less
the rent paid to NS for the use of its equipment, were up 11% in 1997 and
10% in 1996. The 1997 increase was due to a 5% increase in overall
traffic and a shift in traffic mix. Carloadings in other railroads' and
privately owned freight cars were up 7%, due to growth in traffic
received from other railroads. Trailer and container loadings, moving
mostly on privately owned flatcars, were up 11%. These increased costs
  PAGE 43


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------

were mitigated somewhat by higher receipts from short-term leases of
locomotives to various railroads. The 1996 increase resulted from higher
container traffic, lower receipts from short-term leases of locomotives,
and more freight car leases necessary to meet customer requirements.
These increased costs were somewhat offset by lower net costs for
multilevel equipment.
     Locomotive repair costs increased in 1997, a result of higher
traffic levels and an increase in the average number of locomotives in
service throughout the year.
     In October 1995, NS initiated a project to review, and modify as
necessary, computer and other systems for Year-2000 compliance. As of
December 1997, most of NS' mainframe computer programs have been
reviewed. This mainframe project is expected to be completed by the end
of 1998. NS has redeployed existing information technology resources and
has incurred incremental costs, mostly for contract programmers.
Incremental costs through 1997, which were expensed, were less than $10
million, and the total incremental costs of the entire project are
expected to be less than $25 million. Failure to achieve Year-2000
compliance -- by NS, other railroads, its suppliers, and its customers --
could negatively affect NS' ability to conduct business for an extended
period. Management believes that NS' project will be completed on time
and that the chance of failure is remote.
     DEPRECIATION expense (see Note 1, "Properties," on page 61 for NS'
depreciation policy) was up 3% in 1997 and 5% in 1996. Increases in both
years were due to property additions, reflecting recent substantial
levels of capital spending.
     DIESEL FUEL costs declined 3% in 1997, but increased 23% in 1996.
The 1997 decrease was due to a 5% drop in the average price per gallon,
somewhat offset by a 3% rise in consumption. The 1996 increase was due to
a 20% rise in the average price per gallon, as prices reached levels
unseen since the Persian Gulf Crisis in 1991, and to a 3% increase in
consumption.
     CASUALTIES AND OTHER CLAIMS (including estimates of costs related to
personal injury, property damage, and environmental matters) were
unchanged in 1997, but increased 2% in 1996. In 1997, a reduction in
personal injury expenses was offset by higher freight damage costs. In
1996, higher accruals for environmental remediation costs more than
offset reduced accruals for personal injury liabilities and the effects
of a nonrecurring liability insurance premium refund.
     The largest component of casualties and other claims expense is
personal injury costs. NS experienced another reduction in the number of
reportable injuries in 1997, with a consequent reduction in the cost of
personal injury claims. NS continues to work actively to reduce all
accidents and to control the associated costs.
     The rail industry remains uniquely susceptible to litigation
involving job-related accidental injury and occupational claims because
of an outmoded law, the Federal Employers' Liability Act (FELA),
originally passed in 1908 and applicable only to railroads. This law,
which covers employee claims for job-related injuries, promotes an
adversarial claim settlement environment and produces results that are
unpredictable and inconsistent, at a far greater cost to the rail
industry than the no-fault workers' compensation system to which non-rail
competitors are universally subject. The railroads have been unsuccessful
so far in efforts to persuade Congress to replace FELA with a no-fault
workers' compensation system.
     NS maintains substantial amounts of commercial insurance for
potential third-party liability and property damage losses. However, it
also retains reasonable levels of risk through self-insurance.
     OTHER expenses increased 1% in 1997, but decreased 2% in 1996.
  PAGE 44


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------

Income Taxes
- ------------
     Income tax expense in 1997 was $299 million for an effective rate of
30%, compared with an effective rate of 35% in 1996 and 36% in 1995.
Excluding the equity in Conrail's after-tax earnings, the effective rate
for 1997 was 34%.
     The effective rates in all three years were below the statutory
federal and state rates as a result of investments in corporate-owned
life insurance and in coal-seam gas properties and favorable adjustments
upon filing the prior year tax returns. In addition, 1997 benefited from
favorable adjustments of accrued liabilities for state income taxes. 1996
benefited from favorable adjustments resulting from settlement of federal
income tax years 1990-1992.

DETAILED RESULTS OF DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS - MOTOR CARRIER

     As a result of the agreement to sell NAVL, motor carrier results are
presented, net of taxes, as "Discontinued operations" (see Note 3 on 
page 64).
     Income from motor carrier operations, net of taxes, was $22 million
in 1997, compared with $17 million in 1996, and $15 million in 1995.
Motor carrier operating income was $35 million in 1997, compared with $32
million in 1996, and $25 million in 1995. Because certain expenses were
below original estimates, $4 million of reserves related to a former
division were reversed in each of the three years. The Relocation
Services (RS) and High Value Products (HVP) divisions generated operating
income of $31 million in 1997, $28 million in 1996, and $21 million in
1995.

     RS' revenues decreased 2% in 1997, but increased 2% in 1996. In
1997, domestic shipments declined 6% due to weakness in all segments and
the loss of the largest sales agent. International commercial shipments
were down 3%. The effects of the volume decreases were mitigated by a 3%
gain in average revenue per domestic shipment. In 1996, domestic
shipments declined 4% due to weakness in all segments, and international
shipments were down 1%. Average revenue per shipment increased 3%.
     HVP's revenues increased 5% in 1997 and 6% in 1996, as all business
units experienced growth in both years. Customized Logistics Services
(CLS) volume posted the largest percentage gains, due in part to new
customer programs as well as the continued expansion of its commercial
air freight operations and the expansion of the emergency parts service
business.
  PAGE 45


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------

     Motor carrier operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were
97% in 1997, 96% in 1996, and 97% in 1995, excluding the reversals
related to a former division. The improvement in 1996 was partly due to a
favorable appeals decision on certain aspects of a legal claim for which
a reserve had been established in 1992. Also, the CLS segment reduced its
costs as it moved out of the start-up phase of several of its logistics
and parts distribution programs.

ACCOUNTING CHANGES AND NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     As discussed in Note 1 under "Required Accounting Changes" on page
61, NS adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128,
"Earnings per Share," for the year ended December 31, 1997, and AICPA
Statement of Position 96-1, "Environmental Remediation Liabilities," (SOP
96-1) effective January 1, 1997. The adoption of SOP 96-1 did not have a
material effect on NS' financial statements.
     During 1997, Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 130,
"Reporting Comprehensive Income," and No. 131, "Disclosures About
Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information," were issued. Neither
statement is expected to have a material effect on NS' financial
statements.

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY, AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     Cash provided by operating activities, NS' principal source of
liquidity, decreased $48 million, or 4%, in 1997, and $36 million, or 3%,
in 1996. Since consolidation in 1982, cash provided by operating
activities has been sufficient to fund dividend requirements, debt
repayments, and a significant portion of capital spending. The decrease
in 1997 was principally the result of interest on the debt issued to
finance NS' portion of the cost of the acquisition of Conrail stock. The
increase in "Current liabilities other than debt" is primarily due to
interest accruals. The decrease in 1996 was largely attributable to lump-
sum wage payments associated with labor contract settlements and higher
income tax payments related to the settlement of federal income tax years
1990-1992.

     Cash used for investing activities increased substantially in 1997
with NS' acquisition of a 58% economic interest in Conrail and decreased
6% in 1996. Property additions account for most of the recurring spending
in this category.
     The following tables show capital spending, track, and equipment
statistics for the past five years.
  PAGE 46


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------

     Capital expenditures increased 18% in 1997 and 4% in 1996. The
increase in 1997 was due to higher roadway additions that included
construction costs for four motor vehicle distribution facilities
scheduled to be completed early in 1998.


     Since 1988, NS has rebodied about 25,000 coal cars and plans to
continue that program. This work, performed at NS' Roanoke Car Shop,
converts hopper cars into high-capacity steel gondolas or hoppers. As a
result, the remaining service life of the freight car fleet is greater
than may be inferred from the increasing average age shown in the
corresponding table.
     NS began an orderly disposition of approximately 17,000 freight cars
in October 1994. This was completed in 1997, with total proceeds of $104
million included in "Property sales and other transactions" in the 1997,
1996, and 1995 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In 1995 and 1996,
this line item also reflected greater proceeds from land sales.
  PAGE 47


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------

     For 1998, NS has budgeted $903 million of capital expenditures, of
which $149 million are initial outlays for facilities and equipment
related to the Conrail transaction. Capital spending is expected to be
affected significantly by Conrail-related expenditures, which are
expected to incrementally add approximately $500 million over the next
three years.
     Cash provided by financing activities in 1997 included net proceeds
from the issuance of $4.3 billion principal amount of unsecured notes and
proceeds from the sale of commercial paper to finance NS' share of the
cost of acquiring Conrail stock (see "Joint Acquisition of Conrail,"
below, Note 2 on page 62, and Note 9 on page 68). Also included is $72
million of credit facility costs related to certain now-terminated
commitments under credit agreements that were in place to support NS'
tender offer for all shares of Conrail. "Debt repayments" in 1997
included repayment of some of the commercial paper. NS' debt-to-total
capitalization ratio was 58% at the end of 1997.
     In 1996, cash used for financing activities declined 20%, a result
of amounts received in connection with the issuance of $200 million
principal amount of medium-term notes.
     Cash spent to purchase and retire common stock was $389 million in
1996 and $338 million in 1995. On Oct. 23, 1996, NS announced that the
share purchase program had been suspended (see Note 15 on page 77).
     NS currently has in place a $2.8 billion credit facility to support
its commercial paper program. During 1998, as in prior years, NS expects
to finance a portion of its equipment acquisitions.

JOINT ACQUISITION OF CONRAIL

     On May 23, 1997, NS and CSX completed the acquisition of Conrail
stock that was tendered in response to the NS/CSX tender offer (see Note
2). On June 2, 1997, a merger subsidiary jointly controlled by NS and CSX
was merged into Conrail. Pursuant to the merger, all previously issued
Conrail stock either was canceled or converted into the right to receive
$115 per share in cash. NS' total cost for its portion of the
acquisition, including NS' fees, was $5.8 billion. On June 23, 1997, NS
and CSX filed a joint application with the Surface Transportation Board
(STB) for control and division of the use and operations of Conrail's
assets and for authority to implement the transaction. The application
addresses projected traffic flows, proposed operations, and related
matters; outlines the capital investments NS and CSX each plan to make in
new connections and facilities and to increase capacity on critical
routes; and details operating savings and other public benefits resulting
from the transaction. The application also contains certain historical
and pro forma financial information required by the STB. The joint
application is a public document, available for review in its entirety at
the office of the STB, located at 1925 K Street, NW, Washington, D.C.
20423-0001.
     In May 1997, the STB issued a scheduling order providing for
issuance of a final STB decision no later than June 8, 1998, to become
effective 30 days thereafter. On Nov. 3, 1997, the STB extended the
period for issuing its final decision by 45 days, to July 23, 1998, to
become effective 30 days thereafter. This extension was in conjunction
with a new requirement that NS and CSX comply with the STB's order to
submit detailed safety integration plans, and it is likely to delay
realization of the expected transaction benefits.
     No assurance can be given with respect to the receipt of STB
approval or as to modifications or conditions that may be imposed in
connection therewith, or their impact, if any, on the expected
transaction benefits. The STB has the authority to modify contract terms
and impose additional conditions, including divestitures, grants of
trackage rights, modification of other proposed aspects of operations,
and requirements that could affect the timing of implementation and
realization of benefits.
  PAGE 48


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------

     Until NS and CSX are permitted by the STB to assume control over
Conrail (the "Control Date"), Conrail will continue to be managed by its
current Board of Directors and Management. Following the Closing Date,
which will occur as soon as practicable after the Control Date, various
agreements between NS and CSX provide, among other things, for each of
the parties: (1) separately to operate pursuant to lease agreements
portions of the routes and assets now owned and operated by Conrail, and
(2) jointly to operate other Conrail properties. The closing is
contingent upon, among other things, attainment of necessary labor
implementing agreements and is expected to occur as soon as practicable
after satisfaction of those contingencies and consistent with ensuring
safe and efficient operations.
     NS is in the process of negotiating necessary implementing
agreements with representatives of the affected employees. The United
Transportation Union, the nation's largest rail union, and the
Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers have advised the STB that they have
withdrawn their opposition and have agreed to support the transaction.
Employees represented by these two unions make up 44% of the NS work
force covered by labor agreements.
     The NS/CSX agreements also provide for the allocation of
responsibility for certain known and contingent Conrail liabilities.
Until the STB renders a final decision on the control application filed
by NS and CSX, NS will not have complete access to Conrail's related
books, records, and physical assets, and will not know precisely which
Conrail properties NS will have responsibility for or control over
pursuant to its agreements with CSX. As a consequence, it is not possible
at this time for NS to state or to assess with precision the amount of
its share of Conrail assets and liabilities.
     During 1997, the dilutive effect of Conrail on net income was higher
than earlier expected. As a result of the intensive efforts under way to
plan for the integration of NS' portion of Conrail's assets, the timing
of integration expenses has accelerated; moreover, because of
uncertainties concerning both the conditions that the STB may impose and
the timing of other matters, the anticipated transaction synergies may be
realized later than originally believed. As a result, the dilutive effect
is likely to be higher in 1998 than earlier expected.
     Certain of the foregoing are forward-looking statements, and
attention is called to the related cautionary language at the end of
Management's Discussion and Analysis.

OTHER MATTERS

Market Risks And Hedging Activities
- -----------------------------------
     NS does not engage in the trading of derivatives. NS manages its
overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by issuing both fixed-
and floating-rate debt instruments and by entering into interest-rate
hedging transactions to achieve a targeted mix within its debt portfolio.
Of NS' total debt outstanding (see Note 9 on page 68), all is fixed-rate
debt, except for commercial paper and $244 million of capital leases.
     The average interest rate on commercial paper was 5.4% on Dec. 31,
1996, and 6.0% on Dec. 31, 1997. During 1997, NS' commercial paper
interest rates ranged from a low of 5.2% to a high of 6.5%.
     The capital leases, which carry an average fixed rate of 7.4%, were
converted to variable rate obligations using interest rate swap
agreements. On Dec. 31, 1997, the average pay rate was 6.1% and the
average receive rate was 7.4% under these agreements. During 1997, the
effect of the swaps was to reduce interest expense by $3 million. A
portion of the lease obligations is payable in Japanese yen. NS hedged
the associated exchange rate risk at the inception of each lease with a
yen deposit in Japan sufficient to fund the yen-denominated obligation.
As a result, NS is exposed to financial market risk relative to Japan.
  PAGE 49


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------

Counterparties to the interest rate swaps and Japanese banks holding yen
deposits are major financial institutions believed by Management to be
creditworthy.
     NS' debt subject to interest rate exposure totaled $2.1 billion on
Dec. 31, 1997. A 1% increase in interest rates would increase NS' total
annual interest expense related to all its variable debt by approximately
$20 million. Management considers it unlikely that interest rate
fluctuations applicable to these instruments will result in a material
adverse effect on NS' financial position, results of operations, or
liquidity.

Lawsuits
- --------
     Norfolk Southern and certain subsidiaries are defendants in numerous
lawsuits relating principally to railroad operations.
     The Corporation is the defendant in a class action suit filed in
federal district court in Birmingham, Ala., on behalf of African
Americans currently employed or working since Dec. 16, 1989, who allege
that the Corporation has discriminated against them in promotion to
nonagreement positions because of their race. The non-jury trial on
liability, which the Corporation vigorously defended, concluded in June
1997, and the parties await the setting of a briefing schedule.
     On Sept. 8, 1997, a state court jury in New Orleans returned a
verdict awarding $175 million in punitive damages against The Alabama
Great Southern Railroad Company (AGS), a subsidiary of Norfolk Southern
Railway Company, all the common stock of which is owned by NS. The
verdict was returned in a class action suit involving some
8,000 individuals who claim to have been damaged as the result of an
explosion and fire that occurred in New Orleans on Sept. 9, 1987, when a
chemical called butadiene leaked from a tankcar.
     The jury verdict awarded a total of nearly $3.2 billion in punitive
damages against four other defendants in the same case: two rail
carriers, the owner of the car, and the shipper. Previously, the jury had
awarded nearly $2 million in compensatory damages to 20 individuals.
Shortly after the trial, the Supreme Court of Louisiana ruled that under
the Louisiana Class Action Statute, the trial court cannot enter a
judgment for punitive damages until all compensatory damages have been
determined. In view of the number of individual plaintiffs claiming
compensatory damages, this process could take years.
     Management will continue to monitor the progress of this litigation.
If the jury verdict is not vacated or modified in an acceptable manner,
appropriate appeals will be pursued. Management believes that the jury
verdicts are both grossly excessive and without factual or legal
justification.
     While the final outcome of these matters and other lawsuits cannot
be predicted with certainty, it is the opinion of Management, based on
known facts and circumstances, that the amount of NS' ultimate liability
is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on NS' financial position,
results of operations, or liquidity.

Environmental Matters
- ---------------------
     NS is subject to various jurisdictions' environmental laws and
regulations. It is NS' policy to record a liability where such liability
or loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. Claims, if any,
against third parties for recovery of clean-up costs incurred by NS are
reflected as receivables in the balance sheet and are not netted against
the associated NS liability. Environmental engineers regularly
participate in ongoing evaluations of all identified sites and in
determining any necessary adjustments to initial liability estimates. NS
also has established an Environmental Policy Council, composed of senior
managers, to oversee and interpret its environmental policy.
  PAGE 50


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------

     Operating expenses for environmental matters totaled approximately
$21 million in 1997, and capital expenditures totaled approximately $6
million. Both are expected to be at similar levels in 1998. As of Dec.
31, 1997, NS' balance sheet included a reserve for environmental
exposures in the amount of $56 million (of which $12 million is accounted
for as a current liability), which is NS' estimate of the probable costs
based on available information at 111 identified locations. On that date,
11 sites accounted for $25 million of the reserve, and no individual site
was considered to be material. NS anticipates that much of this liability
will be paid out over five years; however, some costs will be paid out
over a longer period.
     At many of the 111 locations, certain NS subsidiaries, usually in
conjunction with a number of other parties, have been identified as
potentially responsible parties by the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) or similar state authorities under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, or comparable state
statutes, which often impose joint and several liability for clean-up
costs.
     At one such site, the EPA alleged in 1995 that The Alabama Great
Southern Railroad Company (AGS), a subsidiary of NS' rail subsidiary, is
responsible -- along with four other parties believed to be financially
solvent and with two of which the EPA and state authorities have reached
settlements -- for past and future clean-up and monitoring costs at the
Bayou Bonfouca NPL Superfund site located in Slidell, La. The EPA
indicates that it has expended or expects to expend a total of
approximately $130 million at the site. NS continues to contest liability
on a variety of grounds, and trial now is scheduled to begin on Feb. 22,
1999. The EPA bases its claim of NS' liability on (a) the alleged
activities in the 1880s of a company not at the time owned or controlled
by an NS rail subsidiary but acquired in 1916, and (b) certain servitudes
possessed by that subsidiary only for a rail right-of-way.
     With respect to known environmental sites (whether identified by NS
or by the EPA or comparable state authorities), estimates of NS' ultimate
potential financial exposure for a given site or in the aggregate for all
such sites are necessarily imprecise because of the widely varying costs
of currently available clean-up techniques, the likely development of new
clean-up technologies, the difficulty of determining in advance the
nature and full extent of contamination and each potential participant's
share of any estimated loss (and that participant's ability to bear it),
and evolving statutory and regulatory standards governing liability.
     The risk of incurring environmental liability -- for acts and
omissions, past, present, and future -- is inherent in the railroad
business. Some of the commodities in NS' traffic mix, particularly those
classified as hazardous materials, can pose special risks that NS and its
subsidiaries work diligently to minimize. In addition, several NS
subsidiaries own, or have owned in the past, land used as operating
property, or which is leased or may have been leased and operated by
others, or held for sale. Because environmental problems may exist on
these properties that are latent or undisclosed, there can be no
assurance that NS will not incur environmentally related liabilities or
costs with respect to one or more of them, the amount and materiality of
which cannot be estimated reliably at this time. Moreover, lawsuits and
claims involving these and other now-unidentified environmental sites and
matters are likely to arise from time to time. The resulting liabilities
could have a significant effect on financial condition, results of
operations, or liquidity in a particular year or quarter.
     However, based on its assessments of the facts and circumstances now
known, Management believes that it has recorded the probable costs for
those environmental matters of which the Corporation is aware. Further,
Management believes that it is unlikely that any identified matters,
either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse
effect on NS' financial position, results of operations, or liquidity.
  PAGE 51


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
- ------    -------------------------------------------------
          Condition and Results of Operations.
          -----------------------------------

Inflation
- ---------
     Generally accepted accounting principles require the use of
historical cost in preparing financial statements. This approach
disregards the effects of inflation on the replacement cost of property.
NS, a capital-intensive company, has approximately $14 billion invested
in such assets. The replacement cost of these assets, as well as the
related depreciation expense, would be substantially greater than the
amounts reported on the basis of historical cost.

Trends
- ------
- - Federal Economic Regulation - Efforts will be made in 1998 to re-
  subject the rail industry to unwarranted federal economic regulation.
  The Staggers Rail Act of 1980, which substantially reduced such
  regulation, encouraged and enabled rail carriers to innovate and to
  compete for business, thereby contributing to the economic health of
  the nation and to the revitalization of the industry. Accordingly, NS
  and other rail carriers vigorously will oppose these counterproductive
  efforts to re-impose or to authorize re-imposing such economic
  regulation.

- - Reduction of "Greenhouse" Gases - In December 1997, international
  environmental officials meeting in Kyoto, Japan, agreed to reduce
  substantially the emission of so-called "greenhouse" gases by 2010.
  Agreement on such reductions was reached on the basis of questionable
  scientific evidence and in spite of the fact that the burden of the
  reduction regimen will be borne disproportionally by developed nations
  such as the United States. NS, the rail industry, and a wide variety
  of other affected constituencies in the United States expect to assure
  that, prior to a Senate vote on the proposed treaty, the public and
  governmental authorities have available to them additional scientific
  information and data concerning other effects that are likely to
  result from implementation.

- - Utility Deregulation - Deregulation of the electrical utility industry
  is expected to increase competition among electric power generators;
  deregulation over time would permit wholesalers and possibly retailers
  of electric power to sell or purchase increasing quantities of power
  to or from far-distant parties. The effects of deregulation on NS and
  on its patrons cannot be predicted with certainty; however, NS serves
  a number of efficient power producers and is working diligently to
  assure that its customers remain competitive in this evolving
  environment.

Forward-Looking Statements
- --------------------------
     This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations and other sections of this Annual Report contain
forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations,
estimates, and projections. Such forward-looking statements reflect
Management's good-faith evaluation of information currently available.
However, because such statements are based upon, and therefore can be
influenced by, a number of external variables over which Management has
no, or incomplete, control, they are not, and should not be read as
being, guarantees of future performance or of actual future results; nor
will they necessarily prove to be accurate indications of the times at or
by which any such performance or result will be achieved. Accordingly,
actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in
such forward-looking statements. This caveat has particular importance in
the context of all such statements that relate to the realization and the
timing of benefits expected to result from consummation of the Conrail
transaction.
  PAGE 52


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
- ------    -------------------------------------------

  PAGE 53


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------
                                    
                    Index to Financial Statements:              Page
                    -----------------------------               ----
          Consolidated Statements of Income
            Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995          54

          Consolidated Balance Sheets
            As of December 31, 1997 and 1996                      55

          Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
            Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995          57

          Consolidated Statements of Changes in
            Stockholders' Equity
            Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995          59

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements              60

          Independent Auditors' Report                            80


      The Index to Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule appears
in Item 14 on page 82.
  PAGE 54


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

  PAGE 55


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

  PAGE 56


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

  PAGE 57


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

  PAGE 58


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

  PAGE 59


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

  PAGE 60


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

              NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
               Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements

The following notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Description Of Business
- -----------------------
     Norfolk Southern Corporation is a Virginia-based holding company
engaged principally in the transportation of freight by rail, primarily
in the Southeast and Midwest. The consolidated financial statements
include Norfolk Southern Corporation (Norfolk Southern) and its majority-
owned and controlled subsidiaries (collectively NS). The major subsidiary
is Norfolk Southern Railway Company. Financial results of a motor carrier
subsidiary, North American Van Lines, Inc. (NAVL), are reflected as
"Discontinued operations" (see Note 3). All significant intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
     Rail freight consists of raw materials, intermediate products, and
finished goods classified in the following market groups: coal; paper,
clay, and forest products; chemicals; automotive; agriculture,
government, and consumer products; metals and construction, and
intermodal. All groups are approximately equal in size based on revenues
except for coal, which accounts for almost one-third of total railway
operating revenues. Ultimate destinations for some of the freight and a
portion of the coal shipped are outside the United States.

Use Of Estimates
- ----------------
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires Management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

Cash Equivalents
- ----------------
     "Cash equivalents" are highly liquid investments purchased three
months or less from maturity.

Investments
- -----------
     Marketable equity and debt securities are reported at amortized cost
or fair value, depending upon their classification as held-to-maturity,
trading, or available-for-sale securities. On Dec. 31, 1997 and 1996, all
"Short-term investments," consisting primarily of United States
government and federal agency securities, were designated as available-
for-sale. Accordingly, unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, are
recognized in "Stockholders' equity."

Materials And Supplies
- ----------------------
     "Materials and supplies," consisting mainly of fuel oil and items
for maintenance of property and equipment, are stated at average cost.
The cost of materials and supplies expected to be used in capital
additions or improvements is included in "Properties."
  PAGE 61


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

Properties
- ----------
     "Properties" are stated principally at cost and are depreciated
using group depreciation. Rail is primarily depreciated on the basis of
use measured by gross ton-miles. The effect of this method is to
depreciate these assets over 42 years on average. Other properties are
depreciated generally using the straight-line method over estimated
service lives at annual rates that range from 1% to 20%. In 1997, the
overall depreciation rate averaged 2.8% for roadway and 4.1% for
equipment. NS capitalizes interest on major capital projects during the
period of their construction. Additions to properties, including those
under lease, are capitalized. Maintenance expense is recognized when
repairs are performed. When properties other than land and non-rail
assets are sold or retired in the ordinary course of business, the cost
of the assets, net of sale proceeds or salvage, is charged to accumulated
depreciation rather than recognized through income. Gains and losses on
disposal of land and non-rail assets are included in "Other income" (see
Note 4).
     NS reviews the carrying amount of properties whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that such carrying amount may not be
recoverable based on future undiscounted cash flows or estimated net
realizable value. Assets that are deemed impaired as a result of such
review are recorded at the lower of carrying amount or fair value.

Revenue Recognition
- -------------------
     Revenue is recognized proportionally as a shipment moves from origin
to destination.

Derivatives
- -----------
     NS does not engage in the trading of derivatives. NS is a party to a
limited number of derivative agreements that hedge interest rate
exposures on certain components of its debt portfolio. Differentials paid
or received as a result of fluctuations in market interest rates are
recognized in interest expense over the outstanding lives of the related
obligations. Unamortized balances are included in "Long-term debt" in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Required Accounting Changes
- ---------------------------
     NS adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128,
"Earnings per Share" (SFAS 128), for the year ended Dec. 31, 1997. Basic
earnings per share as calculated in accordance with SFAS 128 excludes
dilution and is computed by dividing income available to common
stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding
for the period. For NS, basic earnings per share corresponds to earnings
per share as calculated and shown in previous Consolidated Statements of
Income. Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution that
could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were
exercised, converted, or otherwise resulted in the issuance of common
stock that then shared in NS' earnings.
     Effective Jan. 1, 1997, NS adopted AICPA Statement of Position 96-1,
"Environmental Remediation Liabilities" (SOP 96-1), which provides
guidance with respect to recognition and measurement of environmental
remediation liabilities and disclosure of such liabilities in financial
statements. The adoption of SOP 96-1 did not have a material effect on
NS' financial statements.
  PAGE 62


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

2. JOINT ACQUISITION OF CONRAIL

     On May 23, 1997, NS and CSX Corporation (CSX), through a jointly
owned entity, completed the acquisition of Conrail Inc. (Conrail) stock
that was tendered in response to the NS/CSX tender offer. On June 2,
1997, a merger subsidiary jointly controlled by NS and CSX was merged
into Conrail. Pursuant to the merger, all previously outstanding Conrail
stock either was canceled or was converted into the right to receive $115
per share in cash. NS' share of the cost of the acquisition, plus NS'
fees, totaled $5.8 billion. NS has a 58% economic and 50% voting interest
in the entity that owns Conrail. All Conrail stock owned by NS and CSX
remains in a voting trust pending approval of the transaction by the
Surface Transportation Board (STB). STB approval, while anticipated,
cannot be assured, and a final decision is not expected to be effective
prior to Aug. 22, 1998 (the "Control Date"). Should the STB not approve
the transaction, NS could incur a significant loss on the disposition of
its investment in Conrail.
     On June 10, 1997, NS, CSX, and Conrail entered into an agreement
(the Transaction Agreement) covering division of Conrail's operations and
use of Conrail's assets (collectively, the Transaction). The Transaction
Agreement provides, among other things, for NS and CSX after the Control
Date: (1) separately to operate, pursuant to lease agreements, portions
of the routes and assets now owned and operated by Conrail, and (2)
jointly to operate other Conrail properties. In addition, Conrail will
continue certain operations as agent for NS and CSX. The Transaction
Agreement and various other agreements between and among NS, CSX, and
Conrail also provide for the allocation between NS and CSX of
responsibility for certain known and contingent Conrail liabilities. The
Transaction will be consummated as soon as practicable after STB
approval. Closing is contingent upon, among other things, attainment of
necessary labor implementing agreements, and a determination that
implementation can be accomplished safely and without service
disruptions, either of which might delay closing and realization of the
expected transaction benefits. The STB has the authority to modify
contract terms and impose conditions, including divestitures, grants of
trackage rights, and limitations upon proposed operations.
     Until the Control Date, Conrail will continue to be managed by its
current Board of Directors and Management, and, due to regulatory
constraints, NS will not have complete access to Conrail's related books,
records, and physical assets. Further, until the STB renders its final
decision, NS will not know with certainty which Conrail properties it
will have responsibility for or control over pursuant to its agreements
with CSX and Conrail, or the effects of any other conditions that may be
imposed by the STB.
     The equity method of accounting has been applied to NS' investment
in Conrail in accordance with APB No. 18, "The Equity Method of
Accounting for Investments in Common Stock." As a result, the Dec. 31,
1997, Consolidated Balance Sheet includes $5.9 billion comprising: (1)
the amounts paid and accrued to acquire Conrail stock, including related
fees and expenses, and (2) NS' equity in the undistributed earnings of
Conrail, which is net of $44.5 million amortization of the difference
between NS' investment in Conrail and the underlying equity in net
assets. NS is amortizing the difference between the purchase price for
its investment in Conrail and its equity in the underlying net assets of
Conrail based on preliminary estimates of: (1) the fair values of
Conrail's property and equipment, (2) their remaining useful lives, (3)
the fair values of other Conrail assets and liabilities, and (4) the
deferred tax effect of the bases differences.
     The Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended Dec. 31,
1997, includes several Conrail-related items. These principally consist
of: (1) interest expense on debt issued to finance NS' share of the
NS/CSX joint acquisition of Conrail stock, (2) equity in the earnings of
Conrail, net of amortization, (3) credit facility costs, including a $77
million charge incurred in conjunction with certain now-terminated
commitments that provided financing for NS' then-proposed acquisition of
all Conrail stock, and (4) identified integration costs.
  PAGE 63


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

2. JOINT ACQUISITION OF CONRAIL (continued)


  PAGE 64


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

3. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS - MOTOR CARRIER



  PAGE 65


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

5. INCOME TAXES


Tax Benefit Leases
- ------------------
     In January 1995, the United States Tax Court issued a preliminary
decision that would disallow some of the tax benefits a subsidiary of NS
purchased from a third party pursuant to a safe harbor lease agreement in
1981. The Tax Court finalized this decision in February 1997. This
decision has been appealed, and Management continues to believe that NS
ultimately should incur no loss from this decision, because the lease
agreement provides for full indemnification if any such disallowance is
sustained.
  PAGE 66


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

5. INCOME TAXES (continued)

Deferred Tax Assets And Liabilities
- -----------------------------------
     Certain items are reported in different periods for financial
reporting and income tax purposes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
were recorded in recognition of these differences. Except for amounts for
which a valuation allowance is provided, Management believes the deferred
tax assets will be realized.

Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Reviews
- --------------------------------------
     Consolidated federal income tax returns have been examined and
Revenue Agent Reports have been received for all years up to and
including 1992. The consolidated federal income tax returns for 1993 and
1994 are being audited by the IRS. Management believes that adequate
provision has been made for any additional taxes and interest thereon
that might arise as a result of IRS examinations.
  PAGE 67


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------


Capitalized Interest
- --------------------
     Total interest cost incurred on debt in 1997, 1996, and 1995 was
$402 million, $128 million, and $127 million, respectively, of which $17
million, $12 million, and $14 million was capitalized.
  PAGE 68


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------


9. DEBT

  PAGE 69


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

9. DEBT (continued)

     The railroad equipment obligations and the capitalized leases are
secured by liens on the underlying equipment.

Unsecured Notes Issued In 1997
- ------------------------------
     On May 19, 1997, NS issued and sold $4.3 billion of unsecured term
notes to finance part of the cost of the Conrail acquisition. None of the
notes are entitled to any sinking fund. If certain tax laws are changed,
NS has the right to shorten the maturity of the 2097 notes. NS is subject
to various financial covenants while the notes are outstanding.
     On May 14, 1997, NS terminated $1.25 billion notional amount of
contracts and agreements previously entered into to hedge its exposure to
changes in interest rates in anticipation of issuing certain Conrail-
related debt. The related costs were capitalized and are being amortized
as interest expense over the life of the underlying debt.

Commercial Paper
- ----------------
     NS' commercial paper debt totaled $1,871 million and $516 million as
of Dec. 31, 1997, and Dec. 31, 1996, respectively. Most all of the
increase was related to the Conrail acquisition.
     Commercial paper debt is due within one year but has been classified
as long-term because NS has the ability through a $2.8 billion, 5-year
credit agreement to convert this obligation into longer term debt. NS
intends to refinance the commercial paper either by issuing additional
commercial paper or by replacing commercial paper notes with long-term
debt.
     The credit agreement provides for interest on borrowings at
prevailing rates and contains customary financial covenants, including an
initial minimum net worth requirement of $4 billion.

  PAGE 70


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

9. DEBT (continued)

Capital Lease Obligations
- -------------------------
     During 1997 and 1996, an NS rail subsidiary entered into capital
leases covering new locomotives. The related capital lease obligations,
totaling $64 million in 1997 and $108 million in 1996, were reflected in
the Consolidated Balance Sheets as debt and, because they were non-cash
transactions, were excluded from the Consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows. The lease obligations carry an average stated interest rate of
7.0% for those entered into in 1997 and 6.5% for those entered into in
1996. All were converted to variable rate obligations using interest rate
swap agreements. The interest rates on these obligations are based on the
six-month London Interbank Offered Rate and are reset every six months
with changes in interest rates accounted for as an adjustment of interest
expense over the terms of the leases. As of Dec. 31, 1997, the average
interest rate on these locomotive leases was 6.1%. As a result, NS is
exposed to the market risk associated with fluctuations in interest
rates. To date, the effects of the rate fluctuations have been favorable
and not material. Counterparties to the interest rate swap agreements are
major financial institutions believed by Management to be creditworthy.


10.  LEASE COMMITMENTS


  PAGE 71


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------


12.  PENSION PLANS

     Norfolk Southern and certain subsidiaries have defined benefit
pension plans that principally cover salaried employees. Pension benefits
are based primarily on years of creditable service with NS and
compensation rates near retirement. Contributions to the plans are made
on the basis of not less than the minimum funding standards set forth in
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. Assets
in the plans consist mainly of common stocks.


  PAGE 72


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

12.  PENSION PLANS (continued)

Early Retirement Program In 1995
- --------------------------------
     During 1995, NS completed a voluntary early retirement program for
certain salaried employees. The principal benefit for those who
participated in this program was enhanced pension benefits, which are
reflected in the accumulated benefit obligation. The charge for the 272
employees who accepted the offer is included in "Compensation and
benefits" expense and totaled $34 million (including $8 million related
to postretirement benefits other than pensions).

401(k) Plans
- ------------
     Norfolk Southern and certain subsidiaries provide 401(k) savings
plans for employees. Under the plans, NS matches a portion of employee
contributions, subject to applicable limitations. NS' expenses under
these plans were $9 million, $8 million, and $7 million in 1997, 1996,
and 1995, respectively.
  PAGE 73


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

13.  POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS

     Norfolk Southern and certain subsidiaries provide specified health
care and death benefits to eligible retired employees and their
dependents. Under the present plans, which may be amended or terminated
at NS' option, a defined percentage of health care expenses is covered,
reduced by any deductibles, co-payments, Medicare payments and, in some
cases, coverage provided by other group insurance policies. The cost of
such health care coverage to a retiree may be determined, in part, by the
retiree's years of creditable service with NS prior to retirement. Death
benefits are determined based on various factors, including, in some
cases, salary at time of retirement.
     NS continues to fund benefit costs principally on a pay-as-you-go
basis. However, in 1991, NS established a Voluntary Employee Beneficiary
Association (VEBA) account to fund a portion of the cost of future health
care benefits for retirees.
     The VEBA trust holding the plan assets is not expected to be subject
to federal income taxes, as the assets are invested entirely in trust-
owned life insurance. NS last made a corporate contribution to the VEBA
in 1994.

     The weighted-average discount rate used in determining the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation, the salary increase
assumption, and the long-term rate of return on plan assets are the same
as those used for the pension plans (see table of rate assumptions in
Note 12).
  PAGE 74


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

13.  POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS (continued)

     For measurement purposes, increases in the per capita cost of
covered health care benefits were assumed to be 9.8% for 1998 and 10.4%
for 1997. The rate was assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate
of 5.5% and remain at that level for 2005 and thereafter. The health care
cost trend rate has a significant effect on the amounts reported in the
financial statements. To illustrate, increasing the assumed trend rates
by one percentage point in each year would increase the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation as of Dec. 31, 1997, by about $32
million and the aggregate of the service and interest cost components of
net postretirement benefit cost for 1997 by about $4 million.
     Under collective bargaining agreements, NS and certain subsidiaries
participate in a multi-employer benefit plan, which provides certain
postretirement health care and life insurance benefits to eligible
agreement employees. Premiums under this plan are expensed as incurred
and amounted to $4 million in each of 1997, 1996, and 1995.


14.  LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN

     Under the stockholder-approved Long-Term Incentive Plan, a committee
of non-employee directors of the Board may grant stock options, stock
appreciation rights (SARs), restricted stock, and performance share units
(PSUs), up to a maximum 53,025,000 shares of Norfolk Southern common
stock. Options may be granted for a term not to exceed 10 years but may
not be exercised prior to the first anniversary of the date of grant.
Options are exercisable at the fair market value of Norfolk Southern
Common Stock on the date of grant.
  PAGE 75


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

14.  LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (continued)

     The plan also permits the payment -- on a current or a deferred
basis and in cash or in stock -- of dividend equivalents on shares of
common stock covered by options or PSUs granted after Dec. 31, 1989, in
an amount commensurate with dividends paid on common stock. Tax
absorption payments, in an amount estimated to equal the federal and
state income taxes applicable to shares of common stock issued subject to
a share retention agreement, also are authorized.
     Plan participants surrendered, without cash or other consideration,
all outstanding SARs granted after 1988 because of regulations issued by
the SEC in 1991. Future grants of SARs are not anticipated at this time.
SARs outstanding as of each year end were:  none in 1997; 97,944 in 1996;
and 139,686 in 1995.

Accounting Method
- -----------------
     NS applies APB Opinion 25 and related interpretations in accounting
for awards made under the plan. Accordingly, SARs, PSUs, restricted
stock, tax absorption, and dividend equivalents result in charges to net
income, while stock options have no effect on net income. Compensation
costs were $29 million, $35 million, and $43 million for 1997, 1996, and
1995, respectively. Had compensation costs been determined in accordance
with SFAS 123, net income would have been $714 million in 1997, $763
million in 1996, and $704 million in 1995; basic earnings per share would
have been $1.90 in 1997, $2.01 in 1996, and $1.79 in 1995; and diluted
earnings per share would have been $1.88 in 1997, $1.99 in 1996, and
$1.78 in 1995. These pro forma amounts include compensation costs as
calculated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with an expected
option life of 5 years; risk-free interest rates of 6.3% in 1997, 5.2% in
1996, and 7.5% in 1995; stock-price volatility of 0.16 in 1997, 0.18 in
1996, and 0.21 in 1995; and, because dividend equivalents are paid, no
dividend yield was assumed.

     Except for those granted during 1997, all outstanding options were
exercisable on Dec. 31, 1997. The difference between the weighted average
exercise prices for all outstanding options and those exercisable on Dec.
31, 1997, was not significant.
  PAGE 76


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

14.  LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (continued)

Performance Share Units
- -----------------------
     PSUs provide for awards based upon achievement of certain
predetermined corporate performance goals at the end of a three-year
cycle. PSU grants and grant-date fair values were 529,500 and $29.46 in
1997; 601,200 and $26.02 in 1996; and 757,500 and $20.83 in 1995,
respectively. PSUs may be paid in the form of shares of common stock,
cash, or a combination. Shares earned and issued may be subject to share
retention agreements and held by NS for up to five years.

  PAGE 77


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

15.  COMMON STOCK

     There are no adjustments to "Net income" or "Income from continuing
operations" for the diluted earnings per share computations.

Stock Split
- -----------
     On July 22, 1997, the Board of Directors approved an amendment of
the Articles of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares
of Common Stock from 450 million to 1,350 million in connection with a
three-for-one common stock split to stockholders of record on Sept. 5,
1997. This stock split, with no change in the par value of $1 per share,
resulted in the issuance of approximately 266 million additional shares
of Common Stock. The effect of the split was reflected within
"Stockholders' equity" by transferring the par value of the additional
shares issued from "Additional paid-in capital" to "Common stock." Unless
otherwise noted, all share and per share amounts in this report have been
restated to reflect the split.

Stock Purchase Programs
- -----------------------
     Since 1987, the Board of Directors has authorized the purchase and
retirement of up to 285 million shares (post-split) of Common Stock.
Purchases under the programs have been made with internally generated
cash, and with proceeds from the sale of commercial paper notes and from
the issuance of long-term debt.
     Since the first purchases in December 1987 and through Oct. 22,
1996, NS had purchased and retired 205.6 million shares (post-split) of
its Common Stock under these programs at a cost of $3.2 billion.
     On Oct. 23, 1996, NS announced that the stock purchase program had
been suspended. Future purchase decisions are dependent on the economy,
cash needs, and alternative investment opportunities.
  PAGE 78


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

16.  FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The fair values of "Cash and cash equivalents," "Short-term
investments," "Accounts receivable," "Short-term debt," and "Accounts
payable" approximate carrying values because of the short maturity of
these financial instruments.
     The carrying and fair values of long-term investments, excluding
those accounted for under the equity method in accordance with APB
Opinion No. 18, were $293 million and approximately $366 million on Dec.
31, 1997, and $275 million and approximately $315 million on Dec. 31,
1996, respectively. The fair value of corporate-owned life insurance
approximates carrying value. Quoted market prices were used to determine
the fair value of marketable securities that are recorded at fair value.
Marketable securities reflect $8 million and $3 million of unrealized
holding gains on Dec. 31, 1997, and Dec. 31, 1996, respectively.
Underlying net assets were used to estimate the fair value of other
investments.
     The fair value of "Long-term debt," including current maturities,
approximated $7.89 billion on Dec. 31, 1997, and $1.95 billion on Dec.
31, 1996. The fair values of debt were estimated based on quoted market
prices or discounted cash flows using current interest rates for debt
with similar terms, company rating, and remaining maturity (see Note 9
for carrying values of "Long-term debt"). The fair value of interest rate
swaps is immaterial.


17.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Lawsuits
- --------
     Norfolk Southern and certain subsidiaries are defendants in numerous
lawsuits relating principally to railroad operations. While the final
outcome of these lawsuits cannot be predicted with certainty, it is the
opinion of Management, based on known facts and circumstances, that the
amount of NS' ultimate liability is unlikely to have a material adverse
effect on NS' financial position, results of operations, or liquidity.

Environmental Matters
- ---------------------
     NS is subject to various jurisdictions' environmental laws and
regulations. It is NS' policy to record a liability where such liability
or loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. Claims, if any,
against third parties for recovery of clean-up costs incurred by NS are
reflected as receivables in the balance sheet and are not netted against
the associated NS liability. Environmental engineers regularly
participate in ongoing evaluations of all identified sites and in
determining any necessary adjustments to initial liability estimates. NS
also has established an Environmental Policy Council, composed of senior
managers, to oversee and interpret its environmental policy.
     As of Dec. 31, 1997, NS' balance sheet included a reserve for
environmental exposures in the amount of $56 million (of which $12
million is accounted for as a current liability), which is NS' estimate
of the probable costs based on available information at 111 identified
locations. On that date, 11 sites accounted for $25 million of the
reserve, and no individual site was considered to be material. NS
anticipates that much of this liability will be paid out over five years;
however, some costs will be paid out over a longer period.
     At many of the 111 locations, certain NS subsidiaries, usually in
conjunction with a number of other parties, have been identified as
potentially responsible parties by the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) or similar state authorities under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, or comparable state
statutes, which often impose joint and several liability for clean-up
costs.
  PAGE 79


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (continued)
- ------    -------------------------------------------

17.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (continued)

     With respect to known environmental sites (whether identified by NS
or by the EPA or comparable state authorities), estimates of NS' ultimate
potential financial exposure for a given site or in the aggregate for all
such sites are necessarily imprecise because of the widely varying costs
of currently available clean-up techniques, the likely development of new
clean-up technologies, the difficulty of determining in advance the
nature and full extent of contamination and each potential participant's
share of any estimated loss (and that participant's ability to bear it),
and evolving statutory and regulatory standards governing liability.
     The risk of incurring environmental liability -- for acts and
omissions, past, present and future -- is inherent in the railroad
business. Some of the commodities in NS' traffic mix, particularly those
classified as hazardous materials, can pose special risks that NS and its
subsidiaries work diligently to minimize. In addition, several NS
subsidiaries own, or have owned in the past, land used as operating
property, or which is leased or may have been leased and operated by
others, or held for sale. Because environmental problems may exist on
these properties that are latent or undisclosed, there can be no
assurance that NS will not incur environmentally related liabilities or
costs with respect to one or more of them, the amount and materiality of
which cannot be estimated reliably at this time. Moreover, lawsuits and
claims involving these and other now-unidentified environmental sites and
matters are likely to arise from time to time. The resulting liabilities
could have a significant effect on financial condition, results of
operations, or liquidity in a particular year or quarter.
     However, based on its assessments of the facts and circumstances now
known, Management believes that it has recorded the probable costs for
those environmental matters of which the Corporation is aware. Further,
Management believes that it is unlikely that any identified matters,
either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse
effect on NS' financial position, results of operations, or liquidity.

Change-In-Control Arrangements
- ------------------------------
     Norfolk Southern has compensation agreements with officers and
certain key employees, which become operative only upon a change in
control of the Corporation, as defined in those agreements. The
agreements provide generally for payments based on compensation at the
time of a covered individual's involuntary or other specified termination
and for certain other benefits.

Debt Guarantees
- ---------------
     As of Dec. 31, 1997, certain Norfolk Southern subsidiaries are
contingently liable as guarantors with respect to $77 million of
indebtedness of related entities.
  PAGE 80


                      INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



The Stockholders and Board of Directors
Norfolk Southern Corporation:

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Norfolk Southern
Corporation and subsidiaries as listed in the index in Item 8. In
connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we
also have audited the consolidated financial statement schedule listed in
Item 14(a)2. These consolidated financial statements and this
consolidated financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these consolidated financial statements and this consolidated financial
statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
Norfolk Southern Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and
1996, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each
of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1997, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our
opinion, the related consolidated financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements
taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein.




                                   /s/ KPMG Peat Marwick LLP



Norfolk, Virginia
January 27, 1998
  PAGE 81


Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
- ------    -----------------------------------------------------------
          and Financial Disclosure.
          ------------------------

          None.


                                PART III


Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.
- -------   --------------------------------------------------

Item 11.  Executive Compensation.
- -------   ----------------------

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
- -------   -----------------------------------------------
          and Management.
          --------------

          and

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.
- -------   ----------------------------------------------

          In accordance with General Instruction G(3), the information
called for by Part III is incorporated herein by reference from
Norfolk Southern's definitive Proxy Statement, to be dated
April 1, 1998, for the Norfolk Southern Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held on May 14, 1998, which definitive Proxy Statement will be
filed electronically with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.
The information regarding executive officers called for by Item 401 of
Regulation S-K is included in Part I hereof beginning on page 22 under
"Executive Officers of the Registrant."
  PAGE 82


                                 PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on
- -------   -------------------------------------------------------
          Form 8-K.
          --------

(a)       The following documents are filed as part of this report:

     1.   Index to Consolidated Financial Statements:          Page
          ------------------------------------------           ----
          Consolidated Statements of Income
            Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995         54

          Consolidated Balance Sheets
            As of December 31, 1997 and 1996                     55

          Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
            Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995         57

          Consolidated Statements of Changes in
            Stockholders' Equity
            Years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995         59

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             60

          Independent Auditors' Report                           80


     2.   Financial Statement Schedule:

          The following consolidated financial statement schedule
          should be read in connection with the consolidated financial
          statements:

          Index to Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule   Page
          --------------------------------------------------   ----
          Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts        89

          Schedules other than the one listed above are omitted
          either because they are not required or are inapplicable or
          because the information is included in the consolidated
          financial statements or related notes.
  PAGE 83


Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on
- -------   -------------------------------------------------------
          Form 8-K. (continued)
          --------

     3.   Exhibits

Exhibit
Number                       Description
- -------   --------------------------------------------------
   3      Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws -

   3(i)   The Restated Articles of Incorporation of Norfolk
          Southern Corporation are incorporated herein by
          reference from Exhibit 3(i) to Norfolk Southern's
          1995 Annual Report in Form 10-K.

   3(ii)  The Bylaws of Norfolk Southern Corporation, as
          amended January 27, 1998, and effective May 14, 1998,
          are filed herewith.

   4      Instruments Defining the Rights of Security
          Holders, Including Indentures -

          In accordance with Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of
          Regulation S-K, copies of instruments of Norfolk
          Southern Corporation and its subsidiaries with respect
          to the rights of holders of long-term debt are not
          filed herewith, or incorporated by reference, but will
          be furnished to the Commission upon request.

  10      Material Contracts -

          (a)  The Transaction Agreement, dated as of June 10, 1997,
          by and among CSX, CSX Transportation, Inc., Registrant,
          Norfolk Southern Railway Company, Conrail Inc.,
          Consolidated Rail Corporation and CRR Holdings LLC,
          with certain schedules thereto, is incorporated herein
          by reference from Exhibit 10 to Norfolk Southern
          Corporation's Form 8-K filed electronically on
          June 30, 1997.

          (b)  The Supplementary Agreement, entered into as
          of January 1, 1987, between the Trustees of the
          Cincinnati Southern Railway and The Cincinnati,
          New Orleans and Texas Pacific Railway Company
          (the latter a wholly owned subsidiary of Norfolk
          Southern Railway) - extending and amending a Lease,
          dated as of October 11, 1881 (both the Lease and
          Supplementary Agreement, formerly incorporated by
          reference from Exhibit 10(b) to Southern's 1987
          Annual Report on Form 10-K) - is incorporated herein
          by reference from Exhibit 10(a) to Norfolk Southern's
          1994 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
  PAGE 84


Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on
- -------   -------------------------------------------------------
          Form 8-K. (continued)
          --------

Exhibit
Number                       Description
- -------   --------------------------------------------------

          Management Compensation Plans
          -----------------------------
          (c)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation
          Management Incentive Plan, as amended effective
          January 1, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference from
          Exhibit 10(b) to Norfolk Southern's 1995 Annual Report
          on Form 10-K.

          (d)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation
          Executive Management Incentive Plan, effective
          January 1, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference
          from Exhibit 10(c) to Norfolk Southern's 1995 Annual
          Report on Form 10-K.

          (e)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation
          Long-Term Incentive Plan as amended effective
          January 23, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference
          from Exhibit 10(d) to Norfolk Southern's 1995 Annual
          Report on Form 10-K.

          (f)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation Officers'
          Deferred Compensation Plan is incorporated
          herein by reference from Exhibit 10(g) to
          Norfolk Southern's 1993 Annual Report on Form 10-K.

          (g)  The Directors' Deferred Fee Plan of
          Norfolk Southern Corporation, as amended effective
          May 9, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference
          from Exhibit 10(f) to Norfolk Southern's Form 10-Q
          Report for the quarter ended June 30, 1996.

          (h)  The Norfolk Southern Corporation Directors'
          Restricted Stock Plan effective January 1, 1994,
          is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 99
          to Norfolk Southern's Form S-8 filed electronically
          on January 26, 1994.

          (i)  Form of Severance Agreement, dated as of
          June 1, 1996, between Norfolk Southern
          Corporation and certain executive officers
          (including those defined as "named executive
          officers" and identified in the Corporation's
          Proxy Statement for the 1997 and 1998
          Annual Meeting of Stockholders) is incorporated
          herein by reference from Exhibit 10 to
          Norfolk Southern's Form 10-Q Report
          for the quarter ended June 30, 1996.
  PAGE 85


Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on
- -------   -------------------------------------------------------
          Form 8-K. (continued)
          --------

Exhibit
Number                       Description
- -------   --------------------------------------------------

          (j) Norfolk Southern Corporation Supplemental
          (formerly, Excess) Benefit Plan, effective
          as of January 1, 1996, is incorporated herein
          by reference from Exhibit 10(i) to Norfolk
          Southern Corporation's 1996 Annual Report on
          Form 10-K.

          (k) The Norfolk Southern Corporation Directors'
          Charitable Award Program, effective February 1, 1996,
          is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(j)
          to Norfolk Southern's Form 10-Q Report for the
          quarter ended June 30, 1996.

          (l) The Norfolk Southern Corporation Directors'
          Pension Plan, as amended effective June 1, 1996,
          is incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10(k)
          to Norfolk Southern's Form 10-Q Report for the
          quarter ended June 30, 1996.

          (m) The Norfolk Southern Corporation Outside
          Directors' Deferred Stock Unit Program, as amended
          on September 23, 1997, is filed herewith.

          (n)  The Excess Long-Term Disability Plan of
          Norfolk Southern Corporation and Participating
          Subsidiary Companies, effective October 1, 1995,
          is incorporated herein by reference from
          Exhibit 10(m) to Norfolk Southern's Form 10-Q Report
          for the quarter ended June 30, 1996.

  12      Statement re:  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to
          Fixed Charges.

  21      Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

  23      Consents of Experts and Counsel -
          
          (a)  Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP.
          (b)  Consent of Price Waterhouse LLP.

  27      Financial Data Schedule.

  99      Conrail Inc. 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders

(b)       Reports on Form 8-K.

          The Registrant filed no reports on Form 8-K for
          the three months ended December 31, 1997.
  PAGE 86


Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on
- -------   -------------------------------------------------------
          Form 8-K. (continued)
          --------

Exhibit
Number                       Description
- -------   --------------------------------------------------

(c)       Exhibits.

          The Exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K
          as listed in Item 14(a)3 are filed herewith or
          incorporated herein by reference.

(d)       Financial Statement Schedules.

          Financial statement schedules and separate
          financial statements specified by this Item are
          included in Item 14(a)2 or are otherwise not
          required or are not applicable.
  PAGE 87


                            POWER OF ATTORNEY
                            -----------------
          Each person whose signature appears below under "SIGNATURES"
hereby authorizes Henry C. Wolf and James C. Bishop, Jr., or either of
them, to execute in the name of each such person, and to file, any
amendment to this report and hereby appoints Henry C. Wolf and
James C. Bishop, Jr., or either of them, as attorneys-in-fact to sign
on his or her behalf, individually and in each capacity stated below,
and to file, any and all amendments to this report.


                               SIGNATURES
                               ----------
          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Norfolk Southern Corporation has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized, on this 24th day of March, 1998.


                                   NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORPORATION


                         By  /s/ David R. Goode
                             -----------------------------------------
                             (David R. Goode, Chairman, President and
                                     Chief Executive Officer)

          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this report has been signed below on this 24th day of March,
1998, by the following persons on behalf of Norfolk Southern
Corporation and in the capacities indicated.

        Signature                   Title
        ---------                   -----

/s/ David R. Goode
- ------------------------------     Chairman, President and Chief
   (David R. Goode)                  Executive Officer and Director
                                   (Principal Executive Officer)


/s/ Henry C. Wolf
- ------------------------------     Executive Vice President-Finance
   (Henry C. Wolf)                 (Principal Financial Officer)


/s/ John P. Rathbone
- ------------------------------     Vice President and Controller
   (John P. Rathbone)              (Principal Accounting Officer)


/s/ Gerald L. Baliles
- ------------------------------               Director
   (Gerald L. Baliles)
  PAGE 88


        Signature                   Title
        ---------                   -----



/s/ Carroll A. Campbell, Jr.
- ------------------------------               Director
   (Carroll A. Campbell, Jr.)



- ------------------------------               Director
   (Gene R. Carter)


/s/ L. E. Coleman
- ------------------------------               Director
   (L. E. Coleman)


/s/ T. Marshall Hahn, Jr.
- ------------------------------               Director
   (T. Marshall Hahn, Jr.)


/s/ Landon Hilliard
- ------------------------------               Director
   (Landon Hilliard)


/s/ E. B. Leisenring, Jr.
- ------------------------------               Director
   (E. B. Leisenring, Jr.)


/s/ Arnold B. McKinnon
- ------------------------------               Director
   (Arnold B. McKinnon)


/s/ Jane Margaret O'Brien
- ------------------------------               Director
   (Jane Margaret O'Brien)


/s/ Harold W. Pote
- ------------------------------               Director
   (Harold W. Pote)
  PAGE 89

  PAGE 90

  PAGE 91


                              EXHIBIT INDEX
                              -------------

Electronic
Submission
Exhibit                                                        Page
Number                        Description                     Number
- ---------- ------------------------------------------------  --------

   3(ii)   The Bylaws of Norfolk Southern Corporation, as
           amended January 27, 1998, and effective
           May 14, 1998.                                        92-99

  10(m)    The Norfolk Southern Corporation Outside
           Directors' Deferred Stock Unit Program, 
           as amended on September 23, 1997.                  100-102

  12       Statement re:  Computation of Ratio of 
           Earnings to Fixed Charges.                             103

  21       Subsidiaries of Norfolk Southern Corporation.      104-106

  23(a)    Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP                       107
  23(b)    Consent of Price Waterhouse LLP                        108

  27       Financial Data Schedule (This exhibit is
           required to be submitted electronically
           pursuant to the rules and regulations of
           the Securities and Exchange Commission and
           shall not be deemed filed for purposes of
           Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933
           or Section 18 of the Securities Exchange
           Act of 1934).                                          109

  99       Conrail Inc. Annual Report to Stockholders         110-139


Exhibits 3(ii), 10(m), and 27 are not included in copies assembled for
public dissemination.  If you have a need for this type of information, we
will be pleased to send it to you.  Write to:

                      Office of Corporate Secretary
                      Norfolk Southern Corporation
                         Three Commercial Place
                      Norfolk, Virginia 23510-9219


