
10-K
1999 10-K





                               UNITED STATES
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           Washington, D.C. 20549
                                 FORM 10-K

         [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                       SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                     For the year ended December 31, 1999

                       Commission file number 1-3285

                 MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY

    State of Incorporation:  Delaware
                          I.R.S. Employer Identification No. 41-0417775
           Executive offices:  3M Center, St. Paul, Minnesota 55144
                     Telephone number: (651) 733-1110

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
                                                Name of each exchange
        Title of each class                     on which registered
    Common Stock, Par Value $.50 Per Share      New York Stock Exchange
                                                Pacific Exchange
                                                Chicago Stock Exchange

    Note: The common stock of the registrant is also traded on the Swiss
          stock exchange.

      Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act: None

      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter
period  that the registrant was required to file such reports),  and  (2)
has  been  subject to such filing requirements for the past 90  days.
Yes X .   No  .

      Indicate  by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and  will
not be contained,  to the best of registrant's knowledge,  in  definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III  of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [  ]

      The  aggregate  market  value  of  voting  stock  held  by
nonaffiliates of the registrant, based on the closing price of $93.63 per
share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Index on January
31, 2000, was $37.3 billion.

   Shares of common stock outstanding at January 31, 2000:  398,589,389.

                    DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
      Parts  of  the  following  documents  are  incorporated  by
reference in Parts III and IV of this Form 10-K: (1) Proxy Statement for
registrant's 2000 annual meeting, (2) Form 10-Q for period ended June 30,
1987; Form 8-K dated November 20, 1996; Form 8-K dated June 30, 1997, (3)
Registration Nos. 33-48089 and 333-30689.
                      This document contains 62 pages.
                 The exhibit index is set forth on page 57.




                   MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY
                                  FORM 10-K
                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1999
                                   PART I

Item 1. Business.

Minnesota  Mining  and Manufacturing Company was incorporated  in  1929
under  the laws of the State of Delaware to continue operations,  begun
in  1902, of a Minnesota corporation of the same name.  As used herein,
the  term "3M" or "company" includes Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing
Company and subsidiaries unless the context otherwise indicates.

General
3M   is   an   integrated  enterprise  characterized   by   substantial
intercompany  cooperation in research, manufacturing and  marketing  of
products.  3M's business has developed from its research and technology
in  coating  and  bonding for coated abrasives, the company's  original
product.   Coating and bonding is the process of applying one  material
to  another,  such  as  abrasive granules to  paper  or  cloth  (coated
abrasives), adhesives to a backing (pressure-sensitive tapes),  ceramic
coating  to granular mineral (roofing granules), glass beads to plastic
backing   (reflective  sheeting),  and  low-tack  adhesives  to   paper
(repositionable notes).

3M  is  among  the leading manufacturers of products for  many  of  the
markets  it serves. In all cases, 3M products are subject to direct  or
indirect  competition.  Most 3M products involve expertise  in  product
development,   manufacturing  and  marketing,  and   are   subject   to
competition  from  products manufactured and sold by other  technically
oriented companies.

At December 31, 1999, the company employed 70,549 people.

Business Segments
Financial  information  and  other disclosures  relating  to  3M's  six
business  segments  and  operations in  various  geographic  areas  are
provided  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  3M's  six
business  segments  bring together common or related  3M  technologies,
enhancing  the  development  of innovative products  and  services  and
providing for efficient sharing of business resources.  These  segments
have  worldwide  responsibility for virtually  all  3M  product  lines.
Certain  small  businesses and staff-sponsored  products,  as  well  as
various  corporate assets and unallocated corporate expenses,  are  not
assigned to the segments.

Industrial  Markets:  Industrial products include  a  wide  variety  of
coated and nonwoven abrasives, adhesives, pressure-sensitive tapes, and
specialty   products.   Industry-specialized   organizations    include
distribution and key account management, converter channels, automotive
aftermarkets, aerospace, marine and recreational vehicles.

Major  product  lines  include  vinyl, polyester,  foil  and  specialty
industrial tapes and adhesives;   Scotch  brand  masking,  filament and
packaging tapes; packaging equipment; 3M brand VHB brand bonding tapes;
conductive, low surface energy, hot melt,




spray and structural adhesives; reclosable fasteners; label materials for
durable goods; coated, nonwoven and microstructured surface finishing and
grinding abrasives; and products for maintaining and repairing vehicles,
boats, airplanes and other vehicles.

Transportation,  Graphics  and Safety Markets:  This  segment  provides
reflective sheeting, high-performance graphics, respirators, automotive
components, security products and optical films.

In  transportation, 3M provides reflective sheetings  used  on  highway
signs,  vehicle  license plates, construction workzone devices,  trucks
and   other   vehicles.  Major  commercial  graphic  products   include
equipment,  films, inks and related products used to  produce  graphics
for  vehicles  and signs.  The company also sells maintenance-free  and
reusable  respirators.  Major automotive products  include  body  side-
molding  and  trim;  functional  and  decorative  graphics;  corrosion-
resistant and abrasion-resistant films; tapes for attaching nameplates,
trim  and  moldings;  and fasteners for attaching interior  panels  and
carpeting.  Safety  and security products include reflective  materials
that  are  widely used on apparel, footwear and accessories,  enhancing
visibility in low-light situations. Optical products include brightness
enhancement films for electronic displays. Other products include spill-
control sorbents,  Thinsulate brand and Lite Loft brand Insulations,
traffic control devices,  electronic  surveillance products,  and films
that  protect against  counterfeiting.  On August 15, 1997, the company
sold  National  Advertising  Company,  an outdoor and mall advertising
subsidiary that was part of this segment.

Health  Care  Markets:  Major product categories include  skin  health,
medical/surgical  supplies, infection prevention, microbiology,  health
care  information  systems,  pharmaceuticals,  drug  delivery  systems,
dental products and closures for disposable diapers.

In  skin health, 3M is a supplier of medical tapes, dressings and wound
closures.   In infection prevention, 3M markets a variety  of  surgical
drapes,  masks and preps, as well as sterilization assurance equipment.
3M also provides microbiology products, which make it faster and easier
for  food  processors to test for microbiological quality of food.   In
health  information systems, 3M markets computer software for  hospital
coding and data classification, as well as related consulting services.
The  health  care  segment  also provides  medical  supplies  and  some
devices,   including  orthopedic  casting  materials,  electrodes   and
stethoscopes.

This segment also serves the pharmaceutical and dental markets, as well
as  manufacturers of disposable diapers. Among ethical  pharmaceuticals
are  immune  response  modifiers, and respiratory  and  women's  health
products.   Other  products  include  drug-delivery  systems,  such  as
metered-dose inhalers, transdermal skin patches and related components.
Dental   products  include  restoratives,  adhesives,   finishing   and
polishing  products, crowns, impression material, preventive  sealants,
professional  tooth whitening, prophylaxis and orthodontic  appliances.
Other  products  include  tape  closures for  disposable  diapers,  and
reclosable  fastening  systems and other diaper  components  that  help
diapers  fit  better.  In the second quarter of 1999, the company  sold
the assets of its cardiovascular systems business.




Consumer  and  Office  Markets:   Major consumer  and  office  products
include  Scotch brand tapes; Post-it brand Note products, such as flags,
memo pads, labels, pop-up notes  and  dispensers;  home  care  products,
including  Scotch-Brite brand  Scouring,  Sponge  and  High  Performance
Products,  O-Cel-O brand Sponges and Scotchgard brand Fabric Protectors;
energy control products; nonwoven abrasive materials for floor maintenance
and commercial cleaning;  floor  matting; and home  improvement  products,
including   surface-preparation  and  wood-finishing   materials,   and
Filtrete  brand  Filters  for  furnaces  and  air  conditioners.  Visual
communication  products serve the world's office and education  markets
with  overhead  projectors and transparency films, plus  equipment  and
materials for electronic and multimedia presentations.

Electro   and   Communications  Markets:   This  segment   serves   the
electronic, telecommunications and electrical markets. Major electronic
and  electrical products include packaging and interconnection devices;
insulating  materials, including pressure-sensitive tapes  and  resins;
and related items. These products are used extensively by manufacturers
of  electronic and electrical equipment, as well as in the construction
and  maintenance segments of the electric utility, telephone and  other
industries.  3M brand Microflex  Circuits utilize electronic  packaging
and interconnection technology, providing more connections in less space,
and  are  used  in  inkjet  print cartridges,  cell  phones  and  other
electronic  devices.   Telecommunications products  serve  the  world's
telephone  companies with a wide array of products for fiber-optic  and
copper-based   telephone  systems.   These  include   many   innovative
connecting,  closure  and splicing systems; maintenance  products;  and
test equipment.

Specialty   Material  Markets:   Major  specialty   materials   include
protective  materials  for  furniture,  fabrics  and  paper   products;
firefighting agents; fluoroelastomers for seals, tubes and  gaskets  in
engines;  engineering fluids; and high-performance fluids used  in  the
manufacture   of  computer  chips,  and  for  electronic  cooling   and
lubricating  of  computer  hard  disk drives.  Other  products  include
natural  and  color-coated mineral granules for asphalt  shingles.   In
December,  1999,  3M  finalized  the  acquisition  of  the  outstanding
minority interest in Dyneon LLC.

Discontinued Operations
In  November 1995, the Board of Directors approved a plan to launch the
company's  data  storage  and  imaging businesses  as  an  independent,
publicly  owned  company  and  to  discontinue  3M's  audio  and  video
business.  In  June 1996, the Board of Directors approved the  tax-free
distribution by 3M of the common stock of Imation Corp. (Imation) as  a
special  dividend  of one share of Imation common stock  for  every  10
shares  of  outstanding 3M common stock held of record as of  June  28,
1996.   The  company  recorded the special dividend of  Imation  common
stock   by   reducing  retained  earnings  by  $1.008  billion,   which
represented the carrying value of the net assets underlying the  common
stock distributed.

Distribution
3M   products   are  sold  directly  to  users  and  through   numerous
wholesalers,  retailers, jobbers, distributors and dealers  in  a  wide
variety  of  trades  in  many countries around the  world.   Management
believes  that  the  confidence  of  wholesalers,  retailers,  jobbers,
distributors and dealers in 3M and its




products, developed through long association  with  skilled  marketing
and  sales  representatives,  has  contributed  significantly  to 3M's
position in the marketplace  and  to its  growth.  3M  has  230  sales
offices  and  distribution  centers  worldwide,  including  nine major
branch offices located in principal cities throughout the United States.
3M operates 26 sales offices and distribution centers in the United States.
Internationally, 3M has 204 sales offices and distribution centers.

Research, Patents and Raw Materials
Research and product development constitute an important part  of  3M's
activities. Products resulting from research and development have  been
a  major  driver  of  3M's growth.  Research, development  and  related
expenses  totaled $1.038 billion, $1.016 billion and $1.002 billion  in
1999,  1998 and 1997, respectively. Research and development,  covering
basic scientific research and the application of scientific advances to
the  development of new and improved products and their  uses,  totaled
$688  million,  $648 million and $634 million in 1999, 1998  and  1997,
respectively.  Related  expenses primarily  include  technical  support
provided by the laboratory for existing products.

Corporate  research laboratories support research efforts  of  division
and  market laboratories.  These corporate laboratories also engage  in
research not directly related to existing 3M product lines.  Most major
operating  divisions  have their own laboratories to  improve  existing
products  and  develop  new  products. Research  staff  groups  provide
specialized  services  in  instrumentation,  engineering  and   process
development.   3M  also  maintains  an organization  for  technological
development not sponsored by other units of the company.

3M  is the owner of many domestic and foreign patents derived primarily
from  its  research  activities.  3M's  business  as  a  whole  is  not
materially  dependent upon any one patent, license or trade secret,  or
upon any group of related patents, licenses or trade secrets.

The  company  experienced  no significant or unusual  problems  in  the
purchase  of  raw materials during 1999.  It is impossible  to  predict
future  shortages of raw materials or the impact such  shortages  would
have.

Executive Officers
Following  is  a  list of the executive officers  of  3M,  their  ages,
present  positions,  the years elected to their present  positions  and
other  positions  held within 3M during the past five  years.   All  of
these officers have been employed full time by 3M or a subsidiary of 3M
for more than five years.  All 3M officers are elected by the Board  of
Directors  at  its  annual meeting, with vacancies  and  new  positions
filled at interim meetings. No family relationships exist among any  of
the  executive  officers  named,  nor  is  there  any  arrangement   or
understanding pursuant to which any person was selected as an officer.













Item 2. Properties.

3M's  general  offices, corporate research laboratories, some  division
laboratories  and certain manufacturing facilities are located  in  St.
Paul,  Minnesota.   In the United States, 3M has 26 sales  offices  and
distribution  centers  in  19  states  and  operates  58  manufacturing
facilities in 24 states. Internationally, 3M has 204 sales offices  and
distribution  centers.  The  company  operates  78  manufacturing   and
converting facilities in 39 countries outside the United States.

3M  owns  substantially all of its physical properties.  3M's  physical
facilities  are  highly suitable for the purposes for which  they  were
designed.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

The company and certain of its subsidiaries are named as defendants  in
a  number  of  actions, governmental proceedings and claims,  including
environmental  proceedings  and  products  liability  claims  involving
products now or formerly manufactured and sold by the company.  In some
actions, the claimants seek damages as well as other relief, which,  if
granted,  would  require  substantial  expenditures.  The  company  has
accrued  certain liabilities, which represent reasonable  estimates  of
its  probable  liabilities for these matters.   The  company  also  has
recorded  receivables for the probable amount of insurance  recoverable
with respect to these matters.

Some  of  these matters raise difficult and complex factual  and  legal
issues,  and  are  subject to many uncertainties,  including,  but  not
limited to, the facts and circumstances of each particular action,  the
jurisdiction  and  forum  in  which  each  action  is  proceeding,  and
differences in applicable law. Accordingly, the company is  not  always
able  to  estimate  the amount of its possible future liabilities  with
respect to such matters.

In  one such matter, LePage's Incorporated filed a lawsuit against  the
company  in  June  1997  in the United States District  Court  for  the
Eastern  District  of  Pennsylvania  alleging  that  certain  marketing
practices of the company violated antitrust laws. On October  8,  1999,
the  jury  awarded  LePage's damages of $22.8 million,  which  will  be
automatically  trebled under the law. The company  recorded  a  pre-tax
charge  of  $73  million in the third quarter of 1999  related  to  the
adverse  jury  verdict  and attorneys' fees  and  costs.  However,  the
recognition of this liability does not change the company's belief that
the jury verdict will be ultimately overturned.

There  can  be  no certainty that the company may not ultimately  incur
charges,  whether  for  governmental proceedings and  claims,  products
liability claims, environmental proceedings or other actions, in excess
of  presently  established accruals.  While such future  charges  could
have  a  material  adverse impact on the company's net  income  in  the
quarterly period in which they are recorded, the company believes  that
such  additional  charges, if any, would not have  a  material  adverse
effect  on  the  consolidated  financial position,  annual  results  of
operations,  or  cash  flows  of  the company.   (NOTE:  The  preceding
sentence applies to all legal proceedings involving the company  except
breast  implant litigation, which is discussed separately in  the  next
section).




Breast Implant Litigation

As  of  December 31, 1999, the company had been named as  a  defendant,
often  with multiple co-defendants, in 3,671 lawsuits and 56 claims  in
various  courts,  all  seeking  damages  for  personal  injuries   from
allegedly defective breast implants.  These claims and lawsuits purport
to  represent  12,210 individual claimants. It is not yet  certain  how
many  of  these  lawsuits and claims involve products manufactured  and
sold by the company, as opposed to other manufacturers, or how many  of
these  lawsuits  and claims involve individuals who  accepted  benefits
under  the Revised Settlement Program (defined later). The company  has
confirmed that approximately 540 of the above individual claimants have
opted  out  of  the  class action and have 3M  implants.   The  company
entered  the  business  of manufacturing breast  implants  in  1977  by
purchasing McGhan Medical Corporation.  In 1984, the company  sold  the
business   to  a  corporation  that  also  was  named  McGhan   Medical
Corporation.

The  typical claim or lawsuit alleges the individual's breast  implants
caused   one  or  more  of  a  wide  variety  of  ailments  and   local
complications,  including, but not limited to, non-specific  autoimmune
disease, scleroderma, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, fibromyalgia,  mixed
connective   tissue   disease,  Sjogren's  Syndrome,   dermatomyositis,
polymyositis and chronic fatigue.

Plaintiffs  in  these cases typically seek monetary damages,  often  in
unspecified  amounts,  and  also may seek certain  types  of  equitable
relief,  including requiring the company to fund the  costs  associated
with removal of the breast implants.

A number of breast implant claims and lawsuits seek to impose liability
on  the  company under various theories for personal injuries allegedly
caused by breast implants manufactured and sold by manufacturers  other
than the company. These manufacturers include, but are not limited  to,
McGhan  Medical  Corporation and manufacturers that are  no  longer  in
business  or that are insolvent, whose breast implants may or  may  not
have  been used in conjunction with implants manufactured and  sold  by
the company.  These claims raise many difficult and complex factual and
legal  issues  that  are subject to many uncertainties,  including  the
facts  and circumstances of each particular claim, the jurisdiction  in
which  each  suit  is  brought, and differences in applicable  law  and
insurance coverage.

A  number  of breast implant lawsuits seek to recover punitive damages.
Any punitive damages that may be awarded against the company may or may
not  be covered by certain insurance policies depending on the language
of the insurance policy, applicable law and agreements with insurers.

In addition to the individual suits against the company, a class action
on  behalf  of  all  women  with  breast  implants  filed  against  all
manufacturers of such implants has been conditionally certified and  is
pending  in the United States District Court for the Northern  District
of  Alabama  (the  "Court")(DANTE, ET AL.,  V.  DOW  CORNING,  ET  AL.,
U.S.D.C.,  N. Dist., Ala., 92-2589; part of IN RE: SILICONE GEL  BREAST
IMPLANT PRODUCT LIABILITY LITIGATION, U.S.D.C., N. Dist. Ala., MDL 926,
U.S.D.C., N. Dist. Ala., CV 92-P-10000-S; now held in abeyance  pending
settlement proceedings in the settlement class




action LINDSEY, ET  AL., V.  DOW CORNING CORPORATION, ET AL., U.S.D.C.,
N. Dist., Ala., CV 94-P-11558-S). Class actions, some of which have been
certified, are pending in  various  state courts, including, among others,
Louisiana,  Florida and  Illinois,  and  in  the British Columbia  courts
in  Canada.  The Louisiana  state  court  action (SPITZFADEN, ET  AL.,  v.
DOW  CORNING CORPORATION,  ET AL., Dist. Ct., Parish of Orleans, 92-2589)
has  been decertified by the trial court.  The Louisiana Supreme Court has
denied plaintiffs'  writ  for an emergency appeal from the decertification.
A normal appeal remains pending.

The  company also has been served with a purported class action brought
on  behalf  of  children  allegedly exposed to silicone  in  utero  and
through  breast milk.  (FEUER, ET AL., V. MCGHAN, ET AL., U.S.D.C.,  E.
Dist. NY, 93-0146.)  The suit names all breast implant manufacturers as
defendants and seeks to establish a medical-monitoring fund.

On  December  22,  1995,  the Court approved  a  revised  class  action
settlement  program  for  resolution  of  claims  seeking  damages  for
personal  injuries  from  allegedly  defective  breast  implants   (the
"Revised  Settlement Program").  The Revised Settlement  Program  is  a
revision  of  a  previous  settlement  pursuant  to  a  Breast  Implant
Litigation Settlement Agreement (the "Settlement Agreement") reached on
April 8, 1994, and approved by the Court on September 1, 1994.

The  Court ordered that, beginning after November 30, 1995, members  of
the plaintiff class may choose to participate in the Revised Settlement
Program  or  opt  out,  which would then allow  them  to  proceed  with
separate products liability actions.

The  Revised  Settlement Program includes domestic class  members  with
implants  manufactured  by certain manufacturer  defendants,  including
Baxter  International, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company,  the  company  and
McGhan Medical Corporation. The company's obligations under the Revised
Settlement  Program  are  limited to eligible claimants  with  implants
manufactured  by  the company or its predecessors  ("3M  implants")  or
manufactured  only by McGhan Medical Corporation after its  divestiture
from the company on August 3, 1984 ("Post 8/84 McGhan implants").  With
respect to claimants with only Post 8/84 McGhan implants (or only  Post
8/84  McGhan implants plus certain other manufacturers' implants),  the
benefits  are  more limited than for claimants with 3M  implants.  Post
8/84  McGhan  implant  benefits are payable  in  fixed  shares  by  the
company,  Union  Carbide  Corporation and McGhan  Medical  Corporation.
McGhan  Medical Corporation has defaulted on its fixed share obligation
(which  does not affect 3M's obligation to pay its share) and mandatory
class action status has been granted.

In  general,  the amounts payable to individual current  claimants  (as
defined in the Court's order) under the Revised Settlement Program, and
the  company's obligations to make those payments, are not affected  by
the  number of class members who have elected to opt out of the Revised
Settlement  Program or the number of class members making claims  under
the  Revised  Settlement Program. In addition to certain  miscellaneous
benefits,  the Revised Settlement Program provides for two compensation
options for current claimants with 3M implants.




Under  the first option, denominated as Fixed Amount Benefits,  current
claimants with 3M implants who satisfy disease criteria established  in
the prior Settlement Agreement will receive amounts ranging from $5,000
to $100,000, depending on disease severity or disability level; whether
the claimant can establish that her implants have ruptured; and whether
the  claimant also has had implants manufactured by Dow Corning.  Under
the second option, denominated as Long-Term Benefits, current claimants
with  3M  implants  who satisfy more restrictive disease  and  severity
criteria  specified  under the Revised Settlement Program  can  receive
benefits ranging from $37,500 to $250,000.

In addition, current claimants with 3M implants are eligible for (a)  a
one-time  payment  of  $3,000 upon removal of 3M  implants  during  the
course  of  the class settlement, and (b) an advance payment of  $5,000
against  the above referenced benefits upon proof of having 3M implants
and  upon waiving or not timely exercising the right to opt out of  the
Revised  Settlement  Program. Current claimants  with  only  Post  8/84
McGhan  implants (or only Post 8/84 McGhan implants plus certain  other
manufacturers'  implants) are eligible only for benefits  ranging  from
$10,000 to $50,000.

Eligible participants with 3M implants who did not file current  claims
but  are  able  to  satisfy the more restrictive disease  and  severity
criteria during an ongoing period of 15 years will be eligible for  the
Long-Term  Benefits,  subject  to certain  funding  limitations.   Such
participants  also  will be eligible for an advance payment  of  $1,000
upon  proof  of  having  3M implants and upon  waiving  or  not  timely
exercising  the right to opt out of the Revised Settlement Program  or,
as  an  elective option which expired on June 15, 1999,  a  payment  of
$3,500  in  full settlement of all breast implant claims including  any
claim  for  Long-Term  Benefits under the Revised  Settlement  Program.
Benefit  levels for eligible participants who are not current claimants
and  have  only  Post 8/84 McGhan implants (or only  Post  8/84  McGhan
implants  plus certain other manufacturers' implants) will  range  from
$10,000 to $50,000.

On  June 10, 1998, the Court approved the terms of a settlement program
offered  by Baxter International, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and  the
company to eligible foreign implant recipients (the "Foreign Settlement
Program").  Notices  and  claim forms were mailed  on  June  15,  1998.
Benefits to eligible foreign claimants range from $3,500 to $50,000.

As  of the date of this filing, the company believes that approximately
90  percent  of  the registrants, including those claimants  who  filed
current  claims, have elected to participate in the Revised  Settlement
Program.  It is still unknown as to what disease criteria all claimants
have  satisfied, and what options they have chosen.  As a  result,  the
total amount and timing of the company's prospective payments under the
Revised Settlement Program cannot be determined with precision at  this
time.  As of December 31, 1999, the company has paid $289 million  into
the  court-administered  fund  as a reserve  against  costs  of  claims
payable  by the company under the Revised Settlement Program (including
a  $5  million administrative assessment). Additional payments will  be
made  as  necessary.  Payments to date have been  consistent  with  the
company's estimates of the total liability for these claims.




In  the first quarter of 1994, the company took a pre-tax charge of $35
million ($22 million after tax) in recognition of its best estimate  at
the  time of its probable liabilities and associated expenses,  net  of
the  probable amount of insurance recoverable from its carriers. In the
third  quarter  of  1999, the company increased  its  estimate  of  the
probable  liabilities  and associated expenses  to  approximately  $1.2
billion,  with  an  offsetting  increase  in  the  probable  amount  of
insurance recoveries. This amount represents the company's current best
estimate  of  the amount to cover the cost and expense of  the  Revised
Settlement Program and the cost and expense of resolving opt-out claims
and recovering insurance proceeds. After subtracting payments of $1.114
billion  as  of  December 31, 1999, for defense  and  other  costs  and
settlements  with  litigants and claimants,  the  company  had  accrued
liabilities of $86 million.

The  company  has  substantial primary and  excess  products  liability
occurrence  insurance  coverage  and  claims-made  products   liability
insurance   coverage,   which  it  believes   provides   coverage   for
substantially all of its current exposure for breast implant claims and
defense  costs. Most insurers have alleged reservations  of  rights  to
deny  all or part of the coverage for differing reasons, including each
insurer's  obligations  in  relation  to  the  other  insurers   (i.e.,
allocation)  and which claims trigger both the various  occurrence  and
claims-made insurance policies. Some insurers have resolved  and  paid,
or  committed  to, their policy obligations. The company  believes  the
failure  of  many insurers to voluntarily perform as promised  subjects
them  to  the  company's claims for excess liability  and  damages  for
breach of the insurers' obligation of good faith.

On  September  22,  1994,  three  excess coverage  occurrence  insurers
initiated  in  the  courts  of  the State of  Minnesota  a  declaratory
judgment  action  against the company and numerous  insurance  carriers
seeking  adjudication of certain coverage issues and  allocation  among
insurers. On December 9, 1994, the company initiated an action  against
its  occurrence insurers in the Texas State Court in and  for  Harrison
County,  seeking a determination of responsibility among the  company's
various  occurrence insurers having applicable coverages. The state  of
Texas  has the most implant claims.  This action has since been removed
to  the  U.S.  District Court, Eastern District of  Texas,  and  stayed
pending resolution of the litigation in the Minnesota courts.

The  insurers  that are parties to these actions generally  acknowledge
that  they issued products liability insurance to the company and  that
breast  implant  claims are products liability  claims.  The  trial  in
Minnesota to resolve the company's insurance coverage and the financial
responsibility  of  occurrence insurers for breast implant  claims  and
defense  costs began on June 4, 1996, and is continuing in  phases.   A
phase III jury trial on the company's claim of breach and consequential
damages and insurer defenses to coverage began on October 25, 1999, and
is  expected to continue through February 2000, at which time a verdict
is expected.

In  mid-October 1995, the occurrence insurers that are parties  to  the
litigation in Minnesota filed more than 30 motions for summary judgment
or  partial  summary  judgment. The insurers,  through  these  motions,
attempted  to  shift all or a portion of the responsibility  for  those
claims  the company believes fall within the period of occurrence-based
coverage  (before 1986)




into the period of claims-made  coverage  (from and  after  January  1,
1986). The trial court  denied  the  insurers'motions, ruling that the
key issues of trigger and allocation raised in these motions would be
resolved at trial. In the trial's first phase in 1996, the court granted
3M partial declaratory judgment on the question of when insurance coverage
is "triggered."  The court also granted the insurers'  motion for partial
declaratory judgment on the  question  of the  allocation  method to be
applied in the case. In  July  1997,  the trial  court  ruled  further on
the trigger issue and  on  the  general allocation  method.  That  ruling
was  consistent  with  and  further supported  the company's opinion as
stated in the following  paragraph. In November 1997, upon reconsideration,
the court reversed a portion of its  July  ruling and reinstated a portion
of its previous ruling.  The company  believed that conflicting rulings
existed that  needed  to  be clarified by the court and reconciled with
applicable law.  Motions  to clarify  the  allocation methodology of
triggered policies under  these rulings  were filed and have been ruled
upon by the Court.   While  the Court  clarified certain aspects of these
rulings, it also  ruled  that there  would  be  no allocation from and after
January  1,  1986.  This ruling  is  consistent with the company's position
on  the  allocation issue.

The  company  believes  it will ultimately prevail  in  this  insurance
litigation.  The  company's  belief is based  on  an  analysis  of  its
insurance  policies;  court  decisions on  these  and  similar  issues;
reimbursement  by insurers for these types of claims; and  consultation
with outside counsel who are experts in insurance coverage matters. If,
however,  the occurrence insurers ultimately prevail in this  insurance
litigation,  the company could be effectively deprived  of  significant
and  potentially material insurance coverage for breast implant claims.
(See  discussion  of  the accrued receivables for insurance  recoveries
below.)

As  of  December  31,  1999, the company had  accrued  receivables  for
insurance  recoveries of $622 million, substantially all  of  which  is
contested by the insurance carriers. During the first quarter of  1999,
the  company  executed a settlement agreement with its lead  occurrence
underwriter.  Payments  of  settlement  dollars  of  this   and   other
agreements  were  received in 1999. Various factors  could  affect  the
timing  and  amount  of  proceeds to be received  under  the  company's
various  insurance policies, including (i) the timing of payments  made
in  settlement  of  claims; (ii) the outcome  of  occurrence  insurance
litigation in the courts of Minnesota (as discussed earlier) and Texas;
(iii)  potential arbitration with claims-made insurers; (iv) delays  in
payment  by  insurers; and (v) the extent to which insurers may  become
insolvent  in the future. There can be no absolute assurance  that  the
company  will collect all amounts accrued as being probable of recovery
from its insurers.

The  company's current estimate of the probable liabilities, associated
expenses  and  probable  insurance recoveries  related  to  the  breast
implant claims is based on the facts and circumstances existing at this
time.  New  developments  may  occur that could  affect  the  company's
estimates  of probable liabilities (including associated expenses)  and
the  probable  amount  of  insurance  recoveries.   These  developments
include, but are not limited to, (i) the ultimate Fixed Amount  Benefit
distribution to claimants in the Revised Settlement Program;  (ii)  the
success  of  and  costs  to  the company in defending  opt-out  claims,
including claims involving breast implants not manufactured or sold  by
the  company; (iii) the outcome of the occurrence insurance  litigation




in the courts of Minnesota and Texas; and (iv) the outcome of potential
arbitration with claims-made insurers.

The company cannot determine the impact of these potential developments
on  the  current estimate of probable liabilities (including associated
expenses)   and   the   probable  amount   of   insurance   recoveries.
Accordingly,  the company is not able to estimate its  possible  future
liabilities  and  recoveries beyond the current estimates  of  probable
amounts.  As new developments occur, these estimates may be revised, or
additional  charges  may be necessary to reflect the  impact  of  these
developments  on the costs to the company of resolving  breast  implant
litigation,   claims  and  insurance  recoveries.  Such  revisions   or
additional future charges could have a material adverse impact  on  the
company's  net  income  in  the quarterly  period  in  which  they  are
recorded. Although the company considers it unlikely, such revisions or
additional future charges could also have a material adverse effect  on
the  consolidated financial position, annual results of operations,  or
cash flows of the company.

The  company conducts ongoing reviews, assisted by outside counsel,  to
determine the adequacy and extent of insurance coverage provided by its
occurrence  and  claims-made insurers. The company believes,  based  on
these  ongoing reviews and the bases described in the fourth  preceding
paragraph, it is probable that the collectible coverage provided by its
applicable insurance policies is sufficient to cover substantially  all
of  its  current exposure for breast implant claims and defense  costs.
Based  on  the  availability of this insurance  coverage,  the  company
believes  that  its  uninsured financial exposure  has  not  materially
changed  since the first quarter of 1994. Therefore, no recognition  of
additional charges has been made.

Environmental Matters

The  company  is  involved in a number of environmental proceedings  by
governmental  agencies and by private parties asserting  liability  for
past waste disposal and other alleged environmental damage. The company
conducts ongoing investigations, assisted by environmental consultants,
to determine accruals for the probable, estimable costs of remediation.
The remediation accruals are reviewed each quarter and changes are made
as appropriate.




Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

None in the quarter ended December 31, 1999.

                                    Part II

Item  5. Market Price of 3M's Common Stock and Related Security  Holder
Matters.

At  January 31, 2000, there were 132,877 shareholders of record.   3M's
stock  is  listed  on the New York, Pacific, Chicago  and  Swiss  stock
exchanges.  Stock price comparisons are provided in the Quarterly  Data
section in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data.






Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.

Operating Results
Sales:   Sales  in 1999 totaled $15.659 billion, compared with  $15.021
billion  in 1998 and $15.070 billion in 1997.  In 1999, volume  grew  5
percent,  with  the  stronger U.S. dollar reducing  sales  by  about  1
percent.   In  1998, local currency growth was offset by  the  stronger
U.S. dollar.

In  the  United  States, sales in 1999 totaled  $7.478  billion,  up  3
percent   (up   about   4   percent  adjusted  for   acquisitions   and
divestitures).  In 1998, sales rose about 2 percent  adjusted  for  the
1997 sale of the outdoor advertising business.

Internationally, sales totaled $8.181 billion, up 5 percent from  1998.
International volume increased 7 percent and selling prices were  up  1
percent.  The  stronger U.S. dollar reduced international  sales  by  3
percent. In 1998, flat sales reflected negative currency effects and  a
difficult economic backdrop in Japan and many developing countries.



Non-recurring items:  Non-recurring items in 1999 include a net gain of
$147  million  ($81  million  after  tax)  related  to  gains  on   the
divestitures   of  Eastern  Heights  Bank  and  certain   health   care
businesses,  net  of  an  investment valuation adjustment.   1999  also
includes a charge of $73 million ($46 million after tax) relating to an
adverse jury verdict and legal fees associated with a lawsuit filed  by
LePage's,  Inc.   3M  believes the jury's decision ultimately  will  be
overturned,  but  that it is prudent to recognize a liability  at  this
time.   This  combined pre-tax gain of $74 million  is  recorded  as  a
reduction of selling, general and administrative expenses. In the third
quarter of 1999, the company recorded a change in estimate that reduced
the 1998 restructuring charge by $26 million ($17 million after tax).

In   1998,  3M  recorded  a  $493  million  ($313  million  after  tax)
restructuring  charge.   The  inventory portion  of  the  restructuring
charge was recorded in cost of goods sold. Details are discussed in the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  In 1998, the company  also
refinanced  debt  relating  to  its  Employee  Stock  Ownership   Plan,
replacing  the debt with a new bond that carries a significantly  lower
interest  rate. This resulted in a $38 million after-tax charge,  or  9
cents per diluted share. This is reported as an extraordinary loss from
early extinguishment of debt.

In  1997,  the  company realized a gain of $803 million  ($495  million
after  tax)  on  the  sale of National Advertising  Company.   This  is
discussed in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.




The following table shows amounts for non-recurring items in 1999, 1998
and 1997, and totals excluding these items.



The following discussion excludes the impact of non-recurring items  in
all years, except where indicated.

Costs:   Cost  of  goods  sold  was 56.6 percent  of  sales,  down  1.3
percentage  points  from 1998.  In 1999, gross margins  benefited  from
solid  volume gains and the company's restructuring actions.   In  both
1999 and 1998, gross margins benefited from slightly lower raw material
costs,  but were negatively affected by the stronger U.S. dollar.  Cost
of goods sold includes manufacturing; research, development and related
expenses; and engineering expenses.

Selling, general and administrative expenses were 25.2 percent of sales
in  both  1999  and  1998, and 25.3 percent in  1997.   In  1999,  this
spending benefited from accelerated sales growth and productivity gains
related  to  restructuring actions, offset by increased investments  in
advertising  and other areas.  In 1998, tight expense  controls  had  a
positive effect on SG&A spending.



Operating  income:  Operating income totaled $2.856  billion,  up  12.9
percent from 1998. Operating income was 18.2 percent of sales, up  from
16.9  percent  in  1998 and 17.7 percent in 1997. In  1999,  good  unit
volume growth and solid productivity gains helped results. During 1998,
economic contractions in many international markets, softness in a  few
key  U.S.  markets  and  negative currency




effects  impacted  operating profit  margins.   The company estimates
that currency effects  reduced operating income slightly in 1999 and by
about $235 million in 1998.

In  the  United States, operating income increased 1 percent and profit
margins  were  down  four-tenths  of  a  percentage  point.   In  1998,
operating income decreased 8 percent and profit margins were  down  1.4
percentage points.

Internationally,  operating  income increased  23  percent  and  profit
margins  increased  by 3 percentage points. In 1998,  operating  income
decreased about 3 percent and profit margins declined by four-tenths of
a  percentage  point.  Currency effects in 1998  reduced  international
profits by 17 percent and profit margins by 1.8 percentage points.

Other  income and expense:  Interest expense was $109 million, compared
with  $139 million in 1998 and $94 million in 1997.  The 1999  decrease
reflected lower debt balances due to increased operating cash flow  and
reduced   capital  expenditures.   The  1998  increase  reflected   the
company's   strategy  to  lower  its  cost  of  capital  by  moderately
increasing financial leverage.

Investment and other income was $33 million, compared with $42  million
in 1998 and $56 million in 1997, with the decline due to lower interest
income.

Provision  for income taxes:  The worldwide effective income  tax  rate
was 35.4 percent in 1999, 1998 and 1997. Including non-recurring items,
3M's  effective tax rate was 35.8 percent in 1999, compared  with  35.1
percent in 1998 and 36.1 percent in 1997.

Minority  interest:  Minority interest was $85 million,  compared  with
$54  million  in  1998  and  $78 million  in  1997.  Minority  interest
represents the elimination of the non-3M ownership interests, primarily
in  Sumitomo  3M Limited and Dyneon LLC. These companies'  results  are
fully  consolidated  in 3M's financial statements, and  then  partially
eliminated on the minority interest line to reflect 3M's net  position.
The 1999 increase in minority interest was driven by higher profits  in
these  companies, while the 1998 decrease was driven by lower  profits.
In  December  1999,  3M finalized the acquisition  of  the  outstanding
minority interest in Dyneon LLC.  This acquisition is discussed in  the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Net  income:   Net income totaled $1.711 billion, or $4.21 per  diluted
share,  compared  with $1.526 billion, or $3.74 per diluted  share,  in
1998,  and  $1.626 billion, or $3.88 per diluted share, in 1997.   Per-
share  income was up 12.6 percent in 1999 after decreasing 3.6  percent
in 1998.

In 1999, 1998 and 1997, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar reduced
net  income by an estimated $23 million, $141 million and $112 million,
respectively.   On  a  per-share basis, currency  effects  reduced  net
income by 6 cents per share, 35 cents per share and 27 cents per  share
for  1999,  1998  and 1997, respectively. These estimates  include  the
effect  of translating profits from local currencies into U.S. dollars;
the  impact  of currency fluctuations on the value of goods transferred
between  3M operations in the United States and abroad; and transaction
gains and losses in countries not considered to be highly inflationary.




Other  indices:   Economic profit totaled $855 million,  up  from  $604
million  in  1998 and $720 million in 1997. Return on invested  capital
was  18.6  percent in 1999, 15.9 percent in 1998 and  18.0  percent  in
1997.  Both economic profit and return on invested capital exclude  the
impact  of  non-recurring  items.   Economic  profit  equals  after-tax
operating income less a charge for operating capital employed  in  3M's
businesses.  Return on invested capital is after-tax  operating  income
divided by average operating capital.

At  December 31, 1999, employment totaled 70,549 people, a decrease  of
about 3,000 from year-end 1998, and down more than 5,000 from mid-1998.
The  decline  was due both to the company's restructuring  actions  and
attrition.  Sales per employee in local currencies increased  about  10
percent  in  1999, following a 3 percent increase in 1998.   From  1994
through 1997, 3M's productivity increased an average of about 9 percent
a year.

Performance by Business Segment
Disclosures relating to 3M's six business segments are provided in this
Form  10-K, Item 1, Business Segments.  Financial information and other
disclosures,  including  discussion  about  non-recurring  items,   are
provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Industrial Markets (22 percent of consolidated sales):
Sales  totaled  $3.394  billion, up 1.0 percent from  1998.   Operating
income increased 9.3 percent to $613 million. Operating income was 18.1
percent  of  sales, compared with 16.7 percent in 1998.   Results  were
driven   by   improved   manufacturing  efficiency   and   other   cost
improvements.

This market continued to broaden its product offerings in 1999 with the
introduction   of   advanced  adhesives,  tapes   and   abrasives   for
electronics,  transportation and other industries.  Sales coverage  was
expanded  both in the United  States  and  internationally,   including
China and  Eastern  Europe. E-commerce capabilities also were expanded,
including a new Internet site for professional woodworkers that provides
information about a range of 3M products and access to an online store.
This market also formed  joint ventures to further expand its line of
packaging  systems while also enhancing competitiveness.  New business
organizations  were established   to   maximize   opportunities   for
superabrasive and microfinishing products, and for 3M products serving
the aerospace/aircraft maintenance and appliance markets.

This  market expects solid profit growth again in 2000, driven  by  new
products,  key-account  efforts, entry into fast-growing  markets,  and
continued  operational efficiencies.  Important new  products  such  as
Scotch  brand  Automotive  Refinish  Masking  Tape  233+  and  3M brand
Perfect-It brand III Paint Finishing System should bolster its position
in the automotive aftermarket. 3M Trizact brand Abrasives, used for fine
finishing  of  metals, are entering high-tech markets for semiconductor
wafer planarization and  glass memory disk polishing.   New  films  and
adhesives improve  the performance   and   reliability   of  electronic
products. In the transportation and construction industries, proprietary
3M  adhesives and  tapes simplify the assembly of plastics and metals by
eliminating rivets, screws and bolts.




Transportation, Graphics and Safety Markets (21 percent of consolidated
sales):
Sales  totaled  $3.228  billion, up 6.9 percent from  1998.   Operating
income  increased  27.7 percent to $679 million. Operating  income  was
21.0 percent of sales, compared with 17.6 percent in 1998.  Results  in
1999  were  driven by solid international sales growth,  important  new
products and aggressive cost control initiatives.

In  1999, this market experienced sharp increases in demand for optical
films  that  make displays brighter for computers and other  electronic
devices.  Significant growth was also achieved in products  that  serve
the  digital  printing industry, automotive products, and  in  products
that make traffic  signs more visible, such as 3M brand Scotchlite brand
Diamond Grade brand Fluorescent Sheeting. This market forged an e-business
initiative  with  VerticalNet, Inc., a premier electronic publisher and
creator of market-oriented web communities, which will provide industrial
health and  safety  customers  an  online  marketplace  for  3M  products
and information.

In 2000, this market expects to sustain solid growth through innovative
new   products,   improving  international  economies   and   continued
operational  efficiencies.  In the United States, sales  of  reflective
sheeting should continue to accelerate due to a new line of fluorescent
materials  and increased government expenditures to repair and  upgrade
America's roadways. Internationally, where this market derives about 60
percent  of its sales, improving economic conditions should aid growth,
especially  in  safety and graphics.  This market also expects  another
strong year in brightness enhancement films.

Health Care Markets (20 percent of consolidated sales):
Sales totaled $3.118 billion, up 1.0 percent from 1998 (up more than  4
percent  adjusted for divestitures). In 1999, operating income included
gains  of  $62  million related to divestitures of certain  businesses.
Excluding these gains, operating income increased 9.2 percent  to  $623
million,  and was 20.0 percent of sales, compared with 18.5 percent  in
1998.  Results in 1999 were helped by portfolio adjustments in  medical
businesses to concentrate on core businesses and growth opportunities.

In  1999,  this  market  introduced new products  on  a  global  basis,
providing entry into new segments of skin health, infection prevention,
dental and pharmaceutical markets. Aldara brand (imiquimod) cream, the
first  in  a  new family of 3M immune response modifier compounds, was
launched  in   many   international   countries  with   results   that
exceeded  expectations.   Health  Information  Systems'  position  was
strengthened in the fast-growing information technology market through
new products and customers, international growth and new consulting
services.

In  2000, this market will focus on growing its core businesses,  while
maintaining  close  attention to costs.  New products  will  remain  an
important source of growth, particularly Aldara brand (imiquimod)  cream;
gauze,  tapes  and bandages for the consumer market; and  oil-absorbing
microporous cosmetic sheets for face oil removal.  3M's dental business
should  continue to grow through new products  and   entry   into   new
segments,  as  well  as  through  strengthened




e-commerce  focus.  This market anticipates excellent gains  in  health
information  systems and is significantly accelerating  investments  to
move new indications for its immune response modifier compounds through
clinical   studies,  as  well  as  to  step  up  research  efforts   in
bioanalytics.

Consumer and Office Markets (17 percent of consolidated sales):
Sales  totaled  $2.688  billion, up 2.9 percent from  1998.   Operating
income increased 2.6 percent to $408 million. Operating income was 15.2
percent of sales in both 1999 and 1998.

This  market  continued  to bring new-to-the-world  products  into  the
marketplace.  For example, the new Scotch-Brite brand High Performance
Cloth uses unique microfibers to wipe up dust, oils and water all at the
same time.   This market also extended well-known brands with products
such as new Post-it brand Pop-up Notes and dispensers, translucent Post-it
brand Note organizers, Scotch brand Pop-up Magic brand Tape for the office
market, and O-Cel-O brand Sponges in fun designs and vibrant colors.

This  market  anticipates solid growth in 2000, led by  innovative  new
products,  strong  alliances with customers, and increased  advertising
and merchandising efforts.  The Scotch-Brite brand High Performance Cloth
is expected to provide strong sales gains in Europe and the United States,
with rollouts planned in Asia and Latin America.  New varieties of Post-
it brand Flags  and Scotch brand Pop-up Tape also are expected to  drive
global growth. This segment continues to help customers with state-of-the-art
co-managed inventory and e-commerce capabilities.  Internationally, our
new manufacturing facility in Shanghai, China, will supply Scotch-Brite
brand Sponges and Scouring Products and Nomad brand Floor Matting
throughout Asia.

Electro and Communications Markets (13 percent of consolidated sales):
Sales  totaled $2.014 billion, up 15.7 percent from 1998 (up  about  12
percent  after adjusting for acquisitions).  Operating income increased
54.3  percent  to $406 million.  Operating income was 20.1  percent  of
sales, compared with 15.1 percent in 1998.  Results were strong both in
the United States and internationally.

This  market experienced continued robust demand for 3M brand Microflex
Circuits in inkjet print cartridges. In telecommunications, this market
strengthened   its  position  in  the  outside-plant  segment   through
successful integration of the PSI Telecom acquisition, and it continued
to  penetrate the on-premise market segment of data communications with
the  3M  brand  Volition  brand  Fiber  Optic  Cabling  System.  Other
innovative  new  products  include  high-performance sockets and test
contactors, Super 33+ tape, electrical wire connectors,  and  corrosion
protection materials.

In  2000,  this  segment  expects to grow unit volume  through  serving
several  large  and fast-growing markets, although price  decreases  in
this  market  are  expected  to  limit  operating  income  growth.   In
electronics,  sales  should ramp up quickly for new  microflex  circuit
applications  in  hard  disk drive assemblies  and  integrated  circuit
packaging.   This  market also is introducing advanced  materials  that
shield   electronic  devices  from  electomagnetic  interference.    In
telecommunications,  3M  is  capitalizing  on  increased   demand   for
established 3M




telecom  products  as  telephone  service   providers refurbish their
copper-based systems to be more competitive with  fiber optics and cable.
New products include new fiber-based products,  such as parallel optical
interconnects;  specialty  optical  fibers;  and microscopic  3M  Bragg
Gratings, which allow more  information  to  be transmitted  over  each
fiber.  For  infrastructure  development,  new aluminum  metal  matrix
composites  increase  electrical  power   line  efficiency  and  a
leading-edge additive  material improves  concrete performance on roads,
bridges and other structures.

Specialty Material Markets (7 percent of consolidated sales):
Sales  totaled  $1.166  billion, up 5.4 percent from  1998.   Operating
income decreased 3.3 percent to $188 million. Operating income was 16.1
percent of sales, compared with 17.6 percent in 1998.  Results in  1999
were impacted by the acquisition of Celanese's minority interest in the
Dyneon  LLC joint venture and the resulting acquisition-related  costs.
Dyneon  LLC manufactures and markets fluoropolymers for transportation,
electronics and other high-growth industries.

This market experienced excellent sales growth in products for the food
packaging  industry,  driven by new applications  for  oil  and  grease
barriers  in convenience food packaging, as well as market share  gains
in  pet food packaging.  This market also experienced strong growth  in
roofing granules, due to expansion of its customer base and strong  re-
roofing  and new construction markets.  The economic recovery  in  Asia
helped the electronics and semiconductor manufacturing markets.

This  market anticipates solid growth in 2000, driven by new  products,
expanded  applications for existing products and strong alliances  with
customers.   Among  important new innovations  are  high-purity  Dyneon
brand Fluoropolymers  for  wire and cable,  aerospace and semiconductor
processing applications,  and 3M brand  Specialty   Gases,  which  help
semiconductor manufacturers reduce costs, increase efficiency and lower
emissions.  In Japan and other Asian markets, 3M brand Novec Engineered
Fluids  should  produce  strong  sales gains  as  they  replace  ozone-
depleting  chlorofluorocarbons and expand  into  new  applications  for
electronics  manufacturing.   In Europe and  Latin  America,  specialty
additive  products  for the oil exploration and mining  markets  should
help  make oil extraction easier and more efficient.  New and  improved
Scotchgard  brand  Protectors  for home furnishing, flooring  and  many
other markets are also being introduced.

Performance by Geographic Area
Financial  information relating to 3M operations in various  geographic
areas, including discussion of non-recurring items, is provided in  the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

United States (48 percent of consolidated sales):
Sales  in the United States totaled $7.478 billion, up about 3  percent
from  1998.   Unit  sales  increased 4 percent,  while  selling  prices
decreased  slightly.  Operating income, excluding non-recurring  items,
was  up  about 1 percent.  In 1999, good unit volume growth  and  solid
productivity  gains  helped  results,  but  increased  investments   in
advertising held back overall profit growth. Operating income was  16.0
percent of sales, down from 16.4 percent in 1998.




Europe and Middle East (24 percent of consolidated sales):
Sales  in Europe and the Middle East totaled $3.800 billion, down about
1  percent from 1998.  Local-currency sales increased about 5  percent,
while currency translation reduced sales by about 6 percent.  Operating
income  was 15.1 percent of sales, up from 13.4 percent in 1998.   This
margin  improvement  was  driven by good local-currency  sales  growth,
together with streamlining of operations.  In 2000, the company expects
a pickup in unit sales.

Asia Pacific (18 percent of consolidated sales):
Sales in Asia Pacific totaled $2.887 billion, up about 22 percent  from
1998.   Unit sales in the Asia Pacific area increased about 13  percent
in  1999.  Selling prices decreased more than 1 percent, while currency
translation increased sales by about 10 percent. Operating  income  was
26.6  percent  of sales, up from 21.6 percent in 1998,  led  by  volume
growth  and  productivity  gains.   In  Japan,  home  of  3M's  largest
international company, volume increased about 6 percent. Unit sales  in
Asia  outside Japan increased about 26 percent in 1999.  In  2000,  the
company expects continued solid volume gains in the Asia Pacific area.

Latin America, Canada and Africa (9 percent of consolidated sales):
Sales  in  Latin  America,  Canada and Africa combined  totaled  $1.467
billion, down about 5 percent from 1998.  In Latin America, unit  sales
increased 4 percent.  Currency reduced Latin America sales by about  19
percent,  with  price  increases offsetting  about  one-third  of  this
impact.   In Canada, unit sales increased about 5 percent.  In  Africa,
volume  decreased about 2 percent. Operating income for Latin  America,
Canada  and  Africa was 23.7 percent of sales, up from 22.1 percent  in
1998.  In 2000, Latin America unit sales are expected to improve.

Financial Condition and Liquidity
3M's  financial condition remained strong in 1999, and working  capital
remained  well-controlled.  The company's key inventory index  was  3.1
months,  down  about  9  percent  from  year-end  1998.   The  accounts
receivable  index was 61 days, the same as year-end 1998.  The  current
ratio was 1.6, up from 1.5 at the end of 1998.

Total  debt  was $2.610 billion, down from $3.106 billion  at  year-end
1998,  helped  by  increased operating cash flow  and  reduced  capital
expenditures. Total debt was 29 percent of total capital, compared with
34  percent  in  1998.  Of debt outstanding at the end  of  1999,  $359
million  represented  a  guarantee of debt of  the  3M  Employee  Stock
Ownership Plan.

Various assets and liabilities, including cash and short-term debt, can
fluctuate  significantly  from month to month depending  on  short-term
liquidity  needs.  Investments decreased $136  million  since  year-end
1998,  driven by investment decreases of about $350 million related  to
divestitures, partially offset by increases in the value of  marketable
equity  securities classified as available-for-sale. Divestitures  also
contributed  to  the  decline in other current  liabilities  and  other
liabilities shown on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

During 1999, cash flows provided by operating activities totaled $3.038
billion,  up  from $2.374 billion in 1998. The increase in net  income,
along with




good  working capital management, drove  the  improvement.  Inventories
declined about $190 million, or 9 percent, compared with year-end 1998.
Working capital and other changes in 1999  include  a $205  million use
of  cash  for the impact  of  employee  termination benefits paid in
connection with restructuring activities.

Operating  cash  flows  in 1999 included net  inflows  of  $93  million
related  to  breast implant litigation, compared with net  outflows  of
$255  million in 1998. A decrease in the noncurrent portion  of  breast
implant receivables contributed to the decline in other assets in 1999.
Asset  impairment charges of $182 million in 1998 represent the  write-
down of certain assets to net realizable value.  In both 1999 and 1998,
cash flows benefited from effective asset management.

Purchases  of property, plant and equipment totaled $1.039  billion,  a
decrease of about 27 percent from 1998.  This followed increases  of  2
percent  in 1998 and 27 percent in 1997. These investments are  helping
to  meet  global  demand  for new products and  increase  manufacturing
efficiency.

Cash  used  for  acquisitions of businesses totaled $374 million,  $200
million  and  $8  million in 1999, 1998 and 1997,  respectively.   1999
includes  about  $340  million  related  to  the  acquisition  of   the
outstanding minority interest in Dyneon LLC. Acquisitions in 1998  were
primarily in the occupational health and safety, and telecommunications
areas.

Cash  proceeds  from the sale of businesses totaled $249  million,  $57
million  and $1.030 billion in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.   The
company  received  cash  proceeds in 1999 related  to  divestitures  of
Eastern  Heights  Bank, cardiovascular systems and  other  health  care
businesses.   In  1997,  cash  proceeds  from  the  sale  of   National
Advertising  Company  totaled $1.0 billion,  with  net  after-tax  cash
proceeds  of nearly $700 million. Related to this, 1997 operating  cash
flows  were  negatively impacted by $308 million of income  taxes  paid
related to the gain on the sale of National Advertising Company.

Purchases  of  investments totaled $67 million,  $65  million  and  $32
million  in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.  These purchases include
patents, and equity and cost method investments.

Cash dividends paid to stockholders totaled $901 million, or $2.24  per
share.  3M has paid dividends since 1916.  In February 2000, the  Board
of  Directors increased the quarterly dividend on 3M common stock to 58
cents  per share, equivalent to an annual dividend of $2.32 per  share.
This marks the 42nd consecutive year of dividend increases.

Repurchases  of 3M common stock totaled $825 million in 1999,  compared
with  $618 million in 1998 and $1.693 billion in 1997. Repurchases were
made  to  support employee stock purchase plans and for other corporate
purposes.   In  1999, a reduction in shares outstanding resulted  in  a
benefit  to  earnings  of  2 cents per diluted  share.   In  1998,  the
combination  of  a reduction in average shares outstanding  and  higher
interest  expense resulted in a net benefit to earnings of 3 cents  per
diluted  share.  In  1997, net proceeds from the  National  Advertising
Company divestiture were used primarily to repurchase shares.




In  November 1999, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase  of
up  to  12  million  of  the company's shares.  This  share  repurchase
authorization  extends through December 31, 2000.   Under  a  preceding
authorization, the company purchased about 9 million shares.

The  company's strong credit rating provides ready and ample access  to
funds  in  global capital markets.  At year-end 1999, the  company  had
available short-term lines of credit totaling about $661 million.

Timing  differences between payment of implant liabilities and  receipt
of  related insurance recoveries could affect future cash flows.   This
is discussed in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, of this Form 10-K.

Future Outlook
3M  expects to achieve solid sales and profits in 2000.  3M's focus  on
growth,  productivity  and  competitiveness  will  drive  results.  The
company  is not able to project what the consequences will be from  the
dynamic  economies around the world. The company is monitoring business
conditions  closely  and  is  prepared to make  adjustments  in  costs,
pricing and investments as appropriate.

3M  expects worldwide sales growth in 2000 of 6 to 7 percent  in  local
currencies,  excluding potential acquisitions, with  volume  being  the
main  growth driver.  Sales are expected to grow close to 6 percent  in
the  United  States. Internationally, the company expects  to  increase
sales in local currencies 7 to 8 percent.

The  company  expects  that selling prices overall  will  have  minimal
impact in 2000.  Pricing varies by market segment.  In the Electro  and
Communications Markets segment, price decreases are expected  to  limit
operating income growth.

The  Telecom  Systems  division announced  on  February  1,  2000,  its
intention  to  purchase Quante AG, a manufacturer of telecommunications
products  and systems. The purchase method of accounting will be  used.
Sales  in  1999  were  more  than $350  million.   The  transaction  is
dependent  on  approval  from  the European  Commission.   3M  also  is
considering other acquisitions in markets such as health care and light
management.

The  company  expects capital spending to total $1.0  billion  to  $1.1
billion  in 2000.  The company does not expect a significant change  in
its tax rate in 2000.

Restructuring  charge:  To reduce costs and improve  productivity,  the
company initiated a restructuring program in the second half of 1998 to
streamline  corporate  structure, consolidate manufacturing  operations
and  exit  certain  product lines.  As discussed in  the  restructuring
charge section in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, these
product  lines,  discontinued primarily in 1998,  had  combined  annual
sales  of less than $100 million. In 1999, as part of its restructuring
plan,  the  company also divested Eastern Heights Bank,  cardiovascular
systems and other health care businesses that together had annual sales
of approximately $200 million.

The  company  recorded a restructuring charge in 1998, and subsequently
recorded a change in estimate that reduced the restructuring charge  in
1999.  As of the




end  of  1999, the restructuring  program  was substantially  complete.
The company experienced  a  net  reduction  of about  2,200  positions
in the second half of 1998, with  a  total net reduction of more  than
5,000 positions by December 31,  1999.  This decline  was  due to both
restructuring actions and attrition.  Of  the  employment  reductions,
about one-third were in the United  States and about  one-third were in
Europe, with the remainder split about equally between the Asia Pacific
geographic area and the Latin America,  Africa and  Canada  geographic
area. Each business segment of the company  was affected by this
restructuring plan.

The restructuring plan is expected to provide annual pre-tax savings of
about $250 million upon completion of the plan. The incremental benefit
in  the  year  2000  versus 1999 is expected to be about  $60  million,
primarily in the first half. If the company does not generate  adequate
sales  growth, normal increases in payroll and other costs will  create
offsets  to  the  annual savings. Implementation costs associated  with
this  restructuring  plan totaled about $30  million  in  1999.   These
costs,  which  are  not included in the restructuring charge,  included
expenses for relocating employees, inventory and equipment; unfavorable
overhead variances; and other expenses.

Financial Instruments
The  company enters into contractual arrangements (derivatives) in  the
ordinary  course  of  business  to manage  foreign  currency  exposure,
interest  rate  risks  and  commodity price risks.   A  financial  risk
management committee, composed of senior management, provides oversight
for   risk   management  and  derivative  activities.   This  committee
determines  the  company's financial risk policies and objectives,  and
provides   guidelines  for  derivative  instrument  utilization.   This
committee  also establishes procedures for control and valuation,  risk
analysis,  counterparty  credit approval, and  ongoing  monitoring  and
reporting.

The  company  enters into forward contracts and swaps to hedge  certain
intercompany  financing transactions, and purchases  options  to  hedge
against  the  effect  of  exchange  rate  fluctuations  on  cash  flows
denominated  in  foreign  currencies.   The  company  manages  interest
expense using a mix of fixed, floating and variable rate debt. To  help
manage borrowing costs, the company may enter into interest rate swaps.
Under  these arrangements, the company agrees to exchange, at specified
intervals,  the difference between fixed and floating interest  amounts
calculated  by  reference to an agreed-upon notional principal  amount.
The  company  manages commodity price risks through  negotiated  supply
contracts, price protection swaps and forward physical contracts.

A  variance/co-variance  value-at-risk  model  was  used  to  test  the
company's  exposure  to  changes in currency and  interest  rates.   An
historical value-at-risk model was used to assess commodity risks.  All
models  used  a  95  percent confidence level over  a  one  month  time
horizon.  The Riskmetrics dataset was used for the variance/co-variance
analysis.   Six  years of historical data were used for  the  commodity
risk  analysis.  Both models assessed the risk of loss in market  value
of outstanding financial instruments and derivatives.  Based on a value-
at-risk  analysis of the company's foreign exchange, interest rate  and
commodity  derivative  instruments outstanding at  December  31,  1999,
probable  near-term  changes  in  exchange  rates,  interest  rates  or
commodity prices would not materially affect the company's consolidated
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  However, over
a one-year period, exchange rates can




significantly impact results.  In 1998, currency effects reduced net
income by an estimated $141 million, or 35 cents per diluted share.

Year 2000 Update
In  November  1996,  the  company created a  corporate-wide  Year  2000
project  team  representing all company business and staff  units.  The
team's objective was to ensure an uninterrupted transition to the  year
2000  by  assessing, testing and modifying information technology  (IT)
and  non-IT systems (defined below) and date-sensitive company products
so  that  (a)  they will perform as intended, regardless  of  the  date
(before,  during  and after December 31, 1999) and (b)  dates  (before,
during  and after December 31, 1999, and including February  29,  2000)
can be processed with expected results (Year 2000 Compliant). The scope
of  the  Year 2000 compliance effort included (i) IT, such as  software
and  hardware;  (ii)  non-IT systems or embedded  technology,  such  as
microcontrollers  contained  in various  manufacturing  and  laboratory
equipment;  environmental and safety systems, facilities and utilities,
(iii)  date-sensitive company products; and (iv) the readiness  of  key
third parties, including suppliers and customers, with whom the company
has material business relationships.

The company also prepared contingency plans specifying what the company
would do if failures occurred in IT and non-IT systems, or if important
third  parties  were  not  Year 2000 Compliant.  The  process  included
identifying  and prioritizing risks, assessing the business  impact  of
those  risks,  creating notification procedures, and preparing  written
contingency  plans  for those failures with the greatest  risk  to  the
company.

From  inception of the company's efforts on the Year 2000 issue through
December 31, 1999, the company spent $66.5 million related to the  Year
2000  readiness  issue.  These  costs  included  external  consultants,
professional advisors, and software and hardware. The company's process
for  tracking internal costs did not capture all of the costs  incurred
for  each  of the teams working on the Year 2000 project. Such internal
costs  were  principally the related payroll costs for its  information
systems group and other employees working on the Year 2000 project. The
company  expensed as incurred all costs related to the  assessment  and
remediation  of  the Year 2000 issue. These costs were  funded  through
operating cash flows.

From  December  31,  1999, to January 14, 2000,  the  company  operated
global  information  centers to monitor the  company's  facilities  and
operations.  No material problems were reported in any of the company's
facilities  or operations during this period. As of the  date  of  this
filing, the company had not experienced any material Year 2000 problems
with  its  IT  or  non-IT  systems or products,  nor  had  the  company
experienced  any  material problems with any of its  key  customers  or
suppliers.




The Euro Conversion
On January 1, 1999, 11 of the 15 member countries of the European Union
(EU)  established  fixed conversion rates through the European  Central
Bank (ECB) between existing local currencies and the euro, the EU's new
single  currency. The participating countries had agreed to  adopt  the
euro as their common legal currency on that date.  From that date,  the
euro  has  been traded on currency exchanges and available for  noncash
transactions.

Local  currencies  will remain legal tender until  December  31,  2001.
Goods  and services may be paid for with the euro or the local currency
under  the  EU's "no compulsion, no prohibition" principle.  If  cross-
border  payments  are made in a local currency during  this  transition
period, the amount will be converted into euros and then converted from
euros  into  the second local currency at rates fixed by the  ECB.  The
participating countries will issue new euro-denominated bills and coins
for  use in cash transactions on about December 31, 2001.  By no  later
than July 1, 2002, participating countries will withdraw all bills  and
coins denominated in local currencies.

In  February 1997, the company created a European Monetary Union  (EMU)
Steering  Committee and project teams representing all company business
and staff units in Europe.  The objective of these teams is to ensure a
smooth  transition to EMU for the company and its constituencies.   The
scope of the teams' efforts includes (i) assessing the euro's impact on
the  company's  business  and  pricing  strategies  for  customers  and
suppliers, and (ii) ensuring that the company's business processes  and
information technology (IT) systems can process transactions  in  euros
and  local  currencies  during the transition period  and  achieve  the
conversion of all relevant local currency data to the euro by  December
31, 2001, in the participating countries.

The European market contributed 24 percent of consolidated sales and 20
percent  of  consolidated  operating  income,  excluding  non-recurring
items, in 1999. The participating countries accounted for 61 percent of
the  company's  sales  in  the European market  in  1999.  The  company
believes that the euro will, over time, increase price competition  for
the   company's  products  across  Europe  due  to  cross-border  price
transparency.  The  company also believes that the adverse  effects  of
increased  price  competition will be offset somewhat by  new  business
opportunities and efficiencies. The company, however, is  not  able  to
estimate  the  net  long-term impact of the euro  introduction  on  the
company.

The  company has made significant investments in IT systems in  Europe,
and  these  investments already enable the company to  manage  customer
orders,  invoices,  payments  and  accounts  in  euros  and  in   local
currencies   according  to  customer  needs.  The  company  anticipates
spending approximately $35-50 million to complete the conversion of all
its  IT systems in Europe to the euro by December 31, 2001. The company
is  developing appropriate contingency plans so the euro adoption  does
not jeopardize the company's operations.

The  euro introduction is not expected to have a material impact on the
company's  overall  currency risk.  Although  the  company  engages  in
significant  trade  within the EU, the impact to  date  of  changes  in
currency  exchange rates on trade within the EU has not been  material.
The company anticipates the euro will simplify financial issues related
to  cross-border trade in the EU and reduce the transaction  costs  and
administrative  time necessary to manage




this trade and related  risks. The company believes that the associated
savings will not be  material to corporate results.

The  company has derivatives outstanding beyond December 31,  1999,  in
several  European  currencies.   Under  the  EU's  "no  compulsion,  no
prohibition"  principle,  the  outstanding  derivative  positions  will
either  mature as local currency contracts or convert to euro contracts
at no additional economic cost to the company. The company has modified
systems to track derivatives in euros. The company believes the  impact
of the euro introduction on the company's derivative positions will not
be material.

Forward-Looking Statements
The  Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a  "safe
harbor" for certain forward-looking statements.  This Annual Report  on
Form  10-K  contains  forward-looking  statements,  which  reflect  the
company's  current  views with respect to future events  and  financial
performance.

These  forward-looking  statements are subject  to  certain  risks  and
uncertainties,  including  several identified  here  that  could  cause
actual  results to differ materially from historical results  or  those
anticipated.   The  words  "aim,"  "believe,"  "expect,"  "anticipate,"
"intend,"  "estimate," "will," "should," "could" and other  expressions
that   indicate  future  events  and  trends  identify  forward-looking
statements.

Actual  future results and trends may differ materially from historical
results  or  those  anticipated depending  on  a  variety  of  factors,
including,  but  not  limited  to: the  effects  of,  and  changes  in,
worldwide  economic conditions; foreign exchange rates and fluctuations
in  those  rates;  the  timing and market  acceptance  of  new  product
offerings;  raw  materials, including shortages and  increases  in  the
costs  of  key raw materials; and legal proceedings (see discussion  of
Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K).




Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.





                        Report of Independent Auditors

To  the  Stockholders  and Board of Directors of Minnesota  Mining  and
Manufacturing Company:

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements as listed in Item
8  of  this  Form  10-K present fairly, in all material  respects,  the
consolidated  financial position of Minnesota Mining and  Manufacturing
Company  and  Subsidiaries  at December 31,  1999  and  1998,  and  the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for  each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999, in conformity
with  accounting  principles generally accepted in the  United  States.
These  financial  statements are the responsibility  of  the  company's
management;  our  responsibility is to  express  an  opinion  on  these
financial  statements based on our audits.  We conducted our audits  of
these  statements  in  accordance  with  auditing  standards  generally
accepted  in the United States, which require that we plan and  perform
the  audit  to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the  financial
statements  are  free  of  material misstatement.   An  audit  includes
examining,  on  a  test  basis, evidence  supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures  in  the  financial statements,  assessing  the  accounting
principles  used  and  significant estimates made  by  management,  and
evaluating  the overall financial statement presentation.   We  believe
that  our  audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion  expressed
above.





/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
St. Paul, Minnesota
February 14, 2000





















Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Significant Accounting Policies
Consolidation:   All  significant subsidiaries  are  consolidated.  All
intercompany transactions are eliminated. As used herein, the term "3M"
or  "company" refers to Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company  and
subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise.

Foreign   currency   translation:   Local  currencies   generally   are
considered the functional currencies outside the United States,  except
in  countries  treated as highly inflationary.  Assets and  liabilities
for  operations in local-currency environments are translated at  year-
end exchange rates.  Income and expense items are translated at average
rates  of  exchange prevailing during the year. Cumulative  translation
adjustments   are   recorded  as  a  component  of  accumulated   other
comprehensive income in stockholders' equity.

For  operations  in  countries treated as highly inflationary,  certain
financial  statement  amounts  are translated  at  historical  exchange
rates,  with  all other assets and liabilities translated  at  year-end
exchange  rates. These translation adjustments are reflected in  income
and are not material.

Reclassifications:   Certain  reclassifications  have  been   made   to
December 31, 1998, Consolidated Balance Sheet amounts to conform to the
current-year presentation.

Use   of  estimates:   The  preparation  of  financial  statements   in
conformity  with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles  requires
management  to make estimates and assumptions that affect the  reported
amounts  of  assets  and liabilities and the disclosure  of  contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting  period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.

Cash  and cash equivalents:  Cash and cash equivalents consist of  cash
and  temporary investments with maturities of three months or less when
purchased.

Other   securities  and  investments:   Other  securities  consist   of
marketable  securities and interest-bearing bank deposits  with  varied
maturity dates. These securities are employed in the company's banking,
captive insurance and cash management operations. Investments primarily
include   debt  securities  held  by  captive  insurance  and   banking
operations;  the cash surrender value of life insurance  policies;  and
real  estate  and  venture capital investments.  Unrealized  gains  and
losses  relating  to  other  securities and investments  classified  as
available-for-sale  are recorded as a component  of  accumulated  other
comprehensive  income in stockholders' equity.  The  company's  banking
operations were divested on June 30, 1999.

Inventories:   Inventories are stated at lower of cost or market,  with
cost generally determined on a first-in, first-out basis.

Other  assets:   Other  assets  include  product  and  other  insurance
receivables,  goodwill,  patents, other  intangibles,  deferred  income
taxes and other noncurrent assets.  Goodwill is amortized on a straight-
line  basis  over the




periods benefited, ranging from 5 to 40  years.  Other intangible items
are amortized on a straight-line  basis  over their estimated economic
lives.

Revenue  recognition:  Revenue is recognized upon shipment of goods  to
customers and upon performance of services.  The company sells  a  wide
range  of products to a diversified base of customers around the  world
and,  therefore, believes there is no material concentration of  credit
risk.

Property,  plant  and equipment:  Depreciation of property,  plant  and
equipment generally is computed using the straight-line method based on
estimated useful lives of the assets. Estimated useful lives range from
5  to  40  years for building and improvements and 3 to  20  years  for
machinery  and  equipment.  Fully depreciated assets  are  retained  in
property  and  accumulated  depreciation accounts  until  removed  from
service.   Upon  disposal, assets and related accumulated  depreciation
are  removed  from the accounts and the net amount, less proceeds  from
disposal, is charged or credited to operations.

Advertising  and merchandising:  These costs are charged to  operations
in the year incurred.

Derivatives  and  hedging activities:  The company uses  interest  rate
swaps, currency swaps, and forward and option contracts to manage risks
generally  associated  with foreign exchange rate,  interest  rate  and
commodity  market volatility.  All hedging instruments  are  designated
and   effective  as  hedges,  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted
accounting  principles.   Instruments that do  not  qualify  for  hedge
accounting  are  marked  to market with changes recognized  in  current
earnings.   The  company  does not hold or issue  derivative  financial
instruments  for  trading  purposes and is not  a  party  to  leveraged
derivatives.

Realized   and  unrealized  gains  and  losses  for  qualifying   hedge
instruments  are  deferred until offsetting gains  and  losses  on  the
underlying  transactions are recognized in earnings.  These  gains  and
losses  generally  are recognized either as interest expense  over  the
borrowing period for interest rate and currency swaps; as an adjustment
to cost of goods sold for inventory-related hedge transactions; or as a
component  of  accumulated other comprehensive income in  stockholders'
equity for hedges of net investments in international companies. If the
underlying  hedged  transaction ceases to exist, all  changes  in  fair
value  of  the  related  derivatives that have  not  been  settled  are
recognized  in  earnings.  Cash flows attributable to  these  financial
instruments  are included with the cash flows of the associated  hedged
items.

Accounting  for  stock-based  compensation:   The  company   uses   the
intrinsic  value  method  for the Management  Stock  Ownership  Program
(MSOP).   The  General  Employees'  Stock  Purchase  Plan  (GESPP)   is
considered noncompensatory.

Comprehensive income: Total comprehensive income and the components  of
accumulated   other   comprehensive  income  are   presented   in   the
Consolidated   Statement  of  Changes  in  Stockholders'   Equity   and
Comprehensive  Income.  Accumulated  other  comprehensive   income   is
composed  of foreign currency translation effects, including hedges  of
net  investments in international companies, minimum pension  liability
adjustments, and unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale debt
and equity securities.




Earnings  per  share:   The difference in the weighted  average  shares
outstanding  for calculating basic and diluted earnings  per  share  is
attributable  to  the  assumed  exercise  of  MSOP  stock  options,  if
dilutive, and also includes the effect of the assumed exercise of GESPP
options  for  periods through June 30, 1997.  Beginning July  1,  1997,
GESPP options had no dilutive effect.

New  accounting  pronouncements:  In  1999,  the  Financial  Accounting
Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards  No.
137,  "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging  Activities  -
Deferral of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 133." The  company
must adopt Statement No. 133 no later than January 1, 2001. The company
is  reviewing the requirements of this standard.  Although the  company
expects  that  this standard will not materially affect  its  financial
position  or  results  of  operations, it has  not  yet  finalized  its
determination  of  the  impact  of this standard  on  its  consolidated
financial statements.

Effective  January 1, 1999, the company adopted Statement  of  Position
(SOP)98-1, "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed  or
Obtained  for  Internal Use," and SOP 98-5 "Reporting on the  Costs  of
Start-Up  Activities,"  both  issued  by  the  American  Institute   of
Certified Public Accountants.  These statements did not have a material
effect  on  the consolidated financial statements because the company's
existing accounting policies were generally in compliance.

Restructuring Charge
To  reduce  costs  and  improve productivity, the company  initiated  a
restructuring  program  in  the  second  half  of  1998  to  streamline
corporate  structure,  consolidate manufacturing  operations  and  exit
certain  product  lines.  Related  to  this,  the  company  recorded  a
restructuring  charge  of $493 million ($313  million  after  tax).   A
portion  of this restructuring charge ($39 million) has been classified
as  a component of cost of goods sold. In 1999, the company recorded  a
change  in  estimate  that  reduced the  restructuring  charge  by  $28
million.   The restructuring charge does not include the write-down  of
goodwill  or  other intangible assets.  As of December 31,  1999,  this
restructuring program was substantially complete.

Of  the  total restructuring charge, $275 million relates  to  employee
termination benefits for personnel reductions in each business  segment
and  geographic  area of the company and in all major functions.  Under
the plan, the company terminated 1,225 employees in the second half  of
1998  and 3,288 employees in 1999, of whom about one-third were in  the
United States and two-thirds were abroad. Because certain employees can
defer   receipt  of  termination  benefits,  cash  payments   lag   job
eliminations. After subtracting payments of $244 million  made  through
December 31, 1999, the company had a remaining liability of $31 million
related  to  employee termination benefits at year-end, most  of  which
relates  to employees already terminated. This amount is classified  in
current liabilities (payroll) on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

The  company  has  consolidated or downsized manufacturing  operations,
including  actions  in seven locations in the United  States,  nine  in
Europe, four in the Asia Pacific area and two in Latin America. As part
of  the restructuring plan, the company has discontinued product  lines
that  had  combined annual sales of less than $100 million and marginal
operating income.




The  restructuring charge includes $112 million, net of salvage  value,
for the write-down of assets included in property, plant and equipment.
These  assets primarily include specialized 3M manufacturing  machinery
and  equipment.  Estimated salvage values are  based  on  estimates  of
proceeds upon sale of certain affected assets.

The  restructuring  charge  also includes $78  million  for  losses  on
inventory write-downs and other exit costs.  The company has  taken  an
inventory  write-down of $39 million, which has been  classified  as  a
component  of cost of goods sold, for certain product lines  that  were
discontinued primarily in 1998. Other exit costs include $39 million in
incremental  costs  and  contractual  obligations  for  items  such  as
leasehold  termination payments and other facility exit costs  incurred
as  a  direct  result  of the plan. After subtracting  $31  million  in
payments  made through December 31, 1999, the company had  a  remaining
balance of $8 million in other current liabilities for these exit costs
at December 31, 1999.





Acquisitions and Divestitures
Acquisition  of  Dyneon minority interest:  On December  28,  1999,  3M
finalized  the  acquisition  of  the outstanding  46  percent  minority
interest in Dyneon LLC from Celanese AG for approximately $340  million
in  cash, primarily financed by debt. The purchase method of accounting
was  used for this acquisition.  Based on a preliminary allocation, the
purchase price exceeds the recorded basis of the minority interest  net
assets  by  approximately  $265 million, of  which  approximately  $180
million  represents goodwill and other intangible assets that



will be amortized  over  15  years  or  less.   Dyneon's  assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses were already fully consolidated in
3M's financial statements,  with  the 46 percent minority interest
eliminated  on  the minority  interest  line  to  reflect  3M's  net
position.   If  this acquisition  had  occurred at the beginning  of
1999, the effect on results of operations would not have been material.

Divestitures:  On  June 30, 1999, the company closed  on  the  sale  of
Eastern  Heights Bank, a subsidiary banking operation, and on the  sale
of   the   assets  of  its  cardiovascular  systems  business.    These
divestitures  generated cash proceeds of $203 million and,  net  of  an
investment  valuation adjustment, resulted in a pre-tax  gain  of  $104
million ($55 million after tax) in the second quarter of 1999. 3M  also
recorded a pre-tax gain of $43 million ($26 million after tax)  related
to  divestitures,  mainly in the Health Care Markets  segment,  in  the
third  quarter of 1999. These pre-tax gains are recorded as a reduction
of  selling,  general and administrative expenses in  the  Consolidated
Statement of Income.

Gain on National Advertising Company divestiture:  Effective August 15,
1997,  the  company sold National Advertising Company, an  outdoor  and
mall  advertising subsidiary, for cash proceeds of $1.0 billion.  After
adjusting  for  the net cost of the assets sold and  for  the  expenses
associated  with the divestiture, the company realized a gain  of  $803
million ($495 million after tax), or $1.18 per diluted share, in  1997.
National Advertising Company had annual sales of about $200 million and
operating income of about $35 million.  In 1998, a $10 million gain was
recorded to finalize the accounting for this sale.



Research  and development expenses, covering basic scientific  research
and  the application of scientific advances to the development  of  new
and  improved  products  and  their uses, totaled  $688  million,  $648
million and $634 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.  Related
expenses   primarily  include  technical  support   provided   by   the
laboratories for existing products.









Supplemental Balance Sheet Information (continued)


Supplemental Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income Information
Common  stock ($.50 par value per share; without par value at  December
31,  1996)  of 1 billion shares is authorized, with 472,016,528  shares
issued  in  1999, 1998 and 1997. Common stock and capital in excess  of
par  includes $60 million transferred from common stock to  capital  in
excess of par value during 1997. Preferred stock, without par value, of
10 million shares is authorized but unissued.

In  1999,  deferred income taxes for the unrealized gain  on  debt  and
equity   securities  totaled  $77  million,  and  for  minimum  pension
liability adjustments totaled $36 million. Reclassification adjustments
in  1999  for realized gains included in net income totaled $41 million
($25  million  after  tax). These gains related to  appreciated  equity
securities donated to the 3M Foundation in December 1999. In 1999, 1998
and  1997, other deferred income tax effects and other reclassification
adjustments  were  not material. The following table shows  the  ending
balances of the components of accumulated other comprehensive income.




Supplemental Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income Information
(continued)




Income tax payments in 1997 include $308 million related to the gain on
the sale of National Advertising Company.

In  1999,  3M exchanged assets used in the business, but not  held  for
sale, with a fair market value of $61 million plus cash of $12 million,
for  similar assets having a fair market value of $73 million.  No gain
was recognized on this nonmonetary exchange of productive assets.  Also
in  1999, 3M donated to the 3M Foundation appreciated property  with  a
market  value  of  $66  million, resulting in  $8  million  of  pre-tax
expense, which represented the company's cost of the securities.

In  1998,  the  3M Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) refinanced  its
existing debt by issuing new debt of $385 million.  Because the company
has  guaranteed  repayment  of the ESOP  debt,  the  debt  and  related
unearned  compensation are recorded on the Consolidated Balance  Sheet.
The  repayment of principal and proceeds of long-term debt relating  to
the  ESOP  have  been  excluded from the financing  activities  of  the
company  in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows because the  funds
involved were received and disbursed by the ESOP trust.

In  1997,  cash  outflows from discontinued operations related  to  the
costs associated with the final disposition of the company's audio  and
video businesses pursuant to the plan approved in November 1995.








Debt  with  fixed interest rates includes the ESOP, U.S.  dollar  6.375
percent  note,  Sumitomo  3M  Limited note,  and  a  portion  of  other
borrowings.   ESOP debt is serviced by dividends on stock held  by  the
ESOP and by company contributions.  These contributions are reported as
an  employee benefit expense in the Consolidated Statement  of  Income.
Debt  not  denominated  in  U.S.  dollars  includes  the  5.75  percent
Eurobond,  the Sumitomo 3M Limited note, and most of other  borrowings.
Other borrowings include debt held by 3M's international companies, and
floating rate notes and industrial bond issues in the United States.

Maturities  of  long-term debt for the next five years are:  2000,  $36
million; 2001, $652 million; 2002, $38 million; 2003, $131 million; and
2004, $35 million.

The   company  estimates  that  the  fair  value  of  short-term   debt
approximates the carrying amount of this debt.  The fair value of long-
term debt, based on third-party quotes, is estimated at $1.376 billion.
Debt  covenants do not restrict the payment of dividends.  At  year-end
1999,  the  company had available short-term lines of  credit  totaling
about $661 million.




Other Financial Instruments
Interest  rate and currency swaps:  The company uses interest rate  and
currency swaps to manage interest rate risk related to borrowings.  The
notional  amounts shown in the table below serve solely as a basis  for
the  calculation  of payment streams to be exchanged.   These  notional
amounts are not a measure of the company's exposure through its use  of
derivatives.   These  instruments generally mature in  relationship  to
their   underlying  debt  and  have  maturities  extending   to   2001.
Unrealized  gains  and  losses  and  exposure  to  changes  in   market
conditions  were not material at December 31, 1999, for  interest  rate
swaps,  and at December 31, 1998, for interest rate and currency swaps.
Currency  swaps  at December 31, 1999, had an unrealized  gain  of  $13
million  and  unrealized losses of $61 million, largely  offset  by  an
unrealized  gain  of  $39  million  relating  to  an  underlying   debt
instrument.



Foreign exchange forward and option contracts:  The company has entered
into  foreign  exchange forward and option contracts, the  majority  of
which  have  maturities  of  less than  one  year.   The  face  amounts
represent  contracted  U.S. dollar equivalents of  forward  and  option
contracts denominated in foreign currencies.  The amounts at  risk  are
not material because the company has the ability to generate offsetting
foreign  currency cash flows.  Unrealized gains and losses at  December
31, 1999 and 1998, were not material.












Business Segments
In  the  third quarter of 1999, the company reorganized its  management
reporting structure into six business segments. Prior year amounts have
been  retroactively restated to reflect this change in business segment
reporting.   3M's  businesses  are organized,  managed  and  internally
reported as six segments based on differences in products, technologies
and  services.  These segments are Industrial; Transportation, Graphics
and   Safety;   Health   Care;  Consumer  and   Office;   Electro   and
Communications; and Specialty Material.  These segments have  worldwide
responsibility for virtually all of the company's product lines. 3M  is
not dependent on any single product or market.

Transactions among reportable segments are recorded at cost.  3M is  an
integrated   enterprise   characterized  by  substantial   intersegment
cooperation,  cost  allocations  and inventory  transfers.   Therefore,
management  does  not  represent  that  these  segments,  if   operated
independently,  would report the operating income and  other  financial
information shown.

Operating  income  in 1999 includes a non-recurring net  gain  of  $100
million. This relates to divestitures of certain health care businesses
and  Eastern Heights Bank, litigation expense, an investment  valuation
adjustment,   and   a  change  in  estimate  that  reduced   the   1998
restructuring  charge.   Of this $100 million  gain,  $62  million  was
recorded  in  Health Care and $38 million in Corporate and Unallocated.
Operating  income  in  1998  includes a restructuring  charge  of  $493
million in Corporate and Unallocated.






Business segments (continued):






Geographic Areas
Information  in the table below is presented on the basis  the  company
uses  to  manage its businesses.  Export sales and certain  income  and
expense  items are reported within the geographic area where the  final
sales to customers are made. Prior year amounts have been retroactively
restated to conform to the current-year presentation.

In  1999, operating income for eliminations and other includes  a  non-
recurring  net  gain of $100 million related to gains on  divestitures,
litigation expense, an investment valuation adjustment, and a change in
estimate that reduced the 1998 restructuring charge. In 1998, operating
income for eliminations and other includes a $493 million restructuring
charge.



Retirement and Postretirement Benefit Plans
3M    has   various   company-sponsored   retirement   plans   covering
substantially all U.S. employees and many employees outside the  United
States.  Pension benefits are based principally on an employee's  years
of  service and compensation near retirement.  In addition to providing
pension  benefits,  the company provides certain postretirement  health
care  and  life insurance benefits for substantially all  of  its  U.S.
employees who reach retirement age while employed by the company.  Most
international  employees and retirees are covered by government  health
care  programs.   The cost of company-provided health  care  plans  for
these international employees is not material.

The  company's  pension funding policy is to deposit  with  independent
trustees amounts at least equal to those required by law.  Trust  funds
and deposits with insurance companies are maintained to provide pension
benefits  to  plan participants and their beneficiaries.  In  addition,
the  company has set aside funds for its U.S. postretirement plan  with
an independent trustee and makes periodic contributions to the plan.




The   company's  U.S.  nonqualified  pension  plan  had   an   unfunded
accumulated  benefit obligation of $171 million at December  31,  1999,
and $175 million at December 31, 1998.  There are no plan assets in the
nonqualified plan due to its nature.

Certain  international pension plans were underfunded  as  of  year-end
1999  and 1998. The accumulated benefit obligations of these plans were
$467  million  in 1999 and $418 million in 1998.  The assets  of  these
plans  were  $353 million in 1999 and $384 million in  1998.   The  net
underfunded  amounts are included in current and other  liabilities  on
the Consolidated Balance Sheet.







The  company expects its health care cost trend rate for postretirement
benefits to slow from 6.1 percent in 2000 to 5.0 percent in 2004, after
which  the rate is expected to stabilize. A one percentage point change
in  the  assumed health care cost trend rates would have the  following
effects.



Leases
Rental  expense under operating leases was $113 million  in  1999,  and
$125  million  in  both 1998 and 1997.  The table below  shows  minimum
payments  under operating leases with noncancelable terms in excess  of
one year, as of December 31, 1999.






Employee Savings and Stock Ownership Plans
The company sponsors employee savings plans under Section 401(k) of the
Internal  Revenue  Code.  These plans are offered to substantially  all
regular  U.S. employees. Employee contributions of up to 6  percent  of
compensation  are matched at rates ranging from 10 to 35 percent,  with
additional company contributions depending upon company performance.

The  company  maintains an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP).   This
plan  was  established in 1989 as a cost effective way of  funding  the
majority  of the company's contributions under 401(k) employee  savings
plans.   Total ESOP shares are considered to be shares outstanding  for
earnings per share calculations.

In  1998, the ESOP refinanced its existing debt by issuing new debt  of
$385  million  at  an interest rate of 5.62 percent.  This  refinancing
extended the life of the original ESOP from 2004 to 2009.  The  company
incurred a one-time charge of $59 million ($38 million net of tax),  or
9  cents per diluted share, which is reported as an extraordinary  loss
from early extinguishment of debt.

Dividends  on shares held by the ESOP are paid to the ESOP  trust  and,
together  with  company contributions, are used by the  ESOP  to  repay
principal and interest on the outstanding notes.  Over the life of  the
notes, shares are released for allocation to participants based on  the
ratio  of the current year's debt service to the remaining debt service
prior to the current payment.

The ESOP has been the primary funding source for the company's employee
savings plans.  Expenses related to the ESOP include total debt service
on the notes, less dividends.  The company contributes treasury shares,
accounted  for  at  fair  value, to employee  savings  plans  to  cover
obligations  not funded by the ESOP. These amounts are reported  as  an
employee  benefit expense.  Unearned compensation, shown as a reduction
of  stockholders' equity, is reduced symmetrically as  the  ESOP  makes
principal payments on the debt.








General Employees' Stock Purchase Plan
In May 1997, shareholders approved 15 million shares for issuance under
the   company's   General  Employees'  Stock  Purchase  Plan   (GESPP).
Substantially all employees are eligible to participate in  the  GESPP.
Participants are granted options at 85 percent of market value  at  the
date  of  grant.   Effective July 1, 1997, options are granted  on  the
first  business day and exercised on the last business day of the  same
month.  Previously, GESPP options were exercised within 27 months  from
the date of grant.



Management Stock Ownership Program
In May 1997, shareholders approved 35 million shares for issuance under
the  Management  Stock  Ownership  Program  (MSOP).   Management  stock
options are granted at market value at the date of grant. These options
generally  are exercisable one year after the date of grant and  expire
10  years from the date of grant.  At year-end 1999, there were  10,580
participants in the plan.






Management Stock Ownership Program (continued)



Stock-Based Compensation
No  compensation  cost has been recognized for the  General  Employees'
Stock  Purchase Plan (GESPP) or the Management Stock Ownership  Program
(MSOP).  Pro forma amounts based on the options' estimated fair  value,
net  of tax, at the grant dates for awards under the GESPP and MSOP are
presented below.



The  weighted average fair value per option granted during  1999,  1998
and  1997  was $12.75, $12.34 and $13.67, respectively, for the  GESPP,
and  $22.86,  $20.41 and $21.81, respectively, for the  incentive  MSOP
grants.   The weighted average fair value was calculated by  using  the
fair value of each option on the date of grant. The fair value of GESPP
options  was  based  on  the 15 percent purchase  discount.   For  MSOP
options,  the  fair  value was calculated utilizing  the  Black-Scholes
option-pricing model and the assumptions that follow.



The  GESPP  and  MSOP options, if exercised, would have  the  following
dilutive  effect  on  shares  outstanding  for  1999,  1998  and  1997,
respectively:  4.5  million,  4.7  million  and  6.0  million   shares.
Beginning July 1, 1997, GESPP options had no dilutive effect.   Certain
MSOP  options  outstanding for years 1999 and 1998 (8.7 million  shares
and  10.8  million  shares,  respectively) were  not  included  in  the
computation of diluted earnings per share because they would not have a
dilutive effect.




Legal Proceedings
Discussion of legal matters is incorporated by reference from  Part  I,
Item 3, of this Form 10-K, and should be considered an integral part of
the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes.







Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
       Financial Disclosure.

   None.

                            PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

Item 11. Executive Compensation.

Item 12.   Security  Ownership  of  Certain  Beneficial  Owners   and
Management.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

The  information  required by Items 10 through 13 are  incorporated  by
reference from the registrant's definitive proxy statement pursuant  to
general  instruction G(3), with the exception of the executive officers
section of Item 10, which is included in Item 1 of this Form 10-K.  The
registrant  will file with the Commission a definitive proxy  statement
pursuant to Regulation 14A by May 1, 2000.


                            PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.

(a) The financial statements filed as part of this report are listed in
   the index to financial statements on page 30.

All financial statement schedules are omitted because of the absence of
the  conditions under which they are required or because  the  required
information  is  included  in the financial  statements  or  the  notes
thereto.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K:
3M  was  not  required to file any reports on Form 8-K for the  quarter
ended December 31, 1999.










                                 SIGNATURES

Pursuant  to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities  Exchange
Act of l934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                  MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY



                             By  /s/ Robert J. Burgstahler
                                 Robert J. Burgstahler, Vice President
                                 Principal Financial and Accounting Officer
                                 February 18, 2000

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the registrant and in the capacities indicated on February 18, 2000.

Signature               Title

Livio D. DeSimone       Chairman of the Board and
                        Chief Executive Officer, Director

Ronald O. Baukol        Director
Edward A. Brennan       Director
Edward R. McCracken     Director
Allen E. Murray         Director
Aulana L. Peters        Director
Rozanne L. Ridgway      Director
Frank Shrontz           Director
F. Alan Smith           Director
Louis W. Sullivan       Director


Roger  P.  Smith,  by signing his name hereto, does  hereby  sign  this
document  pursuant  to powers of attorney duly executed  by  the  other
persons  named,  filed with the Securities and Exchange  Commission  on
behalf  of  such other persons, all in the capacities and on  the  date
stated,  such persons constituting a majority of the directors  of  the
company.

                              By  /s/ Roger P. Smith
                                 Roger P. Smith, Attorney-in-Fact



