
10-K405
1994 10-K


																						 
	UNITED STATES
	SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
	Washington, D.C. 20549
	FORM 10-K
				 
	[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
	SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
	For the year ended December 31, 1994  

	Commission file number 1-3285

	MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY

	State of Incorporation: Delaware        
	I.R.S. Employer Identification No. 41-0417775

	Executive offices: 3M Center, St. Paul, Minnesota 55144
	Telephone number: (612) 733-1110
				    
	SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
                                   						  Name of each exchange
		Title of each class                      on which registered
	 -------------------------------          ---------------------- 
	 Common Stock, Without Par Value          New York Stock Exchange
                                   						  Pacific Stock Exchange
                                   						  Chicago Stock Exchange

	 Note:  The common stock of the registrant is also traded on the 
	 Amsterdam Stock Exchange, German stock exchanges, Swiss stock 
	 exchanges, the Paris Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock Exchange.

	Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act: None
				    
	Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all 
	reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
	Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such 
	shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports),  
	and (2)  has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 
	90 days.  Yes    X   . No        .

	Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to 
	Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be 
	contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy 
	or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of 
	this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

	The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of 
	the registrant, based on the closing price of $52.38 per share as 
	reported on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Index on 
	January 31, 1995, was $22.0 billion.

	Shares of common stock outstanding at January 31, 1995:  419,796,244.

	DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

	Parts of the following documents are incorporated by reference in 
	Parts III and IV of this Form 10-K:  (1) Proxy Statement for 
	registrant's 1995 annual meeting, (2) Form 10-Q for period ended 
	June 30, 1987, and (3) Registration Nos. 33-29329, 33-48089 and 
	33-49842.
	This document contains 45 pages.
																						 


	MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY

	FORM 10-K

	For the Year Ended December 31, 1994

	PART I

Item 1. Business.
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company was incorporated in 1929 under the 
laws of the State of Delaware to continue operations, begun in 1902, of a 
Minnesota corporation of the same name.  As used herein, the term "3M" 
includes Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company and subsidiaries unless 
the context otherwise indicates. At December 31, 1994, the company employed 
85,166 persons.

3M is an integrated enterprise characterized by substantial interdivision and 
intersector cooperation in research, manufacturing and marketing of products 
incorporating similar component materials manufactured at common internal 
sources.  Its business has developed from its research and technology in 
coating and bonding for coated abrasives, its only product in its early years. 
Coating and bonding is the process of applying one material to another, such 
as adhesives to a backing (pressure-sensitive tapes), abrasive granules to 
paper or cloth (coated abrasives), ceramic coating to granular mineral 
(roofing granules), heat-sensitive or light-sensitive materials to paper, 
film and metal (dry silver paper, photographic film and lithographic plates), 
iron oxide to plastic backing (magnetic recording tape), glass beads to 
plastic backing (reflective sheeting), and low tack adhesives to paper 
(repositionable notes).

3M believes that it is among the leading producers of products for many of 
the markets it serves. In all cases, 3M products are subject to direct or 
indirect competition. Generally speaking, most 3M products involve technical 
competence in development, manufacturing and marketing and are subject to 
competition with products manufactured and sold by other technically-oriented 
companies.

3M's three business sectors are: Industrial and Consumer; Information, 
Imaging and Electronic; and Life Sciences.  Each sector brings together 
common or related 3M technologies and thus provides greater opportunity for 
the future development of products and services and a more efficient sharing 
of business strengths.

The notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 32 and 33 of this 
Form 10-K provide financial information concerning 3M's three industry 
segments and 3M's operations in various geographic areas of the world.

Industry Segments

3M's operations are organized into three business sectors. These sectors have 
worldwide responsibility for virtually all 3M product lines.  A few 
miscellaneous and staff-sponsored new products, still in development, are not 
assigned to the sectors.

Industrial and Consumer Sector:  This sector is a leader in developing the 
technologies for pressure-sensitive adhesives, specialty tapes, coated and 
nonwoven abrasives, and specialty chemicals.  These core technologies provide 
a strong basis for the development of new products.  The sector also has 
strong distribution channels and logistics expertise.  The sector is 
organized into five groups: Abrasive, Chemical and Film Products; Automotive 
Systems; Consumer Markets; Office Markets; and Tape.

Major products in the Abrasive, Chemical and Film Products Group include 
coated abrasives (such as sandpaper) for grinding, conditioning and finishing 
a wide range of surfaces; natural and color-coated mineral granules for 
asphalt shingles; finishing compounds; and flame-retardant materials. This 
group also markets products for maintaining and repairing vehicles.  Major 
chemical products include protective chemicals for furniture, fabrics and 
paper products; fire-fighting agents; fluoroelastomers for seals, tubes and 
gaskets in engines; engineering fluids; and high performance fluids used in 
the manufacture of computer chips and for electronic cooling and lubricating 
of computer hard disk drives. This group also serves as a major resource for 
other 3M divisions, supplying specialty chemicals, adhesives and films used 
in the manufacture of many 3M products.

Major products in the Automotive Systems Group include body side-molding and 
trim; functional and decorative graphics; corrosion-resistant and 
abrasion-resistant films; tapes for attaching nameplates, trim and moldings; 
and fasteners for attaching interior panels and carpeting.

Major products in the Consumer and Office Markets businesses include Scotch 
brand tapes; Post-it brand note products, including memo pads, labels, 
stickers, pop-up notes and dispensers; home cleaning products, including 
Scotch-Brite brand scouring products, O-Cel-O brand sponges and Scotchgard
brand fabric protectors; energy control products, such as window insulation 
kits; nonwoven abrasive materials for floor maintenance and commercial 
cleaning; floor matting; and a wide range of do-it-yourself products, 
including surface preparation and wood finishing materials, and filters for 
furnaces and air conditioners.

The Tape Group manufactures and markets a wide variety of high-performance 
and general-use pressure-sensitive tapes and specialty products. Major 
product categories include industrial application tapes made from a wide 
variety of materials such as foil, film, vinyl and polyester; specialty tapes 
and adhesives for industrial applications, including Scotch brand VHB brand 
tapes, lithographic tapes, joining systems, specialty additives, vibration 
control materials, liquid adhesives, and reclosable fasteners; general-use 
tapes, such as masking, box-sealing and filament; and labels and other 
materials for identifying and marking durable goods.

Information, Imaging and Electronic Sector:  This sector serves rapidly 
changing markets in audio, video and data recording; graphic communications; 
information storage, output and transfer; telecommunications; electronics and 
electrical products. The sector has the leading technologies for certain 
electrical, electronic and fiber-optic applications and a wide variety of 
graphic imaging technologies. Having these related areas in one operating 
unit fosters efficient product development and innovation.  The sector is 
also strong in worldwide distribution and service.  The sector is organized 
into three groups: Electro and Communications Systems; Imaging Systems; and 
Memory Technologies.

The Electro and Communications Systems Group includes products in the 
electronic, electrical, telecommunication and visual communication fields.  
The electronic and electrical products include packaging and inter-connection 
devices; insulating materials, including pressure-sensitive tapes and resins; 
and other related equipment.  These products are used extensively by 
manufacturers of electronic and electrical equipment, as well as the 
construction and maintenance segments of the electric utility, telephone and 
other industries.  The telecommunication products serve the world's telephone 
companies with a wide array of products for fiber-optic and copper-based 
telephone systems.  These include many innovative connecting, closure and 
splicing systems, maintenance products and test equipment.  The visual 
communication products serve the world's office and education markets with 
overhead projectors and transparency films and materials plus equipment and 
accessories for computer-based presentations.

The Imaging Systems Group offers a complete line of products for printers and 
graphic arts firms, ranging from the largest commercial printer to the 
smallest instant printer or in-house facility.  These products include a 
broad line of presensitized lithographic plates and related supplies; a 
complete line of duplicator press plates and automated imaging systems and 
related supplies; copy and art preparation materials; pre-press proofing 
systems; carbonless paper sheets for multiple-part business forms; and a line 
of light-sensitive dry silver papers and films for electronically recorded 
images. This group's imaging technologies are used in producing photographic 
products, including medical X-ray films, graphic arts films and amateur color 
films. It also is a major supplier of laser imagers and supplies and 
computerized medical diagnostic systems.  This group also offers an array of 
micrographic systems including readers and printers for engineering graphics 
and office applications.  Related products include dry silver imaging papers 
and microfilm in aperture card and roll formats.

The Memory Technologies Group manufactures and markets a complete line of 
magnetic and optical recording products for many applications that meet the 
requirements for complex applications in computers, instrumentation, 
automation and other fields. Memory Technologies is the world's largest 
supplier of removable memory media for computers.  Products range from 
computer diskettes, cartridges and tapes to CD-ROM and rewritable optical 
media.  The group markets a wide array of recording products which are used 
for home video recording, in professional radio and television markets, as 
well as for commercial and industrial uses.  These include reel-to-reel, 
cartridge and cassette tapes for audio and video recording.

Life Sciences Sector:  This sector contributes to better health and safety 
for people around the world. The Life Sciences Sector's major technologies 
include pressure-sensitive adhesives, substrates, extrusion/coating, nonwoven 
materials, specialty polymers and resins, optical systems, drug delivery, and 
electro-mechanical devices.  The sector has strong distribution channels in 
all its major markets.  The sector is organized into three groups:  Medical 
Products; Pharmaceuticals, Dental and Personal Care Products; and Traffic and 
Personal Safety Products.

The Medical Products Group produces a broad range of medical supplies, devices 
and equipment.  Medical supplies include tapes, dressings, surgical drapes and 
masks, biological indicators, orthopedic casting materials and electrodes.  
Medical devices and equipment include stethoscopes, heart-lung machines, 
sterilization equipment, blood gas monitors, powered orthopedic instruments, 
and intravenous infusion pumps. The Medical Products Group also develops 
hospital information systems.

The Pharmaceuticals, Dental and Personal Care Products Group serves 
pharmaceutical and dental markets, as well as manufacturers of disposable 
diapers.  Pharmaceuticals include ethical drugs and drug-delivery systems.  
Among ethical pharmaceuticals are analgesics, anti-inflammatories and 
cardiovascular and respiratory products.  Drug-delivery systems include 
metered-dose inhalers, as well as transdermal skin patches and related 
components. Dental products include dental restoratives, adhesives, 
impression materials, temporary crowns, infection control products, and 
orthodontic brackets and wires.  This group also produces a broad line of 
tape closures for disposable diapers.

The Traffic and Personal Safety Products Group is a leader in the following 
markets:  traffic control materials, commercial graphics, occupational health 
and safety, and out-of-home advertising.  In traffic control materials, 3M is 
the worldwide leader in reflective sheetings.  These materials are used on 
highway signs, vehicle license plates, construction workzone devices, and 
trucks and other vehicles.  In commercial graphics, 3M supplies a broad line 
of films, inks and related products used to produce graphics for trucks and 
signs.  Major occupational health and safety products include maintenance-free 
and reusable respirators, plus personal monitoring systems.  Out-of-home 
advertising includes outdoor advertising, advertising displays in shopping 
centers, and local advertising in national magazines.  This product group 
also markets a variety of other products.  These include spill-control 
sorbents, Thinsulate brand and Lite Loft brand insulations, traffic control 
devices, filtration products, electronic surveillance products, reflective 
sheetings for personal safety, and films for protection against counterfeiting.

Distribution

3M products are sold directly to users and through numerous wholesalers, 
retailers, jobbers, distributors and dealers in a wide variety of trades in 
many countries of the world.  Management believes that the confidence of 
wholesalers, retailers, jobbers, distributors and dealers in 3M and its 
products, developed through long association with trained marketing and sales 
representatives, has contributed significantly to 3M's position in the 
marketplace and to its growth.  3M has 297 sales offices and distribution 
centers worldwide, including 9 major branch offices and warehouses that are 
located in principal cities throughout the United States. There are 90 sales 
offices and distribution centers located in the United States.  
Internationally, 3M has 207 sales offices and distribution centers located 
in 55 countries.

Research, Patents and Raw Materials

Research and product development constitute an important part of 3M's 
activities, and products resulting from such research and product development 
have contributed in large measure to its growth.  The total amount spent for 
all research and development activities was $1.054 billion, $1.030 billion 
and $1.007 billion in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

The corporate research laboratories are engaged in research which does not 
relate directly to 3M's existing product lines.  They also support the 
research efforts of division and sector laboratories. Most major operating 
divisions, as well as several international companies, have their own 
laboratories for improvement of existing products and development of related 
new products.  Engineering research staff groups provide specialized services 
in instrumentation, engineering and process development.  An organization is 
maintained for technological development not sponsored by other units of the 
company.

3M is the owner of many domestic and foreign patents derived primarily from 
its own research activities.  3M does not consider that its business as a 
whole is materially dependent upon any one patent, license or trade secret 
or any group of related patents, licenses or trade secrets.

The company experienced no significant or unusual problems in the purchase of 
raw materials during 1994.  While 3M has successfully met its demands to date, 
it is impossible to predict future shortages or their impact.


Executive Officers

The following is a list of the executive officers of 3M as of March 1, 1995, 
their present position, their current age, the year first elected to their 
position and other positions held within 3M during the previous five years. 
All of these persons have been employed full time by 3M or a subsidiary of 3M 
for more than five years.  All officers are elected by the Board of Directors 
at its annual meeting, with vacancies and new positions being filled at 
interim meetings.  There are no family relationships between any of the 
executive officers named, nor is there any arrangement or understanding 
pursuant to which any person was selected as an officer.



Item 2. Properties.

3M's general offices, corporate research laboratories, most division 
laboratories and certain manufacturing facilities are located in St. Paul, 
Minnesota.  Within the United States, 3M operates 80 plants in 28 states and 
has 90 sales offices and distribution centers located in 23 states.  
Internationally, 3M operates 107 manufacturing and converting facilities in 
45 countries and has 207 sales offices and distribution centers located in 55 
countries.

3M owns substantially all of its physical properties.  3M leases certain 
facilities which were financed through the issuance of industrial development 
bonds in the original principal amount of $30 million.  3M has capitalized 
the construction costs related to these facilities and recorded the related 
liabilities.  Management believes 3M's existing physical facilities are highly 
suitable for the purposes for which they were designed.



Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

The company and certain of its subsidiaries are named defendants in a number 
of actions, governmental proceedings and claims, including product liability 
claims involving products now or formerly manufactured and sold by the 
company, many of which relate to silicone gel mammary implants, and some of 
which claims are purported or tentatively certified class actions.  In some 
actions, the claimants seek damages as well as other relief which, if granted, 
would require substantial expenditures.

The company is involved in a number of environmental proceedings by 
governmental agencies asserting liability for past waste disposal and other 
alleged environmental damage.  The company conducts ongoing investigations, 
assisted by environmental consultants, to determine accruals for the probable, 
estimable costs of remediation.  The remediation accruals are reviewed each 
quarter and changes are made as appropriate.

Some of these matters raise difficult and complex factual and legal issues 
and are subject to many uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the 
facts and circumstances of each particular action, the jurisdiction and forum 
in which each action is proceeding, and differences in applicable law.  
Accordingly, the company is not always able to estimate the nature and 
precise amount of future liabilities with respect to such matters.

Although there can be no certainty that the company may not ultimately incur 
charges (whether for governmental proceedings and claims, mammary implant 
claims, other product liability claims, environmental proceedings or other 
actions) in excess of presently established accruals, the company believes 
that such additional charges, if any, will not pose a material risk to the 
financial position of the company or its results of operations.

Mammary Implant Litigation:

As of December 31, 1994, the company had been named as a defendant, often 
with multiple co-defendants, in 6,166 claims and lawsuits in various courts, 
all seeking damages for personal injuries from allegedly defective breast 
implants.  These claims and lawsuits purport to represent 15,732 individual 
claimants.  It is not yet certain how many of these lawsuits and claims 
involve products manufactured and sold by the company, as opposed to other 
manufacturers.  The company entered the business in 1977 by purchasing McGhan 
Medical and then sold that business in 1984.

On April 8, 1994, the company and other defendants concluded provisional 
agreements with a plaintiffs' negotiating committee regarding their 
contributions to a "global settlement" in the amount of $4.75 billion, which 
had been previously announced by the committee and three major defendants in 
these claims and lawsuits.  The company has agreed that its maximum commitment 
of $325 million will be paid into a court-administered fund within three years 
from the date that the final order ratifying the global settlement is entered 
and after appeals, if any, have been exhausted.  On September 1,1994, the 
global settlement was approved as fair, reasonable and adequate by the U.S. 
District Court, Northern District of Alabama, which has had jurisdiction over 
this matter.  This ruling subsequently was appealed by several third parties 
(i.e. neither plaintiffs nor defendants).  The company maintains a unilateral 
right to withdraw from the global settlement.  This right to withdraw will 
continue until the process of evaluating and classifying claims is complete.  
The claims process is expected to continue well into 1995.

In the first quarter of 1994, the company took a pre-tax charge of $35 million 
($22 million after tax) in recognition of its best estimate of its probable 
liabilities and associated expenses net of the probable amount of insurance 
recoverable from its carriers.  The company's current estimate of the total 
liabilities and associated expenses is nearly $500 million.  After subtracting 
payments made in 1994 (for legal fees and payment of settlements to litigants 
and claimants electing to remove themselves from the global settlement) and 
adjusting for discounting, the company as of December 31, 1994, had accrued 
liabilities having a net present value of $356 million.  The company had also 
accrued receivables for insurance recoveries of $377 million as of December 
31, 1994.  Although, since the first quarter of 1994, a number of out-of-court 
settlements have been reached and discussions continue with litigants and 
claimants, the company's current estimate of its uninsured financial exposure 
has not materially changed.

On September 22, 1994, three excess coverage insurers initiated in the courts 
of the State of Minnesota a declaratory judgment action against the company 
and numerous insurance carriers seeking adjudication of certain coverage 
issues and a determination concerning allocation among insurers for coverage 
under the terms of the various insurance policies with possible application.  
On December 9, 1994, the company initiated an action against its occurrence 
insurers in the Texas State Court in and for Harrison County, seeking a 
determination concerning allocation of financial responsibility among the 
company's various insurers having applicable coverages, including 
adjudication of overlapping coverages.  This action has since been removed 
to the U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas.  None of the insurers 
that are parties to this action has denied coverage.

The company conducts ongoing reviews, assisted by outside counsel, to 
determine the adequacy and extent of insurance coverage provided by its 
occurrence and claims-made insurers.  The most recent review shows that no 
insurer has denied coverage, and that the aforementioned actions in the 
courts of Minnesota and Texas relate principally to the allocation of 
financial responsibility among the company's insurers (including adjudication 
of overlapping coverages).

Although the company's current estimate of total liabilities and associated 
expenses has increased to nearly $500 million, the company believes, based on 
ongoing reviews, that the coverage provided by the policies with possible 
application is sufficient to cover the current exposure.  The totality of the 
insurance coverage, which has not been denied by any insurer, is thus the 
basis for the company's belief that its uninsured financial exposure has not 
materially changed, and therefore, no recognition of additional charges has 
been necessary since the first quarter of 1994.


Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

None in the quarter ended December 31, 1994.

	Part II

Item 5. Market Price of 3M's Common Stock and Related Security Holder Matters.
At January 31, 1995, there were 125,339 shareholders of record.

3M's stock is listed on the following stock exchanges:  New York Stock 
Exchange, Pacific Stock Exchange, Chicago Stock Exchange, Amsterdam Stock 
Exchange, German stock exchanges, Swiss stock exchanges, Paris Stock 
Exchange, and Tokyo Stock Exchange. 

Stock price comparison information (New York Stock Exchange Composite 
Transactions), which reflects a two-for-one stock split effective 
March 15, 1994, is as follows:

Quarter                  First     Second      Third     Fourth        Year
1994           High     $56.38     $52.38      $57.13    $56.63      $57.13
       	       Low       49.00      46.38       49.25     50.38       46.38
1993           High      55.88      58.50       55.63     56.75       58.50
	              Low       48.63      52.44       51.13     50.75       48.63

Item 6. Selected Financial Data.

All per-share data reflect a two-for-one stock split effective March 15, 1994.

(Dollars in millions, except amounts per share)

                                  					 1994     1993     1992    1991    1990
For the Year Ended December 31:
  Net Sales..........................$15,079  $14,020  $13,883 $13,340  $13,021
  Net Income ......................... 1,322    1,263    1,233*  1,154    1,308
  Per Share of Common Stock:
    Net Income ........................ 3.13     2.91     2.81*   2.63     2.95
    Cash Dividends Declared and Paid .. 1.76     1.66     1.60    1.56     1.46
  Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges...13.30    15.51    12.81*  11.02    12.42
At December 31:
  Total Assets .......................13,496   12,197   11,955  11,304   11,079
  Long-term Debt (excluding portion due
    within one year) ................. 1,031      796      687     764      760


   * Includes a net earnings increase of $6 million, or 1 cent per share, from 
   the combination of a legal settlement, special charges and the cumulative 
   effect of accounting changes, which are more fully discussed on page 26.

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations.

Operating Results
All share and per-share data reflect a two-for-one stock split effective 
March 15, 1994.

Worldwide net sales rose 7.6 percent to $15.079 billion.  This followed 
increases of 1.0 percent in 1993 and 4.1 percent in 1992.  Sales in the 
United States were $7.511 billion, up more than 5 percent from 1993.  
International sales totaled $7.568 billion, an increase of about 10 percent 
from 1993.

Estimated components of sales change from prior year were as follows:
______________________________________________________________________________
                     			       1994                           1993
                     			U.S.  Intl.  Worldwide        U.S.  Intl.  Worldwide
______________________________________________________________________________
Volume                   7%    10%       9%             5%     7%      6% 
Price                   (2)    (2)      (2)            (2)    (2)     (2)
Translation              -      2        1              -     (6)     (3)
______________________________________________________________________________
Total                    5%    10%       8%             3%    (1)%     1%
______________________________________________________________________________

Volume growth accelerated both in the United States and internationally in 
1994, helped by improving economies, a strong flow of new products, and 
increased efforts to improve customer satisfaction.  Selling prices declined 
about 2 percent in both 1994 and 1993, largely due to competition in our 
memory technologies product lines.  Currency fluctuations, which reduced 
sales by about 3 percent in 1993, increased sales slightly in 1994.

Cost of goods sold was 59.7 percent of sales, down from 60.8 percent in 1993. 
Cost of goods sold benefited from solid volume growth, productivity gains and 
cost control efforts.  In 1993, cost of goods sold increased by seven-tenths 
of a percentage point.  Benefits from productivity gains and lower raw 
material costs were more than offset by lower selling prices and negative 
currency effects.  Cost of goods sold includes manufacturing, research and 
development, and engineering expenses.

Selling, general and administrative expenses were 25.4 percent of sales, 
compared with 25.2 percent in 1993 and 25.6 percent in 1992.  The increase in 
1994 largely reflected investments to sustain rapid growth in developing 
countries.  Cost-reduction efforts helped SG&A spending in both 1994 and 1993. 

(Percent of sales)                              1994       1993       1992

Cost of goods sold                              59.7       60.8       60.1
______________________________________________________________________________
Selling, general and administrative expenses    25.4       25.2       25.6
______________________________________________________________________________

Worldwide employment decreased by over 660 in 1994 and by over 1,000 in 1993, 
even though the company added employees to support rapid growth in developing 
countries.  This net reduction in employment occurred with little disruption 
to the company.  Sales per employee rose about 8 percent.

Worldwide operating income totaled $2.251 billion, up 15.0 percent from 1993. 
Operating income benefited from strong volume growth and from efforts to 
control costs and improve productivity.  Operating profit margins improved by 
nine-tenths of a percentage point.  The company estimates that currency 
changes increased operating income by about $21 million in 1994 and reduced 
operating income by about $95 million in 1993.  In 1993, operating income 
decreased 1.9 percent, largely due to this negative currency impact.

(Percent of sales)                           1994    1993    1992    

Operating Income                             14.9    14.0    14.4    
______________________________________________________________________________

In 1992, 3M recognized $129 million in settlement of a patent lawsuit 
involving 3M orthopedic casting materials.  Operating income in 1992 included 
this amount, which is shown on a separate line of the Consolidated Statement 
of Income titled "Legal settlement."

Also in 1992, 3M recorded $115 million of special charges related to actions 
taken to enhance its competitiveness and productivity.  These charges relate 
primarily to asset write-downs, reflecting decisions in 1992 to rationalize 
certain manufacturing operations.  Operating income in 1992 included this 
amount, which is shown on a separate line of the Consolidated Statement of 
Income titled "Special charges."

Interest expense was $87 million, compared with $50 million in 1993 and $76 
million in 1992.  The increase from 1993 was due to a planned increase in 
debt and higher interest rates.  The declines in both 1993 and 1992 were 
mainly due to lower interest rates.  Investment and other income was $25 
million, compared with $96 million in 1993 and $29  million in 1992.  In 
1993, investment and other income included a $36 million benefit from tax 
settlements, improved investment results, and other items, many of which were 
of a non-recurring nature.

During the first quarter of 1994, the company recorded a charge of $35 
million related to mammary implant litigation.  Other income and expense 
in 1994 includes this amount, which is shown on a separate line of the 
Consolidated Statement of Income titled "Implant litigation - net."  The 
company entered the implant business in 1977 by purchasing McGhan Medical 
and then sold that business in 1984.  Although there can be no certainty 
that the company may not ultimately incur charges in excess of presently 
established reserves, the company believes that such additional charges, if 
any, will not pose a material risk to the financial position of the company 
or its results of operations.

The company's effective tax rate was 35.8 percent of pre-tax income, up from 
35.3 percent in both 1993 and 1992.  The higher tax rate was primarily due to 
a lower level of foreign tax credits in 1994 and the accounting benefit in 
1993 of revaluing deferred tax assets and liabilities for the higher 1993 
U.S. statutory tax rate.  This was partially offset by an adjusted prior 
years' export sales benefit in 1994.  The company's deferred tax assets and 
liabilities will reverse over an extended period of time.

Minority interest was $61 million, compared to $32 million in 1993 and $24 
million in 1992.  Minority interest includes our joint ventures in Japan, 
India, Indonesia, and Korea.  These companies' results are fully consolidated 
into 3M's financial statements, and then partially eliminated on the minority 
interest line to reflect 3M's net position in these companies.  The increase 
in 1994 was largely due to increased profits in these companies.

Net income rose 4.7 percent to $1.322 billion, or $3.13 per share 
($1.344 billion, or $3.18 a share, excluding the charge for mammary implant 
litigation).  In 1993, net income increased 2.5 percent to $1.263 billion, 
or $2.91 per share, compared with $1.233 billion, or $2.81 per share, in 1992.

The company estimates that changes in the value of the U.S. dollar had a 
minimal effect on net income in 1994 and 1992, but decreased net income by 
an estimated $62 million, or 14 cents per share, in 1993.  These estimates 
include the effect of translating profits from local currencies into U.S. 
dollars, the costs in local currencies of transferring goods between the 
parent company in the U.S. and international companies, and transaction gains 
and losses in countries not considered to be highly inflationary.

Over the long term, 3M expects to meet its aggressive financial goals.  These 
include a growth in earnings per share averaging 10 percent a year or better, 
return on stockholders' equity of 20 to 25 percent, return on capital employed 
of 27 percent or better, and 30 percent of sales from products introduced in 
the last four years.

Earnings per share increased 7.6 percent in 1994.  Return on average 
stockholders' equity was 20.1 percent, up from 19.1 percent in 1993.  This 
return has averaged 19.9 percent over the past 5 years.  Return on capital 
employed was 20.7 percent, up from 19.1 percent in 1993.  This return has 
averaged 20.8 percent over the past 5 years.  In 1994 about 30 percent of 
sales came from products introduced within the last 4 years.

Performance by Business Sector

Industrial and Consumer Sector:
In 1994, sales were up 9.8 percent to $5.9 billion.  Operating income 
increased 17.1 percent to $994 million. Profit margins increased by a full 
percentage point.  All of the sector's major businesses contributed to this 
excellent performance, with particularly strong growth in the tape, abrasive 
and chemical businesses.  Excluding special charges of $13 million in 1992, 
operating income increased 1.2 percent in 1993.

The competitive advantages of this sector include market leadership, depth of 
technology, innovative new products, brand equity, and international reach.  
New products in this sector include microstructured abrasives which are based 
on a patented new technology, electroluminescent lamps, structural adhesives, 
and performance fluids.

A strong international presence keeps this sector close to its customers 
around the world, enabling quick responses to changing needs and preferences. 
Because the market penetration is less than in the U.S., this sector has 
excellent opportunities for growth internationally.

Information, Imaging and Electronic Sector:
In 1994, sales were up 2.5 percent to $4.6 billion.  Operating income rose 
7.6 percent to $292 million. Excluding special charges of $81 million in 1992, 
operating income decreased 15.0 percent in 1993.  Results over the past few 
years have been negatively affected by continuing investments in new 
technologies and new products, recessions in Europe and Japan, and severe 
price competition.

This sector's core businesses include data storage products and visual 
systems for the office market; printing and medical imaging systems; and 
high-value products for the telecommunications, electronics and electrical 
markets.

In the Electro and Communications Systems group, a new electrical tape plant 
in China was opened to increase our share of the fast growing Asian market.  
This group is also taking advantage of rapid growth in communications in 
developing countries, where many people still do not have telephones.

The Imaging Systems Group announced a new line of imagers that should offer 
significant cost savings, productivity improvements and environmental 
advantages.  The 3M brand DryView brand Laser Imaging Systems produce high 
image quality, while eliminating the need for wet chemicals, special plumbing, 
darkrooms and chemical disposal.  In the high growth digital imaging market 
the 3M brand Rainbow brand Color Proofing System enables advertising agencies, 
small printers, graphic designers and others to make proofs of color graphics 
without using film.

In the diskette arena the company is developing proprietary technology to 
advance 3.5-inch diskette capacity beyond the 2MB levels of today.  Diskettes 
are being developed with storage capacities in excess of 100MB.

In the consumer and professional video market segments a focused approach is 
being taken.  Manufacturing operations have been consolidated and non-core 
activities outsourced.  Essentially, all videotape is produced in one highly 
efficient U.S. facility, where unit costs continue to decline.

Life Sciences Sector:
In 1994, sales increased 10.2 percent to $4.6 billion.  Operating income 
increased 12.7 percent to $954 million.  Operating profit was 21.0 percent 
of sales.  This sector's sales growth was led by the transportation and 
safety businesses, with good growth in hospital supplies, pharmaceutical and 
dental. Excluding a net benefit of $108 million in 1992 from a legal 
settlement and special charges, operating income increased 3.4 percent in 
1993.

Throughout the world, 3M has long had success helping health care 
professionals improve patient outcomes and lower overall costs.  For example, 
with the carpal tunnel release system, surgeons no longer have to open the 
palm of the hand to treat patients afflicted with carpal tunnel syndrome, a 
growing occupational hazard.  Now doctors can operate through a small incision 
in the wrist instead.

This sector introduced a new surgical gown that provides a barrier against 
blood and infectious diseases.  This is 3M's first entry into a large and 
growing market segment.  Also in 1994, this sector announced the development 
of a metered-dose, drug inhalation technology that is free of ozone-depleting 
chlorofluorocarbons.

In the transportation market, this sector contributes to safety efforts 
around the world with products that improve visibility of signs, traffic 
lanes and vehicles.  In worker safety, 3M is a global leader in industrial 
respirators for filtering air contaminants.  Market leadership is extended 
through innovations that increase worker comfort, improve filtration 
capabilities, and help reduce costs.




Performance by Geographic Area

United States
In the United States, volume increased about 7 percent, with growth 
well-balanced among the three business sectors.  Selling prices declined 
about 2 percent, for a total sales increase of about 5 percent.  Operating 
profit margins increased by one-and-a-half percentage points from 1993.  
Employment decreased by more than 550 people in 1994 and by over 700 in 1993.

Europe and Middle East
Strong emphasis on customer satisfaction and productivity improvement helped 
Europe leverage the economic recovery that began to take hold in 1994.  In 
Western Europe profits increased about 10 percent on a 6 percent increase in 
sales.  Through European business centers and the expertise of local 
companies, customer needs are being met better, faster and more efficiently.  
In 1994, 3M Egypt was formed.

As part of Europe's efforts to be number one in customer preference, 
investments are being made in new distribution centers and in an 
order-processing system.  In 1994, Europe put into place key-account programs 
with many Pan-European and regional customers.

Asia Pacific
In the Asia-Pacific area, sales increased nearly 15 percent.  Growth was 
particularly strong in Asia outside Japan.  To sustain rapid growth in this 
area, investments continue in new products, operations and people.  In Japan, 
the company posted a solid increase in profits, with results benefiting from 
a strong flow of new products and continued productivity improvement.

Canada, Latin America and Africa
Latin America and Africa continued to show strong growth.  Freer trade in 
Latin America is stimulating healthy economic growth in many countries.  In 
Canada, manufacturing operations play a key role in leveraging 3M resources 
in North America and worldwide.  The North American Free Trade Agreement 
affords opportunities to further integrate operations in the United States, 
Canada and Mexico, thereby meeting customer needs more effectively and 
efficiently.

Financial Position 

3M's financial condition remained strong in 1994.  Various items, such as 
cash and short-term debt, can fluctuate significantly from month to month 
depending on short-term liquidity needs.  The company's key inventory index, 
which represents the number of months of inventory, was 4.2 months, up from 
4.0 months in 1993.  Accounts receivable days' sales outstanding was 67 days, 
up one day from 1993.  The company's current ratio was 1.9, unchanged from 
1993.

The adoption of FASB Interpretation Number 39 and mammary implant litigation 
were the primary contributors to the increase in the "Other Assets" and 
"Other Liabilities" components of the Consolidated Balance Sheet compared to 
year-end 1993 balances.  The company's current estimate of the total mammary 
implant claims and associated expenses is nearly $500 million.  After 
subtracting payments made in 1994 (for legal fees and payment of settlements 
to litigants and claimants electing to remove themselves from the global 
settlement) and adjusting for discounting, the company as of December 31, 
1994 has accrued liabilities having a net present value of $356 million.  
The company has accrued receivables as of December 31, 1994, primarily on 
the "Other Assets" line, having a nominal value of $377 million.

Total debt was $1.948 billion, a planned increase from $1.493 billion in 1993. 
Of the long-term debt outstanding at the end of 1994, $444 million was a 
guarantee of debt of the 3M Employee Stock Ownership Plan.  Total debt was 
29 percent of stockholders' equity, up from 23 percent in 1993.  The company's 
borrowings continue to maintain AAA long-term ratings.

Legal proceedings, including mammary implant and environmental, are discussed 
in the legal proceedings section on pages 9 and 10. The company believes that 
such matters will not pose a material risk to the financial position or 
liquidity of the company.

Liquidity

The company meets its cash requirements primarily from operating activities.  
During 1994, cash flows provided by operating activities totaled $1.929 
billion.  This more than covered capital expenditures and dividend payments 
of $1.892 billion.  The decrease in cash provided from operations in 1994 
of $162 million was mainly due to the receipt of a large cash settlement 
in 1993 of $129 million.  In both 1994 and 1993, increased working capital 
requirements due to higher sales growth affected cash provided by operating 
activities.

Capital spending increased 3.3 percent to $1.148 billion.  This followed 
declines of 9.3 percent in 1993 and 7.5 percent in calendar year 1992.

Stockholder dividends increased 6.0 percent to $1.76 per share in 1994.  
Cash dividend payments totaled $744 million, up 3.2 percent from 1993.  3M 
has paid dividends for 79 consecutive years.  

On February 13, 1995, the 3M Board of Directors increased the quarterly 
dividend on 3M common stock 6.8 percent to 47 cents a share, and authorized 
the repurchase of up to 8 million of the company's shares.  This share 
repurchase authorization runs through February 12, 1996.  The company 
purchased about 11 million shares under a previous authorization.

Repurchases of 3M common stock totaled $689 million in 1994, compared with 
$706 million in 1993 and $247 million in 1992.  Repurchases were made to 
support employee stock purchase plans and for other corporate purposes.  
During 1994, the number of shares outstanding was reduced by nearly 10 
million, or about 2 percent.

The company's credit rating provides easy and ample access to global capital 
markets.  3M maintains a shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission that provides the means to offer medium-term notes not to exceed 
$601 million.  At December 31, 1994, $402 million was available for future 
financial needs.

On January 10, 1995, the company completed a two year, $200 million 7.75 
percent Eurobond offering.  The company entered into an interest rate swap 
which resulted in an all-in borrowing cost of the 30-day commercial paper 
rate less 30 basis points for two years.

Due to a change in the financial reporting period for 3M's international 
companies, the 1992 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows includes the cash 
provided or used by 3M's international companies for the 14-month period 
(November 1, 1991, to December 31, 1992).

The following table is presented on a comparative basis, whereby 1992 
excludes the November 1 to December 31, 1991, period for our international 
companies.

(Millions)                                   1994        1993       1992 

Net cash provided by
 operating activities                       $1,929      $2,091     $2,218
Net cash used in 
 investing activities                       (1,171)     (1,092)    (1,139)
Net cash used in
 financing activities                         (740)     (1,128)    (1,027)
Effect of exchange rate
 changes on cash                                 5          21        (20)
______________________________________________________________________________
Net increase (decrease) in
 cash and cash equivalents                  $   23      $ (108)    $   32
Capital expenditures                        $1,148      $1,112     $1,225 
Depreciation                                 1,003         976        950 
______________________________________________________________________________

Future Outlook
Looking ahead, the company expects good sales and earnings growth to continue 
in 1995.  The company's strong flow of new products, expansion in 
international markets, sharp focus on customer satisfaction and continued 
productivity improvement all will drive growth.  The company will work to 
offset expected higher raw material costs through selling price increases and 
continued productivity improvements.

Capital spending, after declining in 1992 and 1993, increased about 3 percent 
in 1994.  The company expects capital spending to increase about 10 percent 
in 1995.  Depreciation expense as a percent of sales should continue to 
contribute to margin improvement.  Employment levels should continue to 
decline slightly in 1995.

The company's tax rate is expected to increase by about one percentage point 
in 1995.  In 1994, the company was allowed to claim additional tax benefits 
on export sales from several earlier years.  In addition, the company expects 
to earn more profit from outside the United States, where tax rates are 
generally higher.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

	Index to Financial Statements
                                            						      Reference (pages)
						                                                   	  Form 10-K    

Data submitted herewith:
   Report of Independent Accountants. ...........................  20    

   Consolidated statement of income for the years ended
     December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992 ...........................  21        

   Consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 1994 and
     1993 .......................................................  22        

   Consolidated statement of cash flows
    for the years ended December 31,
    1994, 1993 and 1992 .........................................  23        

   Notes to consolidated financial statements ...................24-37        

	Report of Independent Accountants

To the Stockholders of Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company:

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Minnesota Mining and 
Manufacturing Company and Subsidiaries as listed in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 
These financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements 
based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free 
of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, 
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and 
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall 
financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, 
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Minnesota 
Mining and Manufacturing Company and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 
and 1993, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash 
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1994, in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

As discussed in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the company 
changed the fiscal year-end of its international companies in 1992 and also 
adopted Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers' 
Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," and No. 109, 
"Accounting for Income Taxes."




				/s/ COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.

				COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.              



St. Paul, Minnesota
February 13, 1995

Consolidated Statement of Income


Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company and Subsidiaries                    
For the Years Ended December 31                          1994     1993     1992
(Amounts in millions, except per-share amounts)

Net Sales                                             $15,079  $14,020  $13,883
________________________________________________________________________________

Operating Expenses
  Cost of goods sold                                    8,995    8,529    8,346
  Selling, general and administrative expenses          3,833    3,535    3,557
  Legal settlement                                        --       --      (129)
  Special charges                                         --       --       115 
_______________________________________________________________________________
       	  Total                                        12,828   12,064   11,889
________________________________________________________________________________
Operating Income                                        2,251    1,956    1,994
________________________________________________________________________________
Other Income and Expense
  Interest expense                                         87       50       76
  Investment and other income - net                       (25)     (96)     (29)
  Implant litigation - net                                 35       --       -- 
________________________________________________________________________________
	         Total                                            97      (46)      47
________________________________________________________________________________
Income Before Income Taxes, Minority Interest and
  Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes               2,154    2,002    1,947
Provision for Income Taxes                                771      707      687
Minority Interest                                          61       32       24
________________________________________________________________________________

Income Before Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes   1,322    1,263    1,236
Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes                   --       --        (3)
_______________________________________________________________________________
Net Income                                            $ 1,322  $ 1,263  $ 1,233


Per-Share Amounts:
  Income Before Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes $3.13  $  2.91  $  2.82
  Cumulative Effect of Accounting Changes                 --       --     (0.01)
________________________________________________________________________________
  Net Income                                            $3.13  $  2.91  $  2.81
________________________________________________________________________________
Average Shares Outstanding                              423.0    434.3    438.2 

All share and per-share data reflect a two-for-one stock split effective 
March 15, 1994.

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral 
part of this statement.

Consolidated Balance Sheet


Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company and Subsidiaries              
At December 31                                                1994       1993 
(Dollars in millions)                                        
Assets
Current Assets
  Cash and cash equivalents                                 $   297    $   274
  Other securities                                              194        382
  Accounts receivable - net                                   2,948      2,610
  Inventories                                                 2,763      2,401
  Other current assets                                          726        696
______________________________________________________________________________
       	  Total current assets                                6,928      6,363

Investments                                                     536        455
Property, Plant and Equipment - net                           5,054      4,830
Other Assets                                                    978        549
______________________________________________________________________________
          Total                                             $13,496    $12,197



Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity
Current Liabilities
  Accounts payable                                          $   996    $   878
  Payroll                                                       328        331
  Income taxes                                                  110        290
  Short-term debt                                               917        697
  Other current liabilities                                   1,254      1,086
______________________________________________________________________________
       	 Total current liabilities                            3,605      3,282

Other Liabilities                                             2,126      1,607
Long-Term Debt                                                1,031        796
Stockholders' Equity - net                                    6,734      6,512
  Shares outstanding - 1994: 419,793,702
              		       1993: 429,478,638
______________________________________________________________________________
       	   Total                                            $13,496    $12,197


Share data reflect a two-for-one stock split effective March 15, 1994.

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral 
part of this statement.

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company and Subsidiaries                   
For the Years Ended December 31                       1994      1993      1992*
(Dollars in millions) 

Cash Flows from Operating Activities
Net income                                           $1,322    $1,263    $1,233
Adjustments to reconcile net income
    to net cash provided by operating activities:
  Legal settlement                                      --        129      (129)
  Special charges                                       --        (29)      115
  Cumulative effect of accounting changes               --         --       103
  Depreciation                                        1,003       976     1,004
  Amortization                                           98       100        83
  Accounts receivable                                  (243)     (327)     (142)
  Inventories                                          (302)     (161)      (78)
  Working capital and other changes                      51       140        88
________________________________________________________________________________
Net cash provided by operating activities             1,929     2,091     2,277

Cash Flows from Investing Activities
  Capital expenditures                               (1,148)   (1,112)   (1,318)
  Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment    45        53        78 
  Acquisitions and other investments                    (93)      (71)      (59)
  Proceeds from divestitures and investments             25        38        63
________________________________________________________________________________
Net cash used in investing activities                (1,171)   (1,092)   (1,236)

Cash Flows from Financing Activities
  Net change in short-term debt                         216        48       (83)
  Repayment of long-term debt                           (62)      (80)     (187)
  Proceeds from long-term debt                          401       150       139
  Purchases of treasury stock                          (689)     (706)     (247)
  Reissuances of treasury stock                         138       181       177
  Payment of dividends                                 (744)     (721)     (701)
________________________________________________________________________________
Net cash used in financing activities                  (740)   (1,128)     (902)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash                   5        21       (15)
________________________________________________________________________________
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents     23      (108)      124 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year          274       382       258 
________________________________________________________________________________
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year             $  297    $  274    $  382 
________________________________________________________________________________

*Includes cash flows of international companies for a 14-month period from 
November 1, 1991, to December 31, 1992.  See note on page 26 for details.

 The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral 
 part of this statement.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Accounting Policies
Consolidation: All significant subsidiaries are consolidated. Unconsolidated 
subsidiaries and affiliates are included on the equity basis.  

Cash and Cash Equivalents:  Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and 
temporary investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased.

Other Securities and Investments:  Other securities consist of marketable 
securities and interest-bearing bank deposits with varied maturity dates.  
These securities are employed in the company's banking, captive insurance and 
cash management operations.  Investments primarily include assets from 
captive insurance, banking operations, other insurance, and real estate and 
venture capital investments.

Effective January 1, 1994, the company adopted Statement of Financial 
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in 
Debt and Equity Securities."  Other securities and investments classified as 
available-for-sale are reported at their fair value of about $160 million at 
December 31, 1994, with unrealized gains and losses included as a component 
of stockholders' equity. Held-to-maturity securities and investments are 
reported at amortized cost of about $350 million at December 31, 1994.  Other 
investments totaling about $220 million are stated at cost, which approximates 
fair value.

Inventories:  Inventories are stated at lower of cost or market, with cost 
generally determined on a first-in, first-out basis.

Other Assets:  Other assets include goodwill, patents, other intangibles, 
product and other insurance claims, deferred taxes and other noncurrent 
assets.  Intangible assets are periodically reviewed for impairment based on 
an assessment of future operations to ensure that they are appropriately 
valued. Goodwill is generally amortized on a straight-line basis over 10 
years.  Other intangible items are amortized on a straight-line basis over 
their estimated economic lives.

Effective January 1, 1994, the company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 39, 
which requires gross reporting for environmental and other liabilities, and 
for any related insurance claims.  This adoption primarily increased "Other 
Assets" and "Other Liabilities" from year-end 1993 balances.

Deferred Income Taxes:  Deferred income taxes arise from differences in bases 
between tax reporting and financial reporting.

Revenue Recognition:  Revenue is recognized upon shipment of goods to 
customers and upon performance of services.  The company sells a wide range 
of products to a diversified base of customers around the world, and therefore 
believes that no material concentrations of credit risk exist.

Depreciation:  Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is generally 
computed on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of these 
assets.

Research and Development:  Research and development costs are charged to 
operations as incurred and totaled $1.054 billion in 1994, $1.030 billion in 
1993 and $1.007 billion in 1992.

Advertising Costs:  Advertising costs are generally charged to operations in 
the year incurred and totaled $191 million in 1994, $161 million in 1993 and 
$172 million in 1992.

Foreign Currency Translation:  Local currencies are generally considered the 
functional currencies outside the United States, except in countries treated 
as highly inflationary.  Assets and liabilities are translated at year-end 
exchange rates for operations in local currency environments.  Income and 
expense items are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during 
the year.  Cumulative translation adjustments, recorded as a component of 
stockholders' equity, reduced stockholders equity by $163 million, $331 
million and $198 million at December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

For operations in countries treated as highly inflationary, certain financial 
statement amounts are translated at historical exchange rates, with all other 
assets and liabilities translated at year-end exchange rates.  These 
translation adjustments are reflected in the results of operations.  They 
decreased net income by $20 million in 1994 and by $12 million in 1993, and 
increased net income by $10 million in 1992.

Derivatives:  Derivative financial instruments are utilized by the company to 
manage risks generally associated with foreign exchange rate and interest 
rate market volatility.  The company does not hold or issue derivative 
financial instruments for trading purposes.  The company is not a party to 
leveraged derivatives.  Realized and unrealized gains and losses are deferred 
until the underlying transactions are realized.  These gains and losses are 
recognized either as interest expense over the borrowing period for interest 
rate and currency swaps, as an adjustment to cost of goods sold for 
inventory-related hedge transactions, or in stockholders' equity for hedges 
of net investments in international companies.  Cash flows attributable to 
these financial instruments are included with the cash flows from the 
associated hedged items.

1992 Accounting Changes
Effective January 1, 1992, the company adopted SFAS No. 106, "Employers' 
Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions" and SFAS No. 109, 
"Accounting for Income Taxes." In addition, the international companies 
changed their fiscal year-end from October 31 to December 31.  Adoption of 
these accounting changes, in aggregate, did not have a material impact on 
1992 results of operations.
______________________________________________________________________________
Cumulative Effect of 1992 Accounting Changes
(Millions, except per-share data)                   Amount     Per Share
Cumulative effect of change in:
Reporting period for international
 companies, net of $25 million in
 taxes (including tax benefits from
 revaluation of certain fixed assets
 in Italy)                                          $ 100         $ 0.23 
Accounting for other
 postretirement benefits, net of
 $107 million in taxes                               (183)         (0.42)
Accounting for income taxes                            80           0.18      
 Total                                             $   (3)        $(0.01)


Legal Settlement and Special Charges
In December 1992, 3M recognized $129 million in settlement of a patent 
lawsuit involving 3M orthopedic casting materials.  3M received payment 
in January 1993.

In 1992, 3M recorded $115 million of special charges designed to enhance 
competitiveness and productivity.  About 75 percent of these charges related 
to asset write-downs, including rationalization of manufacturing operations.



Supplemental Balance Sheet Information
______________________________________________________________________________
(Millions)                                                  1994          1993

Accounts receivable                                                          
Accounts receivable                                       $ 3,058     $ 2,730
Less allowances                                               110         120
  Accounts receivable - net                               $ 2,948     $ 2,610

Inventories                                                                  
Finished goods                                            $ 1,475     $ 1,246
Work in process                                               676         604
Raw materials and supplies                                    612         551
  Total inventories                                       $ 2,763     $ 2,401
								
Other current assets
Deferred taxes                                            $   212     $   293
Product and other insurance claims                            158          62
Other                                                         356         341
  Total other current assets                              $   726     $   696

Property, plant and equipment - at cost    
Land                                                      $   287     $   258
Buildings and leasehold improvements                        2,799       2,572
Machinery and equipment                                     8,859       8,305
Construction in progress                                      458         353
                                                 							  $12,403     $11,488
Less accumulated depreciation                               7,349       6,658
Property, plant and equipment - net                       $ 5,054     $ 4,830

Other assets
Product and other insurance claims                        $   466     $    61
Deferred taxes                                                167         146
Other                                                         345         342
  Total other assets                                      $   978     $   549

Other current liabilities                                                     
Deposits - banking operations                             $   270     $   291
Product and other liabilities                                 184         111
Deferred taxes                                                 11           6
Other                                                         789         678
  Total other current liabilities                         $ 1,254     $ 1,086

Other liabilities       
Product and other liabilities                             $   690     $   268
Minority interest in subsidiaries                             460         376
Nonpension postretirement benefits                            404         386
Deferred taxes                                                 96          92
Other                                                         476         485
  Total other liabilities                                 $ 2,126     $ 1,607

Deposits - banking operations - are primarily demand deposits and, as such, 
the carrying amount approximates fair value.


Debt

Short-Term Debt                                  Effective 
(Millions)                                   Interest rate*       1994    1993
Commercial paper                                   6.03%        $  593    $193
Long-term debt - current portion                   8.13%           174      79
Other borrowings                                   7.93%           150     425
______________________________________________________________________________
  Total short-term debt                                         $  917    $697
______________________________________________________________________________
Long-Term Debt                  Effective         Maturity 
(Millions)                    Interest rate*        Date          1994    1993
ESOP debt guarantee                8.21%          1996-2004     $  444    $469
U.S. 6.375% Eurobond               6.52%               1997        200      --
Canadian 6.5% Eurobond             4.81%               1998        114     114
Medium-term 6.25% note             6.61%               1999        100      75
Swiss Franc 5.5% note              5.73%               1997         98      --
Other borrowings                   7.50%          1996-2025         75     138
______________________________________________________________________________
  Total long-term debt                                          $1,031    $796

*Weighted average effective interest rates, which reflect the effects of 
interest rate and currency swaps, at December 31, 1994.


Other borrowings consist primarily of borrowings of 3M's international 
companies and industrial bond issues in the United States.

On January 10, 1995, the company completed a two year, $200 million 7.75 
percent Eurobond offering.  The company entered into an interest rate swap, 
which resulted in an all-in borrowing cost of the 30-day commercial paper 
rate less 30 basis points for two years.

Maturities of long-term debt for the next five years are as follows: 
1995, $174 million; 1996, $45 million; 1997, $340 million; 1998, $160 million; 
and 1999, $146 million.

Interest payments included in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows totaled 
$89 million in 1994, $53 million in 1993 and $88 million in 1992.  The $88 
million in 1992 includes cash flows of international companies for a 14-month 
period from November 1, 1991, to December 31, 1992.  For the calendar year 
1992, interest payments were $79 million.  The ESOP debt is being serviced by 
dividends on stock held by the ESOP and by company contributions.  These 
contributions are reported as a benefit expense.

The company estimates that the fair value of short-term and long-term debt 
approximates the carrying amount of this debt.  Payment of dividends is not 
restricted by debt covenants.


Other Financial Instruments

Interest Rate and Currency Swaps:  To manage interest rate and foreign 
exchange rate risk and to lower its cost of borrowing, the company has 
entered into interest rate and currency swaps.  The notional amounts set 
forth in the table below serve solely as a basis for the calculation of 
payment streams to be exchanged.  These notional amounts are not a measure of 
the exposure of the company through its use of derivatives.  These instruments 
mature in relationship to the underlying debt instruments and have maturities 
extending to 1999.  Unrealized gains and losses and exposure to changes in 
market conditions were not material at December 31, 1994 and 1993.

Notional Amounts
(Millions)                                         1994    1993
Interest rate swaps                                $489    $486
Currency swaps                                      256     119


Foreign Exchange Forward and Options Contracts:  The company has entered into 
foreign exchange forward and options contracts, all having maturities of less 
than one year.  The face amounts represent contracted U.S. dollar equivalents 
of non-U.S. dollar forward and options contracts.  The amounts at risk are not 
material, because the company is not required to exercise options purchased, 
and it has the ability to generate offsetting foreign currency cash flows.  
The unrealized gains and losses at December 31, 1994 and 1993, were not 
material.

Face Amounts
(Millions)                                         1994    1993
Forward contracts                                  $772    $601
Options purchased                                    65     235
Options sold                                        109     103

The company engages in foreign currency hedging activities to reduce exchange 
risks arising from cross-border, non-U.S. dollar cash flows. The company 
operates on a global basis, generating about one-half of its revenues from 
international customers and engaging in substantial product and financial 
transfers between geographic areas.

Credit Risk:  The company is exposed to credit loss in the event of 
nonperformance by counterparties in interest rate swaps, currency swaps and 
foreign exchange contracts, but the company does not anticipate nonperformance 
by any of these counterparties.  The company actively monitors its exposure to 
credit risk through the use of credit approvals and credit limits, and by 
selection of major international banks and financial institutions as 
counterparties.

Leases
Rental expense under operating leases was $149 million in 1994, $141 million 
in 1993 and $140 million in 1992.  The table below sets forth minimum payments 
under operating leases with noncancelable terms in excess of one year as of 
year-end 1994.
______________________________________________________________________________
                                                        								 After
(Millions)               1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    1999   Total
Minimum lease payments    $69     $56     $42     $22     $17     $87    $293


Income Taxes
______________________________________________________________________________
Income Before Income Taxes                                                    
(Millions)                                  1994        1993        1992 
U.S.                                      $1,435      $1,390      $1,301
International                                719         612         646
  Total                                   $2,154      $2,002      $1,947    

______________________________________________________________________________
Provision for Income Taxes
(Millions)                                  1994        1993        1992 
Currently payable
 Federal                                  $  338      $  430      $  371 
 State                                        67          74          78 
 International                               297         292         339 
Deferred
 Federal                                      52         (66)        (63)
 State                                         5          (5)         (6)
 International                                12         (18)        (32)
______________________________________________________________________________
 Total                                    $  771      $  707      $  687 

Deferred taxes in 1994 and 1993 include benefit costs not currently deductible 
of $293 million and $336 million, respectively, and accelerated depreciation 
for tax purposes of $362 million in both 1994 and 1993.  

Income tax payments included in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
totaled $895 million in 1994, $802 million in 1993 and $743 million in 1992.  
The $743 million in 1992 includes cash flows of international companies for 
the 14-month period from November 1, 1991, to December 31, 1992.  For 
calendar year 1992, income tax payments were $714 million.  

At December 31, 1994, there were approximately $3.060 billion of retained 
earnings attributable to international companies that are considered to be 
permanently invested.  No provision has been made for taxes that might be 
payable if these earnings were remitted to the United States.  It is not 
practical to determine the amount of incremental tax that might arise were 
these earnings to be remitted.
______________________________________________________________________________
Reconciliation of Effective Income Tax Rate            1994     1993     1992 
Statutory U.S. tax rate                                35.0%    35.0%    34.0% 
State income taxes - net                                2.2      2.2      2.5 
International taxes                                     2.7      3.0      4.4 
Adjusted prior years' export sales benefit             (1.9)      --       -- 
All other - net                                        (2.2)    (4.9)    (5.6)
 Effective worldwide tax rate                          35.8%    35.3%    35.3%



Business Sectors
Financial information relating to the company's business sectors for the 
years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992 appears below.  3M is an 
integrated enterprise characterized by substantial intersector cooperation, 
cost allocations and inventory transfers.  Therefore, management does not 
represent that these sectors, if operated independently, could earn the 
operating income shown.

              				                 Information,
		                    Industrial   Imaging and    Life   Eliminations  Total
(Millions)          and Consumer   Electronic   Sciences  and Other  Company

Net Sales     1994    $5,875        $4,635       $4,553     $ 16     $15,079
	             1993     5,350         4,520        4,132       18      14,020
	             1992     5,215         4,599        4,026       43      13,883

Operating     1994    $  994        $  292       $  954     $ 11     $ 2,251
Income        1993       849           271          846      (10)      1,956
       	      1992(1)    826           238          926        4       1,994

Identifiable  1994    $4,161        $3,596       $3,155     $172     $11,084
Assets (2)    1993     3,776         3,460        2,854      144      10,234
       	      1992     3,734         3,264        2,712      172       9,882

Depreciation  1994    $  343        $  375       $  261     $ 24     $ 1,003
       	      1993       341           366          249       20         976
	             1992(3)    323           356          238       33         950
	      
Capital       1994    $  394        $  403       $  351     $ --     $ 1,148
Expenditures  1993       399           388          327       (2)      1,112
	             1992(3)    437           444          327       17       1,225


(1) Includes a legal settlement that increased operating income for the Life 
Sciences Sector by $129 million.  Also includes special charges of $115 
million, of which $81 million was in the Information, Imaging and Electronic 
Sector.

(2) Excludes certain corporate assets, primarily cash and cash equivalents, 
other securities, insurance receivables, deferred income taxes, certain other 
current assets, and investments.

(3) Excludes $93 million of capital expenditures and $54 million of 
depreciation for international companies from November 1 to December 31, 1991.  
See accounting changes note on page 26 for details.

Geographic Areas
Information in the table below is presented on the same basis as utilized by 
the company to manage the business.  Export sales and certain income and 
expense items are reported in the geographic area where the final sale to 
customers is made rather than where the transaction originates.

             			    United   Europe and    Asia     Other    Elimina-   Total
(Millions)          States   Middle East  Pacific   Areas (1)   tions   Company

Net Sales to  1994   $7,511    $3,870     $2,469    $1,229             $15,079
Customers     1993    7,126     3,646      2,154     1,094              14,020
       	      1992    6,922     4,068      1,847     1,046              13,883

Transfers     1994   $1,642    $  213     $   31    $  158   $(2,044)      -- 
Between       1993    1,393       172         28       146    (1,739)      -- 
Geographic    1992    1,273       176         31       119    (1,599)      -- 
Areas

Operating     1994   $1,107    $  401     $  515    $  228             $ 2,251
Income        1993      940       376        429       211               1,956
       	      1992(2)   945       489        368       192               1,994

Identifiable  1994   $6,200    $2,872     $1,742    $  863    $ (593)  $11,084
Assets (3)    1993    5,875     2,633      1,531       710      (515)   10,234
       	      1992    5,634     2,824      1,333       660      (569)    9,882


(1)  Includes Canada, Latin America and Africa.

(2)  Includes a legal settlement that increased operating income in the United 
States by $129 million.  Also includes special charges of $115 million, of 
which $74 million was in Europe.

(3)  Excludes certain corporate assets, primarily cash and cash equivalents, 
other securities, insurance receivables, deferred income taxes, certain other 
current assets, and investments.

  At year-end, net assets of companies outside the United States totaled 
  $3.390 billion in 1994, $2.963 billion in 1993 and $2.998 billion in 1992.




Retirement Plans
3M has various company-sponsored retirement plans covering substantially all 
U.S. employees and many employees outside the United States.  Pension benefits 
are based principally on an employee's years of service and compensation near 
retirement.  Plan assets are invested in common stocks, fixed-income 
securities, real estate and other investments.

The company's funding policy is to deposit with an independent trustee 
amounts at least equal to those required by law.  A trust fund is maintained 
to provide pension benefits to plan participants and their beneficiaries.  
In addition, a number of plans are maintained by deposits with insurance 
companies.  The charge to income relating to these plans was $183 million in 
1994, $203 million in 1993 and $178 million in 1992.

Net Pension Cost                    U.S. Plan             International Plans
(Millions)                     1994    1993    1992       1994    1993   1992
Service cost                   $117    $110    $108        $85    $ 86    $73
Interest cost                   280     276     252         89      80     78
Return on plan assets - actual   70    (430)   (221)        (2)   (185)   (73)
Net amortization and deferral  (377)    154     (38)       (79)    112     (1)
Net pension cost               $ 90    $110    $101        $93    $ 93    $77

Funded Status of Pension Plans             U.S. Plan     International Plans
(Millions)                               1994     1993       1994     1993 
Plan assets at fair value              $3,343   $3,473      $1,333   $1,207
Accrued pension cost                      161      180          97       78
Amount provided for future benefits    $3,504   $3,653      $1,430   $1,285
Actuarial present value of:
  Vested benefit obligation             2,889    3,024       1,022      875
  Non-vested benefit obligation           423      470         100       65
  Accumulated benefit obligation       $3,312   $3,494      $1,122   $  940
Amount provided for future benefits
  less accumulated benefit obligation     192      159         308      345
Projected benefit obligation            3,721    3,921       1,514    1,279
Plan assets at fair value less          
  projected benefit obligation         $ (378)  $ (448)     $ (181)  $  (72)
Unrecognized net transition     
  (asset) obligation                     (187)    (224)         22       10
Other unrecognized items                  404      492          62      (16)
Accrued pension cost                   $ (161)  $ (180)     $  (97)  $  (78)

                             				    U.S. Plan             International Plans
Assumptions at Year-End        1994    1993    1992       1994    1993   1992
Discount rate                  8.25%   7.25%   8.00%      7.45%   7.26%  7.91%
Compensation rate increase     5.00%   5.00%   6.25%      5.71%   5.31%  6.40%
Long-term rate of return on
  assets                       9.00%   9.00%   9.00%      7.65%   7.64%  8.23%

Net pension cost is determined using assumptions at the beginning of the year. 
Funded status is determined using assumptions at year-end.

Other Postretirement Benefits
The company provides health care and life insurance benefits for substantially 
all of its U.S. employees who reach retirement age while employed by the 
company.  The company has set aside funds with an independent trustee for 
these postretirement benefits and makes periodic contributions to the plan.  
The assets held by the trustee are invested in common stocks and fixed-income 
securities.  Employees outside the United States are covered principally by 
government-sponsored plans and the cost of company-provided plans for these 
employees is not material.

The table below sets forth the components of the net periodic postretirement 
benefit cost and a reconciliation of the funded status of the postretirement 
benefit plan for U.S. employees.

Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost
(Millions)                                1994           1993            1992 
Service cost                              $ 28           $ 23            $ 21 
Interest cost                               55             53              49 
Return on plan assets - actual              16            (23)            (20)
Net amortization and deferral              (40)             1              --
Total                                     $ 59           $ 54            $ 50 

Funded Status of Postretirement Benefit Plan
(Millions)                                               1994            1993
Fair value of plan assets                               $ 319           $ 335
Accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation:
     Retirees                                           $ 256           $ 248
     Fully eligible active plan participants              167             153
     Other active plan participants                       367             378
Benefit obligation                                      $ 790           $ 779
Plan assets less benefit obligation                     $(471)          $(444)
Adjustments and unrecognized items                         67              58
Accrued postretirement cost                             $(404)          $(386)

The accumulated postretirement benefit obligation and related benefit cost are 
determined through the application of relevant actuarial assumptions.  The 
company anticipates its health care cost trend rate to slow from 7.2 percent 
in 1995 to 5.0 percent in 2003, after which the trend rate is expected to 
stabilize.  The effect of a one percentage point increase in the assumed 
health care cost trend rate for each future year would increase the benefit 
obligation by $62 million and the current year benefit expense by $8 million. 
Other actuarial assumptions include an expected long-term rate of return on 
plan assets of 9.0 percent (before taxes applicable to a portion of the 
return on plan assets), and a discount rate of 8.25 percent.


Employee Stock Ownership Plan
The company maintains an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) for 
substantially all regular U.S. employees not covered by collective 
bargaining agreements.  This plan was established in 1989 as a 
cost-effective way of funding certain employee retirement savings benefits, 
including the company's matching contributions under a 401(k) employee 
savings plan.  The ESOP borrowed $548 million and used the proceeds to 
purchase 15.4 million shares of the company's common stock, previously 
held in treasury.  Because the company has guaranteed repayment of the 
ESOP debt, the debt and related unearned compensation are recorded in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet.

ESOP Shares                             1994          1993          1992
Allocated shares                   4,236,925     3,447,668     2,587,306
Committed to be released                 --            --            --
Unreleased shares                 10,941,944    11,875,928    12,780,918
Total shares held by the ESOP     15,178,869    15,323,596    15,368,224

Employee Savings Plan
The company sponsors employee savings plans under Section 401(k) of the 
Internal Revenue Code.  These plans are offered to substantially all regular 
U.S. employees.  The company matches employee contributions of up to 6 
percent of compensation at rates ranging from 10 to 85 percent, depending 
upon company performance.  Amounts charged against income were $26 million 
in 1994, and $29 million in both 1993 and 1992.

General Employees' Stock Purchase Plan
Substantially all regular U.S. employees are eligible to participate in the 
General Employees' Stock Purchase Plan.  Participants are granted options at 
85 percent of market value at the date of grant.  Options must be exercised 
within 27 months from date of grant.

                                           						       Shares     Price Range
Under option-
   January 1, 1994                                     472,898    $36.95-48.30
     Granted                                         1,711,898     41.76-46.54
     Exercised                                      (1,750,579)    36.95-48.30
     Canceled                                          (65,017)    36.95-48.30
Under option-
   December 31, 1994                                   369,200    $41.76-48.30

Shares available for grant-
   December 31, 1994                                15,959,549 



Management Stock Ownership Program
Management stock options are granted at market value at the date of grant.  
At year-end, there were 4,374 participants in the plan.  All outstanding 
options expire between May 1995 and May 2004.
                                           						       Shares    Price Range
Under option-
   January 1, 1994                                  20,182,694    $19.37-58.08
     Granted                                         4,228,789     47.65-56.25
     Exercised                                      (1,656,146)    19.37-51.83
     Canceled                                          (39,396)    19.44-58.08
Under option-
   December 31, 1994                                22,715,941    $19.44-58.08

Options exercisable-
   December 31, 1994                                18,960,735    $19.44-58.08

Shares available for grant-
   December 31, 1994                                17,595,213 

Quarterly Data (Unaudited)

 (Millions, except 
   per-share data)             First    Second     Third     Fourth    Year 

Net Sales
1994                          $3,632    $3,772     $3,820    $3,855   $15,079
1993                           3,517     3,540      3,481     3,482    14,020

Cost of Goods Sold
1994                          $2,168    $2,247     $2,282    $2,298    $8,995
1993                           2,112     2,131      2,167     2,119     8,529


Net Income
1994                            $306      $343       $341      $332    $1,322
1993                             330       331        316       286     1,263

   Per-Share
1994                            $.72      $.81       $.81      $.79     $3.13
1993                             .75       .76        .73       .67     $2.91


Stock Price Comparisons (NYSE Composite Transactions)
1994 High                     $56.38    $52.38      $57.13   $56.63    $57.13
1994 Low                       49.00     46.38       49.25    50.38     46.38
1993 High                      55.88     58.50       55.63    56.75     58.50
1993 Low                       48.63     52.44       51.13    50.75     48.63



Legal Proceedings
Discussion of legal matters is cross-referenced to Form 10-K Item 3, Legal 
Proceedings, and should be considered an integral part of the Financial 
Statements and Notes.

Item 9. Disagreements on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.

	None.

	PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

Item 11. Executive Compensation.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

	The information called for by Items 10 through 13 are omitted 
	pursuant to general instruction G(3).  The registrant will file 
	with the Commission a definitive proxy statement pursuant to 
	Regulation 14A before April 30, 1995.


	PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.

(a) The financial statements filed as part of this report are listed in the 
index to financial statements on page 19.

All schedules are omitted because of the absence of the conditions under 
which they are required or because the required information is included in 
the financial statements or the notes thereto.

(b)     Reports on Form 8-K:

3M was not required to file any reports on Form 8-K for the quarter ended 
December 31, 1994.

(c)     Exhibits:

Incorporated by Reference:
                                     					Incorporated by Reference in the
						                                             Report From           

   (3)  Restated certificate of incorporation      Exhibit (3) to
       	and bylaws, amended to and                 Report Form 10-Q
       	including amendments of                    for period ended
       	May 12, 1987.                              June 30, 1987.

   (4)  Instruments defining the rights of security
       	holders, including debentures:
       	(a) common stock.                         Exhibit (3) above  
       	(b) medium term notes.                    Registration Nos. 33-29329
						                                            and 33-48089 on Form S-3.

  (10)  Management contracts, management
       	remuneration:
       	(a) management stock ownership program.   Exhibit 4 of
						                                            Registration No. 33-49842
						                                            on Form S-8
       	(b) profit sharing plan, performance      Written description contained
	           unit plan and other compensation      in issuer's proxy statement
	           arrangements.                         for the 1995 annual
                                      						      shareholders meeting.


                                      						       Reference (pages)
                                             							   Form 10-K    
   Submitted herewith:

	(11)  Computation of per share earnings.                 40

	(12)  Calculation of ratio of earnings
	      to fixed charges.                                  41

	(21)  Subsidiaries of the registrant.                    42

	(23)  Consent of experts.                                43

	(24)  Power of attorney.                                 44

	(27)  Financial data schedule (EDGAR filing only) 


				SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

		 MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY  


			     By  /s/ Giulio Agostini
				 Giulio Agostini, Senior Vice President -
				 Finance and Office Administration
				 Principal Financial and Accounting Officer
				 March 6, 1995

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
registrant and in the capacities indicated on March 6, 1995.

Signature               Title

LIVIO D. DeSIMONE       Chairman of the Board and
                     			Chief Executive Officer, Director

EDWARD A. BRENNAN       Director
LAWRENCE E. EATON       Director
HARRY A. HAMMERLY       Director
ALLEN F. JACOBSON       Director
JERRY R. JUNKINS        Director
RONALD A. MITSCH        Director
ALLEN E. MURRAY         Director
AULANA L. PETERS        Director
ROZANNE L. RIDGWAY      Director
FRANK SHRONTZ           Director
F. ALAN SMITH           Director
LOUIS W. SULLIVAN       Director

Arlo D. Levi, by signing his name hereto, does hereby sign this document
pursuant to powers of attorney duly executed by the other persons named,
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on behalf of such other
persons, all in the capacities and on the date stated, such persons
constituting a majority of the directors of the company.

			    By  /s/ Arlo D. Levi
				Arlo D. Levi, Attorney-in-Fact


