
10-K


PAGE 1
===============================================================================
                                UNITED STATES
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           Washington, D.C. 20549

                                  FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[X]  Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange 
     Act of 1934 (Fee Required) For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, OR

[ ]  Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
     Exchange Act of 1934 (No Fee Required) For the transition period 
     from____to____

Commission File Number 0-6217

                              INTEL CORPORATION
           (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
               Delaware                                    94-1672743
   (State or other jurisdiction of                      (I.R.S. Employer
    incorporation or organization)                     Identification No.)

     2200 Mission College Boulevard, Santa Clara, California, 95052-8119
             (Address of principal executive offices, Zip Code)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code (408) 765-8080

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

     Title of each class                             Name of each exchange on
                                                         which registered
                                      NONE

            Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                         Common Stock, $.001 par value
                1998 Step-Up Warrants to Purchase Common Stock

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES__X__NO_____

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the 
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements 
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to 
this Form 10-K. [X]

                  Aggregate market value of voting stock held
          by non affiliates of the registrant as of February 25, 1995

                                 $30.43 billion

   414.5 million shares of Common Stock outstanding as of February 25, 1995

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(1)     Portions of Annual Report to Stockholders for fiscal year ended 
        December 31, 1994-Items  5, 6, 7, 8 and 14.
(2)     Portions of Proxy Statement dated March 14, 1995 -Items 10, 11, 12, 
        and 13.
===============================================================================



PAGE 2
                                   PART I
                                   ------
ITEM 1. BUSINESS

INDUSTRY

Intel Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively called "Intel," the 
"Company" or the "Registrant") operate in one dominant industry segment. The 
Company designs, develops, manufactures and markets microcomputer components 
and related products at various levels of integration.

Intel components consist of silicon-based semiconductors etched with complex
patterns of transistors. Each one of these integrated circuits (ICs) can 
perform the functions of thousands--even millions--of individual transistors, 
diodes, capacitors and resistors.


PRODUCTS

Intel's product strategy is twofold: the Company offers OEMs (original 
equipment manufacturers) a wide range of PC (personal computer) building-block
products to meet their needs, and offers PC users products that expand the 
capabilities of their systems and networks.

The Company's major products include microprocessors, chipsets, embedded 
processors and microcontrollers, flash memory chips, computer modules and 
boards, network and communications products, personal conferencing products and
scalable parallel processing computers.

MICROPROCESSORS. A microprocessor is the central processing unit of a PC. It 
processes system data and controls other devices in the system, acting as the 
brains of a PC. Intel's 32-bit processors include the flagship Pentium(R)
processor family and the Intel486(TM) microprocessor family. Pentium processors
are the latest extension of an architecture that is pervasive worldwide; the 
market research firm Dataquest estimates that approximately 134 million PCs 
based on the Intel architecture are currently in use (compared to fewer than 20 
million PCs based on other architectures). The Company's strategy is to develop
products in the Intel architecture family that are compatible with the 
installed base of software applications.

Intel's developments in the art of semiconductor design and manufacturing have 
made it possible to decrease the feature size of circuits etched into silicon.
This permits a greater number of transistors to be fit on each silicon wafer,
resulting in microprocessors that are smaller, faster running, more energy 
efficient, and less expensive to make. These developments have also led to 
increasingly complex designs. Despite rigorous testing standards, the Company
cannot give assurances that any particular design will be flawless.

The Pentium processor family, fully binary compatible with previous generations
of the Intel architecture, was introduced in 1993 with 60- and 66-MHz versions
In 1994 Intel extended the family with 3.3V 75-, 90- and 100-MHz Pentium 
processors with enhanced power management features and performance of up to 166
MIPS.  These processors have enabled a broad variety of mainstream mobile, 
desktop, and server systems based on the Pentium processor, and the PC market 
is transitioning rapidly to Pentium processor-based systems.  Intel sells its 
microprocessor products, including Pentium processors, at various levels of 
integration (chips, boards, systems and modules) depending on the OEM's 
requirements (see "Computer Modules and Boards").  Intel expects to introduce
higher performance versions of the Pentium processor in 1995.

In early 1995, Intel previewed its sixth-generation processor, codenamed the 
P6, at the International Solid State Circuits Conference.  The 5.5-million-
transistor P6, initially operating at 133 MHz, is projected to deliver 
approximately two times the performance of the 100-MHz Pentium processor while
maintaining binary software compatibility with previous generations of the 
Intel architecture.  P6 technology is expected to deliver workstation 
performance on the desktop while also enabling a new generation of 
multiprocessor servers. Systems based on the P6 processor are expected to be 
available in the second half of 1995.



PAGE 3
Within the Intel486 microprocessor product family, certain designations such as
SX, DX, DX2 and DX4 differentiate the processors from one another. SX, DX and 
DX2 are used to designate the earlier generations of the family. Introduced
in 1994, the IntelDX4(TM) processor, the fastest member of the Intel486 
microprocessor family, is popular in both entry-level home and business desktop
systems and in mobile computers.  The IntelDX4 processor family offers up to 50
percent more performance than the 66-MHz IntelDX2(TM) microprocessor.

The OverDrive(R) family of processors provides CPU performance enhancements to 
Intel486 and Pentium processor-based systems. In early 1995, Intel introduced
the Pentium OverDrive processor technology to Intel486 microprocessor-based 
systems.

Sales of the Intel486 microprocessor family comprised a majority of the 
Company's revenues and a substantial majority of its gross margin in 1992, 
1993 and 1994.  A significant and growing portion of the Company's sales 
and margins were derived from sales of the Pentium processor family in 1994.  
As part of its strategic goal to double processor performance at major system 
price points, the Company cut microprocessor prices aggressively and 
systematically in 1994, and this trend may continue in 1995. Future distortion 
of price maturity curves could occur as imitation products enter the market 
in significant volume or alternative architectures gain market acceptance. 

The outlook for Pentium processor shipments in 1995 is dependent on several 
business factors, including the manufacturing ramp and market demand. The 
Pentium processor family comprised 23% of the Company's microprocessor unit 
shipments to the desktop market segment in the fourth quarter of 1994. If 
current trends continue, quarterly unit volumes of the Pentium processor family
could surpass those of the Intel486 microprocessor family during 1995.

CHIPSETS. Based on the industry accepted PCI bus, the Company's core logic 
chipsets support and extend the graphic and other capabilities of Intel486 and 
Pentium processors. Early in 1995, Intel introduced the Triton chipset, a 
third-generation Pentium processor chipset targeted at 75-, 90- and 100-MHz 
systems.

EMBEDDED PRODUCTS. Embedded chips provide the computing power in devices other
than PCs and workstations. Embedded products are dedicated to specific 
application functions and are found in wireless communications, printers, 
copiers, fax machines, VCRs, cable converter boxes and other TV equipment, 
commercial and military avionics, medical instrumentation, and factory 
automation control products.

Intel's embedded product line consists of 32-bit processors, including the 
i960(R) processor family, which are the best selling RISC (reduced instruction 
set computing) chips in the world in terms of units sold (according to 
Dataquest); embedded Intel386(TM) processors that primarily use the DOS 
operating system; the 80C186 microprocessor family; 16-bit microcontrollers, 
such as the 8096 and the 80C196; and 8-bit microcontrollers, such as the MCS(R)
51 microcontroller family. The Company introduced several embedded processor 
products in 1994, including the 80960JX family and the 80C196NP 16-bit 
microcontroller.

FLASH MEMORY CHIPS. Memory components are used to store computer programs and 
data entered by users. Flash memories are nonvolatile and do not require 
power to retain information.

Intel supplies a broad line of flash memory components that are used across a 
broad range of applications, including BIOS storage in many personal computers,
printers and networking devices, medical instrumentation and industrial 
controllers.

In 1994, Intel introduced SmartVoltage memories, providing users with increased
flexibility in optimizing their systems for lower power consumption and higher
performance. Manufacturers of wireless communications devices, handheld 
terminals and other battery-operated devices have seen improved systems value 
from these chips.  The Company also introduced the 16 Mbit Flash RAM chip 
enabling non volatile, updatable memory for embedded code storage plus the 
industry's highest speed execution.  This product enabled many system designers
to replace two kinds of memory--DRAM and ROM--with one: Flash RAM.



PAGE 4
COMPUTER MODULES AND BOARDS.  Hundreds of microcomputer platforms and single-
board computers based on Intel components are now widely accepted as basic 
building blocks for technical and commercial applications. Many OEMs build 
their own PCs, microcomputers, real-time control systems and other products 
based on these modules.  

A significant portion of Intel's Pentium processors are sold at higher levels 
of integration incorporated into boards, systems and modules to OEMs. OEM 
customers buy at these levels of integration to accelerate the time to get 
their products to market. With the growth of the Pentium processor business, 
Intel has become one of the largest manufacturers of populated PC motherboards.

The Company cannot always predict the level of integration at which customers 
will request microprocessor products. In addition, the manufacture of boards 
and systems requires DRAMs and other components that may be in short supply.  
Although the Company has entered into supply agreements with manufacturers of 
these components, there can be no assurances of adequate supply.

NETWORK AND COMMUNICATIONS PRODUCTS.  Sold to PC users through retail channels,
these hardware and software products improve the performance or capabilities of
PC systems and networks.

Intel's networking products are designed to make PC networks easier for LAN 
administrators to install and manage. The architecture that delivers this 
management capability is called Smart Network Services.

Intel's networking products consist of LAN products, such as the 
EtherExpress family of adapters; and network management products, including
the LANDesk(R) product line.

Supporting the Smart Network Services strategy are new or upgraded LAN 
products: EtherExpress(TM) Pro adapters that use flash memory for one-step 
installation and configuration; EtherExpress Pro/100, a 100 MB ethernet adapter 
that supports the new 100 MB standard 100-based T; StorageExpress(TM) back up 
servers;  NETSatisFAXtion(R) software; NetportExpress(TM) print servers; and 
LANDeskManager Suite V. 2.0 software, which combines management of desktop 
systems, servers, wire segments and services on LANs.

PERSONAL CONFERENCING PRODUCTS. PC users can install Intel software and cards 
that let two users view and manipulate the same documents simultaneously and, 
in some cases, see each other. Personal conferencing products merge the power 
of the PC with the real-time immediacy of the telephone.  In 1994, Intel
introduced its ProShare(TM) personal conferencing products, including the 
ProShare Video System 200 and ProShare Video System 150, which were certified 
in 22 countries. During 1994, these products were updated to provide the 
following enhancements: ISDN and LAN transfer support, increased video quality
and expanded serviceability.

SCALABLE PARALLEL PROCESSING SYSTEMS.  Scalable parallel processing (SPP) 
systems use the processing power of multiple microprocessors working 
simultaneously to solve large-scale computing, data and image manipulation 
problems.  Intel offers SPP systems for both commercial and technical market 
segments.  For the enterprise computing and interactive multimedia market 
segments, Intel architecture-based server building blocks and platforms are 
offered through OEMs.  For the supercomputer market segment, the Paragon( 
MP XP/S massively parallel supercomputer is scalable from compute-intensive 
embedded applications to systems with over 1,000 i860(R) XR multiprocessor 
compute nodes. In 1994, a linked system based on two Intel Paragon XP/S 140 
supercomputers beat the existing world record for computing performance by more
than 50 percent.



PAGE 5
MANUFACTURING

A majority of the Company's wafer production and some assembly and final 
testing of VLSI (very large scale integration) components are conducted at 
domestic Intel facilities in Chandler, Arizona; Aloha, Oregon; Santa Clara and 
Folsom, California; and Rio Rancho, New Mexico.  A majority of Intel's 
production of microcomputers and memory boards and systems takes place at 
facilities in Hillsboro, Oregon and Las Piedras, Puerto Rico.

Outside the United States, a significant portion of Intel's VLSI wafer 
production, including some microprocessor fabrication, is conducted at plants 
in Jerusalem, Israel and Leixlip, Ireland.  A significant portion of Pentium 
processor production is conducted at the Ireland site.  Most of the Company's 
VLSI component assembly and testing is performed at facilities in Penang, 
Malaysia and Manila, Philippines.  A significant and growing portion of Intel's
production of microcomputers and memory boards and systems is conducted at
facilities in Leixlip, Ireland, and Penang, Malaysia.

In general, if Intel were unable to assemble, test or perform wafer fabrication
on its products abroad, or if air transportation between its foreign facilities
and the United States were disrupted, there could be a materially adverse 
effect upon the Company's operations.  In addition to normal manufacturing 
risks, foreign operations are subject to certain additional exposures, 
including political instability, currency controls and fluctuations, and tariff
and import restrictions.  To date, Intel has not experienced significant 
difficulties related to these foreign business risks.

To augment capacity, Intel uses subcontractors to perform assembly of certain 
products and wafer fabrication for certain VLSI components, primarily flash 
memory and chipsets.  The Company cannot give assurances that it will be able 
to fully satisfy demand for certain of these products.

The manufacture of integrated circuits is a complex process.  Normal 
manufacturing risks include errors in the fabrication process, defects in raw 
materials, as well as other factors, all of which can affect yields.


EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 1994, the Company employed approximately 32,600 people 
worldwide.


SALES

Most of Intel's products are sold or licensed through sales offices located 
near major concentrations of users throughout the United States, Europe, Japan,
Asia-Pacific and other parts of the world.  

The Company also uses distributors (industrial and retail) and representatives 
to distribute its products both in the United States and overseas.  Typically,
distributors handle a wide variety of products, including those competitive 
with Intel products, and fill orders for many customers.  Most of Intel's sales
to distributors are made under agreements allowing for price protection and/or
the right of return on unsold merchandise.  Sales representatives generally do 
not offer directly competitive products, but may carry complementary items 
manufactured by others.  Representatives do not maintain a product inventory; 
instead, their customers place large quantity orders directly with Intel and 
are referred to distributors for smaller orders.  Intel sold products to 
thousands of customers worldwide in 1994, none of which represented more than 
10% of total revenues.



PAGE 6
BACKLOG

Intel's sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for 
delivery of standard products.  Intel has some agreements that give a customer 
the right to purchase a specific number of products during a time period.  
Although not generally obligating the customer to purchase any particular 
number of such products, some of these agreements do contain billback clauses. 
As a matter of industry practice, billback clauses are difficult to enforce.  
The quantity actually purchased by the customer, as well as the shipment 
schedules, are frequently revised during the agreement term to reflect changes 
in the customer's needs.  In light of industry practice and experience, Intel 
does not believe that such agreements are meaningful for determining backlog 
figures.  Intel believes that only a small proportion of its order backlog is 
noncancellable and that the dollar amount associated with the noncancellable 
portion is immaterial.  Therefore, Intel does not believe that backlog as of 
any particular date is necessarily indicative of future results.


COMPETITION

The Company competes in different product lines to various degrees on the basis
of price, performance, availability and quality.  Many companies compete with 
Intel and are engaged in the same basic fields of activity, including research 
and development.  Both foreign and domestic, these competitors range in size 
from large multinationals to smaller companies competing in specialized market 
segments.  Intel is engaged in a rapidly advancing field of technology in which
its ability to compete depends upon the continuing improvement of its products 
and processes, continuing cost reductions, and the development of new products 
to meet changing customer requirements.

Prices decline rapidly in the semiconductor industry as unit volume grows, as 
competition develops, and as production experience is accumulated.  In the 
microcomputer and board and systems area, Intel competes with board 
manufacturers and microprocessor-based computer manufacturers.  Some of these 
competitors are also Intel customers.

A number of competitors have developed products that imitate some of the 
Company's key products.  Some of these products obtained market acceptance and 
Intel's revenues and margins with respect to certain of these products were 
adversely affected and may continue to be adversely affected.  Based on the 
current case law, Intel's competitors can design microprocessors which are 
compatible with Intel microprocessors and avoid Intel patent rights through the
use of foundry services that have licenses with Intel.  Furthermore, as part of
a recent settlement between Intel and AMD to settle all outstanding legal 
disputes between the two companies, Intel licensed AMD to copy the microcode in
the Intel386 and Intel486 microprocessors.  However, AMD agreed that it has no 
right to copy the microcode in the Pentium processor and future 
microprocessors.  The net effect of this situation (i.e., case law and the AMD 
settlement) is that while it is possible for competitors to imitate the 
functionality of Intel processors, future imitations are not expected to be as 
close an imitation as were the Am386* and Am486* products from AMD.  
Competitors' products may add features and increase performance.  The Company 
also faces significant competition from companies that offer rival 
microprocessor architectures.  The Company cannot predict whether such rival 
architectures will gain market acceptance or provide increased competition to 
the Company's products.  Future distortion of price maturity curves could occur
as imitation products enter the market in significant volume or alternative 
architectures gain market acceptance.

It continues to be Intel's strategy to maintain its competitive advantage 
through aggressive investments in manufacturing capacity and the development 
and marketing of advanced products which provide greater functionality to its 
customers than is provided by competitive products.  Intel also is committed to
the protection of its intellectual property rights against illegal use.  There 
can be no assurance, however, that competitors will not introduce new products 
(either imitative or of rival architectural designs) or reduce prices on 
existing products.  Such developments could have an adverse effect on Intel's 
revenues and margins.

________________________
* Other brands and names are the property of their respective owners


PAGE 7
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The Company's competitive position has developed to a large extent because of 
its emphasis upon research and development.  This emphasis has enabled Intel to
deliver products before they have become available from competitors, and thus 
has permitted Intel's customers to commit to the use of these new products in 
the development of their own products.  Intel's research and development 
activities are directed toward developing new products, hardware technologies 
and processes and improving existing products and lowering their cost.  The 
Company also develops "enabling" software, such as open software 
specifications and software tools, to enhance the functionality and acceptance
of the personal computer platform Intel's expenditures for research and 
development were $1,111 million, $970 million and $780 million in fiscal years 
1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.  As of December 31, 1994, Intel had 
approximately 6,400 employees engaged in research and development.  The results
of Intel's research and development activities depend upon competitive 
circumstances and Intel's ability to transfer new products to production in a 
timely and cost-effective manner.

Most design and development of VLSI components and other products is performed 
at Intel's facilities in Santa Clara and Folsom, California; Aloha and 
Hillsboro, Oregon; Chandler, Arizona; and Haifa, Israel.

In June 1994, Intel and Hewlett-Packard Company announced a joint research and 
development project covering a wide range of activities, including 
semiconductor processes, software optimization and microprocessor design 
technologies. New 64-bit processors based on the jointly developed architecture
are expected to be initially targeted at server, workstation and enterprise 
computing products, probably in the late 1990's.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND LICENSING

Intellectual property rights which apply to various Intel products include 
patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and maskwork rights.  Because of
the rapidly changing technology and a broad distribution of patents in the 
semiconductor industry, Intel's present intention is not to rely primarily on 
intellectual property rights to protect or establish its market position.  
However, Intel has established an active program to protect its investment in 
technology by enforcing all of its intellectual property rights.  Intel does 
not intend to broadly license its intellectual property rights unless it can 
obtain adequate consideration.  Reference is also made to the headings 
"Competition," and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations."

Intel has filed and obtained a number of patents in the United States and 
abroad.  Intel has entered into patent cross license agreements with many of 
its major competitors.

Intel protects many of its computer programs by copyrighting them.  Intel has 
registered numerous copyrights with the United States Copyright Office.  The 
ability to protect or to copyright software in some foreign jurisdictions is 
not clear.  However, Intel has a policy of requiring customers to sign a 
software license contract before providing a customer with certain computer 
programs.  Certain VLSI components have computer programs embedded in them, and
Intel has obtained copyright protection for some of these programs as well. 
Beginning in 1985, Intel has obtained protection for the maskworks for a number
of its components under the Chip Protection Act of 1984.

Intel has obtained certain trademarks and trade names for its products to 
distinguish genuine Intel products from those of its competitors and is 
currently engaged in a cooperative program with OEMs to identify personal 
computers that incorporate genuine Intel microprocessors with the Intel 
Inside(R) logo.  Intel maintains certain details about its processes, products 
and strategies as trade secrets.

As is the case with many companies in the semiconductor industry, Intel has, 
from time to time, been notified of claims that it may be infringing certain 
patent rights of others.  These claims have been referred to counsel and they 
are in various stages of evaluation and negotiation.  If it appears necessary 
or desirable, Intel may seek licenses for these intellectual property rights.  
Intel can give no assurance that licenses will be offered by all claimants or 
that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to Intel or that in 
all cases the dispute will be resolved without litigation.

PAGE 8
COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

To Intel's present knowledge, compliance with federal, state and local 
provisions enacted or adopted for protection of the environment has had no 
material effect upon its operations.  However, reference is made to Item 3., 
Legal Proceedings, of this Form 10-K.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The following sets forth certain information with regard to executive officers 
of Intel (ages are as of December 31, 1994):

Craig R. Barrett (age 55) has been Chief Operating Officer since 1993; a 
director of Intel Corporation since 1992;  Executive Vice President since 
1992; and Vice President and General Manager of the Microcomputer Components 
Group from 1989 to 1992.

Andrew S. Grove (age 58) has been a director of Intel Corporation since 1974; 
President since 1979; and Chief Executive Officer since 1987.

Gordon E. Moore (age 66) has been a director of Intel Corporation since 1968 
and Chairman of the Board since 1979.

Leslie L. Vadasz (age 58) has been a director of Intel Corporation since 1988; 
Senior Vice President, Director of Corporate Business Development since 1991; 
and Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Systems Group from 1986 to
1990.

Frank C. Gill (age 51) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, 
Intel Products Group since 1991; Senior Vice President and President of the 
Systems Group from 1990 to 1991; and Senior Vice President and Director of 
Sales from 1989 to 1990.

David L. House (age 51) has been Senior Vice President and Director, Corporate 
Strategy since 1991; Senior Vice President and President of Microcomputer 
Components Group from 1990 to 1991; and Senior Vice President and General 
Manager, Microcomputer Components Group from 1987 to 1990.

Paul S. Otellini (age 44) has been Senior Vice President, Director, Sales since
May 1994; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Microprocessor Products 
Group, from 1993 to 1994; Vice President and General Manager, Microprocessor 
Products Group from 1991 to 1992; Vice President and General Manager, Micro 
Products Group from 1990 to 1991; and Vice President and Assistant to the 
President from 1989 to 1990.

Gerhard H. Parker (age 51) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, 
Technology & Manufacturing Group, since 1992; Vice President and Director, 
Technology & Manufacturing Group from 1991 to 1992; Vice President and 
Director, Technology Group from 1990 to 1991; Vice President and General 
Manager, Technology and Manufacturing Group during 1990; and Vice President and
General Manager, Component Technology and Development Group from 1989 to 1990.


PAGE 9
Robert W. Reed (age 48) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, 
Semiconductor Products Group, since 1991; Senior Vice President and Chief 
Financial Officer from 1990 to 1991; and Senior Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer and Director of Administration from 1989 to 1990.

Ronald J. Whittier (age 58) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager,
Intel Architecture Laboratories, since January 1993; Vice President and General
Manager, Software Technology Group from 1991 to 1992; Vice President and 
Director of Marketing from 1990 to 1991; and Vice President and Director of 
Corporate Marketing from 1985 to 1990.

Albert Y.C. Yu (age 53) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, 
Microprocessor Products Group since January 1993; Vice President and General 
Manager, Microprocessor Products Group from 1991 to 1992; Vice President and 
General Manager, Micro Products Group from 1990 to 1991; and Vice President and
General Manager, Component Technology and Development Group from 1989 to 1990. 

Michael A. Aymar (age 47) has been Vice President and General Manager, 
Intel486(TM) Microprocessor Division, since January 1994; Vice President and 
General Manager, Mobile Computing Group, from 1991 to 1994; and Vice President 
and General Manager, Santa Clara Microcomputer Division from 1989 to 1991.
Andy D. Bryant (age 44) has been Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
since February 1994; Vice President, Intel Products Group from 1990 to 1994; 
and Director of Finance from 1987 to 1990.

F. Thomas Dunlap, Jr. (age 43) has been Vice President, General Counsel and 
Secretary since 1987.

G. Carl Everett, Jr. (age 44) has been Senior Vice President and General 
Manager, Microprocessor Products Group since May 1994; Vice President and 
Director, Worldwide Sales Group from 1990 to 1994; Vice President and Director 
of North American Sales during 1990; and Vice President, Sales and Marketing 
Group from 1987 to 1990.

Stephen P. Nachtsheim (age 50) has been Vice President and General Manager, 
Mobile and Home Products Group since January 1995.  Prior to that time, from 
January 1994 to January 1995, he was an appointed vice president of the same 
group.  He held the positions of General Manager of European Intel Products 
Group from 1992 to 1994; General Manager of ASIC from 1990 to 1992; and General
Manager of Intel Europe from 1988 to 1990.



PAGE 10
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

At December 31, 1994, Intel owned the major facilities described below:

At December 31, 1994, Intel also leased 21 major facilities in the U.S. 
totaling approximately 609,000 square feet and 11 facilities in other countries
totaling approximately 246,000 square feet.  These leases expire at varying 
dates through 2002, including renewals at the option of Intel.

Intel believes that its existing facilities are suitable and adequate, and the 
productive capacity in such facilities is in general being utilized.  Intel has
other facilities available that it can equip to meet future demand as such 
demand materializes.  These include 4.5 million square feet of building space 
under various stages of construction in the United States and abroad for 
manufacturing and administrative purposes.


_________________________
(A)     Includes an idle, 131,000-square-foot facility formerly utilized for 
        wafer fabrication and administration, which is currently for sale.
(B)     The lease on a portion of the land used for these facilities expires 
        in 2032.
(C)     Leases on land expire in 1998, 2002 and 2008.
(D)     This facility is currently for sale.




PAGE 11
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

A. LITIGATION

                   Intel vs. Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ("AMD")
         U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California
              (C90-20237) - Intel287 Copyright Infringement Suit
         -----------------------------------------------------------

In a letter dated March 23, 1990 from AMD, AMD asserted a right to copy and 
distribute Intel-copyrighted microcode in an AMD 80C287 math coprocessor.  
In response to the letter, Intel filed a suit on April 23, 1990 in the U.S. 
District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging that AMD 
infringed Intel's copyright on the microcode for the Intel287(TM) math 
coprocessor.  In its defense, AMD claimed a license to copy and distribute 
Intel copyrighted microcode based on a clause in a 1976 patent cross-license 
agreement which gives AMD the right "...to copy microcodes contained in Intel 
microcomputers and peripheral products sold by Intel."

On January 11, 1995, in connection with the settlement of various legal matters
between the two companies, the parties agreed to dismiss all claims, 
counterclaims and defenses raised in this action.  AMD has agreed to abide by 
the terms of the preliminary injunction entered August 7, 1990, and Intel has 
granted AMD a license to Intel code contained in Intel287, Intel386 and 
Intel486 microprocessors.  AMD has agreed that it has no right to copy the 
microcode in the Pentium processor and future microprocessors.  


                   Intel vs. Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ("AMD")
         U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California
              (C92-20039) - Intel386 Copyright Infringement Suit
         -----------------------------------------------------------

On October 9, 1991, Intel filed another copyright infringement suit against 
AMD, alleging that AMD copied the Intel386 microcode and a control program 
which is stored in a programmable logic array.

On January 11, 1995, in connection with the settlement of various legal matters
between the two companies, the parties agreed to dismiss all claims, 
counterclaims and defenses raised in this action.


                    Intel vs. Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ("AMD")
           U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California
              (C93-20301) - Intel486 Copyright Infringement Suit
         ----------------------------------------------------------

On April 28, 1993, the Company filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for
the Northern District of California covering numerous copyright infringement 
claims on AMD's versions of Intel486 microprocessors.

On October 11, 1994, Judge Trumbull ruled that AMD is not licensed to copy or 
distribute the Company's 486 ICE(TM) system microcode, and entered an 
injunction which prohibits AMD from shipping Am486s which contain the Company's
486 ICE system microcode after January 15, 1995.

On January 11, 1995, in connection with the settlement of various legal matters
between the two companies, the parties agreed to dismiss all claims, 
counterclaims and defenses raised in this action.  The 486 ICE system microcode
injunction will remain in effect, and AMD agreed to pay Intel $58 million as 
settlement for past damages for its 486 ICE system microcode infringement.  
As part of the settlement, AMD will have the right to use foundries for up to 
20% of its Am486 production.


PAGE 12
          Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ("AMD") vs. Intel Corporation
         U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California
                         (C91-20541) - Antitrust Suit
         -----------------------------------------------------------

On August 29, 1991, AMD filed a lawsuit against Intel in the U.S. District 
Court for the Northern District of California, alleging that Intel violated the
Sherman Act by committing unlawful acts and conspiring with customers and 
distributors to secure and maintain monopoly positions in microprocessor and 
math coprocessor markets.

On January 11, 1995, in connection with the settlement of various legal matters
between the two companies, the parties agreed to dismiss all claims, 
counterclaims and defenses raised in this action. 

                       Consumer Class Action Suits
                       ---------------------------
          Machtinger vs. Intel, Cook Co. Circuit Court, IL (94-C-7300)
     Anthony Uzzo & Co. vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV745729)
    Liberty Bell Equip. vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV745803)
          Sloane vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV745876)
          Klein vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV745895)
          Scalzo vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV745924)
                 Rep. Electronic Products vs. Intel and Dell,
                   Wayne Co. Circuit Court, MI (94-435132CK)
          Fingold vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV746031)
        Lees et al vs. Intel, Camden Co. Superior Court, NJ (L 11508 94)
        Kurtz, Orman vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV746116)
      Data Technology Services vs. Intel, U.S.D.C., Dist. of CO (94-N-2886)
          Carney vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV746128)
          -----------------------------------------------------------

During the period from November 29, 1994 through December 19, 1994, numerous 
civil consumer lawsuits were filed in state courts in various states against 
the Company.  Although the complaints differ, these actions generally allege 
that Intel breached express and implied warranties, engaged in deceptive 
advertising and otherwise committed consumer fraud by shipping Pentium 
processors which contained a divide problem in the floating point unit, and by 
failing to disclose it.  The suits seek compensatory and punitive damages of 
unspecified amounts. One of the actions has since been withdrawn.  A 
Stipulation of Settlement covering all remaining pending actions was filed in 
the Santa Clara Superior Court on March 22, 1995.  Preliminary approval was 
granted by the Court on March 24, 1995.



Weisberg vs. C. Barrett, W.H. Chen, A. Grove, D.J. Guzy, G. Moore, M. Palevsky,
          A. Rock, J. Shaw, L. Vadasz, D. Yoffie, C. Young and Intel
                       Southern District, NY (C95-0674)
                       --------------------------------

On January 31, 1995, the plaintiff brought this suit in Federal Court in New 
York (Southern District) as both a derivative and stockholder action to 
invalidate the Company's Executive Officer Bonus Plan, alleging that the plan 
is so vague and misleading as to be ambiguous.  Plaintiff seeks (i) 
cancellation of the stockholders' approval of the Plan, (ii) unspecified 
damages to Intel by the Board of Directors, and (iii) to enjoin implementation 
of the Plan and the payment of any bonuses under the Plan.

Although the ultimate outcome of any outstanding claims cannot be determined 
at this time, management, including internal counsel, does not believe that the
ultimate outcome will have a material adverse effect on Intel's financial 
position or overall trends in results of operations.





PAGE 13
B. ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEEDINGS

Intel has been named to the California and U.S. federal Superfund lists for 
three of its sites and has completed, along with two other companies, a 
Remedial Investigation/Feasibility study with the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) to evaluate the ground water in areas adjacent to its Mountain 
View, California site.  The EPA has issued a Record of Decision with respect to
a groundwater cleanup plan at that site.  Under the California and U.S. federal
Superfund statutes, liability for cleanup of the Mountain View site and 
adjacent area is joint and several.  The Company has reached agreement in 
principle with those same two companies which should significantly limit the 
Company's liabilities under the proposed cleanup plan.  Also, the Company has 
completed extensive studies at its other sites and is engaged in cleanup at 
several of these sites.  In the opinion of management, including internal 
counsel, the potential losses to the Company in excess of amounts already 
accrued arising out of these matters would not have a material adverse effect 
on the Company's financial position, even if joint and several liability were 
to be assessed.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.



PAGE 14
                                 PART II
                                 -------

ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER 
            MATTERS

    (a)     Reference is made to the information regarding market, market price
            range and dividend information appearing under "Financial 
            Information by Quarter (Unaudited)" on page 31 of the Registrant's 
            Annual Report to Stockholders which information is hereby 
            incorporated by reference. 

    (b)     As of February 25, 1995, there were 43,262 holders of record of the
            Registrant's Common Stock.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Reference is made to the information regarding selected financial data for the 
fiscal years 1990 through 1994, including the related footnotes, under the 
heading "Financial Summary" on page 28 of the Registrant's Annual Report to 
Stockholders, which information is hereby incorporated by reference.  

In addition, the ratios of earnings to fixed charges for each of the five years
in the period ended December 31, 1994 are as follows:

                              Fiscal Year
      --------------------------------------------------------
            1990      1991      1992      1993      1994

            9.2x      12.4x     20.7x     54.4x     39.5x

Fixed charges consist of interest expense and the estimated interest component 
of rent expense.




PAGE 15
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

Reference is made to the information appearing under the heading "Management's 
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on 
pages 29 through 31 of the Registrant's 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders, 
which information is hereby incorporated by reference.

Subsequent to December 31, 1994, Intel repurchased 2.0 million shares of Common
Stock under the Company's authorized stock repurchase program at a cost of $150
million. The Company also sold 3.5 million put warrants, receiving proceeds of 
$16 million, while 3.0 million previously outstanding put warrants expired. As 
of March 22, 1995, the Company had the potential obligation to repurchase 13.0 
million shares of Common Stock at an aggregate price of $821 million under 
outstanding put warrants. After reserving shares to cover these outstanding put
warrants, 15.4 million shares remained available under the stock repurchase 
program authorization.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Consolidated financial statements of Intel Corporation at December 31, 1994 and
December 25, 1993 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 
31, 1994 and the Report of Independent Auditors thereon and Intel Corporation's
unaudited quarterly financial data for the two-year period ended December 31, 
1994 are incorporated by reference from the Registrant's 1994 Annual Report to 
Stockholders, on pages 14 through 31.


ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.



PAGE 16
                                   PART III
                                   --------

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Reference is made to the information regarding Directors and Executive Officers
appearing under the headings "Election of Directors" and "Name and Principal 
Occupation" on pages 1 through 3 of the Registrant's Proxy Statement dated 
March 14, 1995, which information is hereby incorporated by reference, and to 
the information under the heading "Executive Officers" in Part I hereof.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Reference is made to the information appearing under the headings "Executive 
Compensation," "Directors' Compensation," and "Compensation Committee 
Interlocks and Insider Participation," on pages 8 through 11 of the 
Registrant's Proxy Statement dated March 14, 1995, which information is hereby 
incorporated by reference.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Reference is made to information appearing in the Registrant's Proxy Statement 
dated March 14, 1995, under the heading "Security Ownership of Certain 
Beneficial Owners and Management," on pages 13 and 14, which information is 
hereby incorporated by reference.


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Reference is made to the information appearing under the heading "Certain 
Relationships and Related Transactions" on page 14 of the Registrant's Proxy 
Statement dated March 14, 1995, which information is hereby incorporated by 
reference.



PAGE 17
                                   PART IV
                                   -------

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    (a)   1.   Financial Statements

               The financial statements listed in the accompanying index to 
               financial statements and financial statement schedules are filed
               or incorporated by reference as part of this annual report.

          2.   Financial Statement Schedule

               The financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying 
               index to financial statements and financial statement schedules 
               is filed as part of this annual report.

          3.   Exhibits

               The exhibits listed in the accompanying index to exhibits are 
               filed or incorporated by reference as part of this annual 
               report.

    (b)        Reports on Form 8-K

               On December 21, 1994, Intel filed a report on Form 8-K relating 
               to the adoption of an upon-request replacement policy on Pentium
               processors and a then-unspecified material charge against 
               earnings to be taken in the fourth quarter of 1994.



PAGE 18
                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                       AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                                 (Item 14 (a))
                                                               Reference Page
                                                               --------------
                                                                       Annual
                                                         Form       Report to
                                                         10-K    Stockholders

Consolidated Balance Sheets-
  December 31, 1994 and December 25, 1993 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
Consolidated Statements of Income for
  the years ended December 31, 1994, 
  December 25, 1993 and December 26, 1992 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
  for the years ended December 31, 1994
  December 25, 1993 and December 26, 1992 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' 
  Equity for the years ended December 31, 1994, 
  December 25, 1993 and December 26, 1992 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements- 
  December 31, 1994, December 25, 1993 and 
  December 26, 1992 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-26
Report of Independent Auditors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Supplementary Information (unaudited)
  Financial Information by Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Schedule for years ended December 31, 1994, 
  December 25, 1993 and December 26, 1992:
II- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts . . . . . . . . . . .19

Schedules other than the one listed above are omitted for the reason that they 
are not required or are not applicable, or the required information is shown in
the financial statements or notes thereto.

The consolidated financial statements listed in the above index which are 
included in the Company's Annual Report to Stockholders are hereby incorporated
by reference.  With the exception of the pages listed in the above index and 
the portions of such report referred to in Items 5, 6, 7, and 8 of this Form 
10-K, the 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders is not to be deemed filed as part 
of this report.

Page references to the 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders relate to the bound, 
printed version of the report.




PAGE 19
                            INTEL CORPORATION
                     --------------------------------
              SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

         December 26, 1992, December 25, 1993 and December 31, 1994
                              (In Millions)






                                              Additions
                                 Balance at  Charged to                 Balance
                                  Beginning   Costs and                  at End
                                    of Year    Expenses  Deductions (A) of Year
                                 ----------  ----------  -------------  -------


Allowance for Doubtful Receivables      $ 9         $29            $12      $26
                                        ---         ---            ---      ---

Allowance for Doubtful Receivables      $26         $ 4            $ 8      $22
                                        ---         ---            ---      ---

Allowance for Doubtful Receivables      $22         $10            $--      $32
                                        ---         ---            ---      ---

(A)  Uncollectible accounts written off, net of recoveries.




PAGE 20
                            INDEX TO EXHIBITS

                              (Item 14 (a))

      Description

3.1   Intel Corporation Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated by reference
      to Exhibit 3.1 of Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 26, 
      1993 [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on August 10, 1993)

3.2   Intel Corporation Bylaws as amended, (incorporated by reference to 
      Exhibit 3.2 of Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 10-Q for the 
      quarter ended September 25, 1993 [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on
      November 9, 1993).

4.1   Agreement to Provide Instruments Defining the Rights of Security Holders 
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of Registrant's Form 10-K 
      [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on March 28, 1986).

4.2   Indenture dated as of May 1, 1985 among Intel Overseas Corporation, Intel
      Corporation and Wachovia Bank Trust Company N.A. related to $236,500,000 
      principal amount of zero coupon notes due 1995 issued by Intel Overseas 
      Corporation and guaranteed by Intel Corporation (incorporated by 
      reference to Exhibit 4.1 of Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
      June 29, 1985 [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on August 13, 1985).

4.3   Warrant agreement dated as of March 1, 1993, as amended between the 
      Registrant and Harris Trust and Savings Bank (as successor Warrant Agent)
      related to the issuance of 1998 Step-Up Warrants to purchase Common Stock
      of Intel Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 of 
      Registrant's Form 10-K [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on March 25,
      1993), together with the First Amendment to Warrant Agreement dated as of
      October 18, 1993 and the Second Amendment to Warrant Agreement dated as 
      of January 17, 1994 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the 
      Registrant's Form 10-K [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on March 
      25, 1994).

10.1* Intel Corporation 1984 Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated 
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of Registrant's Form 10-Q for 
      the quarter ended April 2, 1994 [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on 
      May 16, 1994). 

10.2  Intel Corporation Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan dated April 20, 1990 as 
      amended and restated effective January 1, 1989 (incorporated by reference
      to Exhibit 10.3 of Registrant's Form 10-K [Commission File No. 0-6217] as
      filed on March 26, 1992).

10.3  Second Amendment dated March 2, 1992 to Intel Corporation Profit-Sharing 
      Retirement Plan dated April 20, 1990 as amended and restated effective 
      January 1, 1989  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of 
      Registrant's Form 10-K [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on March 26,
      1993).

10.4  Intel Corporation Defined Benefit Pension Plan and Trust dated September 
      7, 1988 as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of 
      Registrant's Form 10-K [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on March 28,
      1990).

10.5* Intel Corporation 1988 Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan as amended 
      and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of Form 10-Q for 
      the quarter ended April 2, 1994 [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on 
      May 16, 1994). 

10.6* Intel Corporation Sheltered Employee Retirement Plan Plus dated December 
      1, 1991 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of Registrant's Form 
      10-K [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on March 26, 1992).



PAGE 21
10.7* Intel Corporation Executive Officer Bonus Plan dated January 1, 1994 
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of Registrant's Form 10-K 
      [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on March 25, 1994).

11.   Computation of Per Share Earnings.

12.   Statement Setting Forth the Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed 
      Charges.

13.   Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for fiscal year ended 
      December 31, 1994 expressly incorporated by reference herein.

21.   Intel Subsidiaries.

23.   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.

27.   Financial Data Schedule.











* Compensation plans or arrangements in which officers and directors are 
  eligible to participate.

PAGE 22
SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Annual Report to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

INTEL CORPORATION
Registrant By 
/s/ F. Thomas Dunlap, Jr.
- -------------------------
F. Thomas Dunlap, Jr.   
Vice President and Secretary
March 24, 1995

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

/s/ Craig R. Barrett                           /s/ Max Palevsky
- --------------------                           ----------------
Craig R. Barrett                               Max Palevsky
Director                                       Director
March 24, 1995                                 March 24, 1995

/s/ Andy D. Bryant                             /s/ Arthur Rock
- ------------------                             ---------------
Andy D. Bryant                                 Arthur Rock
Vice President, Principal                      Director
Accounting and Chief Financial Officer         March 24, 1995
March 24, 1995
                                               /s/ Jane E. Shaw
/s/ Winston H. Chen                            ----------------
- -------------------                            Jane E. Shaw
Winston H. Chen                                Director
Director                                       March 24, 1995
March 24, 1995
                                               /s/ Leslie L. Vadasz
/s/ Andrew S. Grove                            --------------------
- -------------------                            Leslie L. Vadasz
Andrew S. Grove                                Director
Principal Executive Officer                    March 24, 1995
President and Director
March 24, 1995                                 /s/ David B. Yoffie
                                               -------------------
/s/ D. James Guzy                              David B. Yoffie
- -----------------                              Director
D. James Guzy                                  March 24, 1995
Director
March 24, 1995                                 /s/ Charles E. Young
                                               --------------------
/s/ Gordon E. Moore                            Charles E. Young
- -------------------                            Director
Gordon E. Moore                                March 24, 1995
Chairman of the Board
March 24, 1995


