10-K


l95299ae10vk.htm

PAYCHEX, INC.   10-K/PERIOD ENDING 5-31-2002

PayChex, Inc.  10-K/Period Ending 5-31-2002


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF

1934 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED MAY 31, 2002

COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-11330

PAYCHEX, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

DELAWARE

16-1124166

(State or other jurisdiction of

(IRS Employer Identification

incorporation or organization)

Number)

911 PANORAMA TRAIL SOUTH, ROCHESTER, NEW YORK

14625-0397

(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip Code)

(585) 385-6666

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the act: None

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the act:

COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ].

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to item 405
of regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this form 10-K or any amendment to
this form 10-K. [ ].

As of June 30, 2002, shares held by non-affiliates of the registrant had an
aggregate market value of $10,304,650,000.

As of June 30, 2002, 375,889,763 shares of the registrant’s common stock, $.01
par value, were outstanding.

Documents Incorporated By Reference

Portions of the Registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting
to be held in October 2002, are incorporated herein by reference thereto in
response to Part III, Items 10 through 13, inclusive.




PART I

“SAFE HARBOR” STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF

Certain written and oral statements made by Paychex, Inc. (the “Company”)
management may constitute “forward-looking statements” as defined in the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements
are identified by such words and phrases as “we expect,” “expected to,”
“estimates,” “we look forward to,” “would equate to,” “projects,” “projected to
be,” “anticipates,” “we believe,” “could be,” and other similar phrases. All
statements addressing operating performance, events, or developments that the
Company expects or anticipates will occur in the future, including statements
relating to revenue growth, earnings, earnings per share growth, or similar
projections, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform
Act. Because they are forward-looking, they should be evaluated in light of
important risk factors. These risk factors include, but are not limited to the
following or those which are described in the Company’s SEC filings: general
market and economic conditions, including demand for the Company’s products and
services, availability of internal and external resources, executing expansion
plans, competition, and price levels; changes in the laws regulating collection
and payment of payroll taxes, professional employer organizations, and employee
benefits, including 401(k) plans, workers’ compensation, state unemployment,
and section 125 plans; delays in the development, timing of the introduction,
and marketing of new products and services; changes in technology, including
use of the Internet; the possibility of catastrophic events that could impact
the Company’s operating facilities, computer systems, and communication
systems; the possibility of third-party service providers failing to perform
their functions; the possibility of penalties and losses resulting from errors
and omissions in performing services; potential damage to the Company’s
business reputation due to these and other operational risks; the possible
inability of clients to meet payroll obligations; stock volatility; and changes
in short- and long-term interest rates, changes in the market value of
available-for-sale securities, and the credit rating of cash, cash equivalents,
and securities held in the Company’s investment portfolios, all of which could
cause actual results to differ materially from anticipated results. The
information provided in this document is based upon the facts and circumstances
known at this time. The Company assumes no obligation to update this document
for new information subsequent to its issuance.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Paychex, Inc. (the “Company” or “Paychex”), is a leading, national provider of
comprehensive payroll and integrated human resource and employee benefit
outsourcing solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses. Paychex, a
Delaware corporation, was formed in 1979 through the consolidation of 17
corporations engaged in providing computerized payroll accounting services. As
of the end of fiscal 2002, the Company serviced over 390,000 clients and had
7,400 employees. The Company has its corporate headquarters in Rochester, New
York and more than 100 offices nationwide. The Company’s fiscal year ends May
31st. Information about the Company’s products and services, shareholder
information, press releases, and SEC filings can be found on the Company’s Web
site at www.paychex.com.

Market Opportunities:

The outsourcing of business processes is a growing trend within the United
States. Outsourcing of the payroll and human resource functions allows small-
to mid-sized businesses to minimize the compliance risks associated with
increasingly complex and changing administrative requirements and federal,
state, and local tax regulations. By utilizing the expertise of outsourcing
service providers, businesses are able to reduce processing costs and
administrative burdens while, at the same time, adding competitive benefits for
their employees. The technical capabilities, knowledge and operational
expertise that Paychex has built, along with the broad portfolio of ancillary
services it offers its clients, have enabled the Company to capitalize on this
outsourcing trend.



There are approximately six million employers in the markets that Paychex
currently serves within the United States. Of those employers, 99% have fewer
than 100 employees and are the Company’s primary customers and target market.
Based on industry data, the Company estimates that all payroll processors
combined serve less than 15% of the potential businesses with much of the
unpenetrated market in businesses with 10 or less employees. Paychex remains
focused on servicing small- to mid-sized businesses due to the significant
growth potential in this market segment.

Clients:

Paychex serves a diverse base of small- to medium-sized clients operating in a
broad range of industries located throughout the continental United States. At
May 31, 2002 the Company serviced over 390,000 clients. The Company utilizes
service agreements and arrangements with clients that are terminable by the
client at any time. No single client has a material impact on total service
revenue or results of operations.

The estimated composition of the market the Company services and the Company’s
client base by employee size is as follows:

Business size

Market distribution (estimated)

(number of employees)

(6,000,000 businesses in areas served)

Paychex client base

1-4


%


%

5-19


%


%

20-49


%


%

50-99


%


%

100+


%


%

Company Strategy:

As part of its continuing growth strategy, Paychex is focused on the following:

Products and Services:

Paychex offers a comprehensive portfolio of
payroll, payroll-related, and human
resource products to meet the diverse needs of its client base. These include
payroll processing, tax filing and payments, employee pay, retirement services
administration, employee benefits administration, regulatory compliance (new
hire reporting and garnishment processing), workers’ compensation insurance,
and comprehensive



bundled human resource administrative services. By offering
a portfolio of ancillary services that leverage the information gathered in the
base payroll processing service, Paychex is able to provide comprehensive
business process outsourcing services that allow employers to expand their
employee benefit offerings at an affordable cost.

Payroll Processing:

Payroll processing is the backbone of the Paychex product
portfolio. The Paychex Payroll service includes the calculation,
preparation,
and delivery of employee payroll checks, production of internal accounting
records and management reports, and the preparation of federal, state, and
local payroll tax returns. Payroll processing clients are charged a base fee
each period that payroll is processed plus a fee per employee check processed.

The Core Payroll product is generally targeted for clients with 1 to 50
employees, although many clients with more than 50 employees utilize this
service. The average Paychex Core Payroll client employs approximately 14
people and processes approximately 31 payrolls each year. Core Payroll clients
communicate their payroll information for each payroll period, including hours
worked by each employee and any personnel or compensation changes, usually by
telephone or fax to their assigned Paychex payroll specialist. The Paychex
payroll specialist, upon receiving the information from the client over the
telephone, enters it simultaneously into the payroll system. Paychex trains
these specialists in all facets of payroll preparation and applicable tax
regulations. Clients can also transfer data from their personal computer by
using the Paychex Paylink® software or via the Internet. Clients receive
payroll checks and reports from either a delivery service, the U.S. Postal
Service, or by picking them up at the local Paychex branch.

Paychex also offers Core Payroll services to its clients and their accountants
via Paychex Online. This secure Internet site offers clients a suite of
interactive, self-service products and services twenty-four hours a day, seven
days a week. These include Online Payroll, Internet Time Sheet, Internet
Report Service, and General Ledger Reporting Service. Clients can communicate
payroll information via Internet Time Sheet or use the Company’s complete
Online Payroll service, as well as access current and historical payroll
information using the Paychex Internet Report Service. The General Ledger
Reporting Service transfers payroll information calculated by Paychex to the
client’s general ledger accounting software, eliminating manual entries and
improving the accuracy of bookkeeping. Approximately 50,000 clients are
currently enrolled in some type of online service.

The Company’s Major Market Services (MMS) Payroll product primarily targets
companies that have outgrown the Company’s Core Payroll service or new clients
that generally have more than 50 employees and/or more complex payroll and
benefits needs. Expansion efforts for MMS continue and as of May 31, 2002,
this product was offered in 64 of the more than 100 markets currently serviced
by the Core Payroll product. The MMS product is currently offered in market
locations that serve approximately 85% of the Company’s total client base.
Approximately one-third of new MMS clients are conversions from the Company’s
Core Payroll product.

Most MMS clients communicate their payroll information to Paychex using the
Company’s Preview® software. The Preview software provides clients “in-house”
control of payroll and human resource information because the software and the
payroll and human resource database reside on the client’s personal computer or
personal computer network. Clients can produce reports and checks at their
convenience. Paychex handles the software maintenance and provides the client
ancillary services as requested.

Ancillary Products and Services:

Paychex provides its clients with a portfolio
of ancillary products and services that have been developed and refined over
many years. The Company integrates these ancillary products with its payroll
processing services, which provides increased convenience and value to clients.
Ancillary products provide the Company with additional recurring revenue
streams and increased service efficiencies, which result in economies of scale.
Paychex offers the following ancillary products and services:



Taxpay®:

As of May 31, 2002, 85% of the Company’s clients utilized its Taxpay
service, which provides accurate preparation and timely filing of quarterly and
year-end tax returns, as well as the electronic transfer of funds to the
appropriate agencies (federal, state, and local). Client utilization of the
Taxpay product is expected to mature in the range of 85% to 87%. In connection
with Taxpay, the Company electronically collects payroll taxes from clients’
bank accounts typically on payday, files the applicable tax returns, and pays
taxes to the appropriate taxing authorities on the due date. These taxes are
typically paid between one and thirty days after receipt of collections from
clients, with some items extending to ninety days. Clients utilizing the
Taxpay service are charged a base fee each period that payroll is processed.
In addition to fees paid by clients, the Company earns interest on Taxpay funds
that are collected before due dates and invested until remittance to the
appropriate taxing authority.

Employee Pay Services:

As of May 31, 2002, 57% of the Company’s clients
utilized its Employee Pay Services, which provide the employer the option of
paying its employees by Direct Deposit, Access Card, a check drawn on a Paychex
account (Readychex

SM

), or a check drawn on the employer’s account. For the
first three methods, Paychex electronically collects net payroll from the
client’s bank account typically one day before payroll and provides payment to
the employee on payday. The Flexible Pay Package provides a cost-effective,
bundled approach that can have the extended benefit of convenient, one-step
payroll account reconciliation for employers. Clients utilizing Employee Pay
Services are charged a base fee for each period that payroll is processed and a
fee per transaction or per employee depending on the service provided. In
addition to fees paid by the client, the Company earns interest on Employee Pay
Services funds that are collected before due dates and invested until
remittance to clients’ employees.

Taxpay and Employee Pay Services are integrated with the Company’s Payroll
processing service. Interest on Taxpay and Employee Pay Services funds held
for clients is included in total revenues on the Consolidated Statements of
Income because the collection, holding, and remittance of these funds are
critical components of providing these services.

Regulatory Compliance Services:

Paychex offers New Hire Reporting services,
which enable clients to comply with federal and state requirements to report
information on new employees, to aid the government in enforcing child support
orders, and to minimize fraudulent unemployment and workers’ compensation
insurance claims. In fiscal 2002, the Company enhanced its Garnishment
Processing service, which provides deductions of appropriate amounts from
employees’ pay, forwards payments to the proper agency, and accurately tracks
the obligation to fulfillment. With the enhanced service, Paychex is able to
remit garnishment withholdings to agencies, including those that require
electronic payments. These services enable employers to comply with legal
requirements and reduce the risk of penalties.

Comprehensive Administrative Services:

The Paychex Administrative Services
(PAS) product provides businesses a full-service approach to the outsourcing of
employer and employee administrative needs. PAS offers businesses a package of
services that includes payroll, employer compliance, human resource and
employee benefits administration, and employee risk management. This
comprehensive bundle of services is designed to make it easier for small
businesses to manage their payroll and benefits costs. The Company also
operates a Professional Employer Organization (PEO), which provides businesses
with the same combined package of services as the PAS product, but with Paychex
acting as co-employer of the client’s employees. The Company’s PEO is operated
primarily in Florida and Georgia, where PEOs are more prevalent. Paychex offers
its PEO product through its subsidiary, Paychex Business Solutions. Clients
that utilize the bundled services offered through the PAS and PEO products can
concentrate their resources on their core businesses. As of May 31, 2002, the
PAS and PEO products combined serviced over 80,000 client employees.

Retirement Services:

The Company’s Retirement Services product line offers a
variety of options to clients, including 401(k) plans, 401(k) SIMPLE,
SIMPLE IRA, profit sharing, and money purchase plans. This service provides plan
implementation, ongoing compliance with government regulations, employee and
employer reporting, participant access online, electronic funds transfer, and
other administrative services. Selling efforts for the Retirement Services
products are focused primarily on the Company’s existing Payroll client base,
as the processed payroll information allows for data integration necessary to
provide these services efficiently. The Retirement Services product was
utilized by over 23,000 clients at



May 31, 2002. This demonstrates the
continuing interest of small- to medium-sized businesses in providing
retirement savings benefits to their employees. Paychex is now one of the
largest 401(k) recordkeepers for small businesses in the United States. Clients
utilizing this service are charged a monthly fee and a fee per eligible
employee. Client employee 401(k) funds externally managed totaled
approximately $2.2 billion at May 31, 2002. The Company earns a fee
approximating 30 basis points from the external managers based on the total of
client employee 401(k) funds.

Workers’ Compensation Services:

Most employers are required to carry workers’
compensation insurance, which provides payments to employees who are unable to
work because of job-related injuries. Paychex provides Workers’ Compensation
Insurance Administration services by serving, via its licensed insurance
agency, as a general agent providing qualified workers’ compensation insurance
through a variety of insurance carriers who are underwriters. The
Pay-As-You-Go

SM

program uses rate and job classification information to enable
clients to pay workers’ compensation premiums in regular monthly amounts rather
than with large upfront payments, which stabilizes their cash flow and
minimizes year-end adjustments. As of May 31, 2002, over 26,000 clients
utilized the Workers’ Compensation product.

Section 125 Plans:

The Company also offers outsourcing of plan administration
under section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code. The Premium Only Plan allows
employees to pay for certain health insurance benefits with pre-tax dollars,
which results in a reduction in payroll taxes for employers and employees. The
Flexible Spending Account Plan allows a client’s employees to pay, with pre-tax
dollars, health and dependent care expenses not covered by insurance. All
required implementation, administration, compliance, and coverage tests are
provided with these services.

Other Human Resource Products:

Group health benefits are also offered in
selected geographical areas, as are state unemployment insurance services,
which provide clients with prompt processing for all claims, appeals,
determinations, change statements, and requests for separation documents. Other
Human Resource and Benefits products include employee handbooks, management
manuals, and personnel forms. These products are designed to simplify clients’
office processes and enhance their employee benefits programs.

Sales and Marketing:

The Company markets its services principally through its direct sales force
based in major metropolitan markets serviced by the Company. The Company’s
sales representatives specialize in Core Payroll, Major Market Services
Payroll, or Human Resource and Benefits product lines. The Company’s sales
force totaled approximately 1,250 at May 31, 2002, with 880 focused on Core
Payroll, 100 focused on Major Market Services Payroll, 230 focused on various
Human Resource and Benefits products, and 40 licensed agents selling Workers’
Compensation Insurance services. In addition to its direct selling and
marketing efforts, the Company utilizes relationships with existing clients,
certified public accountants, and banks for new client referrals. Approximately
two-thirds of the Company’s clients come from these referral sources. The sales
force for Human Resource and Benefits products is primarily focused on selling
products and services to existing payroll clients since their processed payroll
information provides the data integration necessary to provide these services.

The Company’s Web site at www.paychex.com, which includes an online payroll
sales presentation and product information, is a cost-efficient tool that
serves as a source of leads and new sales while complementing the efforts of
the field sales force. This online tool also allows Paychex to market to
clients in more geographically remote areas. The Company’s sales
representatives are also supported by marketing, advertising, public relations,
and telemarketing programs. The Company has grown and expects to continue to
grow its direct sales force. In recent years, the Company has increased its
emphasis on the selling of ancillary services to both new clients and its
existing client base.



Competition:

The market for payroll processing services is highly fragmented. The Company
believes its primary national competitor, Automatic Data Processing, is the
largest U.S. third-party provider of payroll processing in terms of both
revenue and clients. Paychex also competes with other national, regional,
local, and online service providers, all of which have significantly smaller
client bases.

In addition to traditional payroll processing service providers, the Company
competes with in-house payroll and human resource systems and departments.
Payroll and human resource systems are sold by many vendors. The Company’s
Human Resource and Benefits products also compete with a variety of providers
of unbundled human resource services such as insurance companies, retirement
services companies, and human resource consulting firms.

Software Maintenance and Product Development:

The ever-changing mandates of federal, state, and local taxing authorities
require Paychex to update the proprietary software utilized by the Company to
provide Payroll and Human Resource and Benefits services to its clients. The
Company is also engaged in developing enhancements and maintenance to this
software to meet the changing requirements of its clients and the marketplace.
The Company develops proprietary software for new product offerings on a
continuing basis. Research and development expenses are not significant to the
Company’s overall results of operations.

Employees:

As of May 31, 2002, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately
7,400 people, of whom approximately 7,100 are full-time and approximately 300
are part-time and none of whom are covered by collective bargaining agreements.

Trademarks:

As of May 31, 2002, the Company and its subsidiaries have a number of
trademarks and service marks filed for registration or registered with the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office, including the names Paychex, Taxpay, Paylink,
Preview, Readychex, Pay-As-You-Go, Paychex Online Payroll, and Rapid Payroll.
The Company believes these trademarks and service marks are important to its
business.

Seasonality:

There is no significant seasonality to the Company’s business. However, during
the Company’s third fiscal quarter, the number of new payroll clients,
Retirement Services clients, and new PAS and PEO worksite employees tends to be
higher than in the rest of the fiscal year primarily because a majority of new
clients start using services in the beginning of the calendar year. In
addition, calendar year-end transaction processing and client funds activity
are traditionally higher during the third fiscal quarter due to clients paying
year-end bonuses and requesting additional year-end services. As a result of
these factors, historically the Company’s total revenue has been slightly
higher in the third and fourth fiscal quarters with greater sales commission
expenses reported in the third quarter, which ends in February.



Risk Factors:

The Company’s future results of operations are subject to a number of risks and
uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to
differ materially from historical and current results and from Company
projections. Important factors known to us that could cause such differences
include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and those contained in
the “Safe Harbor” statement at the beginning of this Form 10-K.

The Company may make errors and omissions in providing services:

Processing,
tracking, collecting, and remitting client funds to the various taxing
authorities and client employees is complex. Errors have occurred in the past
and are likely to occur in the future. These errors could include late filing
with tax agencies and underpayment of taxes, which could result in significant
penalties that would adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The
Company could also transfer funds in error to an incorrect party or for the
wrong amount and may be unable to correct the error or recover the funds,
resulting in a loss to the Company.

Changes in government policies could adversely impact the business:

Many of the
Company’s services, particularly tax filing and benefit plan administration
services, are designed according to government regulations that continue to
change. Changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits
employers are required or may choose to provide employees or the amount and
type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. Such changes could
reduce or eliminate the need for some of the Company’s services and
substantially decrease its revenue. Added requirements could also increase the
cost of doing business. Failure by the Company to modify its services in
response to regulatory changes in a timely fashion could have adverse effects
on the Company’s results of operations.

Failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions could harm
the business:

As part of providing services to clients, Paychex relies on a
number of third-party service providers. These providers include, but are not
limited to, couriers used to deliver client payroll checks, and banks, which
electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees. Failure by these
providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner could
result in significant penalties for late tax payments and impact client
relations.

Failure of the Company’s Business Continuity Plan in the event of a catastrophe
could result in the loss of client data and adversely interrupt operations:

The Company’s operations are dependent on its ability to protect its
infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, security
breach, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack, or similar
event. The Company has a Business Continuity Plan in place in the event of
system failure due to any of these events. If the Business Continuity Plan was
unsuccessful in a disaster recovery scenario, the Company could potentially
lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to its
operations.

Any of the above risk factors could cause damage to the Company’s business
reputation, which is important to the Company’s ability to
attract new clients and
retain existing clients.

Paychex clients could have insufficient funds to cover payments the Company has
made on their behalf to taxing authorities and employees:

As part of the
payroll processing service, Paychex is authorized by its clients to transfer
money from their accounts to fund amounts owed to their employees and various
taxing authorities. It is possible that the Company would be held liable for
such amounts in the event the client has insufficient funds to cover them. The
Company has in the past, and may in the future, make payments on its clients’
behalf for which it is not reimbursed, resulting in a loss to the Company.

Interest earned on funds held for clients could be impacted by changes in
government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of
remittance:

The Company receives interest income from investing client funds
collected but not yet remitted to taxing authorities or to clients’ employees.
Interest on these funds is a substantial part of total revenue. A change in
regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing
less time to remit taxes to government authorities would adversely impact this
interest income.



Stock Price Volatility:

The market price of the Company’s common stock may be
influenced by factors such as quarterly variations in operating results,
announcements of new services or technological innovations by the Company or
its competitors, market conditions in the business process outsourcing
industry, changes in ratings or financial estimates by securities analysts,
general economic conditions, fluctuations in the stock market that are not
directly related to the Company’s operating performance, and other factors and
events which are beyond the Company’s control. These and other factors can
lead to fluctuations in the price of the Company’s stock.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk:

Refer to Item 7a
of this Form 10-K for discussion on Market Risk Factors.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The Company’s headquarters are located at 911 Panorama Trail South, Rochester,
NY 14625 in a 140,000-square-foot building complex owned by the Company. In
addition, within the Rochester area, the Company owns three facilities, which
account for a combined total of 213,000 square feet, and leases approximately
174,000 square feet, in several office complexes. These facilities house
various administrative and technology functions, certain ancillary service
functions, and a telemarketing unit. The Company expects to purchase
a 220,000-square-foot facility in Rochester, New York in a transaction that is
anticipated to be completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2003. The Company
receives incentives for certain of its owned facilities under arrangements with
government agencies.

The Company leases approximately 1,612,000 square feet of space for its
regional, branch, and sales offices, and data processing centers at various
locations throughout the United States, concentrating on major metropolitan
areas. The Company owns branch facilities located in Syracuse, New
York, and
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, which together account for approximately 56,000
square feet.

The Company believes that adequate, suitable lease space will continue to be
available for its needs.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

In the normal course of business and operations, the Company is subject to
various claims and litigation including licensing matters. Management believes the resolution of these
matters will not have a material adverse effect on the financial position or results of
operations of the Company.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders, through the solicitation
of proxies or otherwise, during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended May
31, 2002.



PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The Company’s common stock trades on The NASDAQ Stock Market

SM

under the symbol
“PAYX.” Dividends are normally paid in February, May, August, and November.
The level and continuation of future dividends are dependent on the Company’s
future earnings and cash flows, and are subject to the discretion of the Board
of Directors.

On June 30, 2002, there were 16,842 holders of record of the Company’s common
stock which includes registered holders and participants in the Paychex, Inc.
Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. There were also 7,075
participants in the Paychex, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan and 5,599
participants in the Paychex, Inc. 404(k) Employee Stock Ownership Plan.

The high and low sale prices for the Company’s Common Stock for the two fiscal
years ended May 31, 2002 and 2001 as reported on the NASDAQ Stock Market are as
follows:

Fiscal 2002 sales prices

Fiscal 2001 sales prices

High

Low

High

Low

First quarter

$

43.49

$

35.90

$

46.88

$

35.00

Second quarter

$

37.45

$

28.27

$

61.25

$

40.50

Third quarter

$

39.47

$

31.85

$

58.63

$

36.75

Fourth quarter

$

42.15

$

33.67

$

42.85

$

30.61

The Company maintains equity compensation plans in the form of stock option
incentive plans, all of which have been approved by the shareholders of the
corporation. Currently, stock options are granted to employees in the form of
non-qualified or incentive stock options (broad based grants only) from the
1998 Stock Incentive Plan. The 1995 and 1992 Stock Incentive Plans expired in
August 1998 and 1995, respectively, although previously granted options to
purchase shares under these plans remain outstanding at May 31, 2002. Refer to
Note G – Stock Option Plans in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements contained in Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for
more information on the Company’s stock option plans.

The following table details information on securities authorized for issuance
under the Company’s Stock Incentive Plans:

Number of

Number of

securities

securities to be

remaining available

issued upon

Weighted-average

for future issuance

exercise of

exercise price of

under equity

Plan category

outstanding options

outstanding options

compensation plans

Equity compensation plans
approved by security
holders

8,700,000

$

22.16

2,618,000



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

In thousands, except per

share amounts

Year ended May 31,






Service revenues

$

892,189

$

786,521

$

669,319

$

544,961

$

450,275

Interest on funds
held for clients

62,721

83,336

58,800

52,335

43,429

Total revenues

$

954,910

$

869,857

$

728,119

$

597,296

$

493,704

Operating income

$

363,694

$

336,702

$

258,893

$

187,562

$

134,700

Net income

$

274,531

$

254,869

$

190,007

$

139,099

$

102,219

Diluted
earnings

per share

$

.73

$

.68

$

.51

$

.37

$

.28

Cash dividends per
share

$

.42

$

.33

$

.22

$

.15

$

.10

Total assets

$

2,953,075

$

2,907,196

$

2,455,577

$

1,873,101

$

1,549,787

Total debt

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

Stockholders’ equity

$

923,981

$

757,842

$

563,432

$

435,800

$

329,607



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations reviews the Company’s operating results for each of the three fiscal
years in the period ended May 31, 2002 (fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000), and its
financial condition at May 31, 2002. This review should be read in conjunction
with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
Forward-looking statements in this review are qualified by the cautionary
statement under the heading “Safe Harbor” Statement under
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 contained at the beginning of this Form 10-K.

Critical Accounting Policies:

Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form
10-K discusses the significant accounting policies of Paychex, Inc. The
Company’s discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of
operations are based upon its consolidated financial statements, which have
been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires the
Company’s management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. On an ongoing
basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to
investments, allowance for doubtful accounts, fixed assets, income taxes,
contingencies, and our clients’ inability to meet their payroll obligations.
The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and assumptions
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual amounts and results
could differ from these estimates. Certain accounting policies that are deemed
critical to the Company’s results of operations or financial position are
discussed below.

Service revenues are recognized in the period services are rendered and earned
under service arrangements with clients where service fees are fixed or
determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Certain processing
services are provided under annual service arrangements with revenue recognized
ratably over the annual service period. Professional Employer Organization
(PEO) revenues are included in service revenues and are reported net of direct
costs billed and incurred, which include wages, taxes, benefit premiums, and
claims of PEO worksite employees. Direct costs billed and incurred for PEO
worksite employees were $1,056.9 million, $865.7 million, and $731.3 million
for fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. Paychex provides delivery
service for the distribution of certain client payroll checks and reports. The
revenue earned from delivery service is included in service revenues and the
costs for delivery are included in operating costs on the Consolidated
Statements of Income.

Interest on funds held for clients is earned primarily on Taxpay and Employee
Pay Services funds that are collected before due dates and invested (funds held
for clients) until remittance to the applicable tax authorities for Taxpay
clients and employees of Employee Pay Services clients. These collections
from clients are typically remitted between one and thirty days after receipt,
with some items extending to ninety days. The interest earned on these funds
is included in total revenues on the Consolidated Statements of Income because
the collection, holding, and remittance of these funds are critical components
of providing these services. Interest on funds held for clients also includes
net realized gains and losses from the sale of available-for-sale securities.

As part of providing Payroll, Taxpay, and Employee Pay Services, Paychex is
authorized by the client to initiate money transfers from the client’s account
for the amount of tax obligations and employees’ direct deposits. Electronic
money funds transfers from client bank accounts are subject to potential risk
of losses resulting from clients’ insufficient funds to cover such transfers.

The Company’s investments in debt securities are reported at fair value.
Unrealized gains related to increases in the fair value of investments and
unrealized losses related to decreases in the fair value are included in
comprehensive income as reported on the Company’s Statement of Stockholders’
Equity. However, changes in the fair value of investments impacts the
Company’s net income only when such



investments are sold. The Company is
exposed to credit risk in connection with these investments through the
possible inability of the borrowers to meet the terms of the bonds.

Results of Operations:

For fiscal 2002, the Company completed its twelfth consecutive year of record
total revenues and net income and now services over 390,000 clients. The
results for fiscal 2002 have been affected by recessionary economic conditions
in the U.S. and lower interest rates. The Company’s results of operations are
summarized as follows:



Details regarding the Company’s combined funds held for clients and corporate
investment portfolios are as follows:

Total service revenues are comprised of revenues from the Payroll and Human
Resource and Benefits product lines. Payroll service revenues are earned
primarily from Payroll, Taxpay, Employee Pay Services, and other ancillary
services. Employee Pay Services include the Direct Deposit, Readychex, and
Access Card products. Human Resource and Benefits service revenues are earned
primarily from Retirement Services, Workers’ Compensation Insurance
Administration, Section 125 Plan Administration, and Paychex Administrative
Services and Professional Employer Organization bundled services.

The increases in Payroll service revenues in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001
compared with the respective prior year periods are attributable to the
addition of new clients, new services, price increases, and increased
utilization of ancillary services by both new and existing clients. As of May
31, 2002, 85% of Paychex clients utilized Taxpay, the Company’s tax filing and
payment feature, compared with 83% at the end of 2001 and 81% at the end of
2000. Client utilization of the Taxpay product is expected to mature in the
range of 85% to 87%. The Company’s Employee Pay Services were utilized by 57%
of its clients at May 31, 2002 compared with 53% at the end of 2001 and 47% at
the end of 2000. Major Market



Services revenues totaled $71.7 million, $47.4
million, and $30.0 million for fiscal years 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.
This represents year-over-year revenue growth of 51% for fiscal 2002 and 58%
for fiscal 2001. Approximately one-third of new Major Market Services clients
are conversions from the Company’s Core Payroll service.

The increases in Human Resource and Benefits service revenue in fiscal 2002 and
fiscal 2001 are primarily related to increases in the number of clients for
Retirement Services and increases in Paychex Administrative Services (PAS) and
Professional Employer Organization (PEO) client employees serviced. The
increase in Retirement Services clients reflects the continuing interest of
small- to medium-sized businesses in offering retirement savings benefits to
their employees. Retirement Services revenues totaled $56.5 million, $43.3
million, and $31.5 million in fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. This
represents year-over-year revenue growth of 30% for fiscal 2002 and 37% for
fiscal 2001. The Company serviced over 23,000 and over 19,000 Retirement
Services clients at May 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

The Paychex Administrative Services (PAS) product is a package of payroll,
employer compliance, employee benefits administration, and risk management
outsourcing services designed to make it easier for small businesses to manage
their payroll and benefit costs. This product was introduced in May 2000 and
was available nationwide by the end of fiscal 2001. The Company’s PEO product
provides primarily the same bundled services as the PAS product, but with
Paychex acting as a co-employer of the client’s employees. The PEO service is
available primarily in the states of Florida and Georgia, where PEOs are more
prevalent. Sales of the PAS and PEO products have been strong, with
administrative fee revenue from these products increasing 41% and 50% for
fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively. The PAS and PEO products serviced over
80,000 and over 60,000 client employees as of May 31, 2002 and 2001,
respectively.

The decline in interest on funds held for clients in fiscal 2002 is primarily
the result of lower interest rates in fiscal 2002 compared with fiscal 2001
offset by net realized gains on the sale of available-for-sale securities and
higher average portfolio balances. In fiscal 2001, interest on funds held for
clients increased over fiscal 2000 levels due to higher comparable average
interest rates, net realized gains on the sale of available-for-sale securities
and higher average portfolio balances.

The increases in combined operating and SG&A expenses reflect increases in
personnel, information technology, and facility costs to support the overall
growth of the Company. At May 31, 2002, the Company had approximately 7,400
employees compared with approximately 7,300 at the end of fiscal 2001. The
Company has made an investment in sales and operations personnel and technology
for the MMS and PAS product expansions during fiscal 2002 and 2001.

Investment income, net primarily represents earnings from the Company’s cash
and cash equivalents and investments in available-for-sale securities.
Investment income, net does not include interest on funds held for clients,
which is included in total revenues. The increases in investment income, net
in fiscal 2002 and 2001 are primarily due to net realized gains on the sale of
available-for-sale securities and the increase in average daily invested
balances. The increase for fiscal 2002 was offset by lower average interest
rates compared with fiscal 2001. The increase for fiscal 2001 reflected the
benefit of higher average interest rates compared with fiscal 2000.

The effective income tax rate was 30.5% in fiscal 2002 compared with 30.0% in
fiscal 2001 and 31.0% in fiscal 2000. Fiscal 2003’s effective income tax rate
is expected to approximate 31.0%.

Economic Conditions and Outlook:

The Company began to experience the effects of the economic recession in the
first quarter of fiscal 2002, and these effects continued throughout the fiscal
year. In response to the declining economic conditions, the Federal Reserve
lowered the Federal Funds rate eleven times since January 2001 to 1.75%, which
represents a cumulative 475 basis point reduction. Year-over-year comparisons
for interest on funds held for clients and corporate investment income combined
were down 15% in fiscal 2002, but



were up 47% and 16% in fiscal 2001 and 2000,
respectively. The impact of the rate cuts on year-over-year comparisons for
interest on funds held for clients and corporate investment income was more
significant in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2002.

In addition to the effects of volatile interest rates, the impact of a
recessionary economy has resulted in a lower number of checks per client as
existing clients reduce their work forces. For fiscal 2002, checks per client
declined 3.7% year-over-year. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, the
Company experienced a 3.0% decline in checks per client compared to 4.8% in the
third quarter, 4.3% in the second quarter, and 2.6% in the first quarter.
During the recession of the early 1990’s, the Company experienced a total
reduction in checks per client of approximately 3%.

Despite the above factors, income before taxes remained strong at 41% of total
revenues during fiscal 2002, compared with 42% in fiscal 2001 and 38% in fiscal
2000. In addition, the Company continued to leverage its infrastructure as
operating income (excluding interest on funds held for clients) as a percentage
of total service revenues was 34% in fiscal 2002 compared with 32% in fiscal
2001 and 30% in fiscal 2000. The Company estimates that if the interest rates
and checks per client conditions experienced in fiscal 2000 had continued
throughout fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2002, net income growth for fiscal 2001 would
have been approximately 25% compared with actual growth of 34%, and net income
growth for fiscal 2002 would have been approximately 20% compared with actual
growth of 8%.

The Company has based fiscal 2003 expectations on current economic conditions
remaining in place with no significant changes. Accordingly, for fiscal 2003,
the Company projects Payroll service revenue growth in the range of 9% to 11%
and Human Resource and Benefits service revenue growth in the range of 17% to
19%. Total service revenue growth is anticipated to be in the range of 10% to
12%. The Company expects interest on funds held for clients and corporate
investment income combined to be down approximately 15%.

Taking the aforementioned factors into consideration, the Company anticipates
achieving record total revenues and net income for fiscal 2003 and estimates
total revenue growth to be in the range of 8% to 10% with net income growth
approximating or slightly less than total revenue growth.

Liquidity and Capital Resources:

The Company has funded its operations, capital purchases, purchases of
corporate investments, and dividend payments primarily through cash generated
from its operating activities. At May 31, 2002, the Company had $725 million
in available cash and corporate investments. Projected operating cash flows
are expected to adequately support normal business operations, purchases of
property and equipment, and current dividend payments. The Company has two
available, uncommitted, unsecured lines of credit from various banks totaling
$140 million at market rates of interest. The Company also has an available,
uncommitted, secured line of credit from a bank totaling $350 million at a
market rate of interest. No amounts were outstanding against these lines of
credit during fiscal 2002 or at May 31, 2002. As of May 31, 2002, future
minimum lease payments under various non-cancelable operating leases with terms
of more than one year are as follows:

In thousands

Fiscal year ended May 31,

Minimum lease payments


$

29,672


$

25,225


$

19,877


$

17,106


$

13,046

Thereafter

$

25,586



Operating activities

In thousands


Change


Change


Change

Operating cash flows

$

303,821

—

$

304,938

22.5

%

$

249,028

43.0

%

Operating cash flows in fiscal 2002 were comparable with fiscal 2001 as higher
net income was offset by higher uses of working capital. The higher use of
working capital was related primarily to the timing of payments for
payroll-related, income tax, and other liabilities and timing of payments for
PEO and PAS payroll liabilities. The increase in operating cash flows in
fiscal 2001 was primarily due to higher net income.

Investing activities

In thousands


Change


Change


Change

Net funds held for clients
and corporate investment
activities

$

(94,728

)

-

34.3

%

$

(144,270

)

—

$

(144,322

)

74.5

%

Purchases of property and
equipment

(54,378

)

20.2

%

(45,250

)

32.5

%

(34,154

)

54.4

%

Proceeds from the sale of
property and equipment


—


—

1,266

—

Purchases of other assets

(2,166

)

-

73.9

%

(8,290

)

19.0

%

(6,964

)

94.0

%

Net cash used in investing
activities

$

(151,258

)

-

23.5

%

$

(197,778

)

7.4

%

$

(184,174

)

69.9

%

Funds held for clients and corporate investments:

Funds held for clients are
primarily comprised of short-term funds and available-for-sale debt securities.
Corporate investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale debt
securities. The portfolio of funds held for clients and corporate investments
is detailed in Note D of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

The reported amount of funds held for clients will vary significantly based
upon the timing of collecting client funds, and the related remittance of funds
to the applicable tax authorities for Taxpay clients and employees of clients
utilizing Employee Pay Services. Cash used in net funds held for clients and
corporate investment activities primarily relates to purchases of corporate
investments. Corporate investments have increased due to the investment of
growing cash balances provided by operating activities less purchases of
property and equipment and dividend payments. Additional discussion of
interest rates and related risks is included in Item 7A of this Form 10-K.

Purchases of property and equipment:

To support the Company’s continued client
and ancillary product growth, purchases of property and equipment were made for
data processing equipment and software, and for the expansion and upgrade of
various operating facilities. In fiscal 2002, the Company made purchases of
property and equipment of $54.4 million, compared with $45.3 million of
purchases in fiscal 2001 and $34.2 million in fiscal 2000. Purchases of
property and equipment in fiscal 2003 are expected to be in the range of $65
million to $70 million, including the purchase of a 220,000-square-foot
facility in Rochester, New York, which is expected to be completed in the first
quarter of fiscal 2003. Fiscal 2003 depreciation expense is projected to be in
the range of $33 million to $35 million.

During fiscal 2002, the Company began constructing a data center to consolidate
the location and operation of certain data processing equipment and software
and enhance disaster recovery capabilities. Purchases of data processing
equipment and software and building improvements in fiscal 2002 for the data
center were approximately $18.3 million. During fiscal 2002, the Company
purchased through negotiated transactions approximately $11.2 million of data
processing equipment and software from



EMC Corporation, whose President and
Chief Executive Officer is a member of the Board of Directors of Paychex.

Financing activities

Dividends paid:

In October 2001, the Board of Directors approved a 22.2%
increase in the quarterly dividend payment to $.11 per share from $.09 per
share. In October 2000, the Board of Directors approved a 50% increase in the
quarterly dividend payment to $.09 per share from $.06 per share. Future
dividends are dependent on the Company’s future earnings and cash flow and are
subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. The Company declared a
three-for-two stock split effected in the form of a 50% stock dividend in May
of 2000.

Proceeds from exercise of stock options:

The increase in proceeds from the
exercise of stock options is primarily due to an increase in number of shares
exercised and an increase in the comparable average exercise price per share.
Shares exercised in fiscal 2002 were 2,212,000 compared with 1,878,000 shares
in fiscal 2001 and 1,532,000 shares in fiscal 2000. The Company has recognized
a tax benefit from the exercise of stock options of $24.1 million, $26.4
million, and $19.4 million for fiscal 2002, fiscal 2001, and fiscal 2000,
respectively. This tax benefit reduces the accrued income tax liability and
increases additional paid-in capital, with no impact on the expense amount for
income taxes. See Note G of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
contained in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional disclosure on the
Company’s stock option plans.

Other:

New accounting pronouncements:

In June 2001, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard 141,
“Business Combinations” (SFAS No. 141) and Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (SFAS No. 142). SFAS No.
141 requires that all future business combinations be accounted for using the
purchase method of accounting and the use of the pooling-of-interest method is
prohibited for transactions initiated after July 1, 2001. SFAS No. 142
addresses financial accounting and reporting for acquired goodwill and other
intangible assets. This statement recognizes that goodwill has an indefinite
useful life and will no longer be subject to periodic amortization, but rather
periodically evaluated for impairment. The statement also requires an
evaluation of existing acquired goodwill and other intangible assets for proper
classification under the new requirements. The Company adopted these standards
in the first quarter of fiscal 2002. Based on the provisions of SFAS No. 142,
amounts previously recorded as goodwill were reclassified to intangible assets.
Adoption of these standards did not impact the results of operations or
financial position of the Company.

In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations,” which requires companies to record a liability at fair value for
asset retirement obligations in the period in which they are incurred. The
associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as part of the carrying
amount of the long-lived asset. This Statement is effective for the Company for
the fiscal year beginning June 1,



2003.     The Company is currently evaluating the
provisions of this Statement, but does not anticipate adoption of this
Statement will result in a material impact to its results of operations or
financial position.

In October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment
or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” which provides a single accounting model for
long-lived assets to be disposed of. This Statement is effective for the
Company for the fiscal year beginning June 1, 2002. The Company is currently
evaluating the provisions of this statement, but does not anticipate that
adoption will result in a material impact to its results of operations or
financial position.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market Risk Factors:

Interest rate risk:

Funds held for clients are primarily comprised of
short-term funds and available-for-sale debt securities, whereas corporate
investments are primarily comprised of available-for-sale debt securities. The
Company’s available-for-sale debt securities are exposed to interest rate risk
as interest rate volatility will cause fluctuations in the market value of held
investments and the earnings potential of future investments. Increases in
interest rates normally decrease the market value of the available-for-sale
securities, while decreases in interest rates increase the market value of the
available-for-sale securities. The Company’s available-for-sale securities and
short-term funds are exposed to earnings risk from changes in interest rates,
as rate volatility will cause fluctuations in the earnings potential of future
investments. Increases in interest rates quickly increase earnings from
short-term funds, and over time increase earnings from the available-for-sale
securities portfolio. Decreases in interest rates have the opposite earnings
effect on the available-for-sale securities and short-term funds. Earnings
from the available-for-sale securities do not reflect changes in rates until
the investments are sold or mature, and the proceeds are reinvested at current
rates. The immediate impact of changing interest rates on earnings from
short-term funds may be temporarily offset by realized gains or losses from
transactions in the Company’s available-for-sale portfolio.

The Company directs investments towards high credit-quality, tax-exempt
securities to mitigate the risk that earnings from the portfolio could be
adversely impacted by changes in interest rates in the near term. The Company
invests in short- to intermediate-term, fixed-rate municipal and government
securities, which typically have lower interest rate volatility, and normally
manages the securities portfolio to a benchmark duration of 2.5 to 3.0 years.
The Company does not utilize derivative financial instruments to manage
interest rate risk.

The trend in market interest rates during the second half of fiscal 2001 and
the first half of fiscal 2002 has been interest rate reductions. The following
table summarizes the changes in the Federal Funds rate over the last three
fiscal years:



Calculating the future effects of changing interest rates involves many
factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, daily interest rate
changes, seasonal variations in investment balances, actual duration of short-
and intermediate-term investments, the proportional mix of taxable and
tax-exempt investments, and changes in tax-exempt municipal rates versus
taxable investment rates, which are not synchronized or simultaneous. Subject
to these factors, a 25-basis-point change generally affects the Company’s
tax-exempt interest rates by approximately 17 basis points.

The total investment portfolio is expected to average approximately $2.85
billion in fiscal 2003. The Company’s normal and anticipated allocation is
approximately 50% invested in short-term securities with a duration of less
than 30 days and 50% invested in intermediate-term municipal securities with an
average duration of three years. The Company estimates that the earnings
effect of a 25-basis-point change in interest rates (17 basis points for
tax-exempt investments) at this point in time would be approximately $3.0
million for fiscal 2003.

The combined funds held for clients and corporate available-for-sale investment
portfolios reflected unrealized gains of $26.7 million at May 31, 2002 and
$20.5 million at May 31, 2001, compared with unrealized losses of $13.4 million
at May 31, 2000. During fiscal 2002, the unrealized gain position ranged from
approximately $7.5 million (during the fourth quarter) to $35.9 million (during
the second quarter). As of May 31, 2002 and May 31, 2001, the Company had $1.5
billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, invested in available-for-sale
securities at fair value, with weighted average yields to maturity of 3.6% and
4.3%, respectively. Assuming a hypothetical increase in both short-term and
intermediate-term interest rates of 25 basis points, the resulting potential
decrease in fair value for the portfolio of securities at May 31, 2002 would be
approximately $8.5 million. Conversely, a corresponding decrease in interest
rates would result in a comparable increase in fair value. This hypothetical
decrease or increase in the fair value of the portfolio would be recorded as an
adjustment to the portfolio’s recorded value, with an offsetting amount
recorded in stockholders’ equity, and with no related or immediate impact to
the results of operations.

Credit risk:

The Company is exposed to credit risk in connection with these
investments through the possible inability of the borrowers to meet the terms
of the bonds. The Company attempts to limit credit risk by investing primarily
in AAA and AA rated securities and A-1 rated short-term securities, and by
limiting amounts that can be invested in any single instrument. At May 31,
2002, approximately 98% of the available-for-sale securities held an AA rating
or better, and all short-term securities classified as cash equivalents held an
A-1 or equivalent rating.



ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Report of Ernst & Young LLP
Independent Auditors

Board of Directors

Paychex, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Paychex, Inc. as
of May 31, 2002 and 2001, and the related consolidated statements of income,
stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended May 31, 2002. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule
listed in the index at Item 14(a). These financial statements and schedule are
the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
Paychex, Inc. at May 31, 2002 and 2001, and the consolidated results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
May 31, 2002, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule,
when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Buffalo, New York

June 21, 2002







See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.





Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements

Note A — Significant
Accounting Policies

Business activities:

Paychex, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the
“Company”) is a national provider of payroll, human resource, and employee
benefits outsourcing solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses in the
United States.

Total revenues are comprised of service revenues and interest on funds held for
clients. Service revenues are comprised of the Payroll and Human Resource and
Benefits product lines. Payroll service revenues are earned primarily from
Payroll processing, Taxpay, Employee Pay Services and other ancillary services.
Employee Pay Services includes the Direct Deposit, Readychex, and Access Card
product lines.

Payroll processing services include the preparation of payroll checks, internal
accounting records, federal, state, and local payroll tax returns, and collection
and remittance of payroll obligations for small- to medium-sized businesses.

In connection with Taxpay, an automated tax payment and filing service, the
Company collects payroll taxes electronically from clients’ bank accounts
typically on payday, prepares and files the applicable tax returns and remits
taxes to the appropriate taxing authorities on the due date. These collections
from clients are typically paid between one and thirty days after receipt, with
some items extending to ninety days. The Company handles all regulatory
correspondence, amendments, and penalty and interest disputes and is subject to
cash penalties imposed by tax authorities for late filings and late or
underpayments of taxes. With Employee Pay Services, employers are offered the
option of paying their employees by Direct Deposit, Access Card, a check drawn
on a Paychex account, or a check drawn on the employer’s account. For the first
three methods, net payroll is collected electronically from the client’s bank
account typically one day before payroll and provides payment to the employee on
payday. In connection with Taxpay and Employee Pay Services, authorized
electronic money transfers from client bank accounts are subject to potential
risk of losses resulting from insufficient funds to cover such transfers.

In addition to service fees paid by clients, the Company earns interest on
Taxpay and Employee Pay Services funds that are collected before due dates and
invested (funds held for clients) until remittance to the applicable tax
authorities for Taxpay clients and employees of Employee Pay Services clients.
The funds held for clients and related client deposit liability are included in
the Consolidated Balance Sheets as current assets and current liabilities. The
amount of funds held for clients and related client deposit liability varies
significantly during the year.

The Human Resource and Benefits product line provides small- to medium-sized
businesses with 401(k) Plan Recordkeeping, Workers’ Compensation Insurance
Administration, Section 125 Plan Administration, Group Benefits, State
Unemployment Insurance and Employee Management Services. The Company’s Paychex
Administrative Services (PAS) product provides a combined package of payroll,
employer compliance, employee benefit administration and risk management
outsourcing services designed to make it easier for small businesses to manage
their payroll and related benefits costs. The Company also operates a
Professional Employer Organization (PEO) which provides primarily the same
combined package of services as the PAS product, but with Paychex acting as a
co-employer of the client’s employees.

Principles of consolidation:

The Consolidated Financial Statements include the
accounts of Paychex, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany
accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Business combinations:

In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard 141, “Business
Combinations” (SFAS No. 141). The Statement requires that all future business
combinations be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and the
use of the pooling-of-interest method is prohibited for transactions initiated
after July 1, 2001. The Company adopted SFAS No. 141 in the first quarter of
fiscal 2002 with no impact on its results of operations or financial position.



Cash and cash equivalents:

Cash and cash equivalents consist of available cash,
money market securities, and other investments with a maturity of three months
or less when purchased. Amounts reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets
approximate fair values.

Accounts receivable, net:

Accounts receivable balances are shown on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets net of the allowance for doubtful accounts of
$2,600,000 and $3,365,000 at May 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

Funds held for clients and corporate
investments:

Marketable securities included
in funds held for clients and corporate investments consist primarily of debt
securities classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value
obtained from an independent pricing service. Funds held for clients also
include cash, money market securities, and short-term investments. Unrealized
gains and losses, net of applicable income taxes, are reported as accumulated
other comprehensive income in the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’
Equity. Realized gains and losses on the sale of securities are determined by
specific identification of the security’s cost basis. Realized gains and losses
from funds held for clients are included in interest on funds held for clients.
Realized gains and losses from corporate investments are included in investment
income, net.

Concentrations:

Substantially all of the Company’s deposited cash is maintained
at two large credit-worthy financial institutions. These deposits may exceed the
amount of any insurance provided. All of the Company’s deliverable securities
are held in custody with one of the two aforementioned financial institutions,
for which that institution bears the risk of custodial loss. Non-deliverable
securities, primarily time deposits and money market securities, are restricted
to credit-worthy broker-dealers and financial institutions.

Property and equipment, net:

Property and equipment is stated at cost, less
accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is based on the
estimated useful lives of property and equipment using the straight-line method.
The estimated useful lives of depreciable assets are generally 10 to 35 years
for buildings and improvements and 2 to 15 years for data processing equipment
and software, furniture and fixtures, and leasehold improvements.

Software development and enhancements:

Expenditures for major software purchases
and software developed for internal use are capitalized and amortized by the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets,
which are generally 3 to 5 years. For internal use software all external direct
costs for materials and services and certain payroll and related fringe benefit
costs are capitalized in accordance with Statement of Position (SOP) 98-1,
“Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for
Internal Use.”

Intangible assets, net:

Intangible assets result from client list acquisitions
and are reported net of accumulated amortization in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets. Intangible assets are amortized over periods ranging from 5 to 10 years
using either straight-line or accelerated methods. The Company regularly reviews
and assesses the recoverability of such assets.

In June 2001, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard 142,
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (SFAS No. 142). The statement recognizes
that goodwill has an indefinite useful life and will no longer be subject to
periodic amortization, but rather periodically evaluated for impairment. The
statement also requires an evaluation of existing acquired goodwill and other
intangible assets for proper classification under the new requirements. The
Company adopted SFAS No. 142 in the first quarter of fiscal 2002. Based on the
provisions of SFAS No. 142, amounts previously recorded as goodwill were
reclassified to intangible assets. Adoption of this standard did not impact the
results of operations or financial position of the Company. At May 31, 2002 and
2001, the Company did not have any goodwill recorded on the Consolidated Balance
Sheets.

Other long-term assets:

Other long-term assets are primarily related to the
Company’s investment as a limited partner in various low-income housing
partnerships. The investments in these partnerships are accounted for under the
equity method with the Company’s share of partnership losses recorded in
investment income, net on the Consolidated Statements of Income.

Revenue recognition:

Service revenues are recognized in the period services are
rendered and earned under service arrangements with clients where service fees
are fixed or determinable and collectibility is



reasonably assured. Certain processing services are provided under annual
service arrangements with revenue recognized ratably over the annual service
period. Professional Employer Organization (PEO) revenues are included in
service revenues and are reported net of direct costs billed and incurred for
PEO worksite employees, which include wages, taxes, benefit premiums and claims
of PEO worksite employees. Direct costs billed and incurred were $1,056,852,000,
$865,716,000, and $731,266,000 for fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.
Paychex provides delivery service for many of its clients’ payroll checks and
reports. The revenue earned from delivery service is included in service
revenues and the costs for the delivery are included in operating costs on the
Consolidated Statements of Income.

Interest on funds held for clients is earned primarily on Taxpay and Employee
Pay Services funds that are collected before due dates and invested (funds held
for clients) until remittance to the applicable tax authorities for Taxpay
clients and employees of Employee Pay Services clients. These collections from
clients are typically remitted between one and thirty days after receipt, with
some items extending to ninety days. The interest earned on these funds is
included in total revenues on the Consolidated Statements of Income because the
collection, holding, and remittance of these funds are critical components of
providing these services. Interest on funds held for clients also includes net
realized gains and losses from the sale of available-for-sale securities.

Income taxes:

The Company accounts for deferred taxes by recognition of deferred
tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events
that have been included in the financial statements or tax returns. Under this
method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the
difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and
liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the
differences are expected to reverse. The Company accounts for the tax benefit
from the exercise of non-qualified stock options by reducing its accrued income
tax liability and increasing additional paid-in capital.

Stock-based compensation costs:

Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No.
123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” establishes accounting and
reporting standards for stock-based employee compensation plans. As permitted by
the SFAS, the Company accounts for such arrangements under Accounting Principles
Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and
related interpretations. Accordingly, no compensation expense is recognized for
stock option grants because the exercise price of the stock options equals the
market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant.

Stock split effected in the form of a stock
dividend:

The Company declared a
three-for-two stock split in the form of a 50% stock dividend on outstanding
shares payable to shareholders of record as of May 12, 2000 with a distribution
date of May 22, 2000. Basic and diluted earnings per share, cash dividends per
common share, weighted-average shares outstanding, weighted-average shares
assuming dilution, and all applicable footnotes have been adjusted to reflect
the aforementioned stock split.

Use of estimates:

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues,
and expenses during the reporting period. Actual amounts and results could
differ from these estimates.

New accounting standards:

In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143,
“Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations,” which requires companies to
record a liability at fair value for asset retirement obligations in the period
in which they are incurred. The associated asset retirement costs are
capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived asset. This
Statement is effective for the Company for the fiscal year beginning June 1,
2003. The Company is currently evaluating the provisions of this Statement, but
does not believe adoption of the Statement will result in a material impact to
its results of operations or financial position.

In October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” which provides a single accounting model for
long-lived assets to be disposed of. This Statement is effective for the Company
for the fiscal year beginning June 1, 2002. The Company is currently evaluating
the provisions of this Statement, but does not anticipate that adoption will
result in a material impact to its results of operations or financial position.



Reclassifications:

Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform
to current year presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on reported
consolidated earnings.

Note B — Segment Financial Information

The Company is a national provider of payroll,
human resource, and employee
benefits outsourcing solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses in the
United States.

During the second half of fiscal 2001, the Company completed consolidation
efforts to streamline certain operations and improve customer service. These
efforts resulted in certain service operations supporting multiple products for
both Payroll and Human Resource and Benefits product lines. Due to these
changes, the Company no longer prepares internal reporting reflecting the
operating results of the Payroll and Human Resource and Benefits segments. As a
result, in fiscal 2002, the Company changed its segment reporting from two
segments to one segment based upon the provisions of SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures
about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information.”

Note C — Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share

Basic and diluted earnings per share were calculated as follows:

Weighted-average anti-dilutive stock options to purchase shares of common stock
were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share. These options
had an exercise price that was greater than the average market price of the
common shares for the period; therefore, the effect would have been
anti-dilutive.



Note D — Funds Held For Clients and
Corporate Investments

Funds held for clients and corporate investments at May 31, 2002 and 2001 are as
follows:

The Company is exposed to credit risk from the possible inability of the
borrowers to meet the terms of their bonds. In addition, the Company is exposed
to interest rate risk as rate volatility will cause fluctuations in the market
value of held investments and the earnings potential of future investments. The
Company attempts to limit these risks by investing primarily in AAA and AA rated
securities and A-1 rated short-term securities, limiting amounts that can be
invested in any single instrument, and by investing in short- to
intermediate-term instruments whose market value is less sensitive to interest
rate changes. At May 31, 2002, approximately 98% of the available-for-sale bond
securities held an AA rating or better, and all short-term securities classified
as cash equivalents held an A-1 or equivalent rating. The Company does not
utilize derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk and,
therefore, adopting Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133
“Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” had no impact on
the results of operations or financial condition of the Company.

Gross unrealized gains and losses, and unrealized gains, net of the
available-for-sale securities are as follows:

Gross

Gross

In thousands

unrealized

unrealized

Unrealized

May 31,

gains

losses

gains, net


$

26,818

$


$

26,652


$

20,771

$


$

20,518



Gross realized gains and losses are as follows:

In thousands

Year ended May 31,




Gross realized gains

$

16,064

$

8,157

$


Gross realized losses

$


$


$

4,318

The cost and fair value of available-for-sale securities at May 31, 2002 by
contractual maturity are shown below. Expected maturities will differ from
contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay
obligations without prepayment penalties.

Note E — Property and Equipment, Net

The components of property and equipment, net are as follows:

Depreciation expense was $27,020,000, $24,406,000, and $22,442,000 for fiscal
years 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.

Construction in progress primarily represents purchases of data processing
equipment and software and building improvements for a data center the Company
began constructing in fiscal 2002. The Company expects the data center to be
completed and operational by the middle of fiscal 2003.



Note F — Intangible Assets, Net

The components of intangible assets, net are as follows:

In thousands

May 31,



Client list acquisitions

$

18,681

$

16,764

Less: accumulated amortization

9,641

7,152

Intangible
assets, net

$

9,040

$

9,612

Amortization expense for client list acquisitions was $2,489,000, $2,033,000,
and $1,461,000 for fiscal years 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. In prior
years, the Company reported a component of intangible assets as goodwill. Based
on the provisions of SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” which
was adopted June 1, 2001, amounts previously recorded as goodwill were
reclassified to intangible assets.

The estimated amortization expense for the next five fiscal years relating to
client list acquisition balances as of May 31, 2002 is as follows:

Note G — Stock Option Plans

The Company reserved 7,814,250 shares to be granted to employees in the form of
non-qualified and incentive stock options under the 1998 Stock Incentive Plan,
with 2,618,000 shares available for future grants at May 31, 2002. The 1995 and
1992 Stock Incentive Plans expired in August 1998 and 1995, respectively;
however, options to purchase 3,867,000 shares under these plans remain
outstanding at May 31, 2002.

The exercise price for the shares subject to options of the Company’s common
stock is equal to the fair market value on the date of the grant. All stock
option grants have a contractual life of ten years from the date of the grant.
Non-qualified stock option grants vest at 33.3% after two years of service from
the date of the grant, with annual vesting at 33.3% thereafter.

In November 1996, the Company granted options to purchase 3,157,000 shares in a
broad-based incentive stock option grant, for which 50% vested on May 3, 1999,
and 50% vested on May 1, 2001. At May 31, 2002, options to purchase 806,000
shares remained outstanding and exercisable at an exercise price of $11.53 per
share. In July 1999, the Company granted options to purchase 1,381,000 shares in
a second broad-based incentive stock option grant, for which 25% vested in July
2000 and an additional 25% will vest in each of the following three years. At May 31,
2002, options to purchase 778,000 shares remained outstanding at an exercise
price of $21.46 per share. In October 2001, the Company granted options to
purchase 1,295,000 shares in a third broad-based incentive stock option grant,
for which 25% will vest in October of each of the following four years. At May
31, 2002, options to purchase 1,148,000 shares remained outstanding at an
exercise price of $33.17. Subsequent to each of the broad-based grants, each
April and October, the Company granted options to newly hired employees that met
certain criteria.



The following table summarizes stock option activity for the three years ended
May 31, 2002:

The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding and
exercisable at May 31, 2002:

In applying APB Opinion No. 25, no expense was recognized for stock options
granted. SFAS No. 123 requires that a fair market value of all awards of
stock-based compensation be determined using standard techniques and that pro
forma net income and earnings per share be disclosed as if the resulting
stock-based compensation amounts were recorded in the Consolidated Statements of
Income. The table below depicts these effects:

In thousands, except per share amounts

Year ended May 31,




Pro forma net income

$

261,910

$

244,481

$

180,849

Pro forma basic earnings per share

$

.70

$

.66

$

.49

Pro forma diluted earnings per share

$

.69

$

.65

$

.48



For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the stock
option is amortized to expense over the option’s vesting period. The fair value
of these stock options was estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes
option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions:

The weighted-average fair value of stock options granted for the years ended May
31, 2002, 2001, and 2000 was $11.78, $15.55, and $7.62 per share, respectively.

Note H — Income Taxes

The components of net deferred tax assets are as follows:

The net deferred tax liability is classified on the Consolidated Balance Sheets
as $9,503,000 in current liabilities and $58,000 in long-term liabilities at May
31, 2002. At May 31, 2001 the net deferred tax liability was classified as
$4,996,000 in current liabilities offset by $1,361,000 in long-term assets.



The components of the provision for income taxes are as follows:

A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate to the effective rates
reported for income before taxes for the three years ending May 31, 2002 is as
follows:

Note I — Other Comprehensive Income

The following table sets forth the related tax effects allocated to unrealized
gains and losses on available-for-sale securities, which is the only component
of other comprehensive income:



Note J — Supplemental Cash Flow Information

Income taxes paid:

The Company paid state and federal income taxes of
$98,731,000, $71,734,000, and $68,194,000, for the years ended May 31, 2002,
2001, and 2000, respectively.

Non-cash financing transactions:

The Company recorded the tax benefit from the
exercise of non-qualified stock options as a reduction of its income tax
liability in the amount of $24,101,000, $26,411,000, and $19,440,000, for the
years ended May 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.

Note K —  Employee Benefit Plans

401(k) Plan:

The Company maintains a contributory savings plan that qualifies
under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. The Plan allows all employees
to immediately participate in the salary deferral portion of the plan,
contributing up to a maximum of 50% of their salary. Employees who have
completed one year of service are eligible to receive a company matching
contribution. The Company currently matches 50% of an employee’s voluntary
contribution, with a maximum of 3% of eligible compensation. Company
contributions for the years ended May 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000 were $5,714,000,
$4,981,000, and $4,235,000, respectively.

The Paychex, Inc. 401(k) Incentive Retirement Plan is one hundred percent
participant directed. Plan participants can fully diversify their portfolios by
choosing from any or all investment fund choices in the Plan. Transfers in and
out of investment funds, including the Paychex Stock Fund, are not restricted in
any manner. The Company match contribution follows the same fund elections as
the employee compensation deferrals.

Effective April 15, 2002, the Plan was amended to add an Employee Stock
Ownership Plan (ESOP) feature to the Paychex Stock Fund under section 404(k) of
the Internal Revenue Code. Under this ESOP feature, participants have voting
rights for their ownership of Paychex stock within the Plan. Participants are
able to elect to receive dividends on their shares of Paychex stock in the form
of cash or have them reinvested into the Fund.

Deferred Compensation Plan:

The Company offers a non-qualified Deferred
Compensation Plan to a select group of key employees that provides these
employees with the opportunity to defer up to 100% of their annual base salary
and bonus. This Plan also allows non-employee Directors to defer 100% of their
Board compensation. The amounts accrued under this Plan were $2,983,000 and
$3,019,000 at May 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, and are reflected in other
long-term liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan:

The Company offers an Employee Stock Purchase Plan
under which eligible employees may purchase common stock of the Company at
current market prices. All transactions occur directly through the Company’s
Transfer Agent and no brokerage fees are charged to employees.

Note L — Commitments and Contingencies

Lines of credit:

The Company has two available, uncommitted, unsecured lines of
credit from various banks totaling $140 million at market rates of interest. The
Company also has an available, uncommitted, secured line of credit with a bank
totaling $350 million at a market rate of interest. No amounts were outstanding
against these lines of credit during fiscal 2002 or at May 31, 2002 and 2001.

Contingencies:

In the normal course of business and operations, the Company is
subject to various claims and litigation including licensing matters. Management believes the resolution of
these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the financial position or
results of operations of the Company.



Lease commitments:

The Company leases office space and data processing equipment
under terms of various operating leases, with most data processing equipment
leases containing a purchase option at prices representing the fair value of the
equipment at expiration of the lease term. Rent expense for the years ended May
31, 2002, 2001, and 2000 was $33,888,000, $29,054,000, and $25,400,000,
respectively. At May 31, 2002, future minimum lease payments under various
non-cancelable operating leases with terms of more than one year are as follows:

Note M — Related Parties

During fiscal 2002, the Company purchased approximately $11.2 million of data
processing equipment and software from EMC Corporation, whose President and
Chief Executive Officer is a member of the Board of Directors of Paychex.



(A): Each quarter is a discrete period and the sum of the four quarters’ basic
and diluted earnings per share amounts may not equal the full year amount.

(B): Total net realized gains/(losses) on the combined funds held for clients
and corporate investment portfolios.



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The following table shows the executive officers of the Company as of May 31,
2002 and information regarding their position and business experience.

The additional information required is set forth in the Company’s definitive
Proxy Statement for its 2002 Annual Meeting of Shareholders in the section
entitled “PROPOSAL 1 — ELECTION OF DIRECTORS” and the section entitled “SECTION
16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE” and is incorporated herein by
reference thereto.



ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPENSATION

The information required is set forth in the Company’s definitive Proxy
Statement in the section entitled “EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPENSATION” and is
incorporated herein by reference thereto.

ITEM 12. BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP OF PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS, DIRECTORS, AND MANAGEMENT

The information required is set forth in the Company’s definitive Proxy
Statement under the heading “BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP OF PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS,
DIRECTORS, AND MANAGEMENT,” and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required is set forth in the Company’s definitive Proxy
Statement under the heading “CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS” and
is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  1.        Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The schedules required for this item are included with this report in
Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

2.

Financial statement schedules required to be filed by Item 8 of this
Form include Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts, which is
included at Item 14(d). All other schedules are omitted as the
required matter is not present, the amounts are not significant or the
information is shown in the financial statements or the notes thereto.

3.

Exhibits



(b)          
   Reports on Form 8-K

(1)

The Company filed a Form 8-K on March 19, 2002, that included the
Company’s press release dated March 19, 2002 related to the
Company’s results of operations for the third quarter and
nine-month period ended February 28, 2002.

(d)         
     Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

(A):

Uncollectible amounts written off, net of recoveries.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on July 19, 2002.

PAYCHEX, INC.

By: /s/ B. Thomas Golisano

B. Thomas Golisano, Chairman, President,

Chief Executive Officer and Director

By: /s/ John M. Morphy

John M. Morphy, Vice President, Chief Financial

Officer and Secretary

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities indicated on July 19, 2002.

By: /s/ B. Thomas Golisano

B. Thomas Golisano, Chairman, President,

Chief Executive Officer and Director

By: /s/ Betsy S. Atkins*

Betsy S. Atkins, Director

By: /s/ G. Thomas Clark*

G. Thomas Clark, Director

By: /s/ David J. S. Flaschen*

David J. S. Flaschen, Director

By: /s/ Phillip Horsley*

Phillip Horsley, Director

By: /s/ Grant M. Inman*

Grant M. Inman, Director

By: /s/ J. Robert Sebo*

J. Robert Sebo, Director

By: /s/ Joseph M. Tucci*

Joseph M. Tucci, Director

*By: /s/ B. Thomas Golisano

B. Thomas Golisano, as Attorney-in-Fact

42