
10-K
PNC BANK CORP. 10-K




                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF

        (Mark One)
           [X] Annual report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the
                        Securities Exchange Act of 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996
                                       OR
           [ ] Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                        Securities Exchange Act of 1934
           For the transition period from ___________ to ___________

                                 PNC BANK CORP.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



                                 ONE PNC PLAZA
                                249 FIFTH AVENUE
                      PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA 15222-2707
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code - (412) 762-1553
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
    $1.80 CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK - SERIES A, PAR VALUE $1.00
    $1.80 CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK - SERIES B, PAR VALUE $1.00

               8.25% CONVERTIBLE SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES DUE 2008
              8 1/4% CONVERTIBLE SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES DUE 2010
                   9.875% SUBORDINATED CAPITAL NOTES DUE 1999

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes _X_ No___

Indicate by check mark if the disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K. [ ]

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant amounted to approximately $12.9 billion at February 28, 1997.

Number of shares of Registrant's common stock outstanding at February 28, 1997:
321,728,962

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of PNC Bank Corp.'s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
December 31, 1996 ("Annual Report to Shareholders") are incorporated by
reference into Parts I and II and portions of the definitive Proxy Statement of
PNC Bank Corp. for the annual meeting of shareholders to be held on April 22,
1997 ("Proxy Statement") are incorporated by reference into Part III of this
Form 10-K. The incorporation by reference herein of portions of the Proxy
Statement shall not be deemed to specifically incorporate by reference the
information referred to in Item 402(a)(8) of Regulation S-K.






* Not applicable

PART I

ITEM 1 - BUSINESS

BUSINESS OVERVIEW PNC Bank Corp. ("PNC Bank" or "Corporation") is a bank
holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as
amended ("BHC Act"). PNC Bank was incorporated under the laws of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1983 with the consolidation of Pittsburgh
National Corporation and Provident National Corporation. Since 1983, PNC Bank
has diversified its geographical presence and product capabilities through
strategic bank and nonbank acquisitions and the formation of various nonbanking
subsidiaries.

The Corporation is one of the largest diversified financial services companies
in the United States and operates five lines of business: Consumer Banking,
Corporate Banking, Real Estate Banking, Mortgage Banking and Asset Management.
Each line of business focuses on specific customer segments and offers
financial products and services in PNC Bank's primary geographic locations in
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, Ohio and Kentucky and nationally through
retail distribution networks and alternative delivery channels. At December 31,
1996, the Corporation's consolidated total assets, deposits and shareholders'
equity were $73.3 billion, $45.7 billion and $5.9 billion, respectively.

LINES OF BUSINESS Information relating to Consumer Banking, Corporate Banking,
Real Estate Banking, Mortgage Banking and Asset Management is set forth under
the captions "Business Strategies" and "Line of Business Results" in the
"Corporate Financial Review" included on pages 27 through 28 and 29 through 34,
respectively, of the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated
herein by reference.

SUBSIDIARY BANKS While the Corporation manages five lines of business, the
corporate legal structure currently consists of 10 subsidiary banks and over
140 active nonbank subsidiaries. PNC Bank, National Association, headquartered
in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania is the Corporation's only bank subsidiary which is
a significant subsidiary within the meaning of Rule 1-02(v) of Regulation S-X.
At December 31, 1996, PNC Bank, N. A. had total assets of $58 billion,
representing 79% of the Corporation's consolidated assets. For additional
information on subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21 to this Form 10-K which is
incorporated herein by reference.

STATISTICAL DISCLOSURES BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES The following statistical
information is included on the indicated pages of the Annual Report to
Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference:








RISK MANAGEMENT The Corporation's ordinary course of business involves varying
degrees of risk taking, the most significant of which are credit, liquidity and
interest rate risk. Although it cannot eliminate these risks, PNC Bank has risk
management processes designed to provide for risk identification, measurement,
monitoring and control. Information relating to credit, liquidity and interest
rate risk and the Corporation's risk management processes is set forth under
the section "Risk Management" in the "Corporate Financial Review" included on
pages 39 through 42 of the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated
herein by reference.

EFFECT OF GOVERNMENTAL MONETARY POLICIES The earnings and operations of bank
holding companies and their subsidiaries are affected by the monetary and
fiscal policies of the United States government and its agencies, including the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve Board").
An important function of the Federal Reserve Board is to regulate the national
supply of bank credit. The Federal Reserve Board employs open market operations
in U.S. Government securities, changes in the discount rate on bank borrowings
and changes in reserve requirements on bank deposits to implement its monetary
policy objectives. These instruments of monetary policy are used in varying
combinations to influence the overall level of bank loans, investments and
deposits, the interest rates charged on loans and paid for deposits, the price
of the dollar in foreign exchange markets and the level of inflation. The
monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect on
the operating results of banking institutions in the past and are expected to
continue to do so in the future. It is not possible to predict the nature or
timing of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies or the effect that
they may have on the Corporation's business and earnings.

SUPERVISION AND REGULATION The Corporation and its subsidiaries are subject to
numerous governmental regulations, some of which are highlighted below and in
"Note 19 - Regulatory Matters" of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements" included on page 64 of the Annual Report to Shareholders ("Note 19
- - Regulatory Matters"), which is incorporated herein by reference. The coverage
of the regulations range from activity, investment and dividend limitations on
the bank holding company and its subsidiaries to consumer-related protections
for loan, deposit, brokerage and mutual fund customers.

As a bank holding company registered under the BHC Act, the Corporation is
subject to the supervision and regular inspection by the Federal Reserve Board.
Under the BHC Act, the Federal Reserve Board's prior approval is required in
any case the Corporation proposes to acquire all or substantially all of the
assets of any bank, acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more
than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, or merge or consolidate with any
other bank holding company. The BHC Act also prohibits, with certain
exceptions, the Corporation from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or
control of more than 5% of any class of voting shares of any nonbanking
corporation. Under the BHC Act, the Corporation may not engage in any business
other than managing and controlling banks or furnishing certain specified
services to subsidiaries, and may not acquire voting control of nonbanking
corporations, unless the Federal Reserve Board determines such businesses and
services to be closely related to banking. When reviewing bank acquisition
applications for approval, the Federal Reserve Board considers, among other
things, each subsidiary bank's record in meeting credit needs of the
communities it serves in accordance with the Community Reinvestment Act of
1977, as amended ("CRA"). At December 31, 1996, the Corporation's subsidiary
banks were rated "Outstanding" or "Satisfactory" with respect to CRA.

The Corporation's subsidiary banks are subject to supervision and examination
by applicable federal and state banking agencies, including such federal
agencies as the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ("OCC") with respect
to its national banks, the Federal Reserve Board with respect to PNC Bank,
Kentucky, Inc., the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") with respect
to PNC Bank, Delaware and PNC Bank, New England, and the Office of Thrift
Supervision with respect to PNC Bank, FSB. The Corporation's subsidiary banks
are subject to various federal and state restrictions on their ability to pay
dividends to the Corporation, which constitutes the principal source of income
to the parent company as discussed under the caption "Liquidity" in the
"Corporate Financial Review" on page 41 of the Annual Report to Shareholders,
which is incorporated herein by reference. The Corporation's subsidiary banks
are also subject to federal laws limiting extension of credit to their parent
holding company and nonbank affiliates as discussed in "Note 19 - Regulatory
Matters."

The federal banking agencies possess broad powers to take corrective action as
deemed appropriate for an insured depository institution and its holding
company. The extent of these powers depends upon whether the institution in
question is considered "well capitalized," "adequately capitalized,"
"undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized" or "critically
undercapitalized." Generally, as an institution is deemed to be less well
capitalized, the scope and severity of the agencies' powers increase,
ultimately permitting the agency to appoint a receiver for the institution.
Business activities may also be influenced by an institution's capital
classification.  For instance, only a "well capitalized" depository institution
may accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval and only an
"adequately capitalized" depository institution may accept brokered deposits
with prior regulatory approval. At December 31, 1996, all of the Corporation's
subsidiary banks exceeded the required ratios for classification as "well
capitalized."




Additional discussion of capital adequacy requirements is set forth under the
caption "Capital" in the "Corporate Financial Review" on page 39 of the Annual
Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.

All of the subsidiary banks are insured by the FDIC and subject to premium
assessments. The amount of FDIC assessments is based on the institution's
relative risk as measured by regulatory capital ratios and certain other
factors. Under current regulations, the Corporation's subsidiary banks are not
assessed a premium on deposits insured by either the Bank Insurance Fund or the
Savings Association Insurance Fund. However, insured depository institutions
will continue to pay premiums based on deposit levels to service debt on
Financing Corporation bonds.

The Corporation's subsidiary banks are subject to "cross-guarantee" provisions
under federal law that provide if one FDIC-insured depository institution of a
multi-bank holding company fails or requires FDIC assistance, the FDIC may
assess a "commonly controlled" depository institution for the estimated losses
suffered by the FDIC. Such liability could have a material adverse effect on
the financial condition of any assessed bank and the Corporation. While the
FDIC's claim is junior to the claims of depositors, holders of secured
liabilities, general creditors and subordinated creditors, it is superior to
the claims of shareholders and affiliates.

Under Federal Reserve Board policy, a bank holding company is expected to act as
a source of financial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and to commit
resources to support each such bank. Consistent with the "source of strength"
policy for subsidiary banks, the Federal Reserve Board has stated that, as a
matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company generally should not maintain
a rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders
has been sufficient to fund fully the dividends, and the prospective rate of
earnings retention appears to be consistent with the corporation's capital
needs, asset quality and overall financial condition.

The Corporation's nonbank subsidiaries are subject to regulatory
restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Board and other federal and state
agencies as well. The Corporation's four registered broker-dealer subsidiaries
are regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and monitored
by the OCC in three instances and the Federal Reserve Board in the other
instance.  They are also subject to rules and regulations promulgated by the
National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., among others. Several nonbank
subsidiaries which are registered investment advisers are subject to the
regulations of the SEC and other agencies. Investment advisers which are 
national bank subsidiaries are also subject to OCC supervision.

Over the past few years, the regulatory framework applicable to the Corporation
and its subsidiaries has been subject to extensive Congressional and agency
review, which has resulted in some liberalization and may result in further
reforms. Current proposals range from easing restrictions on a bank's insurance
and investment banking activities to easing bank ownership requirements.
Management currently cannot predict the outcome of these proposals or the
effect, if any, on the Corporation.

Since 1995, the BHC Act has permitted bank holding companies from any state to
acquire banks and bank holding companies located in any other state, subject to
certain conditions. Effective June 1, 1997, the Corporation's subsidiary banks
will have the ability, subject to certain restrictions, including state opt-out
provisions, to consolidate with one another or to acquire by acquisition or
merger branches outside their home state. Some states, including Delaware,
Kentucky, New Jersey, Ohio and Pennsylvania, have affirmatively opted to permit
such transactions earlier. Pursuant to these provisions, the Corporation merged
certain subsidiary banks during 1996 and may do so in the future. Competition 
may increase further as banks branch across state lines and enter new markets.

COMPETITION The Corporation and subsidiaries are subject to vigorous and
intense competition from various financial institutions and increasingly from
"nonbank" entities that engage in similar activities without being subject to
bank regulatory supervision and restrictions. In making loans, the subsidiary
banks compete with traditional banking institutions as well as consumer finance
companies, leasing companies and other nonbank lenders. Loan pricing and credit
standards are under competitive pressure as lenders seek to deploy capital and
a broader range of borrowers have access to capital markets. Traditional
deposit activities are subject to pricing pressures and customer migration as
the competition for consumer investment dollars intensifies among banks and
other financial services companies. The Corporation's subsidiary banks compete
for deposits not only with other commercial banks, savings banks, savings and
loan associations and credit unions, but also insurance companies, issuers of
commercial paper and other securities, including mutual funds. Various non-bank
subsidiaries engaged in investment banking and venture capital activities
compete with commercial banks, investment banking firms, insurance companies
and venture capital firms. In providing asset management services, the
Corporation's subsidiaries compete with many large banks, trust companies,
brokerage houses, mutual fund managers, other registered investment advisers
and insurance companies.

The Corporation and its subsidiaries compete not only with financial
institutions headquartered in states in which the subsidiary banks are located,
but also a number of large out-of-state and foreign banks, bank holding
companies and other financial and nonbank institutions. Some of the financial
and other institutions operating in the same markets are engaged in national
and international operations and have more assets and personnel than the
Corporation.




EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Information concerning each executive
officer of the Corporation as of March 1, 1997 is set forth below. Each
executive officer held the position indicated or another senior executive
position with the same entity or one of its affiliates or a predecessor
corporation for the past five years.


(1) Where applicable, refers to year first employed by predecessor company or
acquired company.

(2) Office of the Chairman member.

ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES

The executive and administrative offices of the Corporation and PNC Bank,
National Association ("PNC Bank, N.A."), are located at One PNC Plaza,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The thirty-story structure is owned by PNC Bank, N.A.
The Corporation and PNC Bank, N.A. occupy substantially all of the building. In
addition, PNC Bank, N.A. owns a thirty-four story structure adjacent to One PNC
Plaza, known as Two PNC Plaza, 620 Liberty Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
that houses additional office space. PNC Bank, N.A. also owns a data processing
and telecommunications center located in a suburb of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

The Corporation's subsidiaries also own or lease numerous other premises for
use in conducting business activities. The facilities owned or occupied under
lease by the Corporation's subsidiaries are considered by management to be
adequate.

Additional information pertaining to the Corporation's properties is set forth
in "Note 8 - Premises, Equipment and Leasehold Improvements" of the "Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements" included on pages 57 and 58 of the Annual
Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 3 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

A consolidated class action complaint was filed in March 1995 in the United
States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania against the
Corporation, its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and its Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer. The lawsuit was consolidated from four
lawsuits filed in November and December 1994. The consolidated complaint
alleges violations of federal securities laws and common law relating to
disclosures regarding the Corporation's net interest income, interest rate
risk, future prospects, and related matters, and seeks, among other things,
unquantified damages. On August 7, 1996, the district court denied defendants'
motion to dismiss as to all claims except the negligent misrepresentation
claim, which was dismissed. On the same date, the district court certified the
case as a class action consisting of all persons who purchased the
Corporation's common stock from April 18, 1994 through November 15, 1994.
Management believes there are meritorious defenses to this consolidated lawsuit
and intends to defend it vigorously. Management believes that the final
disposition will not be material to the Corporation's financial position.

The Corporation, in the normal course of business, is subject to various other
pending and threatened lawsuits in which claims for monetary damages are
asserted. Management, after consultation with legal counsel, does not
anticipate that the ultimate aggregate liability, if any, arising out of such
other lawsuits will have a material effect on the Corporation's financial
position.

At the present time, management is not in a position to determine whether any
pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on the
Corporation's results of operations in any future reporting period.




PART II

ITEM 5 - MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The Corporation's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is
traded under the symbol "PNC". At the close of business on February 28, 1997,
there were 65,642 common shareholders of record.

Holders of common stock are entitled to receive dividends when declared by the
Board of Directors out of funds legally available therefor. The Board of
Directors may not pay or set apart dividends on the common stock until
dividends for all past dividend periods on any series of outstanding preferred
stock have been paid or declared and set apart for payment. The Board presently
intends to continue the policy of paying quarterly cash dividends. However, the
amount of any future dividends will depend on earnings, the financial condition
of the Corporation and other factors including applicable government
regulations and policies (such as those relating to the ability of the
subsidiary banks and nonbank subsidiaries to upstream dividends to the parent
company). The Federal Reserve Board has the power to prohibit the Corporation
from paying dividends without prior regulatory approval. Further discussion
concerning dividend restrictions is set forth under the caption "Supervision
and Regulation" in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K and in "Note 19 -
Regulatory Matters," which sections are incorporated herein by reference.

Additional information relating to the common stock is set forth under the
caption "Common Stock Prices/Dividends Declared" on page 76 of the Annual
Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 6 - SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

"Selected Consolidated Financial Data" on page 69 of the Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7 - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The discussion of the Corporation's financial position and results of
operations set forth under the section "Corporate Financial Review" on pages 26
through 46 of the Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 8 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The "Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors," "Consolidated
Financial Statements" and "Selected Quarterly Financial Data" on pages 47, 48
through 51, and 70, respectively, of the Annual Report to Shareholders are
incorporated herein by reference.

PART III

ITEM 10 - DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information relating to the principal occupations of directors of the
Corporation, their ages, directorships in other companies, and respective terms
of office, except for Donald L. Moritz and Arthur J. Kania who are not standing
for reelection, is set forth under the heading "Election of Directors -
Information Concerning Nominees" in the Proxy Statement and is incorporated
herein by reference. Mr. Moritz, age 69, has been a director of the Corporation
since 1985. He is a director and chairman of the Executive Committee of
Equitable Resources, Inc., an energy, gas and utility company. Mr. Kania, age
65, is a principal with Trikan Associates, a real estate management investment
firm, and became a director of the Corporation in connection with the Midlantic
Corporation merger effective December 31, 1995. Mr. Kania is also a partner
with Kania, Lindner, Lasak & Feeney, a law firm.

Information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 set forth under the heading Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
reference.

Information regarding executive officers of the Corporation is included in Part
I of this Form 10-K under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant".

Information regarding the involvement of the Corporation's Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in a
certain legal proceeding set forth under the heading "Legal Proceedings" in the
Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.






ITEM 11 - EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information regarding compensation of directors and executive officers under
the captions "Election of Directors - Compensation of Directors," "Election of
Directors Common Stock Purchase Guideline" and "Compensation of Executive
Officers," excluding the "Personnel and Compensation Committee Report on
Executive Compensation," in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 12 - SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Information regarding the beneficial ownership of the equity securities of the
Corporation by all directors, each of the five highest compensated executive
officers, all directors and executive officers of the Corporation as a group
and certain other beneficial owners under the heading "Security Ownership of
Directors and Executive Officers and Certain Beneficial Owners" in the Proxy
Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13 - CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information regarding transactions and relationships with certain directors and
executive officers of the Corporation and their associates under the heading
"Compensation of Executive Officers-Compensation Committee Interlocks and
Insider Participation" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
reference.

PART IV

ITEM 14 - EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following report of independent auditors and
consolidated financial statements of the Corporation included in the Annual
Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference.



No financial statement schedules are being filed.

REPORTS ON FORM 8-K The following reports on Form 8-K were filed during the
quarter ended December 31, 1996, or thereafter:

Form 8-K dated as of October 7, 1996, reporting a public offering of 6,000,000
shares by the Corporation of a newly authorized series of Preferred Stock,
filed pursuant to Item 5.

Form 8-K dated as of October 10, 1996, reporting the Corporation's consolidated
financial results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 1996, filed
pursuant to Item 5.

Form 8-K dated as of January 15, 1997, reporting the Corporation's consolidated
financial results for the three months and year ended December 31, 1996, filed
pursuant to Item 5.

EXHIBITS The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index on pages E-1 and E-2 of this
Form 10-K are filed herewith or are incorporated herein by reference.






SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant, PNC Bank Corp., has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

PNC BANK CORP.
(Registrant)

By: /s/ ROBERT L. HAUNSCHILD                      
   ---------------------------------------------
    Robert L. Haunschild, Senior Vice President
      and Chief Financial Officer
    March 21, 1997

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of PNC Bank
Corp. and in the capacity indicated on March 21, 1997.

/s/ THOMAS H. O'BRIEN                              
- ------------------------------------------------
Thomas H. O'Brien, Chairman, Chief Executive
   Officer and Director

/s/ ROBERT L. HAUNSCHILD                           
- ------------------------------------------------
Robert L. Haunschild, Senior Vice President and
   Chief Financial Officer

/s/ WILLIAM J. JOHNS                               
- ------------------------------------------------
William J. Johns, Senior Vice President and
   Chief Accounting Officer

                        *                          
- ------------------------------------------------
Paul W. Chellgren, Director

                        *                          
- ------------------------------------------------
Robert N. Clay, Director

                        *                          
- ------------------------------------------------
George A. Davidson, Director

                        *                          
- ------------------------------------------------
David F. Girard-diCarlo, Director

                        *                          
- ------------------------------------------------
Dianna L. Green, Director

                        *                          
- ------------------------------------------------
C. G. Grefenstette, Director

                        *                          
- ------------------------------------------------
Arthur J. Kania, Director

                        *                          
- ------------------------------------------------
Bruce C. Lindsay, Director

                        *                          
- ------------------------------------------------
Thomas Marshall, Director

                        *                          
- ------------------------------------------------
W. Craig McClelland, Director

                        *                          
- ------------------------------------------------
Donald I. Moritz, Director

                        *                          
- ------------------------------------------------
Jackson H. Randolph, Director

                        *                          
- ------------------------------------------------
James E. Rohr, President and Director

                        *                          
- ------------------------------------------------
Roderic H. Ross, Director

                        *                          
- ------------------------------------------------
Vincent A. Sarni, Director

                        *                          
- ------------------------------------------------
Garry J. Scheuring, Director

                        *                          
- ------------------------------------------------
Richard P. Simmons, Director

                        *                          
- ------------------------------------------------
Thomas J. Usher, Director

                        *                          
- ------------------------------------------------
Milton A. Washington, Director

                        *                          
- ------------------------------------------------
Helge H. Wehmeier, Director

*By: /s/ MELANIE S. CIBIK                     
    --------------------------------------------
     Melanie S. Cibik, Attorney-in-fact,
      pursuant to Powers of Attorney
      filed herewith



                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

3.1      Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, incorporated
         herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2 of the Current Report on
         Form 8-K dated October 7, 1996.

3.2      By-Laws of the Corporation, as amended, incorporated herein by
         reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Corporation's Registration Statement
         on Form S-8 at File No. 33-62311.

4.1      Instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the
         Corporation and its subsidiaries are not filed as Exhibits because the
         amount of debt under each instrument is less than 10 percent of the
         consolidated assets of the Corporation. The Corporation undertakes to
         file these instruments with the Commission on request.

4.2      Designation of Series: $1.80 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock --
         Series A, incorporated herein as part of Exhibit 3.1.

4.3      Designation of Series: $1.80 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock --
         Series B, incorporated herein as part of Exhibit 3.1.

4.4      Designation of Series: $1.60 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock --
         Series C, incorporated herein as part of Exhibit 3.1.

4.5      Designation of Series: $1.80 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock --
         Series D, incorporated herein as part of Exhibit 3.1.

4.6      Designation of Series: Fixed/Adjustable Rate Noncumulative Preferred
         Stock - Series F, incorporated herein as part of Exhibit 3.1.

10.1     Supplemental Executive Retirement Income and Disability Plan of the
         Corporation, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the
         Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990 ("1990
         Form 10-K").*

10.2     Amendments to Supplemental Executive Retirement Income and Disability
         Plan, filed herewith.*

10.3     Supplemental Executive Life Insurance and Spouse's Benefit Plan of the
         Corporation, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the
         1990 Form 10-K.*

10.4     November 21, 1996 Amendment to Supplemental Executive Life Insurance
         and Spouse's Benefit Plan, filed herewith.*

10.5     1992 Long-Term Incentive Award Plan of the Corporation ("1992 Award
         Plan"), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the
         Corporation's Registration Statement on Form S-8 at File No. 33-54960.*

10.6     Form of Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement under 1992 Award Plan,
         filed herewith.*

10.7     Form of Incentive Share Agreement under 1992 Award Plan (June 1995),
         as amended November 21, 1996, filed herewith.*

10.8     PNC Bank Corp. 1994 Annual Incentive Award Plan, incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
         year ended December 31, 1994 ("1994 Form 10-K").*

10.9     PNC Bank Corp. 1996 Executive Incentive Award Plan, incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
         quarter ended September 30, 1996 ("3Q 1996 Form 10-Q").*

10.10    PNC Bank Corp. and Affiliates Deferred Compensation Plan, incorporated
         by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Corporation's Registration
         Statement on Form S-8 at File No. 333-18069.*

10.11    PNC Bank Corp. Supplemental Incentive Savings Plan, as amended,
         incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Corporation's
         Registration Statement on Form S-8 at File No. 333-18069.*

                                      E-1

10.12    PNC Bank Corp. Supplemental Pension Plan, as amended, filed herewith.*

10.13    1992 Director Share Incentive Plan, incorporated herein by reference
         to Exhibit 10.6 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
         December 31, 1992.*

10.14    PNC Bank Corp. Directors Retirement Plan, incorporated by reference to
         Exhibit 10.7 of the 1994 Form 10-K.*

10.15    PNC Bank Corp. Directors Deferred Compensation Plan, incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the 3Q 1996 Form 10-Q.*

10.16    Employment Agreement dated as of December 29, 1995, between the
         Corporation and Garry J. Scheuring, incorporated by reference to
         Exhibit 10.7 of the 1995 Form 10-K.*

10.17    Form of Change in Control Severance Agreement, filed herewith.*

10.18    Amended and Restated Trust Agreement between the Corporation, as
         Settlor, and NationsBank, N.A., as Trustee, filed herewith.*

11       Calculation of Primary and Fully Diluted Earnings Per Share, filed
         herewith.

12.1     Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges, filed herewith.

12.2     Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and
         Preferred Dividends, filed herewith.

13       Excerpts from the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
         December 31, 1996, filed herewith. Such Annual Report, except for
         those portions thereof that are expressly incorporated by reference
         herein, is furnished for information of the SEC only and is not deemed
         to be "filed" as part of this Form 10-K.

21       Schedule of Certain Subsidiaries of the Corporation, filed herewith.

23       Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors for the
         Corporation, filed herewith.

24.1     Power of Attorney of certain directors and officers of the
         Corporation, filed herewith.

24.2     Power of Attorney of Robert N. Clay, filed herewith.

24.3     Power of Attorney of Jackson H. Randolph, filed herewith.

24.4     Power of Attorney of Vincent A. Sarni, filed herewith.

27       Financial Data Schedule, filed herewith.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------
* Denotes management contract or compensatory plan.

                                      E-2

