10-K


w94682e10vk.htm

T. ROWE PRICE GROUP, INC.

e10vk

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.

For the fiscal year ended: DECEMBER 31, 2003.

Commission file number: 000-32191.

Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter:

T. ROWE PRICE GROUP, INC.

State of incorporation: MARYLAND.

I.R.S. Employer Identification No.: 52-2264646.

Address and Zip Code of principal executive offices: 100 EAST PRATT STREET,
BALTIMORE, MARYLAND 21202.

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (410) 345-2000.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: NONE.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

COMMON STOCK, $.20 PAR VALUE.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. [X] Yes. [  ] No.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. [  ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). [X] Yes. [  ] No.

State the aggregate market value of the common equity (all shares are voting)
held by non-affiliates as of February 6, 2004 (excludes executive officers and
directors) computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was
last sold on June 30, 2003. $4.2 BILLION.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of the registrant’s common stock, as
of the latest practicable date. 125,858,669 SHARES AT FEBRUARY 24, 2004.

Documents incorporated by reference: IN ITEM 9 OF PART II AND IN PART III OF
THIS FORM 10-K, THE DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT FOR THE 2004 ANNUAL MEETING OF
STOCKHOLDERS (FORM DEF14A; ACCESSION NO. 0001113169-04-000023).

Exhibit index at Item 15(a)3 begins on page 41.

Page 1

PART I.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

OVERVIEW. T. Rowe Price Group is a financial services holding company that
derives its consolidated revenues and net income primarily from investment
advisory services that its subsidiaries provide to individual and institutional
investors in the sponsored T. Rowe Price mutual funds and other investment
portfolios. Our investment advisory revenues depend largely on the total value
and composition of assets under our management. Accordingly, fluctuations in
financial markets and in the composition of assets under management impact our
revenues and results of operations.

We operate our investment advisory business through our subsidiary companies,
primarily T. Rowe Price Associates, T. Rowe Price International, T. Rowe Price
Stable Asset Management, and T. Rowe Price Global Investment Services. Our
advisory business was begun by the late Thomas Rowe Price, Jr., in 1937 and our
common stock was offered to the public for the first time in 1986. Our
corporate holding company structure was put in place in 2000.

Total assets under our management increased $49.4 billion over the course of
2003 and ended the year at an all-time record of $190.0 billion, including
$123.5 billion held in retirement accounts and variable annuity investment
portfolios. Assets under our management at the end of 2003 included $135.5
billion of equity securities and $54.5 billion of debt securities. The five
largest Price funds at December 31, 2003 - Equity Income, Mid-Cap Growth, Blue
Chip Growth, Growth Stock and Prime Reserve - account for 22% of assets under
management at that time and 25% of 2003 investment advisory revenues.

Our assets under management are accumulated from a diversified client base that
is accessed across four primary distribution methods. Our assets under
management are sourced approximately 20-30% from each of the following:
individual U.S. investors, U.S. defined contribution retirement plans,
third-party distributors in the U.S. and internationally, and institutional
investors in the U.S. and foreign countries. Our largest client account
relationship, excluding the T. Rowe Price funds, is with a third-party
distributor that accounted for less than 4% of our investment advisory revenues
in 2003.

In 2001, our U.K. investment advisory subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Global
Investment Services, expanded our investment advisory business to Europe where
we now offer separate account management to institutional investors,
subadvisory services, and a series of Luxembourg-domiciled mutual funds with
share classes for institutional investors and for individuals reached through
third party distributors. Our European initiatives complement those that we
began in 1999 in Japan through T. Rowe Price Global Asset Management, which
subadvises investment assets for Daiwa SB Investments in which we hold a 10%
interest. Our international clients account for 4% of our total assets under
management at December 31, 2003.

We manage a broad range of U.S. domestic and international stock, bond, and
money market mutual funds and other investment portfolios which are designed to
meet the varied and changing needs and objectives of individual and
institutional investors. For example, mutual fund shareholders can exchange
balances among mutual funds as permitted when economic and market
conditions and their investment needs change. From time to time, we

Page 2

introduce new funds and other investment portfolios to complement and expand our
investment offerings, respond to competitive developments in the financial
marketplace, and meet the changing needs of our investment advisory clients.
We will open a new mutual fund if we believe that its objective can be useful
for investors over a long period of time.

We also provide certain administrative services as ancillary services to our
investment advisory clients. These administrative services are provided by
several of our subsidiary companies and include mutual fund transfer agent,
accounting, and shareholder services; participant recordkeeping and transfer
agent services for defined contribution retirement plans; discount brokerage;
and trust services. About 90% of our administrative revenues in 2003 were
based on the recovery of expenses incurred to provide the related services.
Administrative revenues, therefore, do not significantly affect our net income.

We employ fundamental and quantitative security analyses in the performance of
the investment advisory function. We maintain substantial internal equity and
fixed income investment research capabilities. We perform original industry
and company research using such sources as inspection of corporate activities,
management interviews, company-published financial and other information,
financial newspapers and magazines, corporate rating services, and field checks
with suppliers and competitors in the same industry and particular business
sector. Our research staff operates primarily from offices located in the
United States and Great Britain with additional staff resident in Argentina,
France, Hong Kong, Japan, and Singapore. We also use research provided by
brokerage firms in a supportive capacity and information received from private
economists, political observers, commentators, government experts, and market
and security analysts. Our stock selection process for some investment
portfolios is based on quantitative analyses using computerized data modeling.

Investment objectives for our managed investment portfolios, including the
Price funds, accommodate a variety of strategies. Investors select funds based
on the distinct objectives that are detailed in each fund’s prospectus.
Management of other client portfolios includes approaches similar to those
employed in the Price funds. Equity investment strategies may emphasize
large-cap, mid-cap or small-cap investing; growth or value investing; and U.S.,
global, or international investing. We also offer systematic, tax-efficient,
and blended equity investment strategies as well as active and systematic
management strategies for fixed income investments. Our specialized advisory
services include management of stable value investment contracts and a managed
disposition service for equity securities distributed from third-party venture
capital investment pools.

Information concerning our revenues, results of operations, total assets, and
investment assets under our management during the past three years is contained
in our consolidated statements of income and in note 6 to our consolidated
financial statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

2003 DEVELOPMENTS. Improving financial market valuations and income added more
than $36 billion to our assets under management during 2003. Financial
markets generally bottomed out in the first quarter and then began an upward
movement that continued through the rest of the year before accelerating in the
fourth quarter. After three down years, the Dow Jones
Industrials ended up 25% and the Nasdaq Composite, led primarily by

Page 3

larger-cap
technology companies, was up 50%. The broader market also captured significant
gains, as the S&P 500 returned nearly 29%.

Net investor inflows added more than $13 billion to our assets under management
in 2003, including nearly $7.5 billion to the T. Rowe Price mutual funds for
U.S. investors and $5.8 billion to other investment portfolios. Reflecting the
very significant improvement in the financial markets late in the year, the
fourth quarter of 2003 produced the largest net inflows, accounting for $4.6
billion or nearly 35% of the net inflows for the year. Mutual fund inflows in
2003 were third only to the peak annual inflows of $8.6 billion and $8.5
billion that we experienced in 1996 and 1997, respectively.

The positive financial market backdrop in 2003 was diminished over the last
four months of the year by news of trading abuses at several investment
management firms, including revelations that certain fund companies permitted
excessive trading or illegal after-hours trading. In addition, certain
intermediaries that process fund transactions allegedly assisted some investors
in executing improper mutual fund trades. We have conducted thorough reviews
of our firm’s policies, procedures, and practices in the principal areas that
have been implicated in the various enforcement proceedings and investigations
that have been announced to date. This has allowed us both to confirm the
continuing effectiveness of our existing policies, procedures, and practices
and to make or consider certain enhancements. As a result of the disclosures
at other investment management firms, the industry and mutual funds in
particular have come under greater regulatory scrutiny. New legislation and
regulations designed to strengthen controls and restore investor confidence in
the industry are expected in the coming months.

We continue to benefit from the performance of our managed investment
portfolios, including the T. Rowe Price funds which have performed well
relative to their peers. Sixty-five percent of the funds and their share
classes surpassed their Lipper peer group averages on a total return basis for
the one-year period ended December 31, 2003, and at least 75% did so for the
three-, five-, and ten-year periods. In addition, 65% of our rated retail
mutual funds in the U.S. ended the year with an overall rating of four or five
stars from Morningstar.

PRICE FUNDS. We provide investment advisory, distribution and other
administrative services to the Price funds under various agreements.
Investment advisory services are provided to each fund under individual
investment management agreements that grant the fund the right to use the T.
Rowe Price name. The boards of the respective funds, including a majority of
directors who are not interested persons of the funds or of T. Rowe Price Group
(as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended), must approve
the investment management agreements annually. Amendments to management
agreements must be approved by fund shareholders. Each agreement
automatically terminates in the event of its assignment (as defined in the
Investment Company Act) and, generally, either party may terminate the
agreement without penalty after a 60-day notice. The termination of one or
more of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations.

Advisory Services. Investment advisory revenues are based upon the daily net
assets managed in each fund. Additional fees are earned for advisory-related
administrative services as discussed below. Independent directors and trustees
of the Price funds regularly review our fee structures.

Page 4

The advisory fee paid by each of the Price funds generally is computed each day
by multiplying a fund’s net assets by a specific fee. For the majority of the
Price funds, the fee is equal to the sum of a group charge that is set based on
the combined net assets of those funds and an individual fund charge that is
set based on the fund’s specific investment objective. The 2003 fee rates
determined in this manner varied from a low of 32 basis points for the U.S.
Treasury Money Fund to a high of 107 basis points for the International
Discovery Fund. To the extent that the combined net assets of the funds
increase, the group charge component of the fee and each overall fund fee
decreases. Details of each fund’s fee arrangement are available in its
prospectus.

Each of the Price funds has a distinct investment objective that has been
developed as part of our strategy to provide a broad, comprehensive selection
of investing opportunities. All Price funds can be purchased in the United
States on a no-load basis, without a sales commission. No-load mutual funds
offer investors a low-cost and relatively easy method of investing in a variety
of stock and bond portfolios. Our Advisor and R classes of fund shares are
sold through financial intermediaries and incur 12b-1 fees of 25 and 50 basis
points, respectively, for distribution, administration, and personal services.
We recognize 12b-1 fees as offsetting components of administrative revenues and
other operating expenses. We believe that our lower fund cost structure,
distribution methods, and fund shareholder and administrative services help
promote the stability of our fund assets under management through market
cycles.

Each Price fund typically bears all expenses associated with its operation and
the issuance and redemption of its securities. In particular, each fund pays
investment advisory fees; shareholder servicing fees and expenses; fund
accounting fees and expenses; transfer agent fees; custodian fees and expenses;
legal and auditing fees; expenses of preparing, printing and mailing
prospectuses and shareholder reports to existing shareholders; registration
fees and expenses; proxy and annual meeting expenses; and independent trustee
or director fees and expenses.

Several of the Price funds have different fee arrangements. The Equity Market
Index funds and the Summit funds each have single, all-inclusive fees covering
all investment management and operating expenses. Each of the funds in the
Spectrum series and the Retirement date specific series of mutual funds invest
in a broadly diversified portfolio of other Price funds and have no separate
investment advisory fee. However, they indirectly bear the expenses of the
funds in which they invest. Mutual funds for institutional investors each have
separate advisory fee arrangements.

We usually commit that a newly organized fund’s expenses will not exceed a
specified percentage of its net assets during an initial operating period. We
absorb all advisory fees and other mutual fund expenses in excess of these
self-imposed limits.

Except as noted above for 12b-1 fees, we bear all advertising and promotion
expenses associated with our distribution of the Price funds. Our costs
include advertising and direct mail communications to potential fund
shareholders as well as a substantial staff and communications capabilities to
respond to investor inquiries. Marketing efforts are focused in the print
media and, in recent years, promotional activities have expanded to television
and the Internet. In addition, we direct considerable marketing efforts to
defined contribution plans that invest in mutual funds.
Advertising and promotion expenditures vary over time based on investor

Page 5

interest, market conditions, new investment offerings, and the development and
expansion of new marketing initiatives, including those arising from
international expansion and enhancements to our Web site.

Administrative Services. We provide advisory-related administrative services
to the Price funds through our subsidiaries. T. Rowe Price Services provides
mutual fund transfer agency and shareholder services, including maintenance of
staff, facilities, and technology and other equipment to respond to inquiries
from fund shareholders. T. Rowe Price Associates provides mutual fund
accounting services, including maintenance of financial records, preparation of
financial statements and reports, daily valuation of portfolio securities and
computation of daily net asset values per share. T. Rowe Price Retirement Plan
Services provides participant accounting, plan administration and transfer
agent services for defined contribution retirement plans that invest in the
Price funds. Plan sponsors and participants compensate us for some services
while the Price funds compensate us for maintaining and administering the
individual participant accounts for those plans that invest in the funds.

Our trustee services are provided by another subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Trust
Company. Through this Maryland-chartered limited-service trust company, we
offer common trust funds for investment by qualified retirement plans and serve
as trustee for retirement plans and IRAs. T. Rowe Price Trust Company may not
accept deposits and cannot make personal or commercial loans.

We also provide investment advisory services to shareholders and potential
investors in the Price funds through our subsidiary T. Rowe Price Advisory
Services. These services currently include an Investment Checkup of an
individual’s financial situation, the Retirement Income Manager for developing
an individual’s personal income and investment strategy during retirement, and
a Rollover Investment Service for investing retirement plan distributions.

Another subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Savings Bank, issues federally-insured
certificates of deposit.

Fund Assets. At December 31, 2003, assets under our management in the Price
funds aggregated nearly $117.5 billion, an increase of $30.2 billion from the
beginning of the year. The following table presents the net assets (in
millions) of our largest funds (net assets in excess of $100 million) at
December 31, 2002 and 2003 and the year each fund was started. The Spectrum
and Retirement series of funds are not listed in the table because their assets
are included in the underlying funds.



Stock funds:

Growth Stock (1950)

$

3,729

$

5,755

New Horizons (1960)

3,359

4,955

New Era (1969)


1,332

International Stock (1980)

4,447

5,220

Growth & Income (1982)

1,675

1,964

Equity Income (1985)

9,838

13,756

New America Growth (1985)



Capital Appreciation (1986)

1,853

2,942

Science & Technology (1987)

3,186

5,036

International Discovery (1988)



Small-Cap Value (1988)

2,554

3,595

Page 6

Page 7

We invest in many of the T. Rowe Price funds through our operating subsidiaries
and our investments holding company subsidiary, TRP Finance.

OTHER INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOS. We managed $72.5 billion at December 31, 2003 in
other investment portfolios, up $19.2 billion from the beginning of the year.
We provide investment advisory services to these client accounts on a
separately-managed or subadvised basis and through sponsored investment
portfolios generally organized by us such as common trust funds, partnerships,
the Luxembourg-based funds, and variable annuity funds.

Our fees for managing these investment portfolios are computed using the value
of assets under our management. About 55% of these advisory fees are based on
the daily valuations of the managed investment portfolios. About 35% of the
fees are based on end of billing period valuations, while the remainder are
based on account values at the beginning of the billing period, which is
usually three months.

We charge fees for investment management based on, among other things, the
specific investment services to be provided. Our standard form of investment
advisory agreement for client accounts provides that the agreement may be
terminated at any time and that any unearned fees paid in advance will be
refunded.

Our subsidiaries also provide other advisory services to investment clients.
Stable value investment contracts, totaling $9.9 billion at December 31, 2002
and $10.2 billion at December 31, 2003, are managed by T. Rowe Price Stable
Asset Management. International equity and fixed income securities held in
other investment portfolios managed by T. Rowe Price International totaled
$11.4 billion at the end of 2003, up from $9.0 billion at the beginning of the
year.

REGULATION. T. Rowe Price Associates, T. Rowe Price International, T. Rowe
Price Stable Asset Management, T. Rowe Price Global Asset Management, and T.
Rowe Price Advisory Services are registered with the SEC as investment advisers
under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. T. Rowe Price Global Investment
Services, T. Rowe Price Global Asset Management, and T. Rowe Price
International are regulated by the Financial Services Authority in Great
Britain and, in certain cases, other foreign regulators. Our transfer agent
services subsidiaries are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
and our trust company is regulated by the State of Maryland, Commissioner of
Financial Regulation. T. Rowe Price Savings Bank is regulated by the Office of
Thrift Supervision, U.S. Department of the Treasury. T. Rowe Price (Canada) is
a dormant investment adviser registered with the Ontario Securities Commission.

The Price funds are distributed by our subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Investment
Services, which is a registered broker-dealer and member of the National
Association of Securities Dealers and the Securities Investor Protection
Corporation. We provide discount brokerage services through this subsidiary
primarily to complement the other services provided to shareholders of the
Price funds. All discount brokerage transactions are
cleared through and customer accounts are maintained by Pershing, a third-party
clearing broker.

Page 8

All aspects of our business are subject to extensive federal and state laws and
regulations. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to benefit or
protect our clients and the Price funds’ shareholders. They generally grant
supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the
power to limit or restrict the conduct of our business in the event that we
fail to comply with laws and regulations. Possible sanctions that may be
imposed on us in the event that we fail to comply include the suspension of
individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain business activities
for specified periods of time, revocation of our investment adviser and other
registrations, censures, and fines.

Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements including
those of various federal, state, and foreign regulatory agencies. Our
subsidiaries’ net capital, as defined, has consistently met or exceeded all
minimum requirements.

COMPETITION. As a member of the financial services industry, we are subject to
substantial competition in all aspects of our business. A significant number
of mutual funds are sold to the public by other investment management firms,
broker-dealers, mutual fund companies, banks and insurance companies and
include the distribution of both proprietary and other sponsors’ mutual funds.
We compete with brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies,
banks, and other financial institutions in all aspects of our business and in
every country in which we offer our advisory services. Many of these financial
institutions have substantially greater resources than we do. We compete with
other providers of investment management services primarily on the basis of the
availability and objectives of the investment portfolios offered, investment
performance, and the scope and quality of our services.

We believe that competition within the investment management industry will
increase as a result of consolidation and acquisition activity. In order to
maintain and enhance our competitive position, we may review acquisition and
venture opportunities and, if appropriate, engage in discussions or
negotiations that could lead to acquisitions or new financial relationships.

EMPLOYEES. At December 31, 2003, we employed 3,783 associates, up 2% from the
end of 2002. We may add additional temporary and part-time personnel to our
staff from time to time to meet periodic and special project demands, primarily
for technology and mutual fund administrative services.

SEC FILINGS. We make available through our Internet Web site our annual report
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and
any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission. To retrieve any of this information, you may access our
Internet home page at www.troweprice.com; select: Company Info and Press; and
then select: Financial Information.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

Our primary corporate offices consist of approximately 300,000 square feet of
space leased through mid 2007 at 100 East Pratt Street in Baltimore, Maryland.
Our London and other international offices as well as our customer service
call center in Tampa, Florida are also leased.

Page 9

Our operating and servicing facilities include properties in suburban campus
settings comprising 567,000 square feet in Owings Mills, Maryland that is owned
by TRP Suburban Second and 124,000 square feet in Colorado Springs, Colorado.
We also own a 46,000 square foot technology center on a separate parcel of land
in Owings Mills in close proximity to the campus facilities. Acreage that we
own on which these three facilities are located will accommodate additional
future development.

We maintain investor centers for walk-in traffic and investor meetings in
leased facilities located in the Baltimore; Boston (Wellesley, Massachusetts);
Chicago (Oak Brook, Illinois); Los Angeles (Woodland Hills, California); New
Jersey/New York City (Short Hills, New Jersey); San Francisco (Walnut Creek,
California); Tampa; and Washington (Washington, D.C. and McLean, Virginia)
areas. We also have centers in our owned facilities in Colorado Springs and
Owings Mills. These 11 investor centers allow us to be available to a large
number of our investors within a one hour drive.

Information concerning our anticipated capital expenditures in 2004 and our
future minimum rental payments under noncancelable operating leases at December
31, 2003 is set forth in the capital resources and liquidity discussion in Item
7 of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

On September 16, 2003, a purported class action (T.K. Parthasarathy, et al.,
including Woodbury, v. T. Rowe Price International Funds, Inc., et al.) was
filed in the Circuit Court, Third Judicial Circuit, Madison County, Illinois,
against T. Rowe Price International and the T. Rowe Price International Funds
with respect to the T. Rowe Price International Stock Fund. Two unrelated fund
groups were also named as defendants. On November 19, 2003, a purported class
action (John Bilski v. T. Rowe Price International Funds, Inc., et al.) was
filed in the United States District Court, Southern District of Illinois,
against T. Rowe Price International and the T. Rowe Price International Funds
with respect to the T. Rowe Price New Asia Fund. Two entirely unrelated fund
groups were also named as defendants.

The basic allegations in the two complaints are that the T. Rowe Price
defendants do not make appropriate value adjustments to the foreign securities
of the T. Rowe Price International Stock and New Asia Funds prior to
calculating the funds’ daily share prices, thereby benefitting market timing
traders at the expense of the long-term mutual fund shareholders.

In the view of the T. Rowe Price funds and T. Rowe Price International, the
allegations set forth in the complaints are factually and legally inaccurate
and wholly without merit. T. Rowe Price will defend these cases vigorously.

From time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of
business, including employment-related claims. In the opinion of management,
after consultation with counsel, it is unlikely that there will
be any adverse determination in one or more pending claims that would have a
material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.

Page 10

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

None during the fourth quarter of 2003.

ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

The following information includes the names, ages, and positions of our
executive officers. There are no arrangements or understandings pursuant to
which any person serves as an officer. The first eight individuals are members
of our management committee.

George A. Roche (62), Chairman and President (1997) and Interim Chief Financial Officer (2000-2001 and 2003-2004).

James S. Riepe (60), Vice Chairman (1997) and Vice President (1981).

M. David Testa (59), Vice Chairman (1997) and Vice President (1976).

Edward C. Bernard (48), Vice President (1989).

James A.C. Kennedy (50), Vice President (1981).

William T. Reynolds (55), Vice President (1983).

Brian C. Rogers (48), Vice President (1985).

David J.L. Warren (46), Vice President (2000) and President (1998) of T. Rowe Price International.

Joseph P. Croteau (49), Vice President (1987) and Treasurer (2000).

Michael A. Goff (44), Vice President (1994).

Henry H. Hopkins (61), Vice President (1976).

Melody L. Jones (44), Vice President (2002). Ms. Jones was previously Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer (1998-2002) with Aon Corporation.

Wayne D. O’Melia (51), Vice President (1991).

Charles E. Vieth (47), Vice President (1985).

Mr. Testa and Mr. Reynolds have announced their plans to retire in 2004.

On March 8, 2004, Mr. Kenneth V. Moreland (47) will join the firm as Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Moreland has been Senior Vice
President, Treasurer, and Chief Financial Officer as well as a member of the
board of directors of RTKL Associates Inc., a Baltimore-based international
architectural firm, since 1996.

Page 11

PART II.

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

Our common stock ($.20 par value) trades on The Nasdaq National Market under
the symbol “TROW”. The high and low trade price information and dividends per
share during the past two years were:

1st

2nd

3rd

4th

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

2002 -

High price

$

42.69

$

39.15

$

33.62

$

31.67

Low price

33.83

30.53

21.50

21.25

Cash dividends declared

.16

.16

.16

.17

2003 -

High price

30.61

39.39

44.81

47.59

Low price

23.72

26.20

37.41

39.34

Cash dividends declared

.17

.17

.17

.19

On February 6, 2004, there were approximately 3,900 holders of record of our
outstanding common stock.

We expect to declare and pay cash dividends at the $.19 per-share quarterly
rate for the first three quarters of 2004. The increase made to our quarterly
dividend rate in December 2003 was the eighteenth consecutive annual increase
since we became a public company in April 1986.

Our common stockholders have approved the issuance of up to 32,667,027 shares
of our common stock ($.20 par value) at December 31, 2003 under our equity
compensation plans. This amount includes 27,425,777 shares that may be issued
upon the exercise of outstanding stock options which have a weighted average
exercise price of $29.98 and 5,241,831 shares that remain available for future
issuance.

Under our six stock-based compensation plans (the 1990, 1993, 1996, and 2001
Stock Incentive Plans and the 1995 and 1998 Director Stock Option Plans), we
have granted only fixed stock options with a maximum term of 10 years to
employees and directors. Vesting of employee options is based solely on the
individual continuing to render service and generally occurs over a five-year
graded schedule. The exercise price of each option granted is equivalent to
the market price of the common stock at the date of grant.

The company has not repurchased any of its common shares since the first
quarter of 2003. As of December 31, 2003, a board of directors’ 1999
resolution still allowed us to repurchase up to 846,010 shares of our common
stock. In addition, a 2003 board resolution added 5,000,000 shares to our
authorized repurchase program.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

Year ended December 31,






(in millions, except per-share data)

Net revenues

$


$

1,154

$


$


$


Net operating
income

$


$


$


$


$


Net income

$


$


$


$


$


Net cash provided
by operating
activities

$


$


$


$


$


Basic earnings
per share

$

1.99

$

2.22

$

1.59

$

1.58

$

1.84

Diluted earnings
per share

$

1.85

$

2.08

$

1.52

$

1.52

$

1.77

Cash dividends
declared per share

$

.43

$

.54

$

.61

$

.65

$

.70

Weighted average
shares outstanding

120.6

121.2

123.1

122.9

123.4

Weighted average
shares outstanding-
assuming dilution

129.2

129.6

129.0

127.7

128.3

Page 12

December 31,






(in millions, except as noted)

Balance sheet data

Goodwill

$


$


$


$


$


Total assets

$


$

1,469

$

1,313

$

1,370

$

1,547

Debt

$


$


$


$


$

—

Stockholders’
equity

$


$


$

1,078

$

1,134

$

1,329

Assets under management (in billions)

$

179.9

$

166.7

$

156.3

$

140.6

$

190.0

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

GENERAL.

Our revenues and net income are derived primarily from investment advisory
services provided to U.S. individual and institutional investors in our
sponsored mutual funds and other managed investment portfolios. Investors
outside the United States have grown over the last three years and now account
for 4% of our assets under management at December 31, 2003.

We manage a broad range of U.S. and international stock, bond, and money market
mutual funds and other investment portfolios which meet the varied needs and
objectives of individual and institutional investors. Investment advisory
revenues depend largely on the total value and composition of assets under our
management. Accordingly, fluctuations in financial markets and in the
composition of assets under management impact our revenues and results of
operations.

Total assets under our management were up more than $49 billion during 2003 and
ended the year at an all-time record of $190 billion, including $135.5 billion
in equity securities and $54.5 billion in bond and money market holdings.
These investment assets include $117.5 billion in the T. Rowe Price mutual
funds distributed in the United States and $72.5 billion in other investment
portfolios consisting of separately managed accounts, sub-advised funds, and
other sponsored investment portfolios offered to investors outside the United
States and through variable annuity life insurance plans.

Improving financial market valuations and income added more than $36 billion to

our assets under management during 2003 while net investor inflows added more
than $13 billion. The previous period-end record for assets under management
was $185 billion at March 31, 2000, the month that equity market valuations
peaked and the three-year market downturn began.

In 2003, financial markets generally bottomed out in the first quarter and then
began an upward movement that continued through the rest of the year before
accelerating in the fourth quarter. A U.S. market environment with income tax
cuts and low interest rates provided the underlying foundation for the market
recovery. After three down years, the Dow Jones Industrials ended up 25% and
the Nasdaq Composite, led primarily by larger-cap
technology companies, was up 50%. The broader market also captured significant
gains, as the S&P 500 returned nearly 29%. While the early indications are
that improving corporate profits and low interest rates will be the basis for
continued market gains in 2004, we do expect that the financial market growth
rate in the coming year will be lower than that of 2003.

Page 13

This positive financial market backdrop was diminished over the last four
months of 2003 by news of trading abuses at several investment management
firms, including revelations that certain fund companies permitted excessive
trading or illegal after-hours trading. In addition, certain intermediaries
that process fund transactions allegedly assisted some investors in executing
improper mutual fund trades. We have conducted a thorough review of our
policies, procedures, and practices with respect to inappropriate trading
activities and we have found them to be sound. As a result of the disclosures
at other investment management firms, the industry and mutual funds in
particular have come under greater regulatory scrutiny. New legislation and
regulations designed to strengthen controls and restore investor confidence in
the industry are expected in the coming months.

Net cash inflows during 2003 were also a strong driver of increased assets
under management. Defined contribution retirement plans, which generally
provide individual investors a regular opportunity to have recurring cash
investments made directly from each paycheck into personal retirement accounts,
were the source of steady cash inflows through the market downturn. As 2003
progressed, the individual investor began returning to the financial markets
after an almost three year absence and our cash inflows increased. We reach
individual investors directly and through third-party distribution efforts.
Institutional investors both in the United States and in foreign countries also
added net cash inflows during the year. In total, investors added nearly $7.5
billion to the T. Rowe Price mutual funds in the U.S. and $5.8 billion to the
other portfolios that we manage.

Reflecting the very significant improvement in the financial markets, the
fourth quarter of 2003 produced the largest net inflows, accounting for $4.6
billion or nearly 35% of the net inflows for the year. For the year, the
mutual fund inflows were third only to our peak inflows of $8.6 billion and
$8.5 billion experienced in 1996 and 1997, respectively.

In this improving market environment, we expect to increase our expenditures to
attract new investment advisory clients and additional investments from our
existing clients. These efforts may involve significant costs that would
precede the recognition of any future revenues that we might realize from
increases to our assets under management.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

2003 versus 2002.

Total revenues increased $73 million to $999 million and net
revenues increased $72 million to $996 million. Net income increased $33.2
million, or 17%, to $227.5 million. Diluted earnings per share increased 16%
from $1.52 to $1.77.

Investment advisory revenues earned from the T. Rowe Price mutual funds
distributed in the United States increased $39.2 million on higher average
assets under management which increased $7.3 billion from $92.1 billion in 2002
to $99.4 billion in 2003. Market appreciation and income, net of dividends
paid and not reinvested, added $22.7 billion to mutual fund
assets during 2003 and net investor inflows added another $7.5 billion. As a
result, fund assets under management increased from $87.3 billion at the
beginning of 2003 to $117.5 billion at December 31, 2003. Stock funds had net
investor subscriptions of $6.4 billion while bond and money market

Page 14

funds added
net inflows of $1.1 billion. Investors in the Mid-Cap Growth, Equity Income,
and Growth Stock funds accounted for $3.9 billion of the net inflows during the
year. Bond fund investors seeking higher yields added $.9 billion to the High
Yield Fund.

Investment advisory revenues earned on the other investment portfolios that we
manage increased $22.9 million to $219.2 million in 2003. Average assets for
the year were $60.5 billion, $5 billion higher than in 2002. Year-end assets
in these portfolios increased $19.2 billion to $72.5 billion at December 31,
2003. Net inflows to these portfolios were $5.8 billion in 2003. Third-party
distribution efforts and additions from new institutional investors, both in
the U.S. and overseas, were responsible for the new investment dollars. Fees
from our managed disposition service for equity securities distributed from
venture capital investment pools accounted for $2.2 million of the advisory
revenue increase. Though recurring, these fees will vary significantly over
time and through different phases of the market cycle.

Administrative revenues and other income increased $10.1 million to $217.5
million in 2003. This increase is primarily attributable to increased
12b-1 distribution fees received based on greater assets under management in
the Advisor class shares of our sponsored mutual funds and to the transfer
agency and participant recordkeeping services that we provide for defined
contribution retirement plans. These revenue changes are generally offset by
similar changes in the expenses that we incur to distribute the Advisor shares
through third parties and provide the services to the retirement plans. Our
discount brokerage operation added $1.5 million of the increased revenues from
commissions earned on greater trading volume.

Operating expenses in 2003 were $27.5 million higher than in 2002. Our largest
expense, compensation and related costs, including bonuses, increased 7% to
$383 million. At December 31, 2003, we employed 3,783 associates, up 2% over
the year. Advertising and promotion expenditures were flat versus the 2002
year as we lowered spending during the first nine months of 2003 due to
financial market conditions. The final quarter of 2003 saw an increase in our
advertising and promotional spending to $20.4 million, or 35% of 2003’s total
expense. We vary our promotional spending based on market conditions and
investor demand as well as the extent of our efforts to expand our investor
base in the United States and abroad. We expect our advertising and promotion
expenditures in the first quarter of 2004 to be similar to the fourth quarter
of 2003, with succeeding quarters being higher than that of the comparable 2003
periods. Market conditions will dictate the exact level of our spending.

Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $5.3 million. New capital
additions in 2003 were less than depreciation expense and the depreciable book
value of our property and equipment is lower than in the prior year. Other
operating expenses increased $5.8 million due primarily to the $4.3 million
increase in distribution costs to third parties which offset the corresponding
revenues recognized from the 12b-1 fees discussed above.

Overall, net operating income for 2003 increased nearly $45.5 million, or 14%,
from 2002.

Our net non-operating results, which include the recognition of investment
gains and losses as well as interest and credit facility expenses, improved
from a loss of $10.9 million in 2002 to a gain of $.5 million in 2003. During
2002, we recognized net investment losses of $10.2 million on our

Page 15

mutual fund
investments, private equity investments, and our investments in sponsored
collateralized bond obligations. Interest and related costs were down $.9
million from 2002 as we repaid all of our outstanding debt obligations during
2003.

The 2003 provision for income taxes as a percentage of pretax income is
slightly higher than that of 2002 due primarily to credits in the 2002 year
arising from lower than previously estimated 2001 state income tax liabilities.

2002 versus 2001.

Net income decreased about $1.6 million, or 1%, to $194.3
million. Diluted earnings per share was unchanged at $1.52 as lower weighted
average shares and share equivalents outstanding, due to our repurchase of 2.8
million common shares in 2002 and our common stock’s generally lower per share
market value, offset the decline in net income. With the adoption of the new
accounting standard for goodwill on January 1, 2002, we ceased amortizing the
goodwill that is recognized in our consolidated balance sheet. After excluding
the 2001 amortization of goodwill in the amount of $28.9 million, adjusted net
income for 2001 was $224.8 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share was
$1.74. Total revenues declined $70.6 million, or 7%, to $925.8 million and net
revenues declined a similar 7% or $71.9 million to $923.5 million.

Investment advisory revenues earned from the T. Rowe Price mutual funds
distributed in the United States decreased $43.5 million as average fund assets
under management were $92.1 billion during 2002, $6.6 billion less than in
2001. Weakness in financial market valuations that began in early 2000
continued for three years. During the second half of 2002, U.S. equity market
valuations fell to levels last seen in the first half of 1997. Mutual fund
assets ended 2002 at almost $87.3 billion, down $10.7 billion from December 31,
2001 and nearly $4.9 billion from the 2002 average. The Price funds had $3.1
billion of net cash inflows during 2002, the highest net annual inflows since
1998; however, market depreciation, net of income and dividends paid but not
reinvested, more than offset the inflows and reduced fund assets $13.8 billion
in 2002. Money market and bond funds had net investor subscriptions of $1.9
billion and stock funds added an additional $1.2 billion of net inflows. Bond
fund investors seeking higher yields added $704 million to the High Yield Fund
in 2002. Net inflows of $2.7 billion to U.S. domestic stock funds in 2002 were
led primarily by value-oriented investors in the Equity Income, Mid-Cap Value,
and Small-Cap Value funds while international stock fund investors had net
redemptions of $1.5 billion during the year.

Investment advisory revenues earned from the other investment portfolios that
we manage were down $11.2 million in 2002 on lower assets under management that
also resulted from lower market valuations. The value of the assets in these
portfolios decreased $5 billion during 2002 to $53.3 billion at year end as net
cash inflows of $1.7 billion were more than offset by $6.7 billion of market
value losses. Additionally, advisory fees from our managed disposition service
were down $5 million from 2001 to $1.2 million in 2002. These fees declined
during 2001 and 2002 as market conditions were unfavorable and investment
portfolios changed.

Administrative revenues and other income decreased $12.4 million from 2001 to
$207.4 million in 2002. This decrease is primarily attributable to transfer
agency and participant recordkeeping services that we provide for defined
contribution retirement plans and was partially offset by a $2.3 million
increase in 12b-1 distribution fees received from our Advisor class of mutual
fund shares.

Page 16

Total revenues also increased $1.5 million on greater investment income from
the larger investment portfolio of our savings bank subsidiary. Our savings
bank depositor base increased from $25 million at December 31, 2001 to $81
million at the end of 2002. Interest expense on the higher deposits increased
$1.3 million. We manage the assets of our savings bank as a portfolio in a
manner similar to that of our other investment advisory clients. The net of
our investment portfolio income and depositor interest expense results in a net
revenue amount that is similar to the investment advisory fees earned on the
investment portfolios that we manage.

Operating expenses in 2002 were $81.2 million less than in 2001. The
elimination of the amortization of goodwill accounts for $28.9 million or about
36% of the decrease. Our largest expense, compensation and related costs,
decreased 7% or $27.4 million from 2001. Our average staff size, use of
temporary personnel in the technology operations group, and total levels of
compensation were all lower in 2002. Attrition and a late 2001 staff reduction
lowered our average number of associates in 2002 by 6% from the average 2001
level. At December 31, 2002, we employed 3,710 associates, up 2% from the 2002
average. Advertising and promotion expenditures were down $5.6 million in 2002
as we again curtailed these expenditures due to weak financial market
conditions that made investors more cautious and less active.

Occupancy and facility costs and other operating expenses in 2002 decreased
$5.8 million and $12.5 million, respectively, versus 2001. These reductions
primarily reflect the first half 2001 completions of several technology
initiatives as well as the international facilities and infrastructure
transition that resulted from the August 2000 purchase of Robert Fleming
Holdings’ interest in our consolidated subsidiary, T. Rowe Price International.
Through the first half of 2001, we incurred substantial costs to establish and
transition this entity to new operating facilities with appropriate
infrastructure support for their international investment operations. Robert
Fleming affiliates previously provided the space and infrastructure support for
these offices.

Overall, net operating income was up $9.3 million from 2001 to 2002 including
the goodwill amortization of $28.9 million in 2001 that did not recur in 2002.

Non-operating income and expenses include the recognition of investment gains
and losses as well as interest expense incurred on our indebtedness. While we
recognized $31 million of net investment income in 2001, we experienced a net
investment loss of $8.3 million in 2002 as interest and dividend income of $3.3
million was more than offset by losses across all of our investment portfolios.
During 2002, we recognized $3.9 million of losses on dispositions and other
than temporary impairments of our mutual fund holdings, $3.3 million of losses
on our holdings of collateralized bond obligations, $1.4 million of losses from
exchange rate fluctuations on our yen debt, and $3.0 million of valuation
decreases in our private equity holdings. Our mutual fund investment holdings
at December 31, 2002 include an aggregate net gain, before income taxes, of
$11.3 million that is
included in stockholders’ equity as part of accumulated other comprehensive
income. This net gain has not been recognized in our statements of income and
comprises aggregate gains of $15.5 million and aggregate losses of $4.2 million
that have arisen since June 30, 2002 and are considered temporary. Interest
expense on our debt is down more than $9 million due to lower

Page 17

principal
balances and interest rates in 2002. Overall, we recognized a net
non-operating loss of $10.9 million in 2002 versus net non-operating income of
$19.4 million in 2001.

The 2002 provision for income taxes as a percentage of pretax income is lower
than that of 2001 due primarily to eliminating the amortization of
nondeductible goodwill in 2002.

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY.

During 2003, stockholders’ equity increased from $1.1 billion to more than $1.3
billion. Available net liquid assets, including our mutual fund investments in
which there are no unrealized losses, total more than $275 million at the
beginning of 2004. Unused committed credit facilities that are available to
the company include $500 million expiring in June 2005 and $80 million expiring
in June 2004. During 2003, we retired our remaining $56.7 million of
outstanding debt.

Operating activities provided cash flows of $297 million in 2003, up $28
million from 2002, including $33 million of increased net income offset by
lower depreciation expense of $5 million. Cash from our operating activities
were used to fund $54 million of net investing activities and $118 million of
net financing activities in 2003.

Net cash expended in investing activities decreased $41 million versus 2002
primarily due to the investment of the more than $40 million of greater net
depositor inflows made at our savings bank subsidiary in 2002. Net cash used
in financing activities decreased more than $24 million versus 2002. We
repurchased fewer common shares in 2003 and funded them entirely from the
proceeds of stock option exercises. In 2002, we expended a net of more than
$70 million on greater share repurchase activity while also receiving the
larger $40 million net inflow of new savings bank deposits. We again increased
dividends paid to our stockholders in 2003 and raised our quarterly rate to
$.19 per share in December.

Comparatively for 2001, operating activities provided cash flows of $290
million on lower net income that included a $29 million non-cash charge for
amortization of goodwill. Operating activities that year funded nearly all of
the net investing activities of $9 million and net financing activities of $282
million. Mutual fund proceeds in 2001 of $89 million were used to fund $42
million of investments and $41 million of capital expenditures. We repaid $205
million of our bank borrowings and used $31 million to repurchase our common
shares in 2001 financing activities. Increased savings bank deposits during
the year were used to fund the net investments made by our savings bank
subsidiary.

The following table presents a summary of our future obligations under the
terms of existing operating leases and other contractual cash purchase
commitments at December 31, 2003. Other purchase commitments include
contractual amounts that will be due for the purchase of goods or services to
be used in our operations and may be cancelable at earlier times than those
indicated under certain conditions that may involve termination fees. Because
these obligations are of a normal recurring nature, we expect that we will fund them from future cash flows from operations. The information
presented does not include operating expenses or capital expenditures that will
be committed in the normal course of operations in 2004 and future years.

Page 18

Total


2005-6

2007-8

Later

Noncancelable operating leases

$

114,683

$

16,757

$

30,093

$

14,519

$

53,314

Other purchase commitments

104,817

55,394

38,100

4,538

6,785

$

219,500

$

72,151

$

68,193

$

19,057

$

60,099

We also have outstanding commitments to fund additional investments totaling
$4.4 million at December 31, 2003.

Property and equipment expenditures in 2004, including those for business
continuity facilities and support, are anticipated to be about $60 million and
are expected to be funded from operating cash flows.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES.

The preparation of financial statements often requires the selection of
specific accounting methods and policies from among several acceptable
alternatives. Further, significant estimates and judgments may be required in
selecting and applying those methods and policies in the recognition of the
assets and liabilities in our balance sheet, the revenues and expenses in our
statement of income, and the information that is contained in our significant
accounting policies and notes to the financial statements. Making these
estimates and judgments requires the analysis of information concerning events
that may not yet be complete and of facts and circumstances that may change
over time. Accordingly, actual amounts or future results could differ
materially from those estimates that we include currently in our financial
statements and notes thereto.

We have historically presented those significant accounting policies that we
use in the preparation of our financial statements as an integral part of those
statements and have done so again in this 2003 Annual Report. In the following
discussion, we highlight and explain further certain of those policies that are
most critical to the preparation and understanding of our financial statements.
The application of these policies often requires significant judgments and
estimates.

Other than temporary impairments of available for sale securities.

We classify
our investment holdings in sponsored mutual funds and the debt securities held
in the investment portfolio of our savings bank subsidiary as available for
sale. At the end of each quarter, we mark the carrying amount of each
investment holding to fair value and recognize an unrealized gain or loss in
other comprehensive income within stockholders’ equity. We next review each
individual security position that has an unrealized loss to determine if that
loss is other than temporary.

A mutual fund holding that has had an unrealized loss for more than six months
is presumed to have an other than temporary loss and an impairment is
recognized in our statement of income unless there is persuasive evidence, such
as an increase in value subsequent to quarter end, to overcome that
presumption. We may also recognize an other than temporary loss of less than
six months in our statement of income if the particular circumstances of the
underlying investment do not warrant our belief that a near-term recovery is
possible. A debt security held by our savings bank subsidiary is considered
impaired and an other than temporary loss is recognized whenever we determine
that we will probably not collect all
contractual amounts due under the terms of the security based on the issuer’s
financial condition and our intent to hold that security.

Goodwill.

As a result of the adoption of a new financial accounting

Page 19

standard
on January 1, 2002, we ceased recording recurring charges to amortize the
carrying amount of goodwill in our balance sheet. The standard instead
requires that we evaluate goodwill for possible impairment on an annual basis
using a fair value approach. We make that evaluation in the third quarter of
each year. Goodwill is considered impaired whenever the carrying amount of the
related reporting unit exceeds the fair value of that unit. We attribute all
goodwill to our single reportable business segment and reporting unit, our
investment advisory business.

Because our testing in 2002 and 2003 demonstrated that the fair value of our
investment advisory business exceeded our carrying amount (basically, our
stockholders’ equity), we concluded that no impairment exists. Should we reach
a different conclusion when we conduct our evaluation in subsequent years,
additional work would be performed to ascertain the amount of the non-cash
charge needed to recognize the impairment. We must also perform impairment
testing at other times if an event or circumstance occurs indicating that it is
more likely than not that an impairment has been incurred. The maximum
possible future impairment charge that we could incur is the total goodwill
recognized in our balance sheet, $666 million.

Provision for income taxes.

After compensation and related costs, our
provision for income taxes on our earnings is our second largest annual
expense. We operate in several states and several other countries through our
various subsidiaries, and must allocate our income, expenses, and earnings
under the various laws and regulations of each of these taxing jurisdictions.
Accordingly, our provision for income taxes represents our total estimate of
the liability that we have incurred for doing business each year in all of our
locations. Annually, we file tax returns which represent our filing positions
with each jurisdiction and settle our return liabilities. Each jurisdiction
has the right to audit those returns and may take different positions with
respect to income and expense allocations and taxable earnings determinations.
From time-to-time, we may also provide for estimated liabilities associated
with uncertain tax return filing positions that are subject to, or in the
process of, being audited by various tax authorities. Because the
determinations of our annual provisions are subject to judgments and estimates,
it is possible that actual results will vary from those recognized in our
financial statements. In such cases, it is possible that additional expense
for prior reporting periods may be recorded in subsequent periods as actual tax
returns and tax audits are settled.

Stock options.

The summary of significant accounting policies includes certain
pro forma disclosures as if a fair value based method had been used to
recognize compensation expense associated with our stock option grants. Fair
value methods use a valuation model for shorter-term, market-traded financial
instruments to theoretically value stock option grants even though they are not
available for trading purposes and are of longer duration. The Black-Scholes
option pricing model that we use includes the input of certain variables that
are dependent on future expectations, including the expected lives of our
options from grant date to exercise date, the volatility of our underlying
common shares in the market over that time period, and the rate of dividends
that we will pay during that time. Additionally, the recognition of expense
fluctuates based on the forfeiture rate for unvested options when employees
leave our company.

Our estimates for the variables used in the valuation model are made for the
purpose of theoretically determining an expense for each reporting period and
are not subsequently adjusted. Unlike almost all other

Page 20

expenses, the resulting
theoretical charge to earnings using a fair value based method is a non-cash
charge that is never measured by or adjusted based on a cash outflow.

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION.

From time to time, information or statements provided by or on behalf of T.
Rowe Price, including those within this Annual Report, may contain certain
forward-looking information, including information or anticipated information
relating to changes in our revenues and net income, changes in the amount and
composition of our assets under management, our expense levels, and our
expectations regarding financial markets and other conditions. Readers are
cautioned that any forward-looking information provided by or on behalf of T.
Rowe Price is not a guarantee of future performance. Actual results may differ
materially from those in forward-looking information as a result of various
factors, including but not limited to those discussed below. Further,
forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made,
and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to
reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made or to
reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

Our future revenues and results will fluctuate primarily due to changes in the
total value and composition of assets under our management. Such changes
result from many factors including, among other things: cash inflows and
outflows in the T. Rowe Price mutual funds and other managed investment
portfolios; fluctuations in the financial markets around the world that result
in appreciation or depreciation of the assets under our management; our
introduction of new mutual funds and investment portfolios; and changes in
retirement savings trends favoring participant-directed investments and defined
contribution plans. The ability to attract and retain investors’ assets under
our management is dependent on investor sentiment and confidence; the relative
investment performance of the Price mutual funds and other managed investment
portfolios as compared to competing offerings and market indices; the ability
to maintain our investment management and administrative fees at appropriate
levels; competitive conditions in the mutual fund, asset management, and
broader financial services sectors; and our level of success in implementing
our strategy to expand our business. Our revenues are substantially dependent
on fees earned under contracts with the Price funds and could be adversely
affected if the independent directors of one or more of the Price funds
determined to terminate or significantly alter the terms of the investment
management or related administrative services agreements.

Our future results are also dependent upon the level of our expenses, which are
subject to fluctuation for the following or other reasons: changes in the
level of our advertising expenses in response to market conditions, including
our efforts to expand our investment advisory business to investors outside the
United States and to further penetrate our distribution channels within the
United States; variations in the level of total compensation expense due to,
among other things, bonuses, changes in our employee count and mix, and
competitive factors; any goodwill impairment that may arise; fluctuation in
foreign currency exchange rates applicable to the costs of our international
operations; expenses and
capital costs, such as technology assets, depreciation, amortization, and
research and development, incurred to maintain and enhance our administrative
and operating services infrastructure; unanticipated costs that may be incurred
to protect investor accounts and the goodwill of our

Page 21

clients; and disruptions
of services, including those provided by third parties, such as facilities,
communications, power, and the mutual fund transfer agent and accounting
systems.

Our business is also subject to substantial governmental regulation, and
changes in legal, regulatory, accounting, tax, and compliance requirements may
have a substantial effect on our operations and results, including but not
limited to effects on costs that we incur and effects on investor interest in
mutual funds and investing in general, or in particular classes of mutual funds
or other investments.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

Our revenues and net income are based primarily on the value of assets under
our management. Accordingly, declines in financial market values directly and
negatively impact our investment advisory revenues and net income.

We invest in our sponsored mutual funds, which are market risk sensitive
financial instruments held for purposes other than trading; we do not invest in
derivative financial or commodity instruments. Mutual fund investments have
inherent market risk in the form of equity price risk; that is, the potential
future loss of value that would result from a decline in the fair values of the
mutual fund shares. Each fund and its underlying net assets are also subject
to market risk which may arise from changes in equity prices, credit ratings,
foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates.

The following table (in thousands of dollars) presents the equity price risk
from investments in sponsored mutual funds by assuming a hypothetical decline
in the fair values of mutual fund shares. This potential future loss of value,
before any income tax benefits, reflects the valuation of mutual fund
investments at year end using each fund’s lowest fair value per share during
the past year. In considering this presentation, it is important to note that:
all funds did not experience their lowest fair value per share on the same
day; it is likely that the composition of the mutual fund investment portfolio
would be changed if adverse market conditions persist; and we could experience
future losses in excess of those presented below.

Fair value at

Potential

December 31,

% of

lower

% of


Portfolio

value

Portfolio

Potential  loss

Stock funds

$

106,728


$

79,615


$

27,113


%

Bond funds

55,555


47,605


7,950


$

162,283


$

127,220


$

35,063


The comparable potential loss of value shown in last year’s annual report was
$16.1 million on sponsored mutual fund investments of $123.2 million at the end
of 2002. During 2003, we actually experienced net unrealized gains of $32.4
million as positive market conditions significantly improved the value of our
fund investments.

Investments in mutual funds generally moderate market risk because funds, by
their nature, are diversified investment portfolios that invest in a number of
different financial instruments. T. Rowe Price further manages its exposure to
market risk by diversifying its investments among many

Page 22

domestic and
international funds. In addition, investment holdings may be altered from time
to time, in response to changes in market risks and other factors, as deemed
appropriate by management.

The investment portfolio and customer deposit liabilities of our savings bank
subsidiary are subject to interest rate risk. If interest rates change 1%, the
change in the net value of these assets and liabilities would not be material.

We also make other investments that we include in our balance sheet in other
assets. We are at risk for losses on these investments should market
conditions deteriorate. At December 31, 2003, we hold a $4.5 million
investment in a sponsored high-yield collateralized bond obligation and
investments totaling $6.1 million in private equity and other entities. Our
risk of future loss on these investments cannot exceed the $10.6 million
recognized in our balance sheet. Additionally, we have recognized our 10%
interest in Daiwa SB Investments (Japan) at $15 million using the cost basis of
accounting. Our market risk on this investment is primarily limited to foreign
currency exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Japanese
yen because the functional currency of Daiwa SB Investments is the yen.

The U.S. dollar weakened versus the currencies of several foreign countries in
which we operate, most prominent among which is Great Britain. We incur
operating expenses and have foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities
associated with these operations, though our revenue stream is predominately
realized in U.S. dollar receipts. We do not believe that foreign currency
fluctuations materially impact our results of operations.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

Page

Index to Financial Statements:

Report of Independent Auditors


Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2002 and 2003


Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2003


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2003


Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2003


Summary of Significant Accounting Policies


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
including Supplementary Quarterly Financial Data


Page 23

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of

T. Rowe Price Group, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of T. Rowe Price
Group, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related
consolidated statements of income, cash flows, and stockholders’ equity for
each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2003. These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of T. Rowe Price
Group, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

As discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
January 1, 2002, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.

/s/ KPMG LLP

Baltimore, Maryland

January 29, 2004

Page 24

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.

Page 25

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.

Page 26

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.

Page 27

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Additional

Accumu-

capital

lated

in

other

Total

excess

compre-

stock-

Common

of par

Retained

hensive

holders’

stock

value

earnings

income

equity

(in thousands)

Balance at December 31,
2000, 122,439,232 common
shares

$

24,488

$

80,855

$

852,775

$

32,947

$

991,065

Comprehensive income

Net income

195,868

Change in unrealized
security holding gains,
net of taxes

(21,177

)

Total comprehensive
income

174,691

1,720,063 common shares
issued under stock-based
compensation plans


18,922

19,266

1,070,500 common shares
repurchased

(214

)

(31,812

)

(32,026

)

Dividends declared

(75,171

)

(75,171

)

Balance at December 31,
2001, 123,088,795 common
shares

24,618

67,965

973,472

11,770

1,077,825

Comprehensive income

Net income

194,254

Change in unrealized
security holding gains,
net of taxes

(3,129

)

Total comprehensive
income

191,125

2,359,901 common shares
issued under stock-based
compensation plans


38,952

(2

)

39,422

2,800,000 common shares
repurchased

(560

)

(26,173

)

(67,937

)

(94,670

)

Dividends declared

(79,862

)

(79,862

)

Balance at December 31,
2002, 122,648,696 common
shares

$

24,530

$

80,744

$

1,019,925

$

8,641

$

1,133,840

Continued on next page.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.

Page 28

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Continued from prior page.

Additional

Accumu-

capital

lated

in

other

Total

excess

compre-

stock-

Common

of par

Retained

hensive

holders’

stock

value

earnings

income

equity

(in thousands)

Balance at December 31,
2002, 122,648,696 common
shares

$

24,530

$

80,744

$

1,019,925

$

8,641

$

1,133,840

Comprehensive income

Net income

227,487

Change in unrealized
security holding gains,
net of taxes

20,114

Total comprehensive
income

247,601

3,071,188 common shares
issued under stock-based
compensation plans


53,539

54,153

787,000 common shares
repurchased

(157

)

(2,858

)

(16,948

)

(19,963

)

Dividends declared

(86,551

)

(86,551

)

Balance at December 31,
2003, 124,932,884 common
shares

$

24,987

$

131,425

$

1,143,913

$

28,755

$

1,329,080

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.

Page 29

SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

T. Rowe Price Group derives its consolidated revenues and net income primarily
from investment advisory services that its subsidiaries provide to individual
and institutional investors in the sponsored T. Rowe Price mutual funds and
other investment portfolios. We also provide our investment advisory clients
with related administrative services, including mutual fund transfer agent,
accounting and shareholder services; participant recordkeeping and transfer
agent services for defined contribution retirement plans; discount brokerage;
and trust services. The investors that we serve are primarily domiciled in the
United States of America.

Investment advisory revenues depend largely on the total value and composition
of assets under our management. Accordingly, fluctuations in financial markets
and in the composition of assets under management impact our revenues and
results of operations.

BASIS OF PREPARATION.

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States which require the
use of estimates made by our management. Actual results may vary from those
estimates.

Our financial statements include the accounts of all subsidiaries in which we
have a majority or controlling interest. We are not the primary beneficiary of
any variable interest entity. All material intercompany accounts and
transactions are eliminated in consolidation.

Certain 2001 and 2002 amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2003
presentation.

CASH EQUIVALENTS.

Cash equivalents consist primarily of short-term, highly liquid investments in
sponsored money market mutual funds and in commercial paper. The cost of these
funds is equivalent to fair value.

INVESTMENTS.

Investments in sponsored mutual funds and debt securities held by our savings
bank subsidiary are classified as available-for-sale and are reported at fair
value. Net unrealized security holding gains are recognized in accumulated
other comprehensive income.

We also hold other investments that are included in other assets and are
recognized using the cost or equity methods of accounting, as appropriate.

We review the carrying amount of each investment for possible impairment on a
quarterly basis and recognize a loss in our statement of income whenever a loss
is considered other than temporary.

CONCENTRATIONS OF RISK.

Concentration of credit risk in accounts receivable is believed to be minimal
in that our clients generally have substantial assets, including those in the
investment portfolios that we manage for them.

Page 30

Our investments in sponsored mutual funds expose us to market risk in the form
of equity price risk; that is, the potential future loss of value that would
result from a decline in the fair values of the mutual funds. Each fund and
its underlying net assets are also subject to market risk which may arise from
changes in equity prices, credit ratings, foreign currency exchange rates, and
interest rates.

Investments by our savings bank subsidiary in debt securities expose us to
market risk which may arise from changes in credit ratings and interest rates.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT.

Property and equipment is stated at cost net of accumulated depreciation and
amortization computed using the straight-line method. Provisions for
depreciation and amortization are based on the following weighted average
estimated useful lives: computer and communications software and equipment, 3
years; buildings, 32 years; leasehold improvements, 8 years; furniture and
other equipment, 5 years; and leased land, 99 years.

REVENUE RECOGNITION.

Fees for investment advisory services and related administrative services that
we provide to investment advisory clients are recognized in the period that our
services are provided.

ADVERTISING.

Costs of advertising are expensed the first time that the advertising takes
place.

EARNINGS PER SHARE.

Basic earnings per share excludes the dilutive effect of outstanding stock
options and is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average common
shares outstanding of 123,072,000 in 2001, 122,876,000 in 2002, and 123,423,000
in 2003. Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution that could
occur if outstanding stock options were exercised. It is computed by
increasing the denominator of the basic calculation by potential dilutive
common shares, determined using the treasury stock method, of 5,973,000 in
2001, 4,830,000 in 2002, and 4,866,000 in 2003.

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME.

Total comprehensive income is reported in our consolidated statements of
stockholders’ equity and includes net income and the change in unrealized
security holding gains, net of income taxes.

STOCK OPTION GRANTS.

Our six stock-based compensation plans (the 1990, 1993, 1996, and 2001 Stock
Incentive Plans and the 1995 and 1998 Director Stock Option Plans) are
accounted for using the intrinsic value based method. Under these plans, we
have granted only fixed stock options with a maximum term of 10 years to
employees and directors. Vesting of employee options is based solely on the
individual continuing to render service and generally occurs over a five-year
graded schedule. The exercise price of each option
granted is equivalent to the market price of the common stock at the date of
grant. Accordingly, no compensation expense related to stock option grants has
been recognized in the consolidated statements of income.

Page 31

Accounting principles require us to make the following disclosures as if the
fair value based method of accounting had been applied to our stock option
grants after 1994. The weighted-average grant-date fair value of each option
awarded is estimated to be $9.15 in 2001, $9.42 in 2002, and $13.96 in 2003
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and the following weighted-average
assumptions: dividend yield of 1.3% in 2001, 1.4% in 2002 and 1.5% in 2003;
expected volatility of 37% in 2001, 36% in 2002, and 35% in 2003; risk-free
interest rates of 4.2% in 2001, 4.0% in 2002, and 3.6% in 2003; and expected
lives of 5.5 years in 2001 and 2003, and 5.7 years in 2002.

The following table illustrates the effect on net income (in thousands) and
earnings per share if we had applied the fair value based method, including the
estimates contained in the preceding paragraph, to our stock option grants that
were outstanding and unvested during each of the past three years.

It is important to note that the use of the fair value method to determine
stock-based compensation expense results in an immediate increase to additional
capital in excess of par value by an amount that equals the total of future
compensation expense to be recognized. Accordingly, total stockholders’ equity
is not diminished if the fair value method is used to record compensation
expense for stock-based plans.

Page 32

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 - INVESTMENTS.

Cash equivalent investments in our sponsored money market mutual funds
aggregate $99,457,000 at December 31, 2002 and $222,104,000 at December 31,
2003.

Investments in our other sponsored mutual funds (in thousands) at December 31
include:

The following table reconciles our unrealized holding gains (losses) on
investments in sponsored mutual funds (in thousands) to that recognized in
other comprehensive income.




Unrealized holding gains (losses)

$

(14,159

)

$

(10,169

)

$

32,365

Less gains (losses) realized in net
income using average cost

18,701

(3,870

)

(332

)

(32,860

)

(6,299

)

32,697

Deferred tax benefits (income taxes)

11,512

2,295

(11,447

)

Unrealized holding gains (losses)
recognized in other comprehensive income

$

(21,348

)

$

(4,004

)

$

21,250

Dividends earned on our investments in sponsored mutual funds, including money
market mutual funds, totaled $8,748,000 in 2001, $2,989,000 in 2002, and
$2,624,000 in 2003. There are no individual mutual fund holdings with an
unrealized loss at December 31, 2003.

Our savings bank subsidiary holds investments in mortgage-backed and other
marketable debt securities which are accounted for as available-for-sale. The
expected holding period of these securities generally correlates to customer
deposits which range in maturity up to five years. Balances (in thousands) in
these investments at December 31 were:

Aggregate

Aggregate

Unrealized

fair

cost

holding gains

value


$

90,888

$

2,020

$

92,908


110,822


110,962

Net unrealized holding gains at December 31, 2003 include aggregate unrealized
gains of $959,000 and aggregate unrealized losses of $819,000.

Page 33

These losses are related to forty security positions with an aggregate fair
value of $46.4 million and have generally arisen subsequent to March 31, 2003.
They are deemed to be temporary based upon our evaluation of the probability of
collecting related contractual cash flows, the duration of unrealized holding
losses, and our intent to hold these securities.

Other comprehensive income includes unrealized holding gains (losses) on the
savings bank portfolio, net of income taxes of $226,000 in 2001, $799,000 in
2002, and $55,000 in 2003.

NOTE 2 - PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT.

Property and equipment (in thousands) at December 31 consists of:



Computer and communications software and equipment

$

170,120

$

191,118

Buildings and leasehold improvements

166,568

165,127

Furniture and other equipment

60,276

61,479

Land owned and leased

21,503

21,503

418,467

439,227

Accumulated depreciation and amortization

(202,877

)

(238,133

)

$

215,590

$

201,094

Compensation and related costs attributable to the development of computer
software for internal use totaling $7,465,000 in 2001, $4,639,000 in 2002, and
$7,034,000 in 2003 have been capitalized.

NOTE 3 - GOODWILL.

Goodwill arose primarily from our August 2000 purchase of the 50%
non-controlling interest in our consolidated subsidiary, T. Rowe Price
International, and was amortized until 2002 on a straight-line basis over 25
years. We operate in one reportable business segment - that of the investment
advisory business - and all goodwill is attributed to that segment.

As of January 1, 2002, we adopted the provisions of a new financial accounting
standard for goodwill, ceased amortizing goodwill, and determined that its
carrying amount was not impaired. We also evaluated goodwill for possible
impairment during the third quarters of 2002 and 2003 and each time concluded
that there had been no impairment. A similar evaluation using the fair value
approach will be done at least annually in the third quarter each year. Prior
to 2002, we used an undiscounted future cash flows approach to evaluate
goodwill for potential impairment.

The following information reconciles reported net income (in thousands) and
earnings per share to adjusted net income (in thousands) and earnings per
share, excluding the goodwill amortization recognized in prior years.




Reported net income

$

195,868

$

194,254

$

227,487

Add back goodwill amortization

28,921

—

—

Adjusted net income

$

224,789

$

194,254

$

227,487

Page 34

NOTE 4 - INCOME TAXES.

The provision for income taxes (in thousands) consists of:




Current income taxes

U.S. federal and foreign

$

122,598

$

111,027

$

128,380

State and local

12,231

9,429

13,045

Deferred income taxes (tax benefits)


(5,106

)

(3,396

)

$

135,078

$

115,350

$

138,029

Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between taxable income
for financial statement and income tax return purposes. Significant temporary
differences in 2001 included deferred benefits of $3,866,000 related to
investment income offset by deferred taxes of $4,212,000 related to accrued
compensation. Deferred tax benefits in 2002 include $4,584,000 related to
investment income and $2,359,000 related to depreciation and amortization of
property and equipment offset by deferred taxes of $2,346,000 related to
accrued compensation. Deferred tax benefits in 2003 include $7,180,000 related
to accrued compensation offset by $3,219,000 related to investment income.

The net deferred tax asset of $6,740,000 included in other assets at December
31, 2002, consists of total deferred tax liabilities of $5,600,000 and total
deferred tax assets of $12,340,000. Deferred tax liabilities include
$4,642,000 arising from unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale
securities. Deferred tax assets include $9,025,000 arising from investment
income.

The net deferred tax liability of $569,000 included in income taxes payable at
December 31, 2003, consists of total deferred tax liabilities of $16,021,000
and total deferred tax assets of $15,452,000. Deferred tax liabilities include
$15,346,000 arising from unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale
securities. Deferred tax assets include $8,312,000 related to accrued
compensation and $5,805,000 arising from investment income.

A deferred tax asset at December 31, 2003 of $2,850,000 arising from foreign
operating loss carryforwards and an offsetting valuation allowance have been
recognized over the past three years as follows: $1,100,000 in 2001, $1,600,000
in 2002, and $150,000 in 2003.

Cash outflows from operating activities include income taxes paid of
$103,125,000 in 2001, $112,457,000 in 2002, and $100,284,000 in 2003. The
income tax benefit arising from exercises of our stock options reduced the
income taxes that would have otherwise been payable by $6,164,000 in 2001,
$14,102,000 in 2002, and $26,984,000 in 2003.

Page 35

The following table reconciles the statutory federal income tax rate to the
effective income tax rate.




Statutory U.S. federal income tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

State income taxes, net of federal tax benefits

2.7

2.5

2.3

Nondeductible goodwill amortization

3.3

—

—

Other items

(.1

)

(.2

)

.5

Effective income tax rate

40.9

%

37.3

%

37.8

%

NOTE 5 - COMMON STOCK AND STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS.

SHARES AUTHORIZED AND ISSUED.

At December 31, 2003, 32,667,027 shares of unissued common stock were reserved
for the exercise of stock options. Additionally, 1,680,000 shares are reserved
for issuance under a plan whereby substantially all employees may acquire
common stock through payroll deductions at prevailing market prices.

The Board of Directors has authorized the future repurchase of up to 5,846,010
common shares at December 31, 2003.

DIVIDENDS.

Cash dividends declared per share were $.61 in 2001, $.65 in 2002, and $.70 in
2003.

STOCK OPTIONS.

The following table summarizes the status of and changes in our stock option
grants during the past three years.

Information regarding the exercise prices and lives of stock options
outstanding at December 31, 2003 follows.

Page 36

Weighted-

average

Weighted-

remaining

Weighted-

average

contractual

average

Range of

exercise

life (in

exercise

exercise prices

Outstanding

price

years)

Exercisable

price

$  8.06 to 23.71

5,158,550

$

13.62

2.0

5,158,550

$

13.62

$23.72 to 27.28

3,357,702

25.71

7.7

1,178,402

25.70

$27.29 to 36.03

10,829,207

30.95

6.2

7,210,807

32.48

$36.04 to 47.15

8,080,318

40.88

7.8

3,060,218

39.24

27,425,777

29.98

6.1

16,607,977

27.38

NOTE 6 - INFORMATION ABOUT REVENUES AND SERVICES.

Revenues (in thousands) from advisory services provided under agreements with
sponsored mutual funds and other investment clients include:




Sponsored mutual funds in the U.S.

Stock

$

464,883

$

411,679

$

434,423

Bond and money market

97,707

107,425

123,879

562,590

519,104

558,302

Other portfolios

212,484

196,261

219,160

Total investment advisory fees

$

775,074

$

715,365

$

777,462

The following table summarizes the various investment portfolios and assets
under management (in billions) on which advisory fees are earned.

Average during

December 31,






Sponsored mutual funds in
the U.S.

Stock

$

75.8

$

67.1

$

71.2

$

60.7

$

88.4

Bond and money market

22.9

25.0

28.2

26.6

29.1

98.7

92.1

99.4

87.3

117.5

Other portfolios

56.5

55.5

60.5

53.3

72.5

$

155.2

$

147.6

$

159.9

$

140.6

$

190.0

Fees for advisory-related administrative services provided to our sponsored
mutual funds were $170,916,000 in 2001, $155,771,000 in 2002, and $162,853,000
in 2003. Accounts receivable from the mutual funds aggregate $55,474,000 and
$70,127,000 at December 31, 2002 and 2003, respectively. All services to the
sponsored U.S. mutual funds are provided under contracts which are subject to
periodic review and approval by each of the funds’ boards and, with respect to
investment advisory contracts, also by the funds’ shareholders.

NOTE 7 - DEBT.

In April 1999, we borrowed 1,809,500,000 yen ($15,019,000) from a bank under a
promissory note. Foreign currency transaction gains of $2,085,000 in 2001 and
losses of $1,335,000 in 2002 and $988,000 in 2003 arising from this borrowing
are included in non-operating investment income (loss). We
made a principal payment in 2002 and retired the remaining loan balance in
2003.

Page 37

To partially finance the purchase of the T. Rowe Price International interest,
we borrowed $300,000,000 in August 2000 under a $500,000,000 syndicated bank
credit facility expiring in June 2005 for which JPMorgan Chase Bank serves as
administrative agent. Interest on borrowings under this facility float at .35%
over the Eurodollar base rate. We made principal payments over the three-year
period of the loan until it was paid in full in 2003. Deferred credit facility
costs of $387,000 are included in other assets at December 31, 2003 and are
being amortized through June 2005. We also have a complementary $80,000,000
syndicated bank credit facility expiring in June 2004 under which there have
been no borrowings. We paid annual fees for these credit facilities of
$928,000 in 2003.

At December 31, 2003, we are in compliance with the covenants contained in our
credit facility agreements. Total interest expense on our outstanding debt,
including amortization of credit facility costs, and annual fees was
$11,681,000 in 2001, $2,634,000 in 2002, and $1,699,000 in 2003.

NOTE 8 - VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES

On December 24, 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued
Interpretation No. 46 (revised), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,
which defines a variable interest entity as a corporation, partnership, limited
liability company, trust, or any other legal structure used for conducting
activities or holding assets that either has equity investors that (a) do not
have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or (b) do not have
sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities. The
Interpretation generally requires a variable interest entity to be consolidated
by a public company at December 31, 2003 if that company is subject to, among
other things, a majority of the risk or variability associated with the
residual returns of the entity. A company that is required to consolidate a
variable interest entity is referred to as the primary beneficiary of that
entity.

We presently hold residual interests in two high-yield collateralized bond
obligations (the 1999 CBO and the 2001 CBO; collectively, the CBOs). These
entities are non-recourse, limited liability companies in which we hold a
portion, though not a majority, of the interests in their residual returns. We
are also the collateral manager of each CBO and receive a base investment
advisory fee for performance of that service. At December 31, 2003, the CBOs
had assets of approximately $634 million.

On May 30, 2003, we altered the fee terms of the collateral management
agreements with each CBO and irrevocably waived any performance fees that we
might receive or otherwise earn in 2003 and 2004 with respect to the 2001 CBO.
A similar waiver was also made for the 1999 CBO through its remaining life.
Subsequently, we determined that as of May 30, 2003, we were not the primary
beneficiary of either CBO and therefore do not consolidate either CBO into our
financial statements.

Our maximum aggregate exposure to future losses from these CBOs is equal to the
remaining 2001 CBO carrying amount of $4.5 million which is included in other
assets at December 31, 2003. The 1999 CBO was considered impaired and its
carrying amount charged off at the end of the second quarter in 2002.

Page 38

NOTE 9 - OTHER DISCLOSURES.

We occupy certain office facilities and rent computer and other equipment under
noncancelable operating leases. Related rental expense was $25,711,000 in
2001, $20,636,000 in 2002, and $19,710,000 in 2003. Future minimum rental
payments under these leases aggregate $16,757,000 in 2004, $15,832,000 in 2005,
$14,261,000 in 2006, $9,090,000 in 2007, $5,429,000 in 2008, and $53,314,000 in
later years.

At December 31, 2003, we had outstanding commitments to fund additional
investments totaling $4.4 million.

Our consolidated stockholders’ equity at December 31, 2003 includes
approximately $42,000,000 which is restricted as to use by various regulations
and agreements arising in the ordinary course of our business.

From time to time, various claims against us arise in the ordinary course of
business, including employment-related claims. In the opinion of management,
after consultation with counsel, it is unlikely that any adverse determination
in one or more pending claims would have a material adverse effect on our
financial position or results of operations.

Expenses for our defined contribution retirement plans were $22,897,000 in
2001, $24,069,000 in 2002, and $24,815,000 in 2003.

NOTE 10 - SUPPLEMENTARY QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (Unaudited).

Basic

Diluted

earnings

earnings

Net

Net

per

per

Revenues

income

share

share

(in thousands)


1st quarter

$

242,008

$

53,024

$

.43

$

.41

2nd quarter

240,280

51,854

.42

.40

3rd quarter

221,576

43,210

.35

.34

4th quarter

219,638

46,166

.38

.37


1st quarter

218,718

38,774

.32

.31

2nd quarter

237,462

53,775

.44

.42

3rd quarter

258,268

66,291

.53

.51

4th quarter

281,119

68,647

.55

.53

Page 39

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.

Our management, including our principal executive and interim principal
financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls
and procedures as of December 31, 2003. Our disclosure controls and procedures
are designed to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to
be disclosed in this Form 10-K annual report has been appropriately recorded,
processed, summarized and reported. Based on that evaluation, our principal
executive and interim principal financial officer has concluded that our
disclosure controls and procedures are effective at the reasonable assurance
level.

Our management, including our principal executive and interim principal
financial officer, has evaluated any changes in our internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2003, and has
concluded that there was no change during the fourth quarter of 2003 that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal
control over financial reporting.

PART III.

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

Information required by this item regarding the identification of executive
officers is contained as a separate item at the end of Part I of this Form
10-K.

As required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we have adopted a code of ethics
that applies to our principal executive officer and senior financial officers.
See Exhibit 14 to this Report for a copy of that code.

The balance of the information required by this item regarding our directors
and executive officers appears in the definitive proxy statement filed pursuant
to Regulation 14A for the 2003 Annual Meeting of our stockholders and is
incorporated by reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES.

Information required by these items appears in the definitive proxy statement
filed pursuant to Regulation 14A for the 2003 Annual Meeting of our
stockholders and is incorporated by reference.

PART IV.

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(a)

The following documents are filed as part of this report.

1.

Financial Statements: See Item 8 of Part II.

Page 40

2.

Financial Statement Schedules: None.

3.

The following exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K are
filed, except for Exhibit 32 which is furnished, herewith. Exhibits
10.06 through 10.12 are compensatory plans and arrangements.

3(i)

Amended and Restated Charter of T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. as
of March 9, 2001. (Incorporated by reference from Form 10-K for
2000; Accession No. 0001113169-01-000003.)

3(ii)

Amended and Restated By-Laws of T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. as
of December 12, 2002. (Incorporated by reference from Form 10-K for
2002; Accession No. 0000950133-03-000699.)


$500,000,000 Five-Year Credit Agreement among T. Rowe Price
Associates, Inc., the several lenders, and JPMorgan Chase
Bank, as administrative agent. (Incorporated by reference from
Form 10-Q Report for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2000;
Accession No. 0000080255-00-000425.)

10.01

Representative Investment Management Agreement with most of
the T. Rowe Price mutual funds. (Incorporated by reference from Form
N-1A; Accession No. 0001267862-03-000003.)

10.02

Transfer Agency and Service Agreement dated as of January
1,2003 between T. Rowe Price Services, Inc. and the T. Rowe Price
Funds. (Incorporated by reference from Form N-1A; Accession No.
0001267862-03-000003.)

10.03

Agreement dated January 1, 2003 between T. Rowe Price
Retirement Plan Services, Inc. and T. Rowe Price Funds.
(Incorporated by reference from Form N-1A; Accession No.
0001267862-03-000003.)

10.04

Representative Underwriting Agreement between each of the T.
Rowe Price mutual funds and T. Rowe Price Investment Services, Inc.
(Incorporated by reference from Form N-1A; Accession No.
0001267862-03-000003.)

10.05

Amended, Restated, and Consolidated Office Lease dated as of
May 22, 1997 between 100 East Pratt Street Limited Partnership and T.
Rowe Price Associates, Inc. (Incorporated by reference from Form
10-K for 1997; Accession No. 0000080255-98-000358.)

10.06

1995 Director Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by reference
from Form DEF 14A; Accession No. 0000933259-95-000009.)

10.07

1998 Director Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by reference
from Form DEF 14A; Accession No. 0000080255-98-000355.)

10.08

1990 Stock Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference from
Form S-8 Registration Statement [File No. 33-37573].)

10.09

1993 Stock Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference from
Form S-8 Registration Statement [File No. 33-72568].)

Page 41

10.10

1996 Stock Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference from
Form DEF 14A; Accession No. 0001006199-96-000031.)

10.11

2001 Stock Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference from
Form DEF 14A; Accession No. 0001113169-01-000002.)

10.12

Executive Incentive Compensation Plan. (Incorporated by
reference from Form DEF 14A; Accession No. 0000933259-95-000009.)


Code of Ethics for Principal Executive Officer and Senior Financial
Officers of T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.


Subsidiaries of T. Rowe Price Group, Inc.


Consent of Independent Auditors, KPMG LLP.


Rule 13a-14(a) Certifications.


Section 1350 Certifications.


Press Release dated February 17, 2004 announcing the
appointment of Kenneth V. Moreland as Chief Financial Officer.

Page 42

SIGNATURES.

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 27, 2004.

T. Rowe Price Group, Inc.

By: /s/ George A. Roche, Chairman and President

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated on February 27, 2004.

/s/ George A. Roche, Chairman, Director, President and Interim Chief Financial Officer

/s/ James S. Riepe, Vice Chairman and Director

/s/ M. David Testa, Vice Chairman and Director

/s/ Edward C. Bernard, Director

/s/ James T. Brady, Director

/  / D. William J. Garrett, Director

/s/ Donald B. Hebb, Jr., Director

/s/ Henry H. Hopkins, Director

/s/ James A.C. Kennedy, Director

/s/ John H. Laporte, Director

/s/ Richard L. Menschel, Director

/s/ William T. Reynolds, Director

/s/ Brian C. Rogers, Director

/s/ Alfred Sommer, Director

/s/ Anne Marie Whittemore, Director

/s/ Joseph P. Croteau, Treasurer (Principal Accounting Officer)

Page 43