
10-K405
W.R. GRACE 10-K405  12/31/96



================================================================================
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                               ------------------

                                    FORM 10-K
                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996      Commission file number 1-12139

                                W. R. GRACE & CO.

Incorporated under the Laws of the           I.R.S. Employer Identification No.
      State of Delaware                                  65-0654331

              ONE TOWN CENTER ROAD, BOCA RATON, FLORIDA 33486-1010
                                  561/362-2000
           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:



           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

                                      None

         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (including its
predecessor) (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
 Yes X   No
    ---    ---

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in the Proxy Statement incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. X
          ---

         The aggregate market value of W. R. Grace & Co. voting stock held by
nonaffiliates was approximately $3.8 billion at January 31, 1997.

         At February 28, 1997, 74,048,314 shares of W. R. Grace & Co. Common
Stock, $.01 par value, were outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

                Document                                  Where Incorporated
                --------                                  ------------------
  Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting to be
    held May 9, 1997 (specified portions)                      Part III



================================================================================



                                









                                     PART I


ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW

         W. R. Grace & Co., through its subsidiaries, is one of the world's
leading packaging and specialty chemicals companies. Grace's core businesses are
packaging, catalysts and other silica-based products, and construction products.
It began operating these core businesses in 1954, when it acquired both the
Dewey and Almy Chemical Company and the Davison Chemical Company. Grace believes
that each of its core businesses is an industry leader, offers high value-added
products, employs leading technology, and has a global presence. Grace's
products and systems serve highly specialized market segments; accordingly,
competition tends to be based primarily on technological capability, customer
service, product quality, and, to a lesser extent, price. These products and
systems also generally represent an important component (but a relatively small
portion of the cost) of the end products or processes in which they are used.
Grace believes that it provides highly differentiated, superior products and
services through investments in research and development, facilities that enable
Grace to take advantage of expanding global opportunities, and technology
platforms capable of providing multiple products to anticipate and satisfy
customer needs.

         As used in this Report, the term "Company" refers to W. R. Grace & Co.,
a Delaware corporation, and the term "Grace" refers to the Company and/or one or
more of its subsidiaries and, in certain cases, their respective predecessors.
Grace's principal executive offices are located at One Town Center Road, Boca
Raton, Florida 33486-1010, and its telephone number is 561/362-2000. At year-end
1996, Grace had approximately 17,400 full-time employees worldwide in its
continuing operations.

         Grace's Consolidated Financial Statements for the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1996 ("Consolidated Financial Statements"), and
certain other financial information included in the Company's 1996 Annual Report
to Shareholders, are set forth in the Financial Supplement to this Report and
incorporated by reference in this Report.

         Information concerning the sales and revenues, pretax operating income
and identifiable assets of Grace's continuing operations by geographic area for
1996, 1995 and 1994 is contained in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

         STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES AND ACTIONS. Grace's principal strategic
objective has been, and will continue to be, to increase shareholder value. In
recent years, Grace has sought to achieve this objective by (a) focusing on core
businesses to accelerate profitable growth; (b) upgrading financial performance,
principally by disposing of noncore businesses, strengthening the balance sheet
and reducing overhead; and (c) integrating 





corporate and operating unit functions through global product line management.
In particular, since mid-1995, Grace has:

- -        disposed of noncore businesses, including National Medical Care, Inc.
         ("NMC"), its principal health care business (in a transaction valued at
         $4.5 billion), as well as Grace's water treatment and process chemicals
         business for $636 million, its cocoa business for approximately $470
         million, the transgenic plant business of its Agracetus subsidiary for
         $150 million, and its Amicon separations science business for $125
         million, in each case consisting of cash plus debt assumed by the
         buyer;
- -        used the proceeds from these and other transactions to repurchase
         stock, reduce indebtedness, and, to a lesser extent, invest in core
         businesses;
- -        streamlined processes and thereby reduced expenses by approximately
         $100 million annually (with further actions being taken to improve
         margins);
- -        strengthened controls on working capital and capital spending; and
- -        focused its research and development spending on core businesses.

         In addition, in the early 1990s, the management structure of Grace was
reorganized on the basis of global product lines (as distinguished from regional
product management). As a result of this reorganization, Grace believes that it
is better able to serve its multinational customers in all global regions, as
well as to tailor its product offerings to meet local preferences. Grace is
completing the disposition of its remaining noncore businesses. In February
1997, Grace entered into an agreement to sell its specialty polymers business
for $147 million in cash, and it expects to dispose of its thermal and emission
control systems business (see "Discontinued Operations" below) in 1997.

         To focus on core business growth, Grace has made strategic
acquisitions, totaling $103 million in the 1994-1996 period, directly related to
its core businesses, and has entered into a number of strategic alliances
intended to further expand these businesses internationally. In 1994, Grace
acquired construction chemicals businesses with operations in North America,
Europe and Asia Pacific. In 1995, Grace formed a 68%-owned joint venture with a
Chinese packaging company, primarily to manufacture shrink films for sausage
casings in China, as well as a 51%-owned joint venture with a Russian company to
produce container and closure sealants for sale throughout the Commonwealth of
Independent States. In 1996, Grace formed a joint venture to market coatings and
sealants in India and formed another joint venture to manufacture and market
cement additives and concrete admixtures in Turkey. Also in 1996, Grace acquired
a U.S. manufacturer of flexible plastic packaging materials for the retail
pre-cut produce market segment, a Mexican producer of can coatings and closure
sealants for the rigid container industry, and a construction chemicals business
in Australia.

         From 1994 through 1996, Grace's capital expenditures for its core
packaging and specialty chemicals businesses totaled $1.15 billion (including
$389.5 million in 1996). These expenditures were directed towards the expansion
of existing facilities as well as 

                                      -2-




the construction of new facilities. Grace anticipates that its capital
expenditures for 1997 will approximate $300 million, all of which will be
directed towards its core businesses.

         In the future, Grace intends to continue its emphasis on internal
growth, primarily through new product development and geographic expansion. In
addition, it may also effect acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic
alliances that afford synergies or other benefits necessary to fulfill strategic
objectives of a core business (such as a key technology or an opportunity for
geographic expansion) or that provide a combination of a close fit with a core
business and the potential for exceptional returns.

         PROJECTIONS AND OTHER FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION. This Report
contains, and other communications by Grace may contain, projections or other
"forward-looking" information. Like any other business, Grace is subject to
risks and other uncertainties that could cause its actual results to differ
materially from any such projections or that could cause other forward-looking
information to prove incorrect. In addition to general economic conditions and
conditions in the industries in which Grace competes and the markets it serves,
Grace is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause its projections and
other forward-looking information to prove incorrect, including the following:

- -        technological breakthroughs rendering a product, a class of products or
         a line of business obsolete;
- -        an inability to adapt to continuing technological improvements by
         competitors or customers;
- -        incidents (including outbreaks such as those experienced in 1996 with
         E. coli bacteria and "mad cow disease") that cause declines in the
         consumption of beef or other foods or products served by Grace's
         packaging business;
- -        a decline in worldwide oil consumption or the development of new
         methods of oil refining;
- -        increases in prices of raw materials, such as resins and polyethylene;
- -        a reversal of the current trend towards more processing of food
         products (particularly meats, cheeses and produce) outside of the
         supermarket;
- -        an inability to gain customer acceptance, or slower than anticipated
         acceptance, of new products or product enhancements (particularly in
         the construction industry);
- -        changes in environmental regulations or societal pressures that make
         Grace's businesses more costly or that change the types of products
         used, especially packaging products and oil products;
- -        slower than anticipated economic advances in less developed countries;
- -        a decrease in the use of structural steel in buildings;
- -        underutilization of Grace's manufacturing and production plants as a
         result of slower than anticipated growth, especially in light of recent
         significant capital expenditures; and 



                                      -3-


- -        the acquisition (through theft or other means) and use by others of
         Grace's proprietary formulas and other know-how (particularly in
         Grace's container business).

         See Notes 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 11, 12 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations
and Financial Condition" in the Financial Supplement for additional information.


PRODUCTS AND MARKETS

         CHEMICAL INDUSTRY OVERVIEW. Specialty chemicals, such as those produced
by Grace, are high value-added products used as intermediates in a wide variety
of products; they are produced in relatively small volumes and must satisfy
well-defined performance requirements and specifications. Specialty chemicals
are often critical components of the end products in which they are used;
consequently, they are tailored to customer needs, which generally results in a
close relationship between the specialty chemicals producer and the customer.
Rapid response to changing customer needs and reliability of product and supply
are important competitive factors in the specialty chemicals business.

         Grace's management believes that, in the specialty chemicals business,
technological leadership (resulting from continuous innovation through research
and development), combined with product differentiation and superior customer
service, lead to high operating margins. Grace believes that its core businesses
are characterized by market features that reward the higher research and
development and customer service costs associated with its strategy.

         PACKAGING. Grace's packaging and container business ("Grace Packaging")
provides high-performance systems on a worldwide basis, competing principally by
providing superior-quality products and services for specialized customer needs.
Its principal packaging products and services compete through three product
groups: flexible packaging (marketed extensively under the Cryovac(R) registered
trademark), Formpac(TM) foam trays and Omicron(TM) rigid plastic containers.
Grace Packaging's container business, operated until 1996 as a separate Grace
business unit, competes primarily through three product lines: container
sealants, closure sealants, and coatings for metal packaging. Grace believes
that the combination of its packaging and container businesses will enable it to
capitalize on the complementary technological, marketing and product development
strengths of each business.

         The Cryovac packaging products group developed and introduced flexible
plastic vacuum shrink packaging to the food processing industry in the late
1940s, contributing to expanded food distribution and marketing by providing
superior protection against decay-inducing bacteria and moisture loss. The
market for Cryovac products has since 






                                      -4-



expanded into the retail food market. Today, Cryovac flexible plastic packaging
systems (including material, equipment and services) are used for a broad range
of perishable foods such as fresh, smoked and processed meat products, cheese,
fish, poultry, prepared foods (including soups and sauces for restaurants and
institutions), baked goods and produce. Cryovac packaging technology also is
used in nonfood applications for consumer merchandising of such products as
housewares, toys and compact discs, as well as for electronic and medical
products.

         Cryovac flexible packaging products include shrink bags, shrink films,
laminated films, and films for medical bags and equipment. Shrink bags are
multi-layered plastic bags that mold themselves to the exact shape of the
product, forming a clear "second skin." Using sophisticated coextrusion
technology, Cryovac shrink bags maximize barrier properties, optics, abuse
resistance, shrinkability and seal strength. Cryovac shrink films are
multi-layered shrinkable plastic films used to package a variety of food and
nonfood consumer and industrial products to protect against damage, preserve
freshness and enhance marketability. Cryovac laminates are multi-layered,
nonshrinkable and normally high-barrier flexible materials used for packaging
perishable foods, shelf-stable products (nonrefrigerated foods, such as syrups,
toppings and tomato paste) and various nonfood products. The Cryovac line also
includes sterilized medical bags and films for use with medical products.

         Grace Packaging differentiates its flexible packaging products from
competitive products by offering a combination of the following core
competencies: (a) proprietary film processing technology; (b) resin technology,
permitting the production of materials suited to specific customer needs; (c)
packaging and food science expertise, providing better understanding of the
interaction between packaging materials and packaged products; (d) complete
systems support capability, providing a single source for customer needs; (e) a
talented employee base that strives to anticipate, meet and exceed customer
expectations; and (f) effective sales and distribution networks. In addition,
Grace Packaging's systems can be adapted to support customers' changing
marketing goals.

         Technological leadership is a key competitive factor in the packaging
business, and Grace Packaging is recognized as a worldwide leader in flexible
packaging technology. Management expects that technological leadership will
continue to spur Grace Packaging's growth in several market segments. For fresh
meat, Grace Packaging's case-ready program reduces supermarkets' in-store
production costs by allowing meat processors to centrally package meat products
suitable for display. For bone-in pork, Grace Packaging's TBG(TM) boneguard
packaging products have revolutionized the distribution of large subprimal cuts
by adding a film patch to certain sections of a high-abuse barrier bag to
prevent bone punctures. For processed meats and poultry, Cryovac cook-in bags
and laminates withstand high cooking temperatures, reducing the potential for
contamination while retaining product shape, clarity and weight. For fresh-cut
produce, Grace Packaging produces films that permit oxygen to pass through at
various rates, thereby matching the 




                                      -5-


varying respiration rates of different vegetables and permitting longer shelf
life. Grace Packaging's technological leadership was further enhanced by the
1996 acquisition of Cypress Packaging, Inc., a leader in the retail fresh-cut
produce packaging market. Because technological innovations by competitors could
adversely affect its business, Grace Packaging intends to continue to focus
research and development expenditures on maintaining technological leadership in
flexible packaging.

         Grace Packaging has continued to expand its flexible packaging business
in growing markets around the world. In 1993, Grace formed a 51%-owned joint
venture to produce flexible packaging in the Commonwealth of Independent States,
and in 1995 Grace formed a 68%-owned joint venture in China, primarily to 
manufacture shrink films for sausage casings.

         Grace Packaging's container business group consists primarily of three
product lines: container sealants, closure sealants, and coatings for metal
packaging. Container sealants are applied to food and beverage cans, as well as
to other rigid containers (such as industrial product containers and aerosol
cans), to ensure a hermetic seal between the lid and the body of the container.
Closure sealants are used to seal pry-off and twist-off metal crowns, as well as
roll-on pilfer proof and plastic closures, for the glass and plastic container
markets (primarily in beverage and food applications). Coatings are used in the
manufacture of cans and closures to protect metal against corrosion, to protect
the contents against the influences of metal, to ensure proper adhesion of
sealing compounds to metal surfaces, and to provide base coats for inks and for
decorative purposes. These products are sold principally to third parties that
manufacture containers or perform canning and bottling for food and beverage
companies. Grace Packaging is expanding its container product offering and is
seeking to improve sales growth through new technologies such as its
oxygen-scavenging compound, which combines with closure sealants to extend shelf
life by eliminating oxygen, and oxygen's effect on taste, from sealed beer and
other beverage bottles. Grace Packaging also is expanding its container business
in developing regions through a 51%-owned joint venture to produce container and
closure sealants in the Commonwealth of Independent States and a 51%-owned joint
venture to market coatings and sealants in India. Competition is based on
providing high-quality customer service at customer sites, as well as on price
and product quality and reliability. In addition, because of the relative
concentration of the canning and bottling market, maintaining relationships with
leading container manufacturers, canners and bottlers, and assisting them as
they install new production equipment and reengineer processes, are key 
elements for success.

         Grace Packaging's Formpac business group manufactures and sells
polystyrene foam prepackaging trays used by supermarkets and grocery stores, and
by poultry and other meat processors, to protect and display fresh meat, poultry
and produce. It also manufactures and sells foam food service items such as
hinged-lid containers used in institutional environments, by carry-out
restaurants and by supermarkets for sale to retail 


                                      -6-


customers. Formpac manufactures foam trays in a two-stage process consisting of
the extrusion and thermoforming of polystyrene foam sheets. Although the
majority of Formpac's customers are located in the eastern two-thirds of the
U.S., Formpac's proprietary technology also has been successfully used in
certain packaging applications outside of the U.S. Competition is based on
service, price and product quality.

         Grace Packaging's Omicron business group produces rigid plastic
packaging products (primarily plastic tubs for dairy products such as margarine
and yogurt) in Australia. Omicron products use proprietary thermoforming
technology, involving the controlled thinning and shaping of hot plastic sheets
to increase strength and rigidity while minimizing weight.

         Resins are the principal raw materials used by Grace Packaging.
Although prices for ethylene-based resins can be volatile, there is currently an
adequate worldwide supply of resins at generally stable prices. Further, Grace
Packaging typically has been able to increase the sales prices of its products
in response to increases in the prices of resins and other raw materials.
However, to the extent that resin prices increase and Grace Packaging cannot
pass on the increases to its customers, such price increases may have an adverse
impact on Grace's profitability. In most cases, multiple sources of resins and
other raw materials exist, with at least one source located in most global
regions.

         Grace Packaging's sales and revenues were $2.01 billion in 1996, $1.97
billion in 1995 and $1.67 billion in 1994. Sales of shrink bags accounted for
24% of the total sales and revenues of Grace's continuing operations in 1996,
and 22% in each of 1995 and 1994. Approximately 46% of Grace Packaging's 1996
sales and revenues were generated in North America, 31% in Europe, 14% in Asia
Pacific and the remainder in Latin America. Grace Packaging estimates that
approximately 80% of its 1996 sales were to the food industry (particularly meat
and poultry processors) and the beverage industry. Although sales and revenues
tend to be slightly higher in the fourth quarter, seasonality is generally not
significant to Grace Packaging.

         At year-end 1996, Grace Packaging employed approximately 11,500 people
in 45 production facilities (13 in Europe, 12 in each of North America and Asia
Pacific and 8 in Latin America) and 89 sales offices, serving approximately
28,000 customers, no one of which accounted for more than 3% of Grace
Packaging's 1996 sales and revenues. Grace Packaging's principal U.S.
manufacturing facilities are located at Simpsonville, South Carolina, Iowa Park,
Texas, Seneca, South Carolina, Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Reading, Pennsylvania, and
Indianapolis, Indiana. Its principal European manufacturing facilities are
located at Epernon, France, St. Neots, United Kingdom, Passirana, Italy, and
Hamburg and Flensburg, Germany, and it has major manufacturing facilities
located in Australia, Japan, Brazil, Mexico, Canada and Argentina. Grace
Packaging also has recently constructed a manufacturing facility in Kuantan,
Malaysia that has become its principal shrink films manufacturing facility in
Asia. Grace Packaging distributes its products in over 

                                      -7-



100 countries through direct sales organizations and distributors, using a
network of distribution facilities located near its manufacturing facilities and
major customer concentrations.

         In Grace Packaging's business, the failure to have capacity sufficient
to meet customer needs, or the inability to manufacture in geographic markets in
which customers expand, could damage customer relationships and/or result in a
loss of business. As a result of product introductions, marketing programs and
improvements in global economic conditions, worldwide demand for Grace Packaging
products grew at a rapid pace in 1994 and 1995, placing pressure on existing
capacity. To address this matter, Grace Packaging has added capacity in all
regions (including the plant in Kuantan, Malaysia, referred to above). As a
result, capacity is generally sufficient to meet market demand currently and,
taking planned capacity expansion into account, for the foreseeable future.

         CATALYSTS AND OTHER SILICA-BASED PRODUCTS. Grace's Davison unit ("Grace
Davison"), founded in 1832, is composed of two primary product groups: (a)
catalysts and (b) silica products and adsorbents. These products principally
apply silica, alumina and zeolite technology and are designed and manufactured
to meet the varying specifications of such diverse customers as major oil
refiners, plastics and chemical manufacturers and consumer products companies.
Grace Davison believes that its technological expertise provides a competitive
edge, allowing it to quickly design products that meet changing customer
specifications, and to develop new products that expand its existing technology.
For example, Grace Davison estimates that a substantial portion of its 1996
fluid cracking catalyst sales was attributable to products introduced in the
last five years.

         Grace Davison produces refinery catalysts, including (a) fluid cracking
catalysts used by petroleum refiners to convert crude oil into more valuable
transportation fuels (such as gasoline and jet and diesel fuels), as well as
other petroleum-based products, and (b) hydroprocessing catalysts that remove
certain impurities (such as nitrogen, sulfur and heavy metals) from crude oil
prior to the use of fluid cracking catalysts. Oil refining is a highly
specialized discipline, demanding that products be tailored to meet local
variations in crude oil and the refinery's changing operational needs. Grace
Davison works regularly with most of the approximately 360 refineries in the
world, helping to find the most appropriate catalyst formulations for the
refiners' changing needs. Grace Davison's business has benefited in recent
years, in part, from the use by refiners of heavier crude oils, and could be
adversely affected by an increase in the availability of lighter crude oil,
which generally requires less fluid cracking catalysts to refine. Competition in
the refinery catalyst business is based on technology, product performance,
customer service and price. Grace Davison believes it is one of the world
leaders in refinery catalysts and the largest supplier of fluid cracking
catalysts in the world.

         Grace Davison's polyolefin catalysts and catalyst supports are
essential components used in manufacturing nearly half of all high density and
linear low density 


                                      -8-



polyethylene resins produced worldwide; these resins are used in products such
as plastic film, high-performance pipe and household containers. The polyolefin
catalyst business is technology-intensive and focused on providing products
specifically formulated to meet end-user applications. Manufacturers generally
compete on a worldwide basis, and competition has recently intensified due to
evolving technologies, particularly the use of metallocenes. Grace believes that
metallocenes represent a revolutionary development in the making of plastics,
allowing plastics manufacturers to design polymers with exact performance
characteristics. Grace Davison is continuing its work on the development and
commercialization of metallocene catalysts.

         Silica products and zeolite adsorbents produced by Grace Davison are
used in a wide variety of industrial and consumer applications. For example,
silicas are used in coatings as flatting agents (i.e., to reduce gloss), in
plastics to improve handling, in toothpastes as thickeners and cleaners, in
foods to carry flavors and prevent caking, and in the purification of edible
oils. Zeolite adsorbents are used between the two panes of insulated glass to
adsorb moisture and are used in process applications to separate certain
chemicals from mixtures. Competition is based on product performance, customer
service and price.

         Grace Davison's sales and revenues were $732 million in 1996, $687
million in 1995 and $610 million in 1994; approximately 50% of Grace Davison's
1996 sales and revenues were generated in North America, 36% in Europe, 12% in
Asia Pacific and 2% in Latin America. Sales of fluid cracking catalysts
accounted for 11% of the total sales and revenues of Grace's continuing
operations in 1996, and 10% in each of 1995 and 1994. At year-end 1996, Grace
Davison employed approximately 2,700 people worldwide in 10 facilities (6 in the
U.S. and 1 each in Canada, Germany, Brazil and Malaysia). Grace Davison's
principal U.S. manufacturing facilities are located in Baltimore, Maryland and
Lake Charles, Louisiana; its principal European manufacturing facility is
located in Worms, Germany. Grace Davison has a direct selling force and
distributes its products directly to over 19,000 customers, the largest of which
accounted for approximately 6% of Grace Davison's 1996 sales and revenues.

         Most raw materials used in the manufacture of Grace Davison products
are available from multiple sources, and, in some instances, are produced or
supplied by Grace Davison. Because of the diverse applications of products using
Grace Davison technology and the geographic areas in which such products are
used, seasonality does not have a significant effect on Grace Davison's
businesses.

         CONSTRUCTION PRODUCTS. Grace's construction products business ("Grace
Construction") is a leading supplier of specialty materials to the
nonresidential (commercial and government) construction industry and, to a
lesser extent, the residential construction industry. Grace Construction's
products fall into three main groups: (a) concrete admixtures, cement additives
and masonry products (principally chemicals that add 



                                      -9-


strength, control corrosion, reduce the amount of water required or modify
setting time); (b) products that prevent water damage to structures (such as
water- and ice-proofing products for residential use and waterproofing systems
for commercial structures); and (c) substances that protect structural steel
against collapse due to fire. In North America, Grace Construction also
manufactures and distributes vermiculite products used in construction and other
industrial applications.

         In recent years, Grace Construction has introduced new products and
product enhancements. These new products and enhancements include an admixture
that reduces concrete shrinkage and prevents cracking; a product that enables
contractors to pour and "work" concrete in colder temperatures; an admixture
that inhibits corrosion and prolongs the life of concrete structures; new roof
underlayments that provide added protection from ice and wind-driven rain; and
enhancements to fireproofing products that make Grace Construction's
fireproofing systems more price-competitive for smaller jobs. In addition to
customer acceptance of these and other product introductions, Grace
Construction's growth strategy is dependent on the advancement of less developed
economies (since, as economies develop, they typically use more ready-mix
concrete, which allows for the application of more concrete admixtures).

         Grace Construction's products are sold to an extremely broad range of
customers, including cement manufacturers, ready-mix and pre-stressed concrete
producers, local contractors, specialty subcontractors and applicators, masonry
block manufacturers, building materials distributors and other industrial
manufacturers, as well as construction specifiers, such as architects and
structural engineers. For some of these customer groups (such as contractors),
cost and ease of application are the key factors in making purchasing decisions;
for others (such as architects and structural engineers), product performance
and adaptability are the critical factors. In view of this diversity, and
because Grace Construction's business requires intensive sales and customer
service efforts, Grace Construction maintains a separate sales and technical
support force for each of its product groups. These sales and support forces
sell products under global contracts, under U.S. or regional contracts and on a
job-by-job basis. Consequently, Grace Construction competes globally with
several large construction materials suppliers and regionally and locally with
numerous smaller competitors. In recent years, the cement manufacturing business
and the contracting business have experienced substantial consolidation,
particularly in markets outside the U.S. Competition is based largely on
technical support and service, product performance, adaptability of the product
and price.

         Grace Construction's 1996 sales and revenues totaled $435 million (64%
in North America, 19% in Asia Pacific, 17% in Europe and less than 1% in Latin
America), versus $397 million in 1995 and $387 million in 1994. At year-end
1996, Grace Construction employed approximately 1,900 people at 56 production
facilities (26 in North America, 11 in Southeast Asia, 7 in each of
Australia/New Zealand and Europe, 4 in Latin America, and 1 in Japan) and 76
sales offices worldwide. Grace Construction's capital expenditures 




                                      -10-



tend to be relatively lower, and sales and marketing expenditures tend to be
relatively higher, than those of Grace's other core businesses.

         The construction business is cyclical, in response to economic
conditions and construction demand. The construction market has experienced slow
but steady growth through 1996 from a cyclical low in 1991. During this time,
the management of Grace Construction has focused its efforts on streamlining its
range of products and reducing costs. For example, during this period, Grace
Construction implemented a lower cost structure by consolidating manufacturing
plants for its North American fireproofing operations and streamlining its
management structure and consolidating research efforts in its European
waterproofing operations. The construction business is also seasonal due to
weather conditions. Grace Construction seeks to increase profitability and
minimize the impact of cyclical and seasonal downturns in regional economies by
introducing technically advanced, value-added products, expanding
geographically, and developing business opportunities in renovation construction
markets. However, there is no assurance that these initiatives will succeed, and
the cyclicality and seasonality of the construction business could affect Grace
Construction's business and results of operations.

         The raw materials used for manufacturing Grace Construction products
are primarily commodities that can be obtained from multiple sources, including
commodity chemical producers, petroleum companies and paper manufacturers. In
most instances, there are at least two alternative suppliers for each of the
principal raw materials used by Grace Construction. The worldwide supply of
calcium lignin, a wood pulping by-product used as a raw material in the
production of concrete admixtures, had been decreasing as paper mills converted
to new manufacturing processes. In 1996, additional supplies of calcium lignin
became available, alleviating the shortage. However, there is no assurance that
the additional supplies will remain available in sufficient quantities or at
satisfactory prices.


DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

         Grace's thermal and emission control systems business ("Grace TEC
Systems") is Grace's principal discontinued operation that has not yet been
divested. Grace TEC Systems manufactures air flotation dryers and volatile
organic compound control systems. These products are sold principally to the
graphic arts, web coating and paper converting markets. Competition for Grace
TEC Systems' products is based primarily on system design, materials,
technology, customer service, product performance and price. Grace TEC Systems
employed approximately 700 people at year-end 1996 and had sales of $103 million
in 1996, $113 million in 1995 and $90 million in 1994. Grace is actively
pursuing the disposition of this business and its other remaining discontinued
operations.

         See "Strategic Objectives and Actions" above, "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and Note 6 to
Grace's 


                                      -11-



Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning Grace's
discontinued operations.


RESEARCH ACTIVITIES

         Grace engages in research and development programs for its core
businesses. These programs are directed toward the development of new products
and processes, and the improvement of, and development of new uses for, existing
products and processes. Research is carried out by product line laboratories in
North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America and includes research in
catalysis, construction materials, specialty packaging and process engineering,
principally involving the development of technologies to manufacture chemical
specialties. Grace's research and development strategy is to develop technology
platforms on which new products will be based, while focusing development
efforts in each business unit on the improvement of existing products and/or the
adaptation of existing products to customer needs.

         Research and development expenses relating to continuing operations
amounted to $94 million in 1996, $112 million in 1995 and $100 million in 1994
(including expenses incurred in funding external research projects). The amount
of research and development expenses relating to government- and
customer-sponsored projects (as opposed to projects sponsored by Grace) is not
material.

         See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial Condition" in the Financial Supplement for additional information.


PATENTS AND OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MATTERS

         Grace relies on numerous patents and patent applications, as well as
know-how and other proprietary information. As competition in the markets in
which Grace does business is often based on technological superiority and
innovation, with new products being introduced frequently, the ability to
achieve technological innovations and obtain patent or other intellectual
property protection is important. There can be no assurance that Grace's
patents, patent applications or other intellectual property will provide
sufficient proprietary protection. Other companies may independently develop
similar systems or processes that circumvent patents issued to Grace, or may
acquire patent rights within the fields of Grace's businesses. Grace's
competitors may also develop technologies, systems or processes that are more
effective than those developed by Grace, or that render Grace's technology,
systems or processes less competitive or obsolete. Any such events could have an
adverse effect on Grace.




                                      -12-




ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY MATTERS

         Manufacturers of specialty chemical products, including Grace, are
subject to stringent regulations under numerous federal, state and local
environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to the
generation, storage, handling, discharge and disposition of hazardous wastes and
other materials. Grace has expended substantial funds in order to comply with
such laws and regulations and expects to continue to do so in the future. The
following table sets forth Grace's expenditures in the past three years, and its
estimated expenditures in 1997 and 1998, for (a) the operation and maintenance
of environmental facilities and the disposal of wastes with respect to
continuing operations; (b) capital expenditures for environmental control
facilities relating to continuing operations; and (c) site remediation:



         Additional material environmental costs may arise as a result of future
legislation or other developments. Grace's earnings, competitive position and
other capital expenditures have not been, and are not expected to be, materially
adversely affected by compliance with environmental requirements. See Note 11 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements and "Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Financial Supplement.

         With the goal of continuously improving its environment, health and
safety ("EHS") performance, Grace established its Commitment to Care(TM)
initiative (based on the Responsible Care(R) program of the Chemical
Manufacturers Association) in 1994 as the program under which all Grace EHS
activities are to be implemented. To the extent applicable, Commitment to Care
extends the basic elements of Responsible Care to all Grace locations worldwide,
embracing specific objectives in the key areas of product stewardship, employee
health and safety, community awareness and emergency response, distribution,
process safety and pollution prevention.


                                      -13-




         See Item 3 below for information concerning environmental proceedings
to which Grace is a party and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results
of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Financial Supplement for
additional information concerning environmental matters.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

         Grace operates manufacturing and other types of plants and facilities
(including office and other service facilities) throughout the world, some of
which are shared by two or more of Grace's product lines. Grace considers its
major operating properties to be in good operating condition and suitable for
their current use. Although Grace believes that, after taking planned expansion
into account, the productive capacity of its plants and other facilities is
generally adequate for current operations and foreseeable growth, it conducts
ongoing, long-range forecasting of its capital requirements to assure that
additional capacity will be available when and as needed. Accordingly, Grace
does not anticipate that its operations or income will be materially affected by
the absence of available capacity. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and page F-25 of the Financial
Supplement for information regarding Grace's capital expenditures.

         Additional information regarding Grace's properties is set forth in
Item 1 above and in Notes 1, 8 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

         ASBESTOS LITIGATION. Grace is a defendant in property damage and
personal injury lawsuits relating to previously sold asbestos-containing
products, and anticipates that it will be named as a defendant in additional
asbestos-related lawsuits in the future. Grace was a defendant in approximately
41,500 asbestos-related lawsuits at year-end 1996 (31 involving claims for
property damage and the remainder involving approximately 91,500 claims for
personal injury), as compared to approximately 40,800 lawsuits at year-end 1995
(47 involving claims for property damage and the remainder involving
approximately 92,400 claims for personal injury). In most of these lawsuits,
Grace is one of many defendants.

         The plaintiffs in property damage lawsuits generally seek to have the
defendants absorb the cost of removing, containing or repairing the
asbestos-containing materials in the affected buildings. Through 1996, 135
asbestos property damage cases were dismissed without payment of any damages or
settlement amounts; judgments were entered in favor of Grace in 9 cases
(excluding cases settled following appeals of judgments in favor of Grace);
judgments were entered in favor of the plaintiffs in 7 cases 


                                      -14-




for a total of $60.3 million (none of which is on appeal); and 186 property
damage cases were settled for a total of $450.5 million.

         Included in the asbestos property damage cases pending against Grace
and others at year-end 1996 were the following class actions: (a) an action,
conditionally certified by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit in
1993 and pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of South Carolina,
covering all public and private colleges and universities in the U.S. whose
buildings contain asbestos materials (CENTRAL WESLEYAN COLLEGE, ET AL. V. W. R.
GRACE, ET AL.); and (b) a purported class action (ANDERSON MEMORIAL HOSPITAL, ET
AL. V. W. R. GRACE & CO., ET AL.), filed in 1992, in the Court of Common Pleas
for Hampton County, South Carolina, on behalf of all entities that own, in whole
or in part, any building containing asbestos materials manufactured by Grace or
one of the other named defendants, other than buildings subject to the class
action lawsuit described above and any building owned by the federal or any
state government. In July 1994, the claims of most class members in ANDERSON
MEMORIAL HOSPITAL, ET AL., V. W. R. GRACE & CO., ET AL. were dismissed due to a
ruling that a South Carolina statute prohibits nonresidents from pursuing claims
in the South Carolina state courts with respect to buildings located outside the
state. The plaintiffs have requested that the court reconsider its decision. In
December 1995, Grace entered into an agreement to settle the claims under PRINCE
GEORGE CENTER, INC. V. U.S. GYPSUM COMPANY, ET AL., a class action covering all
commercial buildings in the U.S. leased, in whole or in part, to the U.S.
government on or after May 30, 1986. The terms of the settlement agreement
(which were approved by the Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County in July
1996) are not expected to have a significant effect on Grace's consolidated
results of operations or financial position.

         Through year-end 1996, approximately 11,800 personal injury lawsuits
involving 27,400 claims were dismissed without payment of any damages or
settlement amounts (primarily on the basis that Grace products were not
involved), and approximately 30,500 such suits involving 66,200 claims were
disposed of for a total of $186 million (see "Insurance Litigation" below).

         In 1991, the Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation consolidated
in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, for
pre-trial purposes, all asbestos personal injury cases pending in the U.S.
federal courts, including approximately 7,000 cases then pending against Grace;
3,600 new cases involving 7,200 claims against Grace have subsequently been
added to the consolidated cases. To date, no action has been taken by the court
handling the consolidated cases that would indicate whether the consolidation
will affect Grace's cost of disposing of these cases or its defense costs.

         Grace previously purchased insurance policies with respect to its
asbestos-related lawsuits and claims. Grace has settled with and been paid by
its primary insurance carriers with respect to both property damage and personal
injury cases and claims. With one minor exception, Grace also has settled with
its excess insurance carriers that wrote 

                                      -15-


policies available for property damage cases; those settlements involve amounts
paid and to be paid to Grace. In addition, Grace has settled with many excess
insurance carriers that wrote policies available for personal injury claims.
Grace is currently in litigation with certain remaining excess insurance
carriers whose policies generally represent layers of coverage Grace has not yet
reached. Such policies are believed by Grace to be available for
asbestos-related personal injury lawsuits. Insurance coverage for
asbestos-related liabilities has not been commercially available since 1985.

         Grace's aggregate accrual for asbestos liabilities at December 31, 1996
was $994.1 million; this amount reflects all asbestos-related property damage
and personal injury cases and claims then pending (except for one property
damage case as to which liability is not yet estimable because Grace has not yet
been able to obtain sufficient information through discovery proceedings), as
well as personal injury claims expected to be filed through 2001. Grace's
ultimate exposure with respect to its asbestos-related cases and claims will
depend on the extent to which its insurance will cover damages for which it may
be held liable, amounts paid in settlement and litigation costs. At December 31,
1996, Grace had recorded a receivable of $331.3 million, the amount Grace
estimated to be the probable recovery from its insurance carriers with respect
to pending and projected asbestos cases and claims. A May 1994 decision of the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit limited the amount of insurance
coverage available to Grace with respect to property damage cases. Because
Grace's insurance covers both property damage and personal injury cases and
claims, the May 1994 decision has had the concomitant effect of reducing the
insurance coverage available with respect to Grace's asbestos personal injury
claims. However, in Grace's opinion (which is not based on a formal opinion of
counsel), it is probable that recoveries from its insurance carriers, along with
other funds, will be available to satisfy the property damage and personal
injury cases and claims pending at year-end 1996, as well as personal injury
claims expected to be filed in the foreseeable future. Consequently, Grace
believes that the resolution of its asbestos-related litigation will not have a
material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position.

         See "Insurance Litigation" below and Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information.

         ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEEDINGS. Grace (together with certain other
companies) has been designated a "potentially responsible party" ("PRP") by the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") with respect to absorbing the costs
of investigating and remediating pollution at various sites. At year-end 1996,
proceedings were pending with respect to approximately 30 sites as to which
Grace has been designated a PRP. Federal law provides that all PRPs may be held
jointly and severally liable for the costs of investigating and remediating a
site. Grace also is conducting investigatory and remediation activities at sites
under the jurisdiction of state and/or local authorities.


                                      -16-




         In November 1995, Grace received a letter from the U.S. Department of
Energy ("DOE") inquiring as to Grace's willingness to contribute to the
continued cleanup of a former Grace property located in Wayne, New Jersey. The
letter asserted that Grace has a legal duty to pay for the cleanup and that the
total cost of the cleanup may exceed $100 million. The operations conducted by
Grace at the Wayne site (from 1955 to 1970) included work done on radioactive
materials under contract with the U.S. government. In 1975, the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission inspected the site, concluded that it was decontaminated
in accordance with applicable regulations and released it for unrestricted use.
In 1984, pursuant to a request from the DOE, Grace transferred the Wayne
property to the DOE and made a cash payment as a contribution towards the DOE's
cleanup efforts at the site, which was acknowledged by the DOE as fulfilling any
obligation Grace had to contribute to DOE's cleanup effort, while preserving the
rights and liabilities of the parties under other existing applicable laws.
Grace believes that the resolution of the DOE's claim will not have a material
adverse effect on its consolidated financial position.

         In March 1993, an action was filed in the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of Texas against Grace Drilling Company, a subsidiary of
Grace, the business and assets of which have since been sold, and several other
defendants, for alleged violations of the Clean Water Act and the Rivers and
Harbors Act (U.S. V. FINA OIL AND CHEMICAL CO., ET AL.). The government alleged
that seagrasses and seabeds around a drilling rig operated by Fina Oil and
Chemical Co. were damaged in connection with the placing, servicing and removal
of the rig. In February 1997, the U.S. District Court approved a decree under
which Grace agreed to pay $700,000 in penalties and $1.6 million towards a
restoration project to settle this action, all of which is expected to be paid
by Grace's insurance carriers on its behalf.

         Grace is a party to additional proceedings involving federal, state
and/or local government agencies and private parties regarding Grace's
compliance with environmental laws and regulations. These proceedings are not
expected to result in significant sanctions or in any material liability.
However, Grace may incur material liability in connection with future actions of
governmental agencies and/or private parties relating to past or future
practices of Grace with respect to the generation, storage, handling, discharge
or disposition of hazardous wastes and other materials.

         Grace believes that the liabilities for environmental remediation
costs, including costs relating to environmental proceedings, that have been
recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements are adequate. In addition,
Grace is presently involved in litigation with its insurance carriers seeking to
hold them responsible for certain amounts for which Grace may be held liable
with respect to such costs. The outcome of such litigation, as well as the
amounts of any recoveries that Grace may receive in connection therewith, is
presently uncertain. However, Grace believes that the resolution of pending
environmental proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on its
consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. For further
information, see "Environmental, 



                                      -17-


Health and Safety Matters" under Item 1 above and "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition."

         INSURANCE LITIGATION. Grace is involved in litigation with certain of
its insurance carriers with respect to asbestos-related insurance claims and
environmental liabilities. The relief sought by Grace in these actions would
provide insurance that would partially offset Grace's estimated exposure with
respect to amounts previously expended, and that may be expended in the future,
by Grace to defend claims, satisfy judgments and fund settlements. Grace has
settled all of its asbestos-related insurance coverage actions, with the
exception of MARYLAND CASUALTY CO. V. W. R. GRACE & CO., pending in the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York. In April 1996, as a result
of rulings in this action favorable to Grace with respect to its
asbestos-related property damage liabilities, the insurers agreed to the entry
of summary judgment in favor of Grace; however, the insurers have stated that
they intend to appeal the District Court's rulings. The District Court has not
yet addressed Grace's claims for insurance coverage for its asbestos-related
personal injury liabilities. Grace's only environmental insurance coverage
action is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
York and is also styled MARYLAND CASUALTY CO. V. W. R. GRACE & CO. See Note 2 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements and "Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" for additional information.

         Prior to 1993, Grace received from insurance carriers asbestos-related
payments totaling $97.7 million, the majority of which represented the aggregate
remaining obligations owed to Grace by those carriers for primary-level
insurance coverage written for the period June 30, 1962 through June 30, 1987.
In 1993 and 1994, Grace settled with insurance carriers for a total of $300.2
million (portions of which were paid or will be paid in subsequent years), in
reimbursement for amounts expended by Grace in connection with asbestos-related
litigation. In 1995, Grace settled with a primary-level insurer for $100
million, and with other insurers for a total of $200.3 million, including future
payments of approximately $70 million. In 1996, Grace settled with additional
excess-level insurers for a total of $110.5 million (including $19.2 million to
be received over the next five years) with respect to both products liability
and other coverage. As a result of these settlements, Grace's asbestos-related
insurance claims have been dismissed as to the primary-level product liability
insurance coverage previously sold by the relevant insurers to Grace, as well as
to many of Grace's excess-level liability insurers. However, litigation
continues in New York federal court as to certain excess-level carriers that
have not settled.

         FUMED SILICA PLANT LITIGATION. In 1993, Grace initiated legal action in
the Belgian courts against the Flemish government to recover losses resulting
from the closing of Grace's fumed silica plant in Puurs, Belgium. Grace is
seeking damages in excess of four billion Belgian francs (approximately $126.1
million at the December 31, 1996 exchange rate), plus interest and lost profits.
This claim was dismissed at the trial court level and is now being appealed by
Grace. The trial court also determined that Grace should repay 



                                      -18-



approximately 239 million Belgian francs (approximately $7.5 million at the
December 31, 1996 exchange rate), plus interest, to the Flemish government for
previously received investment grants; this decision is also being appealed by
Grace. In July 1996, Grace received a favorable arbitration ruling, under which
the engineering company responsible for the design and construction of the fumed
silica plant was ordered to pay damages to Grace; the damage award is not
material to Grace.

         U.S. JUSTICE DEPARTMENT LAWSUIT. The U.S. Justice Department has
intervened in a QUI TAM lawsuit, originally filed in June 1995, pending in the
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California (UNITED STATES EX
REL. ROBERT COSTA AND RONALD THORNBURG, ET AL., V. BAKER & TAYLOR, INC., ET
AL.). The complaint in this lawsuit alleges that Baker & Taylor Books, a book
wholesaler sold by Grace in 1992, overcharged public schools, libraries and
federal agencies during the last ten years, including the period during which
Baker & Taylor Books was owned by Grace. Grace, Baker & Taylor, Inc. (the entity
that currently operates Baker & Taylor Books) and one of the current
shareholders of Baker & Taylor, Inc. have been named as defendants. The lawsuit
seeks unspecified damages, punitive damages and civil penalties, as well as
attorneys' fees and expenses and such other relief as the Court may deem proper.
At this time, Grace is unable to determine the liability, if any, to which it
may be subject as a result of this lawsuit.

         SHAREHOLDER LITIGATION. W. R. Grace & Co., a New York corporation
subsequently renamed Fresenius National Medical Care Holdings, Inc. ("Grace New
York"), and members of the Grace New York Board of Directors (as well as J. P.
Bolduc, who resigned as president and chief executive officer and a director of
Grace New York in March 1995) are defendants in a case entitled WEISER, ET AL.
V. GRACE, ET AL. pending in New York State Supreme Court, New York County. The
consolidated amended complaint in this lawsuit, which purports to be a
derivative action (I.E., an action brought on behalf of Grace New York),
alleges, among other things, that the individual defendants breached their
fiduciary duties to Grace New York (a) by providing J. Peter Grace, Jr. (the
chairman and a director of Grace New York until his death in April 1995) with
certain compensation arrangements upon his voluntary retirement as Grace New
York's chief executive officer in 1992 and (b) by approving Mr. Bolduc's
severance arrangements, and that Messrs. Grace and Bolduc breached their
fiduciary duties by accepting such benefits and payments. The lawsuit seeks
unspecified damages, the cancellation of all allegedly improper agreements, the
cancellation of a retirement plan for nonemployee directors, the return of all
remuneration paid to the directors who are defendants while they were in breach
of their fiduciary duties to Grace New York, attorneys' and experts' fees and
costs, and such other relief as the Court deems proper. A motion to intervene in
the case by the California Public Employees' Retirement System was granted by
the Court in September 1996. Under the terms of the Distribution Agreement
("Distribution Agreement") entered into in connection with the NMC transaction
described in "Strategic Objectives and Actions" above and in Note 1 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, Grace remains financially responsible for any
liabilities incurred by Grace New York and others as a result of this 

                                      -19-



    

lawsuit, including the fees and disbursements of counsel for Grace and, subject
to certain conditions, counsel for the individual defendants (including certain
current and former directors of the Company). The discussions of the
Distribution Agreement appearing above and in the following paragraphs do not
purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the
Distribution Agreement, which was filed as an exhibit to the Joint Proxy
Statement-Prospectus of Grace New York dated August 2, 1996.

         In March 1996, two purported shareholder derivative class actions were
filed in New York State Supreme Court, New York County, against Grace New York
and Albert J. Costello, Grace's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
(and who previously held those offices with Grace New York), alleging that the
defendants breached their fiduciary duties to Grace New York's shareholders by
failing to investigate and consider fully a proposal by Hercules, Incorporated
to acquire or merge with Grace New York (IZES, ETC. V. W. R. GRACE & COMPANY, ET
AL. and POLIKOFF, ETC. V. W. R. GRACE & COMPANY, ET AL.). On December 23, 1996,
the parties stipulated to the dismissal of these actions without prejudice and
without costs. No consideration was paid in connection with the dismissals.

         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION INVESTIGATIONS. Grace New York was
previously notified that the Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission")
had issued a formal order of investigation with respect to Grace New York's
prior disclosures regarding benefits and retirement arrangements provided to J.
Peter Grace, Jr. and certain matters relating to J. Peter Grace III, a son of J.
Peter Grace, Jr. Grace is cooperating with the investigation. The outcome of
this investigation and its impact, if any, on Grace cannot be predicted at this
time.

         In April 1996, Grace New York received a formal order of investigation
issued by the Commission directing an investigation into, among other things,
whether Grace New York violated the federal securities laws by filing periodic
reports with the Commission that contained false and misleading financial
information. Pursuant to this formal order of investigation, Grace and others
have received subpoenas from the Southeast Regional Office of the Commission
requiring the production of documents relating principally to reserves (net of
applicable taxes) established by Grace New York and NMC during the period from
January 1, 1990 to the date of the subpoena. Grace believes that all financial
statements filed by Grace New York with the Commission during that period, the
financial statements of NMC included in its Form 10 Registration Statement filed
with the Commission on September 25, 1995, and the Consolidated Financial
Statements (all of which financial statements, other than unaudited quarterly
financial statements, were covered by unqualified opinions issued by Price
Waterhouse LLP, independent certified public accountants), have been fairly
stated, in all material respects, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles. Grace is cooperating with the investigation. The outcome
of this investigation and its impact, if any, on Grace cannot be predicted at
this time.



                                      -20-






         Under the terms of the Distribution Agreement, Grace remains
financially responsible for any liabilities incurred by Grace New York and
others as a result of the investigations described above, including the fees and
disbursements of counsel for Grace and, subject to certain conditions, counsel
for certain former directors and officers of the Company.

         SHAREHOLDER ACTIONS RELATING TO NMC. Grace New York and certain of its
former officers and directors are defendants in a lawsuit entitled MURPHY, ET
AL. V. W. R. GRACE & CO., ET AL., which is pending in the U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of New York. The first amended class action complaint
in this lawsuit, which purports to be a class action on behalf of all persons
and entities who purchased Grace New York's publicly traded securities during
the period from March 13, 1995 through October 17, 1995, generally alleges that
the defendants concealed information, and issued misleading public statements
and reports, concerning NMC's financial position and business prospects, a
proposed spin-off of NMC and the matters that are the subject of investigations
of NMC by the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services, in violation of federal securities laws. The lawsuit seeks
unspecified damages, attorneys' and experts' fees and costs, and such other
relief as the Court deems proper.

         Grace New York, certain of its former directors and its former
president and chief executive officer are also defendants in a purported
derivative action pending in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District
of New York (BENNETT V. BOLDUC, ET AL.), alleging that such individuals breached
their fiduciary duties by failing to properly supervise the activities of NMC in
the conduct of its business. The BENNETT action seeks unspecified damages,
attorneys' and experts' fees and costs, and such other relief as the Court deems
proper.

         Under the terms of the Distribution Agreement, Grace remains
financially responsible for any liabilities incurred by Grace New York and
others as a result of the lawsuits described above, including the fees and
disbursements of counsel for Grace and, subject to certain conditions, counsel
for the individual defendants (including certain current and former directors
and officers of the Company).

         In February 1996, a purported class action was filed in New York State
Supreme Court, New York County, against Grace New York and certain of its
current and former directors, alleging that the defendants breached their
fiduciary duties, principally by failing to provide internal financial data
concerning NMC to Vivra Incorporated and by failing to negotiate with Baxter
International, Inc. in connection with a business combination involving NMC
(ROSMAN V. W. R. GRACE, ET AL. 96-102347). On December 19, 1996, the parties
stipulated to the dismissal of this action without prejudice and without costs.
No consideration was paid in connection with the dismissal.




                                      -21-





         See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" for
additional information concerning certain litigation and proceedings involving
NMC.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

         This Item is inapplicable, as no matters were submitted to a vote of
the Company's security holders during the fourth quarter of 1996.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

         The Company's current executive officers are listed below. Executive
officers are elected to serve until the following annual meeting of the
Company's Board of Directors; the next such meeting is scheduled to be held on
May 9, 1997.



         All the above executive officers have been actively engaged in Grace's
business for the past five years, other than Messrs. Costello and Ellberger. Mr.
Costello served as chairman of the board and chief executive officer of American
Cyanamid Company from April 1993 to December 1994 and as president of American
Cyanamid Company from 1991 through March 1993. Mr. Ellberger was a corporate
vice president and director of corporate development and planning from October
1991 until 1995, and prior to that vice president, industrial and performance
products division, of American Cyanamid Company.

                                      -22-




                                     PART II


ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

         Except as provided below, the information called for by this Item
appears in the Financial Supplement under the heading "Financial Summary"
opposite the caption "Other Statistics - Common shareholders of record" (page
F-26); under the heading "Quarterly Summary and Statistical Information -
Unaudited" opposite the captions "Dividends declared per common share" and
"Market price of common stock" (page F-25); and in Note 13 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements (page F-20).

         Each share of the Company's Common Stock, $.01 par value ("Common
Stock"), has an attendant Preferred Stock Purchase Right ("Right"). The Rights
are not and will not become exercisable unless and until certain events occur
(as described below). Until such events occur, the Rights will automatically
trade with the Common Stock, and separate certificates for the Rights will not
be distributed. The Rights will become exercisable on the earlier to occur of
(a) 10 days after a person or group ("Acquiring Person") has acquired beneficial
ownership of 20% or more of the then outstanding shares of Common Stock or (b)
10 business days (or such later date as may be fixed by the Company's Board of
Directors) after an Acquiring Person commences (or announces the intention to
commence) a tender offer or exchange offer that would result in such Acquiring
Person becoming the beneficial owner of 20% or more of the then outstanding
shares of Common Stock. Holders of Rights, as such, have no rights as
stockholders of the Company; consequently, such holders have no rights to vote
or receive dividends, among other things.

         When the Rights become exercisable, each Right will initially entitle
the holder to buy from the Company one hundredth of a share of the Company's
Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, $.01 par value ("Junior Preferred
Stock"), for $200, subject to adjustment ("exercise price"). If, at any time
after the Rights become exercisable, the Company is acquired in a merger or
other business combination or 50% or more of the Company's consolidated assets
or earning power is sold, each Right will entitle the holder to buy a number of
shares of common stock of the acquiring company having a market value equal to
twice the exercise price. Alternatively, each Right not owned by an Acquiring
Person would become exercisable for Common Stock having a market value equal to
twice the exercise price.

         Shares of Junior Preferred Stock that may be purchased upon exercise of
the Rights will not be redeemable. Each share of Junior Preferred Stock will be
entitled to a minimum preferential quarterly dividend payment of $1.00 per share
but will be entitled to an aggregate dividend equal to 100 times the dividend
declared per share of Common 



                                      -23-



Stock whenever such dividend is declared. In the event of liquidation, holders
of Junior Preferred Stock will be entitled to a minimum preferential liquidation
payment of $100 per share but will be entitled to an aggregate payment equal to
100 times the payment made per share of Common Stock. Each share of Junior
Preferred Stock will have 100 votes, voting together with the Common Stock.
Finally, in the event of any merger, consolidation or other transaction in which
the Common Stock is exchanged, each share of Junior Preferred Stock will be
entitled to receive an amount equal to 100 times the amount received per share
of Common Stock. These rights are protected by customary antidilution
provisions.

         Because of the nature of the dividend, liquidation and voting rights of
the Junior Preferred Stock, the value of the one-hundredth interest in a share
of Junior Preferred Stock that may be purchased upon exercise of each Right
should approximate the value of one share of Common Stock.

         At any time after any person or group becomes an Acquiring Person, and
prior to the acquisition by such Acquiring Person of 50% or more of the
outstanding shares of Common Stock, the Company's Board of Directors may
exchange the Rights (other than Rights owned by such person or group, which will
become void after such person becomes an Acquiring Person) for Common Stock or
Junior Preferred Stock, in whole or in part, at an exchange ratio of one share
of Common Stock, or one hundredth of a share of Junior Preferred Stock (or of a
share of another series of the Company's Preferred Stock having equivalent
rights, preferences and privileges), per Right (subject to adjustment).

         At any time prior to the acquisition by a person or group of beneficial
ownership of 20% or more of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, the
Company's Board of Directors may redeem the Rights in whole, but not in part, at
a price of $.01 per Right.

         The terms of the Rights may be amended by the Company's Board of
Directors without the consent of the holders of the Rights, including an
amendment to lower (a) the threshold at which a person becomes an Acquiring
Person and (b) the percentage of Common Stock proposed to be acquired in a
tender or exchange offer that would cause the Rights to become exercisable, to
not less than the greater of (a) the sum of .001% plus the largest percentage of
the Company's outstanding Common Stock then known to the Company to be
beneficially owned by any person or group and (b) 10%, except that, from and
after such time as any person or group becomes an Acquiring Person, no such
amendment may adversely affect the interests of the holders of the Rights.

         The Rights will expire in September 2006, unless this expiration date
is extended or unless the Rights are earlier redeemed or exchanged by the
Company.


                                      -24-






         The foregoing summary of the Rights does not purport to be complete and
is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Rights Agreement, which was
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K filed on October 10, 1996.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

         The information called for by this Item appears under the heading
"Financial Summary" (page F-26 of the Financial Supplement) and in Notes 5, 6,
9 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (pages F-13, F-15, F-18 and
F-23 of the Financial Supplement). In addition, Exhibit 12 to this Report (page
F-35 of the Financial Supplement) contains the ratio of earnings to fixed
charges and combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends for Grace for
the years 1992-1996.


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
         CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

         The information called for by this Item appears on pages F-27 to F-32
of the Financial Supplement.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

         See the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial
Statement Schedule and Exhibits on page F-1 of the Financial Supplement.


ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

         This item is inapplicable, as no such changes or disagreements have
occurred.


                                    PART III


ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

         Except for information regarding the Company's executive officers (see
page 22), the information called for by this Item is incorporated in this Report
by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement for the Company's 1997 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders, except for information not deemed to be "soliciting
material" or "filed" with the Commission, 



                                      -25-



information subject to Regulations 14A or 14C under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or information subject to the liabilities of Section 18
of the Exchange Act.


ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.


ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
         MANAGEMENT.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

         The information called for by Items 11, 12 and 13 is incorporated in
this Report by reference to the definitive Proxy Statement for the Company's
1997 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, except for information not deemed to be
"soliciting material" or "filed" with the Commission, information subject to
Regulations 14A or 14C under the Exchange Act or information subject to the
liabilities of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.


                                     PART IV


ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS
         ON FORM 8-K.

         FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES. See the Index to Consolidated
Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule and Exhibits on page F-1
of the Financial Supplement.

         REPORTS ON FORM 8-K. The Company filed the following Reports on Form
8-K during the fourth quarter of 1996 and the beginning of 1997:




                                      -26-





         EXHIBITS. The exhibits to this Report are listed below. Other than
exhibits that are filed herewith, all exhibits listed below are incorporated
herein by reference. Exhibits indicated by an asterisk (*) are the management
contracts and compensatory plans, contracts or arrangements required to be filed
as exhibits to this Report.




                                      -27-





                                      -28-





                                      -29-




                                      -30-




                                      -31-







                                      -32-



                                   SIGNATURES

       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                 W. R. GRACE & CO.

                                                 By  /s/ L. Ellberger
                                                     -------------------------
                                                         L. Ellberger
                                                 (Senior Vice President and
                                                   Chief Financial Officer)
Date: March 28, 1997

       Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated on March 28, 1997.

                          Signature                           Title
                          ---------                           -----

                      A. J. Costello*                   President and Director
                                                   (Principal Executive Officer)

J. F. Akers*                T. A. Holmes*              }
H. Brown*                   V. A. Kamsky*              }
C. Cheng*                   J. J. Murphy*              }        Directors
H. A. Eckmann*              J. E. Phipps*              }
M. A. Fox*                  T. A. Vanderslice*         }
J. W. Frick*

  /s/ L. Ellberger                                      Senior Vice President
- -------------------                                (Principal Financial Officer)
     (L. Ellberger)                                

  /s/ K. A. Browne                                Vice President and Controller
- ------------------                               (Principal Accounting Officer)
     (K. A. Browne)                             


- -------

*   By signing his name hereto, Robert B. Lamm is signing this document on
    behalf of each of the persons indicated above pursuant to powers of attorney
    duly executed by such persons and filed with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission.

                                                   By /s/ Robert B. Lamm
                                                      ------------------------
                                                          Robert B. Lamm
                                                          (Attorney-in-Fact)

                                      -33-











                              FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT


                               W. R. GRACE & CO.
                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996










                              FINANCIAL SUPPLEMENT
                                       to
         Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Year Ended December 31, 1996

                       W. R. GRACE & CO. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Index to Consolidated Financial Statements
                  and Financial Statement Schedule and Exhibits
                  ---------------------------------------------


         The financial data listed above appearing in this Financial Supplement
are incorporated by reference herein. The Financial Statement Schedule should be
read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes
thereto. Financial statements of 50%- or less-owned persons and other persons
accounted for by the equity method have been omitted as provided in Rule 3-09 of
Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X. Financial Statement Schedules
not included have been omitted because they are not applicable or the required
information is shown in the Consolidated Financial Statements or Notes thereto.




                                       F-1





              REPORT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS ON
                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE



To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of W. R. Grace & Co.


Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our report
dated February 3, 1997 appearing on page 27 of the 1996 Annual Report to
Shareholders of W. R. Grace & Co. (which report and consolidated financial
statements are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an
audit of the Financial Statement Schedule listed on page F-1 in the Index to
Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule and Exhibits
of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this Financial Statement Schedule presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.


/s/ PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP

PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP
Ft. Lauderdale, Florida
February 3, 1997




               CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Prospectuses
constituting parts of the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-13637,
333-13639, 333-13641, 333-13643, 333-14101, 333-13645, 333-13647 and 333-16401)
of W. R. Grace & Co. of our report dated February 3, 1997 appearing on page 27
of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders, which report is included at page F-3
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also consent to the incorporation by
reference of our report on the Financial Statement Schedule, which appears
above.


/s/ PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP

PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP
Ft. Lauderdale, Florida
March 28, 1997



                                      F-2






MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING


Management is responsible for the preparation, as well as the integrity and
objectivity, of the Consolidated Financial Statements and other financial
information included in this report.  Such financial information has been
prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and
accordingly includes certain amounts that represent management's best
estimates and judgments.
     Management maintains internal control systems to assist it in fulfilling
its responsibility for financial reporting, including selection of personnel;
segregation of duties; business, accounting and reporting policies and
procedures; and an internal audit function.  While no system can ensure
elimination of all errors and irregularities, Grace's systems, which are
reviewed and modified in response to changing conditions, have been designed
to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded, policies and
procedures are followed and transactions are properly executed and reported.
The concept of reasonable assurance is based on the recognition that there are
limitations in all systems and that the cost of such systems should not exceed
their benefits.
     The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, which is comprised of
directors who are neither officers nor employees of nor consultants to Grace,
meets regularly with Grace's senior financial personnel, internal auditors and
independent certified public accountants to review audit plans and results, as
well as the actions taken by management in discharging its responsibilities
for accounting, financial reporting and internal control systems.  The Audit
Committee reports its findings and recommends the selection of independent
certified public accountants to the Board of Directors.  Grace's management,
internal auditors and independent certified public accountants have direct and
confidential access to the Audit Committee at all times.
     The independent certified public accountants are engaged to conduct the
audits of and render a report on the consolidated financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.  These standards
require a review of the systems of internal controls and tests of transactions
to the extent considered necessary by the independent certified public
accountants for purposes of supporting their opinion as set forth in their
report.





Albert J. Costello                                     Larry Ellberger
Chairman, President and                                Senior Vice President and
Chief Executive Officer                                Chief Financial Officer




REPORT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP                                February 3, 1997
One East Broward Boulevard
Ft. Lauderdale, FL  33301


TO THE SHAREHOLDERS AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF W. R. GRACE & CO.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements appearing on pages F-4
through F-24 of this report present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of W. R. Grace & Co. and subsidiaries at December 31, 1996
and 1995, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.  These financial statements are the
responsibility of management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements based on our audits.  We conducted our audits of
these statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards
which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.




Price Waterhouse LLP


                                     F-3










The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, pages F-8 to F-24, are integral
parts of these statements.




                                     F-4







The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, pages F-8 to F-24, are
integral parts of these statements.

(1) See Notes 1 and 6 for supplemental information relating to noncash
investing and financing activities.


                                     F-5





The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, pages F-8 to F-24, are integral
parts of these statements.



                                     F-6






The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, pages F-8 to F-24, are
integral parts of these statements.


                                     F-7



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
===============================================================================

Dollars in millions, except per share amounts
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.  BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
    REPORTING POLICIES
===============================================================================

W. R. Grace & Co., through its subsidiaries, is primarily engaged in the
packaging and specialty chemicals businesses on a worldwide basis.  As used in
these notes, the term "Company" refers to Grace New York (as defined below)
through September 27, 1996, and thereafter to W. R. Grace & Co., a Delaware
corporation.  The term "Grace" refers to the Company and/or one or more of its
subsidiaries.

REORGANIZATION  On September 28, 1996, W. R. Grace & Co., a New York
corporation subsequently renamed Fresenius National Medical Care Holdings,
Inc. (Grace New York), distributed all of the Company's outstanding common
stock (which has a par value of $.01 per share) to the holders of Grace New
York common stock (which had a par value of $1.00 per share) on a one-for-one
basis.  As a result of the distribution, Grace New York's principal remaining
asset was the outstanding capital stock of National Medical Care, Inc. (NMC),
a health care company that was classified as a discontinued operation in the
second quarter of 1995.  On September 29, 1996, a wholly owned subsidiary of
Fresenius Medical Care AG (FMC), a German corporation, merged with and into
Grace New York, resulting in the combination of NMC with the worldwide
dialysis business of Fresenius AG (Fresenius), a German health care
corporation and the principal shareholder of FMC.
     The Grace New York preferred stock issued and outstanding at the time of
the above distribution remained outstanding shares of Grace New York, and the
treasury shares held by Grace New York at the time of the distribution were
retained by Grace New York.  Accordingly, the distribution was treated as a
retirement of preferred stocks and a retirement of treasury stock within the
Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity for the year ended December 31,
1996.
     For further information, see the Grace New York Joint Proxy
Statement-Prospectus dated August 2, 1996 (Joint Proxy Statement-Prospectus),
the Company's Prospectus dated August 2, 1996 (Prospectus), and Notes 6 and
13.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION  The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of Grace and majority-owned companies.  Intercompany transactions and
balances are eliminated in consolidation.  Investments in affiliated companies
(20%-50% owned) are accounted for under the equity method.

RECLASSIFICATIONS  Certain amounts in prior years' consolidated financial
statements and related notes have been reclassified to conform to the current
year's presentation and as required with respect to discontinued operations.

USE OF ESTIMATES  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires that management make
estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities (including contingent assets and liabilities) at the date of the
consolidated financial statements and the reported revenues and expenses
during the reporting period.  Actual amounts could differ from those
estimates.

CASH EQUIVALENTS  Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid instruments with
maturities of three months or less when purchased.  The recorded amounts
approximate fair value because of the short maturities of these investments.

INVENTORIES  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.  The
methods used to determine cost include first-in/first-out and, for
substantially all U.S. chemical inventories, last-in/first-out.  Market values
for raw materials are based on current cost and, for other inventory
classifications, net realizable value.

PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT  Properties and equipment are stated at the lower of
cost or fair value.  Depreciation of properties and equipment is generally
computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the
asset.  Interest is capitalized in connection with major project expenditures
and amortized, generally on a straight-line basis, over the estimated useful
life of the asset.  Fully depreciated assets are retained in properties and
equipment and related accumulated depreciation accounts until they are removed
from service.  In the case of disposals, assets and related depreciation are
removed from the accounts and the net amount, less any proceeds from disposal,
is charged or credited to income.

GOODWILL  Goodwill arises from certain purchase transactions and is amortized
using the straight-line method over appropriate periods not exceeding 40
years.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS  Research and development costs are charged to
expense as incurred.

                                     F-8



IMPAIRMENT  In 1995, Grace adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for
Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of."  In accordance with this statement,
Grace reviews long-lived assets and related goodwill for impairment whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an
asset may not be fully recoverable.

INCOME TAXES  Grace uses an asset and liability approach for the accounting
and financial reporting of income taxes.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION  Foreign currency transactions and financial
statements (except for those relating to countries with highly inflationary
economies) are translated into U.S. dollars at current exchange rates, except
that revenues, costs and expenses are translated at average exchange rates
during each reporting period.  The financial statements of subsidiaries
located in countries with highly inflationary economies are remeasured as if
the functional currency was the U.S. dollar.  The remeasurement creates
translation adjustments that are reflected in net income.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  Grace enters into interest rate swap agreements and
foreign exchange forward and option contracts to manage exposure to
fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates.  Grace does not
hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
     The cash differentials paid or received under interest rate swap
agreements are accrued and recognized as adjustments to interest expense.  The
related amounts payable to or receivable from the counterparties are included
in other current liabilities or notes and accounts receivable, net.  Cash
flows related to interest rate swap agreements are classified within operating
activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, consistent with the
interest payments on the underlying debt.  The fair values of interest rate
swap agreements are not recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements,
as these agreements modify the interest rate basis (i.e., whether fixed or
floating rate) of debt instruments of similar face amounts and tenor.
     Gains or losses resulting from the settlement prior to maturity of
interest rate swap agreements are either deferred (recorded as other
liabilities or other assets) and amortized to interest expense and related
financing costs over a period relevant to the agreement (if the underlying
debt remains outstanding) or recognized immediately (if the underlying debt
has been repaid or retired).
     Grace enters into foreign currency forward and option contracts to hedge
transactions and firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies and, from
time to time, net investments in foreign subsidiaries.  Gains or losses on
hedges of transactional exposures are recorded as adjustments to gains or
losses on the underlying transactions.  Gains or losses on hedges of foreign
currency-denominated firm commitments are deferred and recorded as part of the
basis in the transaction in the period in which the transaction is
consummated.  Gains and losses on forward contracts that hedge net investments
in foreign subsidiaries are recorded in the cumulative translation adjustments
account in shareholders' equity.  Cash flows related to foreign currency
forward and option contracts are classified within operating activities in the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

OTHER INCOME  Other income consists of interest income, equity in earnings of
affiliated companies, gains on sales of investments and other items.

EARNINGS PER SHARE  Earnings per share are computed on the basis of the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding.


- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2.  ASBESTOS AND RELATED INSURANCE LITIGATION
===============================================================================

Grace is a defendant in property damage and personal injury lawsuits relating
to previously sold asbestos-containing products and anticipates that it will
be named as a defendant in additional asbestos-related lawsuits in the future.
Grace was a defendant in approximately 41,500 asbestos-related lawsuits at
December 31, 1996 (31 involving claims for property damage and the remainder
involving approximately 91,500 claims for personal injury), as compared to
approximately 40,800 lawsuits at December 31, 1995 (47 involving claims for
property damage and the remainder involving approximately 92,400 claims for
personal injury).

PROPERTY DAMAGE LITIGATION
The plaintiffs in property damage lawsuits generally seek to have the
defendants absorb the cost of removing, containing or repairing the
asbestos-containing materials in the affected buildings.  Each property damage
case is unique in that the age, type, size and use of the building, and the
difficulty of asbestos abatement, if necessary, vary from structure to
structure.  Thus, the amounts involved in prior dispositions of property
damage cases are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that may be
required to dispose of cases in the future. Information regarding product
identification, the amount of product in the building, the age, type, size and
use of the building, the jurisdictional history of prior cases and the court
in which the case is pending provide meaningful guidance as to the range of
potential costs.  Some of this information is not yet available in the
property damage cases currently pending against Grace.  Accordingly, it is not
possible to estimate with precision the costs of defending against and
disposing of these cases.  In accordance with SFAS No. 5, Grace has recorded
an accrual for all existing property damage cases for which sufficient
information is available to form a range of estimated exposure.  At December
31, 1996 and 1995, estimates were not accrued for one and four cases,
respectively, due to insufficient information.  Grace believes that the number
of property damage cases to be filed in the future and the costs associated
with these filings are not estimable.

                                     F-9



     Through December 31, 1996, 135 asbestos property damage cases were
dismissed without payment of any damages or settlement amounts; judgments were
entered in favor of Grace in nine cases (excluding cases settled following
appeals of judgments in favor of Grace); judgments were entered in favor of
the plaintiffs in seven cases for a total of $60.3 (none of which is on
appeal); and 186 property damage cases were settled for a total of $450.5.
Property damage case activity for 1996 and 1995 is as follows:








PERSONAL INJURY LITIGATION
Personal injury claims are generally similar to each other (differing
primarily in the type of asbestos-related illness allegedly suffered by the
plaintiff).  However, Grace's estimated liability for such claims is
influenced by numerous variables, including the solvency of other former
asbestos producers, cross-claims by co-defendants, the rate at which new
claims are filed, the jurisdiction in which the filings are made, and the
defense and disposition costs associated with these claims.
     Through December 31, 1996, approximately 11,800 asbestos personal injury
lawsuits involving 27,400 claims were dismissed  without payment of any
damages or settlement amounts (primarily on the basis that Grace products were
not involved), and approximately 30,500 lawsuits involving 66,200 claims were
disposed of for a total of $186.0.  Personal injury claim activity for 1996
and 1995 is as follows:





(1)  Of the 8,298 claims shown, approximately 1,500 were filed under amended
     complaints in 1996.  The remaining claims relate to disputed filings that
     were submitted to local counsel in prior years but were not reported to
     Grace until 1996, when a majority of such claims was settled.

ASBESTOS-RELATED LIABILITY
Subject to the factors discussed above, Grace estimates that its probable
liability is as follows with respect to the defense and disposition of
asbestos property damage and personal injury cases and claims at December 31,
1996 and 1995:





(1)  Reflects property damage and personal injury cases and claims pending at
     December 31, 1996, as well as personal injury claims expected to be filed
     through 2001.  See discussion below.
(2)  Reflects property damage and personal injury cases and claims pending at
     December 31, 1995, as well as personal injury claims expected to be filed
     through 1998.  See discussion below.
(3)  Included in "other current liabilities" in the Consolidated Balance
     Sheet.
(4)  Excludes one property damage case at December 31, 1996 as to which the
     liability is not yet estimable because Grace has not yet been able to
     obtain sufficient information through discovery proceedings.

Prior to 1995, Grace recorded noncash charges to reflect its estimate of the
costs of defending against and disposing of the asbestos property damage and
personal injury cases and claims then pending.  In the fourth quarter of 1995,
Grace determined that it had adequate experience to reasonably estimate the
costs of defending against and disposing of asbestos personal injury claims to
be filed during the three-year period 1996-1998 and recorded a noncash charge
of $260.0 ($169.0 after-tax), primarily to reflect such anticipated filings.
Based on certain developments during 1996, Grace determined in the 1996 fourth
quarter that it had adequate experience to reasonably estimate the costs of
defending against and disposing of asbestos personal injury claims to be filed
during the five-year period 1997-2001 and recorded a noncash charge of $348.4
($226.4 after-tax), primarily to reflect such anticipated filings.  The 1996
provision also reflects increases in the estimated costs of defending against
and disposing of personal injury claims pending at year-end 1996, and the 1995
provision also reflects increases in the estimated costs of defending against
and disposing of certain property damage cases pending at year-end 1995 and
personal injury claims filed during 1995.  However, as discussed above, these
estimates are

                                    F-10




not necessarily indicative of actual costs.  Based on the factors discussed
above, Grace does not believe that it can reasonably estimate the number and
defense and disposition costs of personal injury claims that may be brought
against Grace after 2001.  The accruals recorded for future cases and claims
are not discounted to their present values; further, the actual cash payments
related to future cases and claims are expected to continue beyond 2001.

ASBESTOS-RELATED INSURANCE RECEIVABLE
Grace previously purchased insurance policies with respect to its
asbestos-related lawsuits and claims.  The following tables display the
activity in Grace's notes receivable and asbestos-related insurance receivable
accounts during 1996 and 1995:



(1)  See Note 7 for classification between current portion (classified in
     "notes and accounts receivable, net") and noncurrent portion (classified
     in "other assets") in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(2)  Reflects noncash adjustments to receivable in conjunction with increases
     in asbestos-related liability and lower than estimated proceeds from
     settlements with insurance carriers caused by reduced coverage available
     for certain years.  See discussion below.

Notes receivable from insurance carriers represent amounts due from insurance
carriers in reimbursement for amounts previously paid by Grace in defending
and disposing of asbestos cases and claims; payments under these notes will be
received through 2001.  These notes do not bear stated interest rates and,
therefore, have been discounted using a weighted average interest rate of 6.7%
(which Grace estimates as its borrowing rate for the terms of the notes).
Installments due in 1997 are classified as "current" in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet.
     The asbestos-related insurance receivable at December 31, 1996
predominantly represents amounts expected to be received from carriers under
settlement agreements in reimbursement for defense and disposition costs to be
paid by Grace in the future in connection with property damage and personal
injury cases and claims pending at year-end 1996 and personal injury claims
expected to be filed through 2001 (through 1998 as of December 31, 1995).
     In the fourth quarter of 1996, Grace recorded a noncash pretax benefit of
$119.3 ($77.5 after-tax), primarily representing the additional insurance
proceeds Grace expects to receive in reimbursement for the cash outflows
associated with personal injury claims expected to be filed against Grace
through 2001.
     As a result of fourth quarter 1995 insurance settlements and a
reassessment of its insurance receivable, Grace recorded a noncash net pretax
charge of $15.0 ($9.7 after-tax) during the fourth quarter of 1995.  This
charge reflected a reduction in the receivable, primarily due to lower than
estimated proceeds from settlements with insurance carriers (caused by the
reduced coverage available for certain years) and a discount on notes
receivable received in connection with prior settlements, partially offset by
an increase in expected future reimbursements of costs to defend against and
dispose of property damage cases pending at year-end 1995 and personal injury
claims to be filed through 1998.
     Certain of Grace's insurance carriers have become insolvent.  From time
to time, Grace has been successful in collecting funds from insolvent
carriers.  However, since recovery from these carriers is not probable, Grace
has not accrued a related receivable.

INSURANCE LITIGATION
Grace has settled with and been paid by its primary insurance carriers with
respect to both property damage and personal injury cases and claims.  With
one minor exception, Grace has also settled with its excess insurance carriers
that wrote policies available for property damage cases; those settlements
involve amounts paid and to be paid to Grace.  In addition, Grace has settled
with many excess insurance carriers that wrote policies available for personal
injury claims.  Grace is currently in litigation with certain remaining excess
insurance carriers whose policies generally represent layers of coverage Grace
has not yet reached and, therefore, are not reflected in the asbestos-related
insurance receivable referred to above.  Such policies are believed by Grace
to be available for asbestos-related personal injury lawsuits.  Insurance
coverage for asbestos-related liabilities has not been commercially available
since 1985.
                                    F-11





     In September 1993 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ruled
that, under New York law (which governs a significant portion of the policies
that provide Grace's asbestos-related insurance coverage), coverage for
asbestos property damage cases is triggered based on the date of installation
of asbestos-containing materials.  This decision was initially reversed in the
fourth quarter of 1993 but subsequently confirmed in the second quarter of
1994.  As a result of this decision (which had the effect of reducing the
amount of insurance coverage available to Grace with respect to asbestos
lawsuits) Grace recorded a noncash pretax charge of $316.0 ($200.0 after-tax)
in the second quarter of 1994.
     Grace's ultimate exposure with respect to its asbestos-related cases and
claims will depend on the extent to which its insurance will cover damages for
which it may be held liable, amounts paid in settlement and litigation costs.
In Grace's opinion, it is probable that recoveries from its insurance carriers
(including amounts reflected in the receivable discussed above), along with
other funds, will be available to satisfy the property damage and personal
injury cases and claims pending at December 31, 1996, as well as personal
injury claims expected to be filed in the foreseeable future.  Consequently,
Grace believes that the resolution of its asbestos-related litigation will not
have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position.


- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3.  ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTMENTS
===============================================================================

ACQUISITIONS
During 1996, Grace acquired a manufacturer of flexible packaging, a producer
of can coatings and closure sealants for the rigid container industry, and
kidney dialysis centers purchased by NMC prior to disposition, for a total of
$122.1 in cash.  In 1995, Grace made acquisitions totaling $260.8, all of
which involved cash purchases of kidney dialysis centers and medical imaging
facilities by NMC.  Acquisitions in the first quarter of 1995, prior to the
classification of NMC as a discontinued operation (see Note 6), totaled $41.1.
Acquisitions by NMC after the first quarter of 1995 are presented as an
investing activity and are included in net investing activities of
discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for 1996
and 1995.
     In 1994, Grace made acquisitions totaling $351.7, primarily in health
care.  These include the purchases of Home Nutritional Services, Inc. for
$131.8 in cash and kidney dialysis centers and other health care businesses
for an aggregate of $145.3 in cash.  1994 acquisitions also included
construction chemicals businesses and a European flexible packaging business.

DIVESTMENTS
During 1996, Grace completed divestments for gross proceeds totaling $5,394.0
(inclusive of debt assumed by buyers).  In addition to the disposition of NMC
(see Notes 1 and 6), Grace sold its water treatment and process chemicals
business to Betz Laboratories, Inc. for cash proceeds of $636.4 (subject to
adjustment), the final $100.0 of which was paid in January 1997, plus the
assumption of certain liabilities.  Sales and revenues of the water treatment
and process chemicals business for the six months ended June 30, 1996 and for
the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994 were $201.2, $398.5 and $363.4,
respectively; its financial position and results of operations were not
significant for those periods.  The divestment of this business and Grace's
biopesticides business resulted in a pretax gain of $326.4, and an after-tax
gain of $210.1 ($2.28 per common share), in continuing operations.  In 1996
Grace also divested its worldwide separations science business (Amicon) and
the transgenic plant business of its Agracetus subsidiary.  These businesses
had previously been classified as discontinued operations.
     In 1995, Grace realized gross proceeds of $58.8 (inclusive of debt
assumed by the buyers) from divestments, including payments received in
connection with divestments completed in prior years.  The operations divested
consisted of three small units of Grace's construction products business, the
composite materials business, Grace's transportation services business and
various investments.
     In 1994, Grace realized gross proceeds of $646.2 (inclusive of debt
assumed by the buyers) from divestments, including payments received in
connection with divestments completed in prior years.  Substantially all of
the businesses divested during 1994 had previously been classified as
discontinued operations.  Divestment proceeds in 1994 included $42.8 received
for Grace's remaining interest in The Restaurant Enterprises Group, Inc.
(REG).
     See Note 6 for a discussion of divestment activity related to
discontinued operations.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

4.  RESTRUCTURING COSTS AND ASSET IMPAIRMENTS
===============================================================================

RESTRUCTURING COSTS
Grace recorded restructuring charges of $75.4 in 1996 and $129.8 in 1995
($49.0 and $85.1 after-tax, respectively).  Grace began implementing a
worldwide program in 1995 to streamline processes and reduce general and
administrative expenses, factory administration costs and noncore corporate
research and development expenses.  Under this program, Grace has implemented,
and expects to further implement, additional cost reductions and efficiency
improvements, as it further evaluates and reengineers its operations.  In
connection with these actions, Grace recorded pretax charges of $53.7 and
$21.7 in the second and fourth quarters of 1996, respectively.  These charges
primarily relate to headcount reductions, the restructuring of Grace's
European packaging operations (in areas such as working capital management,
manufacturing and sales) and the further restructuring of Grace's corporate
research activities, certain of which are now conducted at product line
facilities.

                                    F-12



     The components of the 1996 and 1995 restructuring charges, spending and
other activity during 1995 and 1996, and the remaining reserve balances at
December 31, 1996, were as follows:






Employee termination benefits primarily represent severance pay and other
benefits (including benefits under long-term incentive programs paid over
time) associated with the elimination of approximately 1,300 positions
worldwide, with more than 60% of the eliminated positions coming from
worldwide corporate staff functions and the restructuring of Grace's worldwide
packaging operations.  Through December 31, 1996, approximately 800 positions
had been eliminated worldwide.

ASSET IMPAIRMENTS
During 1996 and 1995, Grace determined that, due to various events and changes
in circumstances (including the worldwide restructuring programs described
above), certain long-lived assets and related goodwill were impaired.  As a
result, in the fourth quarters of 1996 and 1995, Grace recorded noncash pretax
charges of $32.1 and $39.2, respectively ($20.9 and $26.6 after-tax,
respectively), the majority of which related to assets that will continue to
be held and used in Grace's packaging and specialty chemicals businesses.  The
components of the 1996 and 1995 charges were (a) goodwill and other
intangibles of $11.1 and $4.7, respectively; (b) properties and equipment of
$9.0 and $20.0, respectively; (c) long-term investments of $6.7 and $8.6,
respectively; and (d) other assets of $5.3 and $5.9, respectively.  Grace
determined the amounts of the charges based on various valuation techniques,
including discounted cash flow, replacement cost and net realizable value for
assets to be disposed of, as prescribed by SFAS No. 121.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

5.  INCOME TAXES
===============================================================================

Grace applies SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," which specifies an
asset and liability approach requiring the recognition of deferred tax assets
and liabilities with respect to the expected future tax consequences of events
that have been recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements and tax
returns.  If it is more likely than not that all or a portion of deferred tax
assets will not be realized, a valuation allowance is provided against such
deferred tax assets.
     The components of income/(loss) from continuing operations before income
taxes and the related provision for/(benefit from)
income taxes are as follows:







                                    F-13



The components of income/(loss) from consolidated operations before income
taxes and the related provision for/(benefit from) income taxes are as
follows:







At December 31, 1996 and 1995, deferred tax assets and liabilities consisted
of the following items:





The valuation allowance shown above arises from uncertainty as to the
realization of certain deferred tax assets, primarily state and local net
operating loss carryforwards and net deferred tax assets.  Tax planning
strategies during 1996 enabled Grace to reverse the valuation allowance on tax
credit carryforwards during the year.  Based upon anticipated future results,
Grace has concluded that it is more likely than not that the remaining balance
of the net deferred tax assets, after consideration of the valuation
allowance, will be realized.
     At December 31, 1996, there were $31.9 of tax credit carryforwards with
expiration dates through 2001.  Additionally, there were foreign net operating
loss carryforwards with a tax benefit of $37.0 having various expiration
dates.
     The U.S. federal corporate tax rate reconciles to the effective tax rate
for continuing operations as follows:






                                    F-14




U.S. state and local and foreign taxes have not been provided on approximately
$236.4 of undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries, as such
earnings are expected to be retained indefinitely by such subsidiaries for
reinvestment.  The distribution of these earnings would result in additional
foreign withholding taxes of approximately $22.5 and additional U.S. federal
income taxes to the extent they are not offset by foreign tax credits.  It is
not practicable to estimate the total tax liability that would be incurred
upon such a distribution.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

6.  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
===============================================================================

HEALTH CARE

NMC
As discussed in Note 1, Grace New York completed the distribution of the
Company's common stock and the combination of NMC with the worldwide dialysis
business of Fresenius in September 1996.  Prior to the completion of these
transactions, Grace received a tax-free distribution from NMC of approximately
$2,300 (consisting of cash and the assumption of debt).  As part of these
transactions, for each Grace New York common share outstanding at the close of
trading on September 27, 1996, Grace New York shareholders received one share
of a new class of Grace New York preferred stock and 1.04909 American
Depositary Shares (ADS), each representing one-third of an ordinary share of
FMC (which ADSs collectively represent approximately 44.8% of FMC's common
equity).
     The distribution of approximately $2,300, along with the 44.8% common
equity interest in FMC, valued at approximately $2,200 (based upon the number
of ADSs and their initial price per share on September 30, 1996), resulted in
a transaction valued at approximately $4,500.  That amount, less Grace New
York's investment in NMC and transaction costs, resulted in a tax-free gain to
Grace of approximately $2,500, in discontinued operations.  The 44.8% common
equity interest in FMC is reflected as a dividend of approximately $2,200
within the Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity.
     In connection with these transactions, NMC borrowed approximately $2,500
under a stand-alone credit agreement, primarily to fund the distribution to
Grace.  Grace guaranteed $950.0 of this borrowing, but the guarantee was
released as to $800.0 in November 1996 and the balance in December 1996.
     Under the terms of the transactions, NMC will remain responsible for all
liabilities, if any, resulting from the previously reported investigation by
the Office of the Inspector General (OIG) of the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services and certain related matters.  In July 1996, an agreement was
entered into with the U.S. government under which, subject to certain
conditions and limitations, (a) FMC and Grace New York guaranteed the payment
of the obligations, if any, of NMC to the U.S. government in respect of the
OIG investigation and another proceeding; (b) Grace guaranteed the obligations
of FMC under the foregoing guarantee with respect to acts and transactions
that took place prior to the consummation of the transaction (but only if such
obligations become due and payable and remain uncollected for 120 days); and
(c) NMC delivered a standby letter of credit in the principal amount of $150.0
in favor of the U.S. government to support its payment of such obligations.
     See Notes 7 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements included in
the Prospectus, and "Business of Fresenius Medical Care -- Regulatory and
Legal Matters -- Legal and Regulatory Proceedings -- OIG Investigation" and
"-- OIG Agreements" in the Joint Proxy Statement-Prospectus, for additional
information.

Amicon
On December 31, 1996, Grace completed the sale of Amicon, resulting in a
pretax gain of $70.4 and an after-tax gain of $40.0 ($0.44 per common share of
the Company).  The sale price was $125.0 (inclusive of debt assumed), subject
to a post-closing working capital adjustment; $6.5 was paid at closing and the
balance was paid in January 1997.

COCOA
Grace's cocoa business was classified as a discontinued operation in 1993.
During the fourth quarter of 1995, Grace revised the divestment plan for the
business.  The revised plan focused on the improvement of operating cash flow
through the adoption of new strategies and a new global organizational
structure, while better positioning the business for outright sale.  As a
result of this revised divestment plan, Grace recorded an additional provision
of $151.3 (net of an applicable tax effect of $48.7) related to the cocoa
business and other remaining discontinued operations.  In December 1996, Grace
announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to sell the cocoa
business to Archer-Daniels-Midland Company.  As a result, in the fourth
quarter of 1996, Grace reassessed its estimated loss on the divestment of the
business and reversed previously recorded provisions of $31.9 (net of an
applicable tax effect of $18.1), within income from discontinued operations.
The divestment of the cocoa business was completed in February 1997 with Grace
receiving $470.0 (inclusive of debt assumed by the buyer), subject to
adjustment.

OTHER
In the fourth quarter of 1996, Grace classified its thermal and emission
control systems business (TEC Systems) as a discontinued operation.  In
connection with classifying TEC Systems as a discontinued operation, Grace
recorded a provision of $4.6 (net of an applicable tax benefit of $2.4)
related to TEC Systems' anticipated net operating results through the expected
date of divestment, as well as the loss anticipated on the divestment.

                                    F-15


     In May 1996, Grace completed the sale of the transgenic plant business of
its Agracetus subsidiary to the Monsanto Company for $150.0, resulting in a
pretax gain of $129.0 ($79.4 after-tax, or $0.86 per common share of the
Company).  Additionally, in March 1996, Grace sold its microwave business for
gross proceeds of $3.9.

     In February 1995, Grace sold its composite materials business for gross
proceeds of $3.0.  During 1994, Grace sold its battery separators business and
a portion of its engineered materials and systems businesses for gross
proceeds of $316.2, approximating prior estimates. Grace also sold its animal
genetics and Caribbean fertilizer operations in 1994 for proceeds of $44.1.
In 1994, Grace also sold substantially all of its interests in Colowyo Coal
Company (Colowyo) for proceeds of $218.3, including $192.8 of proceeds from a
nonrecourse financing secured by a portion of the revenues from certain
long-term coal contracts.  Grace retained a limited partnership interest in
Colowyo, entitling it to share in the revenues from these coal contracts.
     These businesses were classified as discontinued operations in 1993
(other than TEC Systems in 1996 and Colowyo in 1992).

RESULTS OF DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
Losses from Grace's discontinued operations (other than its discontinued
health care operations and TEC Systems), subsequent to their classification as
such were $11.6 in 1996, $45.2 in 1995 and $14.2 in 1994. These amounts have
been charged against established reserves as adjusted in 1996 and 1995.
Results of Grace's discontinued operations that have not been charged against
previously established reserves are as follows:




(1)  Reflects an allocation of interest expense based on the ratio of the net
     assets of the health care businesses as compared to Grace's total
     capital.  The above operating results include interest expense
     allocations of $76.3, $93.5 and $60.4 for 1996, 1995 and 1994,
     respectively.

For financial reporting purposes, the assets, liabilities, results of
operations and cash flows of Grace Cocoa Associates, L.P. (LP) are included in
the Consolidated Financial Statements as a component of discontinued
operations, and the outside investors' former interests in LP (at December 31,
1995) are reflected as a minority interest in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Grace purchased the minority interest during the fourth quarter of 1996 in
anticipation of the sale of the cocoa business.
     The net assets of Grace's remaining discontinued operations (excluding
intercompany assets) at December 31, 1996 are as
follows:







                                    F-16







In 1995, Grace entered into agreements to sell up to $300.0 of interests in
designated pools of trade receivables ($180.0 pertaining to NMC).  At December
31, 1995, $295.8 had been received pursuant to such sales ($179.8 pertaining
to NMC); these amounts were reflected as reductions to trade accounts
receivable.  Under the terms of these agreements, new interests in trade
receivables were sold as collections reduced previously sold trade
receivables.  While only interests in designated pools of trade receivables
were sold, the entire designated pools were available as the sole recourse
with respect to the interests sold.  There was no further recourse to Grace,
nor was Grace required to repurchase any of the trade receivables in the
pools.  The costs related to such sales were expensed as incurred and recorded
as interest expense and related financing costs.  There were no gains or
losses on these transactions. These agreements were terminated as to Grace in
connection with the NMC transaction discussed in Note 6.
     Inventories valued at LIFO cost comprised 26.6% and 21.6% of total
inventories at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  The liquidation of
prior years' LIFO inventory layers in 1996, 1995 and 1994 did not materially
affect the cost of goods sold in any of these years.




Interest costs are incurred in connection with the financing of certain assets
prior to placing them in service.  Interest costs capitalized in 1996, 1995
and 1994 were $23.5, $21.3 and $9.4, respectively.
     Depreciation and lease amortization expense relating to properties and
equipment amounted to $179.7, $179.5 and $157.9 in 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.
     Grace's rental expense for operating leases amounted to $25.6, $25.7 and
$28.8 in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  See Note 11 for information
regarding contingent rentals.

  
                                     F-17



     At December 31, 1996, minimum future payments for operating leases are:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     
The above minimum lease payments reflect anticipated sublease income of $12.3
per year for 1997 through 2001 and a total of $17.5 in later years.




(1)  Under bank revolving credit agreements in effect at year-end 1996, Grace
     may borrow up to $1,000.0 at interest rates based upon the prevailing
     prime, federal funds and/or Eurodollar rates.  Of that amount, $650.0 is
     available under short-term facilities expiring on May 16, 1997, unless
     extended, and $350.0 is available under a long-term facility expiring in
     September 1999.  These agreements also support the issuance of commercial
     paper and bank borrowings, $528.7 of which was outstanding at December
     31, 1996 (included in both short-term debt and long-term debt above).  At
     December 31, 1996, the aggregate amount of net unused and unreserved
     borrowings under short-term and long-term facilities was $471.3.  Grace's
     ability to borrow under its existing facilities is subject to compliance
     with various covenants, including covenants requiring maintenance of
     total debt to total capitalization and interest coverage ratios.
(2)  Represents borrowings under various lines of credit and other
     miscellaneous borrowings, primarily of non-U.S. subsidiaries.
(3)  During the third quarter of 1994, Grace sold $300.0 of 8.0% notes due
     2004 at an initial public offering price of 99.794% of par, to yield
     8.03%.  During the first quarter of 1993, Grace sold at par $300.0 of
     7.4% notes due 2000.  During 1992, Grace sold at par $150.0 of 7.75%
     notes due 2002.  Interest on all three series of notes is payable
     semiannually, and the notes may not be redeemed prior to maturity;
     however, Grace has repurchased notes from time to time in response to
     unsolicited offers.
(4)  During the second quarter of 1995, Grace entered into a three-year term
     loan agreement maturing on April 24, 1998.  The agreement provided for
     interest at a Eurodollar floating rate, payable semiannually.  Grace's
     borrowings under this agreement were repaid in October 1996 with proceeds
     from the NMC transaction discussed in Note 6, and the agreement was
     terminated.
(5)  The Medium-Term Notes (MTNs) bear interest at either fixed or floating
     rates and have maturity dates through July 19, 1999.  Interest on each
     fixed-rate MTN is payable semiannually, and interest on each
     floating-rate MTN is payable either monthly or quarterly, depending on
     the issue.
(6)  Computation includes interest expense allocated to discontinued
     operations.

Scheduled maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 1996 are:
1997 - $105.5; 1998 - $9.0; 1999 - $350.5;  2000 - $316.9; 2001 - $.5; and
thereafter - $396.1.  Payment of a majority of Grace's borrowings may be
accelerated, and its principal borrowing agreements terminated, upon the
occurrence of a default under other Grace borrowings.
     Total interest expense and financing costs, including amounts allocated
to discontinued operations, were $147.9 for 1996, $164.8 for 1995 and $109.9
for 1994.  Including amounts allocated to discontinued operations, interest
payments made in 1996, 1995 and 1994, excluding related financing costs,
amounted to $154.4, $183.1 and $101.8, respectively.


                                     F-18



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

10. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
================================================================================

DEBT AND INTEREST RATE SWAP AGREEMENTS
Grace's debt and interest rate management objective is to reduce the cost of
borrowing over the long term.  This debt management strategy emphasizes
maintaining borrowing liquidity by developing and maintaining access to a
variety of long-term and short-term capital markets.  Grace's interest rate
profile is managed separately by using interest rate swap agreements to modify
the rate profile of the underlying debt.  Most of Grace's interest rate swap
agreements currently have the effect of converting fixed-rate term debt into
variable-rate debt based on LIBOR.  Grace enters into only standard swap
agreements that have readily quantifiable impacts on interest cost and are
characterized by broad market liquidity.  The maturities and notional amounts
of interest rate swap agreements generally match the underlying debt,
resulting in changes in the fair value of these interest rate swap agreements
being substantially offset by changes in the fair value of the debt.  Grace
does not use derivative financial instruments (interest rate or foreign
currency) for trading purposes and is not a party to leveraged instruments.
     At December 31, 1996 and 1995, the notional amounts of interest rate swap
agreements that convert fixed-rate debt to variable-rate were $505.5 and
$1,157.5, respectively, and the notional amounts of interest rate swap
agreements that convert variable-rate debt to fixed-rate were $36.0 and
$626.0, respectively.  Notional amounts are used in calculating the amounts
paid or received under interest rate swap agreements but do not represent
assets or liabilities of Grace or provide a meaningful estimate of risk.
     During 1996 and 1995, Grace realized negative cash flows from interest
rate swap agreements of $13.5 and $16.5, respectively.  In addition, interest
expense was reduced by $8.9 and $11.1 in 1996 and 1995, respectively, due to
the amortization of deferred gains on interest rate agreements.  Unamortized
net gains as of December 31, 1996 and 1995 were $22.8 and $31.7, respectively.

FAIR VALUE OF INTEREST RATE SWAP AGREEMENTS, DEBT AND OTHER FINANCIAL
INSTRUMENTS
At December 31, 1996 and 1995, Grace would have been required to pay net
amounts of $34.7 and $32.5, respectively, to terminate its interest rate swap
agreements.  At those dates, the fair values of Grace's long-term debt were
$1,207.1 and $1,361.1, respectively (as compared to recorded values of
$1,178.5 and $1,317.7, respectively).  Fair value is determined based on
expected future cash flows (discounted at market interest rates), quotes from
financial institutions and other appropriate valuation methodologies.  At
December 31, 1996 and 1995, the recorded values of other financial instruments
such as cash, short-term investments, trade receivables and payables and
short-term debt approximated their fair values, based on the short-term
maturities and floating rate characteristics of these instruments.

FOREIGN CURRENCY CONTRACTS
Grace conducts business in a wide variety of currencies and consequently
enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to manage its
exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.  These contracts
generally involve the exchange of one currency for another at a future date.
At December 31, 1996 and 1995, Grace had notional amounts of approximately
$50.2 and $45.5, respectively, in contracts to buy or sell foreign currencies
in the future.

CREDIT RISK
Grace is exposed to credit risk to the extent of potential nonperformance by
counterparties to financial instruments.  The counterparties to Grace's
interest rate swap agreements and foreign exchange contracts comprise a
diversified group of major financial institutions, all of which are rated
investment grade.  Credit risk is further reduced by bilateral netting
agreements between Grace and its counterparties.  At December 31, 1996,
Grace's credit exposure was not significant and was limited to the fair values
of these instruments; Grace believes the risk of incurring losses due to
credit risk is remote.

MARKET RISK
Exposure to market risk on financial instruments results from fluctuations in
interest and currency rates during the periods in which the contracts are
outstanding.  The mark-to-market valuations of interest rate and foreign
exchange agreements and associated underlying exposures are closely monitored
at all times.  Grace uses portfolio sensitivities and stress tests to monitor
risk.  Overall financial strategies and the effects of using derivatives are
reviewed periodically.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

11.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
================================================================================

ENVIRONMENTAL
     Grace is subject to loss contingencies resulting from environmental laws
and regulations.  Grace accrues for anticipated costs associated with
investigatory and remediation efforts where an assessment has indicated that a
loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated.  These accruals do not take
into account any discounting for the time value of money.  At December 31,
1996, Grace's liability for environmental investigatory and remediation costs
related to continuing and discontinued operations totaled $256.4, as compared
to $280.3 at December 31, 1995.  These amounts reflect provisions of $77.0
($50.0 after-tax) recorded in the fourth quarter of 1995 and $40.0 ($26.0
after-tax) recorded in the first quarter of 1994, which are reflected in the
Consolidated Statement of Operations as

                                     F-19



part of cost of goods sold and operating expenses.  The 1995 provision related
principally to increased cost estimates associated with five former
manufacturing sites.  Grace is in litigation with certain excess insurance
carriers regarding the applicability of the carriers' policies to
environmental remediation costs; given the uncertainties inherent in this
litigation, Grace has not recorded a receivable with respect to such insurance
coverage (except in one instance where a settlement with a carrier has been
reached).
     Grace made cash payments of $20.3 in 1996, $31.3 in 1995 and $30.8 in
1994 to remediate environmentally impaired sites.  These amounts have been
charged against previously established reserves.  Grace's environmental
liabilities are reassessed whenever circumstances become better defined and/or
remediation efforts and their costs can be better estimated.  These
liabilities are currently evaluated quarterly, based on available information,
including the progress of remedial investigation at each site, the current
status of discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the method and
extent of remediation at each site and the apportionment of costs among
potentially responsible parties.  As some of these issues are decided (the
outcomes of which are subject to uncertainties) and/or new sites are assessed
and costs can be reasonably estimated, Grace will continue to review and
analyze the need for adjustments to the recorded accruals.  However, Grace
believes that it is adequately reserved for all probable and estimable
environmental exposures.  Grace's classification of its environmental reserves
between current and noncurrent liabilities is considered appropriate in
relation to expected future cash outlays.

CONTINGENT RENTALS
     Grace is the named tenant or guarantor with respect to leases entered
into by previously divested businesses.  These leases, some of which extend
through the year 2017, have future minimum lease payments aggregating $203.1,
offset by $201.8 of anticipated future minimum rental income from existing
tenants and subtenants.  In addition, Grace is liable for other expenses
(primarily property taxes) relating to the above leases; these expenses are
paid by tenants and subtenants.  Grace believes that the risk of significant
loss from these lease obligations is remote.  However, a significant portion
of the rental income and other expenses is payable by tenants and subtenants
that have filed for bankruptcy protection or are otherwise experiencing
financial difficulties.  Further, Grace may incur losses as a result of
unforeseen developments that can not be reasonably estimated.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

12.  MINORITY INTEREST
================================================================================

Minority interest in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31,
1995 consisted of a limited partnership interest in LP (see Note 6).  Four
Grace entities served as general partners of LP, and its sole limited partner
acquired its interest in exchange for a $300.0 cash capital contribution
($297.0 of which was funded by outside investors).  In November 1996, Grace
purchased the limited partnership interest.  For financial reporting purposes,
the assets, liabilities, results of operations and cash flows of LP were
included in Grace's Consolidated Financial Statements as a component of
discontinued operations and the limited partnership interest was reflected as
a minority interest.  At December 31, 1995, the assets of LP consisted of
Grace's worldwide cocoa business and long-term notes and demand notes due from
or guaranteed by Grace.  Grace sold its cocoa business in February 1997.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

13.  SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
================================================================================

Under its Certificate of Incorporation, the Company is authorized to issue
300,000,000 shares of common stock, $.01 par value.  Of the common stock
unissued at December 31, 1996, approximately 13,190,000 shares were reserved
for issuance pursuant to stock options and other stock incentives.  The
Certificate of Incorporation also authorizes 53,000,000 shares of preferred
stock, $.01 par value, none of which has been issued.  3,000,000 of such
shares have been designated Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and
are reserved for issuance in connection with the Company's Preferred Stock
Purchase Rights (Rights).  A Right trades together with each outstanding share
of common stock and entitles the holder to purchase one hundredth of a share
of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock under certain circumstances
and subject to certain conditions.  The Rights are not and will not become
exercisable unless and until certain events occur, and at no time will the
Rights have any voting power.
     Grace New York initiated a share repurchase program in April 1996.
Through September 27, 1996, Grace New York acquired 9,864,800 shares of its
common stock under this program for $727.1, or an average price of
approximately $73.70 per share.  From September 28, 1996 (see Note 1) through
December 31, 1996, the Company acquired 11,193,700 shares of its common stock
for $592.2, or an average purchase price of $52.90 per share.  Prior to
year-end 1996, the Company retired substantially all of these shares of
treasury stock using the cost method.  The weighted average number of shares
of common stock outstanding during 1996 was 91,976,000 (1995 - 95,822,000;
1994 - 93,936,000).
     Dividends paid on the Grace New York preferred stocks issued and
outstanding prior to the NMC transaction, as discussed in Notes 1 and 6,
amounted to $.4 in 1996 and $.5 in each of 1995 and 1994.

                                     F-20





- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

14.  STOCK INCENTIVE PLANS
================================================================================

Each stock option granted under the Company's stock incentive plans has an
exercise price equal to the fair market value of the Company's common stock on
the date of grant.  Options become exercisable at the time or times determined
by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors and may have
terms of up to ten years and one month.  In connection with the transactions
described in Notes 1 and 6, the number of shares covered by outstanding
options and the exercise prices of such options were adjusted to preserve
their economic value.  The following table sets forth information relating to
such options, as so adjusted:





At December 31, 1996, options covering 3,994,828 shares (1995 - 6,477,637;
1994 - 8,746,414) were exercisable and 6,975,000 shares (1995 - 2,970,186;
1994 - 5,506,863) were available for additional grants.  Currently outstanding
options expire on various dates through October 2006.
     The Company has adopted SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation."  As permitted by SFAS No. 123, the Company continues to follow
the measurement provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and does not recognize
compensation expense for its stock-based incentive plans.  Had compensation
cost for the Company's stock-based incentive compensation plans been
determined based on the fair value at the grant dates for awards under those
plans consistent with the methodology prescribed by SFAS No. 123, the
Company's net income and earnings per share for 1996 and 1995 would have been
reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below.







These pro forma amounts may not be indicative of future pro forma income and
earnings per share.
     The fair value of each option is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model, with the following historical weighted
average assumptions applied to grants in 1996 and 1995:



Based upon the above assumptions, the weighted-average fair value of options
granted during 1996 and 1995 was $14.00 and $7.00, respectively.

                                     F-21

                                       



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

15.  PENSION PLANS
================================================================================

Grace maintains defined benefit pension plans covering employees of certain
units who meet age and service requirements.  Benefits are generally based on
final average salary and years of service.  Grace funds its U.S. pension plans
in accordance with U.S. federal laws and regulations.  Non-U.S. pension plans
are funded under a variety of methods as required under differing local laws
and customs and, therefore, cannot be summarized.  Approximately 60% of U.S.
and non-U.S. plan assets at December 31, 1996 were common stocks, with the
remainder primarily fixed-income securities.

    Pension cost/(benefit) is comprised of the following components: 




(1) As a result of selling its water treatment and process chemicals business
    in 1996, Grace's U.S. and non-U.S. plans recognized curtailment gains of 
    $1.3 and $6.3, respectively.

The funded status of these plans was as follows:






The following significant assumptions were used in 1996, 1995 and 1994:




                                    F-22







- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

16.  OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS
================================================================================

Grace provides certain other postretirement health care and life insurance
benefits for retired employees of specified U.S. units.  These retiree medical
and life insurance plans provide various levels of benefits to employees
(depending on their dates of hire) who retire from Grace after age 55 with at
least 10 years of service.  The plans are currently unfunded.
     Grace applies SFAS No. 106, which requires the accrual method of
accounting for the future costs of postretirement health care and life
insurance benefits over the employees' years of service.  Grace pays the costs
of postretirement benefits as they are incurred.
     Included in other liabilities as of December 31, 1996 and 1995 are the
following:






Net periodic postretirement benefit cost for 1996, 1995 and 1994 is 
comprised of the following components:



During 1996, Grace's retiree medical plans were amended to enhance benefits to
retirees effective January 1, 1997.  This amendment, including a previous plan
amendment, decreased the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by
$32.8 at December 31, 1996 and will be amortized over an average remaining
future service life of approximately 10 years.
     Medical care cost trend rates were projected at 9.2% in 1996, declining
to 6.0% through 2001 and remaining level thereafter.  An increase of one
percentage point in each year's assumed medical care cost trend rate, holding
all other assumptions constant, would increase the annual net periodic
postretirement benefit cost by $2.3 and the accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation by $19.9.  The discount rates at December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
were 8.0%, 7.3% and 8.5%, respectively.
     Effective January 1, 1994, Grace adopted SFAS No. 112, "Employers'
Accounting for Postemployment Benefits," which requires accrual accounting for
nonaccumulating postemployment benefits.  Grace's primary postemployment
obligation is for disabled workers' medical benefits; these are currently
included in accrued postretirement costs under SFAS No. 106.  The adoption of
SFAS No. 112 did not have a material effect on Grace's results of operations
or financial position.

                                     F-23





- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

17.  GEOGRAPHIC AREA INFORMATION
===============================================================================

The table below presents information related to Grace's continuing operations
by geographic region for the years 1996 -1994.




Pretax operating income and identifiable assets are reconciled below to
income/(loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and total assets,
respectively, as presented in the Consolidated Statement of Operations and the
Consolidated Balance Sheet.





(1)  Includes (a) 1996, 1995 and 1994 pretax provisions of $229, $275 and
     $316, respectively, relating to asbestos-related liabilities and
     insurance coverage (see Note 2); and (b) 1996 and 1995 pretax charges of
     $90 and $87, respectively, relating to restructuring costs, asset
     impairments and other costs (see Note 4).
(2)  Corporate interest and financing costs and nonallocable expenses are not
     reflected in pretax operating income because significant financing
     decisions are centralized at the corporate level.  Other
     income/(expenses), net includes interest income relating to the
     settlement of prior years' federal income tax returns of $7.5 and $9.8 in
     1996 and 1995, respectively.
(3)  Includes asbestos-related receivables and settlements due from insurance
     carriers, net of discounts, of $331 and $49, respectively, in 1996; $321
     and $118, respectively, in 1995; and $513 and $187, respectively, in
     1994.
(4)  General corporate assets consist principally of deferred tax assets,
     prepaid pension costs and corporate receivables and investments.  At
     December 31, 1996, general corporate assets include $215.6 of receivables
     from the sales of Amicon and Grace's water treatment and process
     chemicals business.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

18. SUBSEQUENT EVENT
================================================================================

In February 1997, Grace announced that it had entered into an agreement to
sell its specialty polymers business to National Starch and Chemical Company
for $147.0, subject to adjustment.  The transaction is expected to be
completed in the second quarter of 1997.

                                     F-24





(1)  Principal market:  New York Stock Exchange.  The stock prices for 1995
     and the first nine months of 1996 have been adjusted so that they are on
     a basis comparable to the stock prices following the disposition of NMC.




(1) Excludes capital expenditures of discontinued operations subsequent to
    their classification as such.
(2) Certain 1995 and 1994 amounts have been reclassified to conform to the
    1996 presentation.


                                     F-25










(1) Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 1996
    presentation.
(2) Income from continuing operations before special items reconciles to
    income/(loss) from continuing operations as follows:




     The special items included in the foregoing table also have been excluded 
     in determining earnings per common share from continuing operations before
     special items.
(3)  Comprised of income from operations of $13.5, $5.0 and $118.4 in 1996,
     1995 and 1994, respectively.  1996 also includes (a) the gain of $2,603.1
     on the dispositions of NMC, Amicon and Agracetus and (b) a $31.9 reversal
     of a previously recorded provision for Grace's cocoa business, partially
     offset by (c) the charge of $4.6 recorded in connection with the
     classification of TEC Systems as a discontinued operation.  1995 includes
     a provision of $151.3 relating to Grace's remaining discontinued
     operations, primarily Grace's cocoa business.
(4)  The stock prices for 1995 - 1992 and the first nine months of 1996 have
     been adjusted so that they are on a basis comparable to the stock prices
     following the disposition of NMC.

                                     F-26


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
CONDITION

REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
OVERVIEW

Sales and revenues decreased 3% in 1996 versus 1995, and increased 14% in
1995 over 1994.  Excluding divested businesses from all periods, sales and
revenues increased 3% in 1996 over 1995 and 14% in 1995 over 1994.
     Pretax income/(loss) from continuing operations was $348.6 million in
1996, $(284.1) million in 1995 and $(77.7) million in 1994.  As noted in the
table below, pretax income/(loss) from continuing operations for all three
years was affected by various special items.  Grace's 1996 pretax operating
income before special items of $419.4 million increased 14% over 1995, and
1995 pretax operating income before special items of $367.4 million
increased 19% over 1994.  Excluding divested businesses, pretax operating
income before special items increased 12% in 1996 over 1995 and 20% in 1995
over 1994.
     For all periods presented, pretax operating results have been restated
to reflect the classification of certain businesses as discontinued
operations.




(1)  Primarily reflects Grace's water treatment and process chemicals
     business, divested in June 1996.
(2)  Reflects the allocation of general corporate overhead, general
     corporate research expenses and certain other income and expense items
     that can be identified with continuing operations.
(3)  Corporate interest and financing costs and nonallocable expenses are
     not reflected in pretax operating income from continuing operations
     because significant financing decisions are centralized at the
     corporate level.  Other income/(expenses), net includes interest income
     relating to the settlement of prior years' federal income tax returns
     of $7.5 million in 1996 and $9.8 million in 1995.







(1) Primarily reflects Grace's specialty polymers business, which is
    expected to be divested in 1997.

                                     F-27



SALES AND REVENUES

As noted in the preceding table, sales and revenues (excluding divested
businesses) increased 3% in 1996 over 1995, reflecting a favorable volume
variance estimated at 5% (with increased volumes in all core product lines),
offset by unfavorable price/product mix and currency translation variances
estimated at 1% each.  The following is a discussion of the sales and
revenues of Grace's product lines.

PACKAGING
- ---------
1996 sales increased 3% over 1995, a year in which sales increased 19% over
1994.  1996 laminate sales increased in all regions, particularly in Latin
America and Asia Pacific due to market share growth, and in North America
primarily due to a strong fourth quarter in the rollstock and processed and
prepared foods market segments.  1996 sales growth in bags was modest
overall.  Sales volumes in bags increased in Latin America due to economic
improvement in Argentina, increased cattle slaughter rates in Uruguay and
higher per capita beef consumption in Brazil.  Growth in North American bag
sales, due to continued penetration of TBG (total boneguard) bags in the
fresh red meat segment, was partially offset by lower volumes in the meat
producing and processing industries, as higher corn prices led to reductions
in beef herds, which in turn drove down volumes.  Sales of bags in Asia
Pacific and Europe were flat, as the negative effects of reduced beef
consumption due to consumer fears associated with the outbreak of E. coli
bacteria and the publicity surrounding bovine spongiform encephalopathy in
the United Kingdom --- commonly referred to as "mad cow disease" --- were
partially offset by the positive effects of increased consumption of other
fresh red meats, poultry and fish.  Film sales in 1996 were flat, as sales
growth in Europe was offset by sales declines in North America and Asia
Pacific due to continued pricing pressures.  The improvement in Europe
resulted from growth in demand in the U.K. bakery market segment and higher
sales from new product introductions.

CONTAINER
- ---------
Sales decreased slightly in 1996 versus 1995, as sales declines in closure
compounds (due to lower consumer demand for beverage products in Europe and
a decrease in market share in Asia Pacific) were partially offset by volume
increases from improved market penetration of can coating products in Latin
America (primarily due to the 1996 acquisition of Bayem S.A. de C.V., a
Mexican producer of can coatings and closure sealants for the rigid
container industry).  North American container sales were up slightly due to
strong sales of can sealing compounds.

CATALYSTS AND OTHER SILICA-BASED PRODUCTS
- -----------------------------------------
1996 sales of catalysts and other silica-based products benefited from
continued expansion into new markets and the introduction of
higher-value-added products and new technologies, partially offset by
competitive pricing pressures.  Volumes increased in all regions, especially
in Asia Pacific due to an increase in market share in refinery catalysts.
However, in Europe and North America, refinery catalyst sales continued to
be negatively impacted by competitive pricing pressures.  Polyolefin
catalyst sales were positively impacted by the strong resin market, and
silica/adsorbent sales benefited from new product applications in Europe and
Asia Pacific.

CONSTRUCTION
- ------------
Sales increased in all regions and within all product lines, especially in
North America, where volumes in concrete and waterproofing products
benefited from growth in housing starts and infrastructure projects.  Also
significantly contributing to the increase was the positive impact of an
increase in market share for fire protection and concrete products in Asia
Pacific.  Sales also have risen due to the introduction of new products.

OPERATING RESULTS - 1996 COMPARED TO 1995
- -----------------------------------------
Pretax operating income before special items (excluding divested businesses)
increased 12% in 1996 as compared to 1995, as cost management programs
continued to favorably impact results across all regions and product lines.
As further discussed below under "Statement of Operations: Restructuring
Costs, Asset Impairments and Other Costs," Grace has implemented a worldwide
program to streamline processes and reduce general and administrative
expenses, factory administration costs and noncore corporate research and
development expenses.  In addition, North American results in 1996 were
positively affected by sales volume increases in construction products and
bags and laminates, partially offset by a decline in refinery catalyst
sales.  European results were favorably impacted by volume increases in
construction products and silicas/adsorbents.  In Asia Pacific, results
declined, reflecting lower pricing and an unfavorable product mix in bags,
and volume declines in closure compounds, partially offset by volume
increases in construction products and refinery and polyolefin catalysts, as
discussed above.  Also affecting 1996 results were higher expenses
associated with the start-up of new silica and packaging plants in Kuantan,
Malaysia.  Latin American results were favorably impacted by volume
increases in bags and can coating products, as discussed above.

OPERATING RESULTS - 1995 COMPARED TO 1994
- -----------------------------------------
As noted above, sales and revenues (excluding divested businesses) increased
14% in 1995 over 1994, reflecting favorable volume, price/product mix and
currency translation variances estimated at 10%, 1% and 3%, respectively.
Pretax operating income before special items (excluding divested businesses)
increased 20% in 1995 over 1994.  Volumes increased in all core product
lines.  Packaging volume increases reflected higher sales of bags, films and
laminates in all regions, other than laminates in Latin America.  Container
volume increases resulted from increased sales of can sealing products in
Asia Pacific and coating products in Latin

                                     F-28


America.  Volume increases in catalysts and other silica-based products
reflected higher sales in all regions, especially refinery catalysts in Asia
Pacific and Europe, and silica/adsorbent products in Europe and Asia
Pacific.  North American operations experienced reduced profitability in
refinery catalysts; refiners continued to experience low margins, as the
narrow spread between light and heavy crude oil prices led customers to
crack higher-quality light crude (which requires fewer catalysts).
Construction products experienced volume increases, primarily in Asia
Pacific due to increased construction activity, partially offset by volume
decreases in fire protection products in North America (due to a small
market share decline) and waterproofing products in North America and Europe
(due to higher material costs and a slowdown in the nonresidential
construction market).  Operating income before taxes also benefited from an
economic recovery in Europe that revitalized key markets and the absence of
costs incurred in 1994 to streamline European packaging and container
operations, partially offset by higher operating costs incurred to increase
market share in the Asia Pacific region.

STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS

INTEREST EXPENSE AND RELATED FINANCING COSTS
- --------------------------------------------
Excluding amounts allocated to discontinued operations, interest expense and
related financing costs of $71.6 million in 1996 were flat versus 1995.
Including amounts allocated to discontinued operations, interest expense and
related financing costs decreased 10% in 1996 over 1995, to $147.9 million,
primarily due to lower average short-term interest rates.
     Grace's debt and interest rate management objectives are to reduce its
cost of funding over the long term.  To manage the interest profile on its
debt, Grace enters into interest rate agreements; during 1996 most of these
agreements effectively converted fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt.
These agreements have readily quantifiable impacts on interest cost and are
characterized by broad market liquidity.
     See "Financial Condition: Liquidity and Capital Resources" below for
further information on borrowings and interest rate agreements.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES
- ---------------------------------
Research and development spending decreased 16% in 1996 versus 1995.  The
decrease reflects the positive impact of cost management initiatives, primarily
the closing of Grace's corporate research facility, the transfer of core
research and development activities to existing product line facilities, and
the termination of activities not related to Grace's core packaging and
specialty chemicals businesses.  Research and development activities include
research in specialty packaging, catalysts, construction materials and process
engineering.

RESTRUCTURING COSTS, ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND OTHER COSTS
- ------------------------------------------------------

Restructuring Costs
- -------------------
Grace recorded restructuring charges of $75.4 million in 1996 and $129.8
million in 1995 ($49.0 million and $85.1 million after-tax, respectively).
Grace began implementing a worldwide program in 1995 to streamline processes
and reduce general and administrative expenses, factory administration costs
and noncore corporate research and development expenses.  Under this program
Grace has implemented, and expects to further implement, additional cost
reductions and efficiency improvements, as it further evaluates and
reengineers its operations.  In connection with these actions, Grace
recorded pretax charges of $53.7 million and $21.7 million in the second and
fourth quarters of 1996, respectively.  These charges primarily relate to
headcount reductions, the restructuring of Grace's European packaging
operations (in areas such as working capital management, manufacturing and
sales) and the further restructuring of Grace's corporate research
activities, certain of which are now conducted at product line facilities.
     The components of the 1996 and 1995 restructuring charges, spending and
other activity during 1995 and 1996, and the remaining reserve balances at
December 31, 1996, were as follows:



Employee termination benefits primarily represent severance pay and other
benefits (including benefits under long-term incentive programs paid over
time) associated with the elimination of approximately 1,300 positions
worldwide, with more than 60% of the eliminated positions coming from
worldwide corporate staff functions and the restructuring of Grace's
worldwide packaging operations.  Through December 31, 1996, approximately
800 positions had been eliminated worldwide.

                                     F-29




     Grace's estimated annual cost savings under the restructuring programs
are expected to total approximately $140 million when fully realized, with
approximately $100 million being realized annually as a result of the
actions taken through the end of 1996.  The remaining actions under the
programs are expected to be substantially implemented during 1997.

Asset Impairments
- -----------------
During 1996 and 1995, Grace determined that, due to various events and
changes in circumstances (including the worldwide restructuring programs
described above), certain long-lived assets and related goodwill were
impaired.  As a result, in the fourth quarters of 1996 and 1995, Grace
recorded noncash pretax charges of $32.1 million and $39.2 million,
respectively ($20.9 million and $26.6 million after-tax, respectively), the
majority of which related to assets that will continue to be held and used
in Grace's packaging and specialty chemicals businesses.  The components of
the 1996 and 1995 charges were (a) goodwill and other intangibles of $11.1
million and $4.7 million, respectively; (b) properties and equipment of $9.0
million and $20.0 million, respectively; (c) long-term investments of $6.7
million and $8.6 million, respectively; and (d) other assets of $5.3 million
and $5.9 million, respectively.  Grace determined the amounts of the charges
based on various valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow,
replacement cost and net realizable value for assets to be disposed.

Other Costs
- -----------
In the fourth quarter of 1995, Grace recorded pretax charges totaling $40.5
million ($25.9 million after-tax) relating to the write-down of corporate
assets ($27.0 million) and working capital assets ($13.5 million).

INCOME TAXES
- ------------
Grace's effective tax (benefit) rates were 38.7% in 1996, (36.8)% in 1995
and (54.8)% in 1994.  Excluding the special items shown in the table under
"Review of Operations: Overview" above, Grace's effective tax rates were
38.0%, 33.1% and 34.8% in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  The lower
effective tax rate in 1995 compared to 1996 was largely due to the reversal
in 1995 of a valuation allowance on foreign net operating losses.  The lower
effective tax rate in 1995 compared to 1994 was primarily due to the
reversal in 1995 of the valuation allowance on foreign net operating losses
and lower state income taxes, partially offset by higher taxes on foreign
operations.
     Grace has provided a valuation allowance relating to uncertainty as to
the realization of certain deferred tax assets, primarily state and local
net operating loss carryforwards and net deferred tax assets.  Tax planning
strategies during 1996 enabled Grace to reverse the valuation allowance on
tax credit carryforwards during the year.  Based on anticipated future
results, Grace has concluded that it is more likely than not that the
remaining balance of the net deferred tax assets, after consideration of the
valuation allowance, will be realized.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

HEALTH CARE
- -----------
During 1996, Grace completed the separation of National Medical Care, Inc.
(NMC) and sold its separations science business (Amicon).  These businesses,
representing Grace's principal health care businesses, had been classified
as discontinued operations in 1995.  1996 income from discontinued
operations of $2,643.9 million includes income of $24.8 million ($60.3
million pretax) from health care operations, a tax-free gain of
approximately $2.5 billion on the NMC transaction, and a gain of $40.0
million ($70.4 million pretax) on the sale of Amicon.  (Loss)/income from
discontinued operations of $(146.3) million in 1995 and $118.4 million in
1994 includes income from health care operations of $22.0 million ($104.6
million pretax) and $124.7 million ($227.1 million pretax), respectively.

COCOA
- -----
Grace's cocoa business was classified as a discontinued operation in 1993.
During the fourth quarter of 1995, Grace revised the divestment plan for the
business.  The revised plan focused on the improvement of operating cash
flow through the adoption of new strategies and a new global organizational
structure, while better positioning the business for outright sale.  As a
result of this revised divestment plan, Grace recorded an additional
provision of $151.3 million (net of an applicable tax effect of $48.7
million) related to the cocoa business and other remaining discontinued
operations. In December 1996, Grace announced that it had entered into a
definitive agreement to sell the cocoa business to Archer-Daniels-Midland
Company.  As a result, in the fourth quarter of 1996, Grace reassessed its
estimated loss on the divestment of the business and reversed previously
recorded provisions of $31.9 million (net of an applicable tax effect of
$18.1 million), within income from discontinued operations.  The divestment
of the cocoa business was completed in February 1997, with Grace receiving
$470.0 million (inclusive of debt assumed by the buyer), subject to
adjustment.

OTHER
- -----
In the fourth quarter of 1996, Grace classified its thermal and emission
control systems business (TEC Systems) as a discontinued operation.  In
connection with classifying TEC Systems as a discontinued operation, Grace
recorded a provision of $4.6 million (net of an applicable tax benefit of
$2.4 million) related to TEC Systems' anticipated net operating results
through the expected date of divestment, as well as the loss anticipated on
the divestment.
     In May 1996, Grace completed the sale of the transgenic plant business
of its Agracetus subsidiary to the Monsanto Company for $150.0 million,
resulting in a pretax gain of $129.0 million ($79.4 million after-tax, or
$0.86 per common share of the Company).  Additionally, in March 1996, Grace
sold its microwave business for gross proceeds of $3.9 million.

                                     F-30



     In February 1995, Grace sold its composite materials business for gross
proceeds of $3.0 million.  During 1994, Grace sold its battery separators
business and a portion of its engineered materials and systems businesses
for gross proceeds of $316.2 million, approximating prior estimates. Grace
also sold its animal genetics and Caribbean fertilizer operations in 1994
for proceeds of $44.1 million.  In 1994, Grace also sold substantially all
of its interests in Colowyo Coal Company (Colowyo) for proceeds of $218.3
million, including $192.8 million of proceeds from a nonrecourse financing
secured by a portion of the revenues from certain long-term coal contracts.
Grace retained a limited partnership interest in Colowyo, entitling it to
share in the revenues from these coal contracts.
     These businesses were classified as discontinued operations in 1993
(other than TEC Systems in 1996 and Colowyo in 1992).

FINANCIAL CONDITION

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
- -------------------------------
Grace's continuing operating activities provided net pretax cash of $355.6
million in 1996, versus $247.3 million in 1995.  The improved cash flow from
operations in 1996 was offset by the expenditure of $2.1 million for the
defense and disposition of asbestos-related property damage and personal
injury litigation, net of amounts received under settlements with insurance
carriers, compared to a cash inflow from asbestos-related litigation, net of
insurance recoveries, of $97.0 million in 1995.  After giving effect to the
net pretax cash provided by operating activities of discontinued operations
and payments of income taxes, the net cash provided by operating activities
increased $116.3 million in 1996 versus 1995.
     Investing activities provided $2,072.9 million of cash in 1996, largely
reflecting net cash proceeds of $2,720.3 million from divestments of
businesses.  This excluded (a) $100.0 million received in January 1997 on
the 1996 sale of the water treatment and process chemicals business; and (b)
$115.6 million received in January 1997 on the 1996 sale of Amicon.  Grace
made capital expenditures of $456.6 million in 1996, primarily related to
the packaging and catalysts and other silica-based products businesses.
Also, net investing activities of discontinued operations for 1996 used
$192.9 million of cash (compared to $295.2 million in 1995); primarily
decreasing as a result of the disposition of NMC in the 1996 third quarter.
Grace anticipates total capital expenditures for 1997 to approximate $300
million, all of which will be directed towards its core businesses.
     Net cash used for financing activities in 1996 was $2,267.8 million,
primarily reflecting reductions in debt, the repurchase of stock (discussed
below), and the payment of dividends, partially offset by proceeds from the
exercise of employee stock options.  Total debt was $1,388.2 million at
December 31, 1996, a decrease of $545.6 million from December 31, 1995.  In
addition to the reduction of debt, in 1996 Grace terminated agreements to
sell up to $300 million of interests in designated pools of trade
receivables, $180 million of which pertained to NMC.  At December 31, 1995,
$295.8 million had been received pursuant to such sales, $179.8 million of
which pertained to NMC.
     Grace initiated a program in April 1996 to repurchase 10.0 million
shares of its common stock.  As of September 27, 1996, Grace had acquired
9,864,800 shares under this program at a cost of $727.1 million (or an
average price of approximately $73.70 per share, before adjustment for the
effect of the NMC transaction on the price per share of Grace stock).
Following the NMC transaction, Grace implemented a second program to
repurchase up to 20% of the approximately 89.0 million shares then
outstanding.  Through March 4, 1997, Grace had repurchased 16,019,900 shares
at a cost of $849.1 million (or an average price of approximately $53.00 per
share).
     As Grace's balance sheet is restructured to support its core
businesses, Grace is targeting a ratio of debt (net of cash and short-term
investments) to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization (EBITDA) of 1.6 to 2.0.  Grace believes this ratio is the
appropriate measure of leverage for management purposes because it compares
debt to the pretax cash flow available to service debt.  Also, it is not
subject to distortion (as traditional debt/equity or debt/capital ratios
are) following a major share repurchase program such as those Grace has
executed.  At the targeted debt/EBITDA level of 1.6 to 2.0, Grace benefits
from the tax advantages of debt financing on its overall weighted average
cost of capital while retaining the financial flexibility to invest in the
continued growth of its core businesses.  Grace believes it can safely
exceed its target leverage range on a short-term basis to meet its
investment needs.  The cash received and to be received from divestments is
being used to reduce debt and repurchase shares to bring the capital
structure within the target range.  At December 31, 1996, the debt/EBITDA
ratio was 2.3, outside the target range primarily due to the timing of the
share repurchases ahead of cash divestment proceeds.  It is expected that
the ratio will be within the target range in 1997.
     In May 1996, Grace entered into a revolving credit agreement, expiring
May 1997,  providing for total borrowings of $1.85 billion, and terminated
three previous agreements providing for total borrowings of $850 million.
During the fourth quarter of 1996, Grace reduced the borrowings available
under this new credit agreement to $650 million, reflecting the completion
of the NMC transaction.  In addition, Grace continues to have $350 million
available under a separate long-term facility expiring on September 1, 1999.
Thus, Grace had committed borrowing facilities totaling $1.0 billion, of
which $471.3 million was available, at the end of 1996.
     In October 1996, Grace announced that it expected to divest four
noncore businesses by late 1996 or 1997.  The businesses to be sold were
Grace's cocoa business, Amicon, TEC Systems and Grace's specialty polymers
business.  As noted above, in December 1996, Grace completed the sale of
Amicon and announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to sell
its cocoa business.  In February 1997, Grace completed the sale of the cocoa
business and entered into an agreement to sell its specialty polymers
business.  Grace expects to complete the sale of its specialty polymers
business in the second quarter of 1997 and the sale of TEC Systems in 1997.

                                    F-31



ASBESTOS-RELATED MATTERS
- ------------------------
Grace is a defendant in lawsuits relating to previously sold
asbestos-containing products.  In 1996, Grace paid $2.1 million for the
defense and disposition of asbestos-related property damage and personal
injury litigation, net of amounts received under settlements with insurance
carriers.  During the fourth quarter of 1996, Grace recorded a noncash
pretax charge of $229.1 million ($148.9 million after-tax), primarily to
reflect the estimated costs of defending against and disposing of personal
injury claims expected to be filed through 2001.  The estimated costs used
to determine the amount of this charge have not been discounted to their
present values, and the time period over which the associated cash is
actually expended is likely to extend beyond 2001.  The balance sheet at
year-end 1996 includes a receivable of $331.3 million due from insurance
carriers.  Grace also has recorded notes receivable of $55.9 million ($48.5
million after discounts) for amounts to be received from 1997 to 2001
pursuant to settlement agreements previously entered into with insurance
carriers.
     Although the total amounts to be paid in 1997 with respect to
asbestos-related claims (after giving effect to payments to be received from
insurance carriers), cannot be precisely estimated, Grace expects that it
will be required to expend approximately $75-$100 million (pretax) in 1997
to defend against and dispose of such claims (after giving effect to
anticipated insurance recoveries).  The amounts with respect to the probable
cost of defending against and disposing of asbestos-related claims and
probable recoveries from insurance carriers represent estimates and are on
an undiscounted basis; the outcomes of such claims cannot be predicted with
certainty.  See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information concerning asbestos-related lawsuits and claims.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
- ---------------------
Grace is subject to loss contingencies resulting from environmental laws and
regulations.  Worldwide expenses of continuing operations related to the
operation and maintenance of environmental facilities and the disposal of
hazardous and nonhazardous wastes totaled $44.5 million in 1996, $42.6
million in 1995 and $35.0 million in 1994.  Such costs are estimated to be
$45.0 million in 1997 and $47.0 million in 1998.  In addition, worldwide
capital expenditures for continuing operations relating to environmental
protection totaled $17.1 million in 1996, compared to $14.9 million and
$21.5 million in 1995 and 1994, respectively.  Capital expenditures to
comply with environmental initiatives in future years are estimated to be
$13.0 million in 1997 and $12.0 million in 1998.  Grace also has incurred
costs to remediate environmentally impaired sites.  These costs were $20.3
million in 1996, $31.3 million in 1995 and $30.8 million in 1994.  These
amounts have been charged against previously established reserves.  Future
cash outlays for remediation costs are expected to total $23.0 million in
1997 and $26.0 million in 1998.  Expenditures have been funded from internal
sources of cash and are not expected to have a significant effect on
liquidity.
     Grace accrues for anticipated costs associated with investigatory and
remediation efforts where an assessment has indicated that a loss is
probable and can be reasonably estimated.  In the fourth quarter of 1995 and
the first quarter of 1994, Grace recorded pretax provisions of $77.0 million
and $40.0 million ($50.0 million and $26.0 million after-tax), respectively.
The 1995 provision related principally to increased cost estimates
associated with five former manufacturing sites.  At December 31, 1996,
Grace's liability for environmental investigatory and remediation costs
related to continuing and discontinued operations totaled $256.4 million, as
compared to $280.3 million at December 31, 1995.  These accruals do not take
into account any discounting for the time value of money.  Additionally,
Grace is in litigation with certain excess insurance carriers regarding the
applicability of the carriers' policies to environmental remediation costs;
given the uncertainties inherent in this litigation, Grace has not recorded
a receivable with respect to such insurance coverage (except in one instance
where a settlement with a carrier has been reached).
     Grace's environmental liabilities are reassessed whenever circumstances
become better defined and/or remediation efforts and their costs can be
better estimated.  These liabilities are currently evaluated quarterly,
based on available information, including the progress of remedial
investigation at each site, the current status of discussions with
regulatory authorities regarding the method and extent of remediation at
each site and the apportionment of costs among potentially responsible
parties.  As some of these issues are decided (the outcomes of which are
subject to uncertainties) and/or new sites are assessed and costs can be
reasonably estimated, Grace will continue to review and analyze the need for
adjustments to the recorded accruals.  However, Grace believes that it is
adequately reserved for all probable and estimable environmental exposures.

                                    F-32

                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                       W. R. GRACE & CO. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                                 (in millions)


                               For the Year 1996



                               For the Year 1995



                               For the Year 1994



*  Represents legally mandated employee benefit obligations, primarily pension
   benefits, relating to Grace's operations in Europe.
** Consists of additions and deductions applicable to businesses acquired,
   disposals of businesses, bad debt write-offs, foreign currency translation,
   reclassifications (including the deconsolidation of amounts relating to
   discontinued operations) and miscellaneous other adjustments.




                                      F-33


                                                                      EXHIBIT 11


                       W. R. GRACE & CO. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHARES AND EARNINGS USED IN PER SHARE COMPUTATIONS

The weighted average number of shares of Common Stock outstanding were as
follows:




Income/(loss) used in the computation of earnings/(loss) per share were as
follows:








                                             F-34



                                                                      EXHIBIT 12
                       W. R. GRACE & CO. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES AND
            COMBINED FIXED CHARGES AND PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS (a)
                          (in millions, except ratios)
                                  (Unaudited)




 (a)  Grace's preferred stocks were retired in 1996; see Note 1 to the
      Consolidated Financial Statements.
 (b)  For each period with an income tax provision, the preferred stock
      dividend requirements have been increased to an amount representing the
      pretax earnings required to cover such requirements based on Grace's
      effective tax rate.
 (c)  Certain amounts have been restated to conform to the 1996 presentation.
 (d)  Includes a pretax gain of $326.4 on sales of businesses, offset by pretax
      provisions of $229.1 for asbestos-related liabilities and insurance
      coverage and $107.5 for restructuring costs and asset impairments.
 (e)  Includes pretax provisions of $275.0 for asbestos-related liabilities and
      insurance coverage; $209.5 relating to restructuring costs, asset
      impairments and other activities; $77.0 for environmental liabilities at
      former manufacturing sites; and $30.0 for corporate governance
      activities.
 (f)  Includes a pretax provision of $316.0 relating to asbestos-related
      liabilities and insurance coverage.
 (g)  Includes a pretax provision of $159.0 relating to asbestos-related
      liabilities and insurance coverage.
 (h)  Includes a pretax provision of $140.0 relating to a fumed silica plant in
      Belgium.
 (i)  As a result of the losses incurred for the years ended December 31, 1995
      and 1994, Grace was unable to fully cover the indicated fixed charges.





                                           F-35


                                W. R. Grace & Co.


                           Annual Report on Form 10-K
                   for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1996


                                  EXHIBIT INDEX




_________

Other than exhibits that are filed herewith, all exhibits listed in this Exhibit
Index are incorporated herein by reference. Exhibits indicated by an asterisk
(*) are the management contracts and compensatory plans, contracts or
arrangements required to be filed as exhibits to this Report. In accordance with
paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K, certain instruments
relating to long-term debt are not being filed; W. R. Grace & Co. agrees to
furnish a copy of any such instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission
upon request.







                                      -2-








                                      -3-







                                      -4-





                                      -5-




                                      -6-

