
10-K405
a2040779z10-k405.txt
10-K405



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)



                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000

                                       OR



        FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM ______________ TO ______________

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-12139
                            ------------------------
                             SEALED AIR CORPORATION

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (201) 791-7600
                            ------------------------

    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



                            ------------------------

    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes /X/  No / /

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  /X/

    The aggregate market value of the registrant's Common Stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant on March 21, 2001 was approximately
$2,900,000,000.

    The number of outstanding shares of the registrant's Common Stock as of
March 21, 2001 was 83,625,503.

    DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:  Portions of the registrant's 2000
Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II
of this Form 10-K. Portions of the registrant's definitive proxy statement for
its 2001 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference into
Part III of this Form 10-K.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

    Sealed Air Corporation (the "Company"), operating through its subsidiaries,
is engaged in the manufacture and sale of a wide range of food, protective and
specialty packaging products.

    The Company conducts substantially all of its business through two direct
wholly owned subsidiaries, Cryovac, Inc. and Sealed Air Corporation (US). These
two subsidiaries directly and indirectly own substantially all of the assets of
the business and conduct operations themselves and through subsidiaries around
the globe. References herein to the Company include, collectively, the Company
and its subsidiaries, except where the context indicates otherwise.

SEGMENTS

    The Company operates in two reportable business segments: (i) food packaging
products and (ii) protective and specialty packaging products, described more
fully below. Information concerning the Company's reportable segments appears in
Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, which information is incorporated herein by
reference.

FOOD PACKAGING PRODUCTS

    The Company's principal food packaging products are its flexible materials
and related systems marketed primarily under the Cryovac-Registered Trademark-
brand for a broad range of perishable food applications. This segment also
includes the Company's rigid packaging and absorbent pads (foam and solid
plastic trays and containers for the packaging of a wide variety of food
products and absorbent pads used for the packaging of meat, fish and poultry).
The products in this segment are primarily sold to food processors, distributors
and food service businesses.

FLEXIBLE MATERIALS AND RELATED SYSTEMS

    The Company produces a variety of high-performance proprietary flexible
films, bags and associated packaging equipment marketed and sold primarily under
the Cryovac-Registered Trademark- brand that are used to package a broad range
of perishable foods such as fresh meat, smoked and processed meat, cheese,
poultry, processed and prepared foods (including soups and sauces for
restaurants and institutions) and produce.

    Cryovac-Registered Trademark- food packaging products include shrink bags,
shrink films and laminated films sold for food packaging applications. Shrink
bags and films are co-extruded, multi-layered, shrinkable plastic bags and films
that, when exposed to heat, mold themselves to the shape of the product.
Laminated films are multi-layered, non-shrinkable plastic materials used to
package perishable foods and shelf-stable products such as syrups and toppings.
Films and bags are sold in barrier and permeable forms, depending on the extent
to which it is desirable that oxygen or other gases pass through the material.
For fresh-cut produce, the Company produces films that permit gases to pass
through at various rates, thereby matching the varying respiration rates of
different vegetables and permitting longer shelf life.

    The Company's food packaging equipment offerings include (i) dispensing and
loading units to package foods in shrink, vacuum or vacuum skin packages, which
can utilize the Company's films and bags; (ii) form-fill-seal units to package
foods in pouches, which can be made using the Company's films; (iii) shrink
tunnels; (iv) bagging systems; and (v) auxiliary equipment. Systems are marketed
to the food processing industry under the Cryovac-Registered Trademark-
trademark and other trademarks.

RIGID PACKAGING AND ABSORBENT PADS

    The Company manufactures and sells polystyrene foam and solid plastic trays
and containers that are used for the packaging of a wide variety of food
products. Supermarkets and food processors use these products to protect and
display fresh meat, poultry, produce and other food products. The Company also
manufactures and sells absorbent pads used for food packaging, including its
Dri-Loc-Registered Trademark-

absorbent pads. The Company's trays and pads are often used together. The
Company's case ready packaging customers, principally meat and poultry
processors, purchase trays, pads and specially designed films and packaging
equipment to centrally package meat and poultry products prior to shipment to
the supermarket. Case ready packages are virtually ready for the meat case upon
arrival at the retail store. During 2000, the Company purchased Dolphin
Packaging plc ("Dolphin") to support the Company's case ready packaging business
in Europe. In addition to foam and solid plastic trays, Dolphin manufactures and
sells containers for customers in the food service, dairy, fruit and salad
businesses, among others. The Dolphin acquisition was not material to the
Company's consolidated financial statements.

PROTECTIVE AND SPECIALTY PACKAGING PRODUCTS

    The Company's protective and specialty packaging products include its
cushioning and surface protection products and certain other products. The
Company's protective and specialty packaging products and systems are primarily
sold to distributors and manufacturers. The products in this segment enable the
end users to provide a high degree of protection in packaging their items, by
means of cushioning or surface protection, or a combination thereof, as well as
void fill. The Company also offers sterilized medical bags and films for use
with medical products.

CUSHIONING AND SURFACE PROTECTION PRODUCTS

    The Company manufactures and markets Bubble Wrap-Registered Trademark- and
AirCap-Registered Trademark- air cellular packaging materials, which consist of
air encapsulated between two layers of plastic film, each containing a barrier
layer to retard air loss, that form a pneumatic cushion to protect products from
damage through shock or vibration during shipment. The Company's
Cryovac-Registered Trademark- performance shrink films are sold for non-food
product display and merchandising applications. These films are used to
"shrink-wrap" a wide assortment of industrial and consumer products. The
Company's Instapak-Registered Trademark- polyurethane foam packaging systems
(which consist of proprietary blends of polyurethane chemicals, high performance
polyolefin films and specially designed dispensing equipment) provide protective
packaging for a wide variety of products. CelluPlank-Registered Trademark- plank
foams and Stratocell-Registered Trademark- laminated polyethylene foams are
generally sold by the Company to fabricators and converters. The Company also
manufactures thin polyethylene foams in roll and sheet form under the trademarks
Cell-Aire-Registered Trademark- and Cellu-Cushion-Registered Trademark-.
Korrvu-Registered Trademark- packaging is the Company's suspension and retention
product offering. The Company's insulation products are made with foil-faced air
cellular materials.

    The Company manufactures and markets Jiffy-Registered Trademark- protective
mailers and other durable mailers and bags that are made in several standard
sizes and are used for mailing or shipping a wide variety of items. The
Company's protective mailers include lightweight, tear-resistant paper mailers
marketed under various trademarks, including Jiffylite-Registered Trademark- and
Mail Lite-Registered Trademark-, lined with air cellular cushioning material.
These products also include the widely used Jiffy-Registered Trademark- padded
mailers made from recycled kraft paper padded with macerated recycled newspaper.
The Company's durable mailers and bags, made of plastic, are marketed under the
ShurTuff-Registered Trademark-, Trigon-Registered Trademark-, Lab
Pak-Registered Trademark-, Keepsafe-TM- and Tuffgard-Registered Trademark- brand
names. The Company manufactures recycled kraft, tissue and crepe paper for use
as a raw material in the manufacture of the Company's protective mailer and food
packaging products. The Company also manufactures and sells paper packaging
products under the trademarks Kushion Kraft-Registered Trademark-, Custom
Wrap-TM-, Jiffy Packaging-Registered Trademark-, Padwrap-Registered Trademark-
and Void Kraft-TM-. In certain foreign countries, the Company produces
loose-fill polystyrene packaging for sale to customers in those countries.

    The Company offers inflatable packaging systems, including its Rapid
Fill-Registered Trademark- system, which consists of a compact, portable
inflator and self-sealing inflatable plastic bags, and its Fill-Air-TM- system,
which converts rolls of polyethylene film into continuous perforated chains of
air-filled cushions. The Company's innovative VistaFlex-Registered Trademark-
inflatable packaging system, which consists of a microprocessor-controlled
inflation system and inflatable cushions, produces air-filled cushions designed
for each


particular packaging application. The Company produces and markets converting
systems that convert certain of the Company's packaging materials, including air
cellular cushioning materials, thin polyethylene foam and paper packaging
materials, into sheets of a pre-selected size and quantity or, for the Company's
recycled kraft paper, into paper dunnage material. The Company also offers
shrink-wrap equipment for use with shrink films. During 2000, the Company
acquired Shanklin Corporation, a leading provider of high-performance shrink
film packaging equipment, which complements the Company's broad line of high
performance shrink-films. The Shanklin acquisition was not material to the
Company's consolidated financial statements.

OTHER PRODUCTS

    The Company manufactures and sells a number of non-packaging products,
including specialty adhesive tapes, solar collectors and covers for swimming
pools, recycled kraft, tissue and crepe paper, and certain products related to
the elimination and neutralization of static electricity.

FOREIGN OPERATIONS

    The Company operates in the United States and in 45 other countries, and its
products are distributed in those countries as well as in other parts of the
world. In recent years, the Company has extended its protective packaging
operations into countries where the Company previously had established food
packaging operations, including several European, Latin American and
Asia/Pacific countries and South Africa, and has also extended its protective
packaging operations into Israel. In maintaining its foreign operations, the
Company runs the risks inherent in such operations, including those of currency
fluctuations. Information on currency exchange risks is incorporated by
reference in Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Financial information
about geographic areas, including net sales and total long-lived assets, for
each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2000 appears in
Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by
reference in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which information is
incorporated herein by reference.

MARKETING, DISTRIBUTION AND CUSTOMERS

    The Company employs over 1,300 sales and technical support representatives
in the countries in which it operates who market the Company's products through
a large number of distributors, fabricators and converters as well as directly
to end users. In the United States and certain other countries, the Company has
separate sales and marketing groups for many of its product lines. These groups
often work together to develop market opportunities for the Company's products.

    To support the Company's food packaging customers, the Company has food
science laboratories in a number of locations that assist customers in
identifying the appropriate food packaging materials and systems to meet their
needs. The Company also offers customized graphic design services to its food
packaging and mailer customers.

    To assist its marketing efforts for its protective and specialty packaging
products and to provide specialized customer services, the Company maintains
packaging laboratories in many of its United States and foreign facilities.
These laboratories are staffed by professional packaging engineers and equipped
with drop-testing and other equipment used to develop and test cost-effective
package designs to meet the particular protective and specialty packaging
requirements of each customer.

    The Company has no material long-term contracts for the distribution of its
products. In 2000, no customer or affiliated group of customers accounted for as
much as 10% of the Company's consolidated net sales.


    Although net sales of both food packaging products and protective and
specialty packaging products tend to be slightly higher in the fourth quarter,
the Company does not consider seasonality to be a material factor to its
consolidated business.

COMPETITION

    Competition for most of the Company's packaging products is based primarily
on packaging performance characteristics, service and price. Since competition
is also based upon innovations in packaging technology, the Company's ongoing
research and development programs are intended to enable the Company to maintain
technological leadership. Certain companies producing competing products are
well established and may have greater financial resources than the Company.

    There are a number of competing manufacturers of food packaging products,
including companies offering similar products that operate on a global basis, as
well as those that operate in a region or single country. Competing
manufacturers produce a wide variety of food packaging based on plastic, paper,
metals and other materials. The Company believes that it is one of the leading
suppliers of flexible food packaging materials and related systems in the
principal geographic areas in which it offers those products and one of the
leading suppliers of absorbent pads for food products to supermarkets and
poultry processors in the United States.

    The Company's protective and specialty packaging products compete with
similar products made by others and with a number of other packaging materials
that are used to provide protection against damage to the packaged product
during its shipment and storage. Competitive materials include various forms of
paper packaging products, expanded plastics, corrugated die cuts, loosefill
packaging materials, strapping, envelopes, reinforced bags, boxes and other
containers and various corrugated materials. Heavy-duty applications of the
Company's Instapak-Registered Trademark- packaging and its plank and laminated
foam products also compete with various types of molded foam plastics,
fabricated foam plastics and mechanical shock mounts and with wood blocking and
bracing systems. The Company believes that it is one of the leading suppliers of
air cellular cushioning materials containing a barrier layer, shrink films for
industrial and commercial applications, protective mailers and polyurethane foam
packaging systems in the geographic areas in which it sells these products.

RAW MATERIALS

    The raw materials utilized in the Company's operations generally have been
readily available on the open market and in most cases are available from
several suppliers. Some materials used in the Company's protective packaging
products are reprocessed from scrap generated in the Company's manufacturing
operations or obtained through participation in recycling programs. The
principal raw materials used in the Company's food packaging products include
polyolefin and other resins and films, paper and wood pulp products and blowing
agents used in foam packaging products. The principal raw materials used in the
Company's protective and specialty packaging products include raw materials
similar to those used in its food packaging products, as well as polyurethane
chemicals. The Company also offers a wide variety of specialized packaging
equipment, some of which it manufactures (or has manufactured to its
specifications), some of which it assembles and some of which it purchases from
other suppliers.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

    The Company maintains a continuing effort to develop new products and
improvements to its existing products and processes as well as new packaging and
non-packaging applications for its products. From time to time the Company also
acquires promising new packaging designs or techniques developed by others and
commercializes them. In recent years, the Company has instituted ongoing
programs of joint research and development projects combining the technical
capabilities of its food


packaging operations and its protective and specialty packaging operations. The
Company incurred expenses of $54,264,000 related to Company-sponsored research
and development in 2000, compared with $56,452,000 during 1999, and $57,524,000
during 1998.

PATENTS AND LICENSES

    The Company is the owner or licensee of a number of United States and
foreign patents and patent applications that relate to certain of its products,
manufacturing processes and equipment. The Company's patents, licenses and
trademarks collectively provide a competitive advantage. No single patent or
license alone, however, provides the Company with such an advantage. Rather, the
Company believes that its success depends primarily on its marketing,
engineering and manufacturing skills and on its ongoing research and development
efforts. The Company believes that the expiration or unenforceability of any of
such patents, applications or licenses would not be material to the Company's
business or financial position.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

    The Company, like other manufacturers, is subject to various laws, rules and
regulations in the countries, jurisdictions and localities in which it operates
regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating
to the protection of the environment. The Company believes that compliance with
current environmental laws and regulations has not had a material effect on the
Company's capital expenditures or financial position.

    In some jurisdictions in which the Company's packaging products are sold or
used, laws and regulations have been adopted or proposed that seek to regulate,
among other things, recycled or reprocessed content, sale or disposal of
packaging materials. In addition, customer demand for packaging materials that
are viewed as being "environmentally responsible" and that minimize the
generation of solid waste continues to evolve. While these issues can be a
competitive factor in the marketplace for packaging materials, the Company
maintains active programs designed to comply with these laws and regulations, to
monitor their evolution, and to meet such customer demand.

    The Company also supports its customers' interests in eliminating waste by
offering or participating in collection programs for certain of the Company's
products or product packaging and for materials used in certain of the Company's
products, and, when possible, materials collected through these collection
programs are reprocessed and either reused in the Company's protective packaging
operations or offered to other manufacturers for use in other products.

EMPLOYEES

    At December 31, 2000, the Company had approximately 17,750 employees
worldwide.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

    The Company's food packaging products are produced in 46 manufacturing
facilities (14 in North America, 15 in Europe, 5 in Latin America, 11 in the
Asia Pacific region, and 1 in South Africa). Protective and specialty packaging
products are produced in 72 manufacturing facilities (32 in North America, 20 in
Europe, 6 in Latin America, 12 in the Asia Pacific region, and 2 in South
Africa). Several of the Company's manufacturing facilities serve both segments.
Certain of these facilities are for converting operations. The Company occupies
other facilities containing sales, distribution, technical, warehouse or
administrative functions at a number of locations in the United States and in
various foreign countries.

    In the United States, the Company's food packaging products are manufactured
at facilities in California, Indiana, Iowa, Missouri, New York, North Carolina,
Pennsylvania, South Carolina and Texas.


Its protective and specialty packaging products are manufactured at facilities
in California, Connecticut, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Massachusetts,
Mississippi, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina,
Texas and Washington. Because of the light but voluminous nature of the
Company's air cellular, polyethylene foam and protective mailer products,
significant freight savings may be realized by locating manufacturing facilities
for these products near customers. To realize the benefit of such savings, the
Company has facilities for manufacturing these products in various locations in
proximity to customers.

    The Company owns the large majority of its manufacturing facilities, certain
of which are owned subject to mortgages or similar financing arrangements. The
balance of the Company's manufacturing facilities are located in leased
premises. The Company's manufacturing facilities are usually located in general
purpose buildings in which the Company's specialized machinery for the
manufacture of one or more products is contained. The Company believes that its
manufacturing facilities are well maintained, suitable for their purposes, and
adequate for the Company's needs.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    On March 31, 1998, the Company completed a multi-step transaction (the
"Cryovac Transaction"). As part of that transaction, the Cryovac packaging
business ("Cryovac"), held by various direct and indirect subsidiaries of the
Company, was separated from the remaining business, and the Company and one of
its subsidiaries borrowed approximately $1,260,000,000. The remaining business,
which received the borrowed funds referred to in the preceding sentence, was
then contributed to a company now known as W. R. Grace & Co. ("New Grace"),
whose shares were distributed to the Company's stockholders. As a result, New
Grace became a separate publicly owned company. The Company and its subsidiary
retained the obligation to repay such borrowed funds. A subsidiary of the
Company then merged into the former Sealed Air Corporation ("old Sealed Air"),
which changed its name to Sealed Air Corporation (US). References to "Grace"
herein refer to the Company and its then subsidiaries before the Cryovac
Transaction. The agreements pursuant to which the Cryovac Transaction was
carried out are referred to herein as the "Transaction Agreements."

    In connection with the Cryovac Transaction, New Grace and its subsidiaries
retained all liabilities of Grace, whether accruing or occurring before or after
the Cryovac Transaction, other than liabilities arising from or relating to
Cryovac's operations. The liabilities retained by New Grace include, among
others, liabilities relating to asbestos-containing products previously
manufactured or sold by Grace subsidiaries, including its primary U.S. operating
subsidiary, which has operated for decades and has been a subsidiary of New
Grace since the Cryovac Transaction. The Transaction Agreements provided that,
should any claimant seek to hold the Company, including any of its subsidiaries,
responsible for liabilities of New Grace or its subsidiaries, including such
asbestos-related liabilities, New Grace and its subsidiaries would indemnify and
defend the Company.

    Since the beginning of 2000, the Company has been served with a number of
lawsuits alleging that, as a result of the Cryovac Transaction, the Company is
responsible for alleged asbestos liabilities of New Grace and its subsidiaries,
certain of which are also named as co-defendants in these actions. As of
March 21, 2001, pending actions include eight purported class action lawsuits
and thirteen personal injury lawsuits. These cases are all in the pre-trial
stage, and none has been resolved through judgment, settlement or otherwise. The
purported class action lawsuits include the following:

    TENNISON V. W. R. GRACE & COMPANY, ET AL., filed in February 2000 and
    pending in the U.S. District Court, District of Montana, Missoula Division.
    The relief sought includes environmental remediation and restoration,
    property damages and punitive damages arising from vermiculite mining and
    processing operations formerly owned and operated by Grace in Libby, Montana
    that allegedly resulted in asbestos contamination of the surrounding area.
    The putative class consists of


    owners of improved private properties within a 12 mile radius of the
    courthouse in Libby, Montana.

    GRENFELL V. W. R. GRACE & COMPANY, ET AL., filed in February 2000 and
    pending in the Multidistrict Litigation (MDL) 875 in the U.S. District
    Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The relief sought includes medical
    monitoring and punitive damages arising from alleged asbestos-contaminated
    vermiculite mining and processing operations formerly owned and operated by
    Grace in Libby, Montana. The putative class consists of residents and former
    residents who lived, for at least one year since 1930, within a 12 mile
    radius of the courthouse in Libby, Montana, and employees who worked for at
    least one year at the local vermiculite processing plant and members of
    their households.

    BARBANTI V. W. R. GRACE & COMPANY-CONN., ET AL., filed in March 2000 and
    pending in the Superior Court, State of Washington, County of Spokane. The
    relief sought includes identification of affected properties, notification
    of class members, a remediation fund, punitive damages and other relief. The
    complaint is brought on behalf of owners or occupiers of real property
    located in the State of Washington in which Zonolite Attic Insulation has
    been installed and alleges that such insulation contains
    asbestos-contaminated vermiculite. Although the class has been certified,
    New Grace and the Company have requested discretionary appellate review of
    the class certification ruling.

    PRICE V. W. R. GRACE & COMPANY, ET AL., filed in April 2000, and HUNTER V.
    W. R. GRACE & COMPANY, ET AL., filed in July 2000, both of which are pending
    in MDL 1376 in the U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts. In both
    cases, the purported class consists of owners or occupiers of real property
    located in the United States in which Zonolite Attic Insulation has been
    installed. The relief sought includes identification of affected properties,
    notification to purported class members, funds for research, a remediation
    program, punitive damages and other relief.

    CHAKARIAN V. W. R. GRACE & COMPANY, ET AL., filed in May 2000 and pending in
    the MDL 875 in the U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
    The purported class consists of all employees who worked for three months or
    more at any Grace plant that processed vermiculite and members of their
    households. The relief sought includes medical monitoring, research funds,
    and warnings to the purported class.

    MCMURCHIE V. W. R. GRACE & COMPANY-CONN., ET AL., filed October 2000 and
    pending in the District Court, Fourth Judicial District, County of Hennepin,
    Minnesota. The purported class consists of owners or occupiers of real
    property located in the State of Minnesota in which vermiculite attic
    insulation has been installed. The relief sought includes identification of
    affected properties, warnings to the purported class, research funds, and
    other relief.

    ABNER, ET AL., V. W. R. GRACE & COMPANY, ET AL., filed in September 2000 and
    pending in the Superior Court of California, County of San Francisco. The
    purported class consists of all persons who have lawsuits on file in the
    United States that are pursuing unsatisfied personal injury or wrongful
    death claims against any of the defendants based on asbestos exposure. Other
    defendants include New Grace and related companies, Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
    Fenner & Smith Inc., Credit Suisse First Boston Corp., National Medical
    Care, Inc., and Fresenius Medical Care, Inc., and related companies. The
    plaintiffs allege that the Cryovac Transaction and an earlier 1996
    transaction between Grace and Fresenius AG constitute fraudulent
    conveyances, result from civil conspiracies and constitute unfair business
    practices. Relief sought includes an accounting for all transfers of assets
    of Grace and proceeds from the distribution of such assets and receipt of
    fees in connection with such transactions, a declaration that both
    transactions were fraudulent transfers, establishment of a constructive
    trust on all assets transferred in such transactions and a determination
    that the defendants are jointly and severally responsible for damages equal
    to the


    full fair market value of all assets transferred in connection with such
    transactions, among other remedies.

Plaintiffs in the personal injury lawsuits seek damages for personal injury or
wrongful death related to alleged exposures to asbestos-containing products.
While the allegations that are directed to the Company in all of the cases
mentioned above vary, these actions all appear to allege that the Cryovac
Transaction was a fraudulent transfer or gave rise to successor liability.

    In addition, the Company has been advised that plaintiffs in a substantial
number of Ohio state court asbestos-related personal injury lawsuits have been
granted permission to amend their complaints to add the Company as an additional
defendant. However, the Company has not been served in any of such actions and
lacks further information about these actions.

    The Company believes that it is well-positioned to defend the allegations
against it in any asbestos-related actions. Neither old Sealed Air nor Cryovac
has ever produced or sold any asbestos-containing products. To the extent that
the Company is named in any asbestos-related actions, the Company intends to
defend its interests vigorously. However, an adverse outcome could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations or consolidated
financial position. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of any
litigation, based on the facts known to the Company, the Company does not
believe that an adverse outcome is probable. Thus, in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, the Company has not recorded any liability in
its financial statements for these actions.

    The Company's legal defense costs to date (including costs paid by New Grace
under the Transaction Agreements) have not been material. In late January 2001,
New Grace announced that it was reviewing the strategic and operating issues
associated with continuing to defend asbestos litigation through the court
system versus seeking a resolution of such litigation through reorganization
under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. If New Grace were to file under
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, that would not alter the Company's views
expressed in the preceding paragraph. However, if New Grace files under Chapter
11 or fails to indemnify and defend the Company, the Company could incur
additional asbestos-related costs that could become material to the Company's
results of operations or consolidated financial position.

    The Company's worldwide operations are subject to environmental laws and
regulations which, among other things, impose limitations on the discharge of
pollutants into the air and water and establish standards for the treatment,
storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. The Company reviews the
effects of environmental laws and regulations on its operations and believes
that it is in substantial compliance with all material applicable environmental
laws and regulations.

    At December 31, 2000, the Company was a party to, or otherwise involved in,
several federal and state government environmental proceedings and private
environmental claims for the cleanup of Superfund or other sites. The Company
may have potential liability for investigation and clean up of certain of such
sites. At most of such sites, numerous companies, including either the Company
or one of its predecessor companies, have been identified as potentially
responsible parties ("PRPs") under Superfund or related laws. It is the
Company's policy to provide for environmental cleanup costs if it is probable
that a liability has been incurred and if an amount which is within the
estimated range of the costs associated with various alternative remediation
strategies is reasonably estimable, without giving effect to any possible future
insurance proceeds. As assessments and cleanups proceed, these liabilities are
reviewed periodically and adjusted as additional information becomes available.
At December 31, 2000, such environmental related provisions were not material.
While it is often difficult to estimate potential liabilities and the future
impact of environmental matters, based upon the information currently available
to the Company and its experience in dealing with such matters, the Company
believes that its potential future liability with respect to such sites is not
material to the Company's results of operations or consolidated financial
position.


    The Company is also involved in various other legal actions incidental to
its business. Company management believes, after consulting with counsel, that
the disposition of these other legal proceedings and matters will not have a
material effect on the Company's results of operations or consolidated financial
position.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's stockholders during the
fourth quarter of 2000.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The information appearing in the table below sets forth the current position
or positions held by each executive officer of the Company, his or her age as of
March 15, 2001, the year in which he or she was first elected to the position
currently held with the Company or with old Sealed Air (as indicated in the
footnote to the table), and the year in which he or she was first elected an
officer of the Company or of old Sealed Air (as indicated in the footnote to the
table).

    All of the Company's officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of
Directors. All officers have been employed by the Company or its subsidiaries
for more than five years except for Mr. Van Riper, who was elected Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company effective July 1, 1998.
Previously Mr. Van Riper was a partner in the accounting firm of KPMG LLP, which
was the independent auditor for old Sealed Air for many years prior to the
Cryovac Transaction and has acted


as the independent auditor for the Company since the Cryovac Transaction. There
are no family relationships among any of the Company's officers or directors.



- ------------------------

*   Messrs. Christie, Mondragon, Prosser, Sargant, Van Riper and Weinberg were
    first appointed to executive officer positions after the Cryovac
    Transaction. All other persons listed in the table were executive officers
    of old Sealed Air prior to the Cryovac Transaction.


                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

    The information appearing under the caption "Capital Stock Information" in
the Company's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    The information appearing under the caption "Selected Financial Data" in the
Company's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
  FINANCIAL CONDITION

    The information appearing under the caption "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in the Company's 2000
Annual Report to Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

    The information appearing under the caption "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition--Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" in the Company's 2000 Annual Report
to Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule on page F-2 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    Not applicable.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    Part of the information required in response to this Item is set forth in
Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption "Executive Officers
of the Registrant," and the balance will be set forth in the Company's Proxy
Statement for its 2001 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the captions
"Information Concerning Nominees" and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance." All such information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    The information required in response to this Item will be set forth in the
Company's Proxy Statement for its 2001 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the
captions "Directors' Compensation," "Summary Compensation Table" and
"Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation." Such information
is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    The information required in response to this Item will be set forth in the
Company's Proxy Statement for its 2001 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the
caption "Voting Securities." Such information is incorporated herein by
reference.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    The information required in response to this Item will be set forth in the
Company's Proxy Statement for its 2001 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the
caption "Summary Compensation Table." Such information is incorporated herein by
reference.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) DOCUMENTS FILED AS A PART OF THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K:

    (i) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

    See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule on page F-2 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

    (ii)  EXHIBITS











- ------------------------

*   Compensatory plan or arrangement of management required to be filed as an
    exhibit to this report on Form 10-K.

(b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K:

    The Company furnished the following report under Item 9 of Form 8-K during
the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2000:




                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.




                             SEALED AIR CORPORATION
                 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE
                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998

                                      F-1

                    SEALED AIR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE



- ------------------------

*   The information required appears on pages 26 through 54 of the Company's
    2000 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated by reference into
    this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

    All other schedules are omitted, as the required information is inapplicable
    or the information is presented in the consolidated financial statements or
    related notes.

                                      F-2

                    INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON SCHEDULE

The Board of Directors
Sealed Air Corporation:

Under date of January 25, 2001, we reported on the consolidated balance sheets
of Sealed Air Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and
the related consolidated statements of earnings, equity, cash flows, and
comprehensive income for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2000, as contained in the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders of
Sealed Air Corporation. These consolidated financial statements and our report
thereon are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In
connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial
statements, we also audited the related consolidated financial statement
schedule as listed in the accompanying index. This financial statement schedule
is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on this financial statement schedule based on our audits.

In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation
to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.



                                      F-3

SEALED AIR CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE II
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
Years Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
(In thousands of dollars)



- ------------------------

(1) In 1998, primarily allowance for doubtful accounts of old Sealed Air
    acquired on March 31, 1998.

(2) Primarily accounts receivable balances written off.

                                      F-4

