
10-K
10K




Securities and
Exchange Commission
Washington, D.C.  20549

Form 10-K

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
For the Fiscal Year ended December 31, 1997 
Commission file number 1-3247


Corning Incorporated
One Riverfront Plaza, Corning, NY  14831
607-974-9000

New York
(State of incorporation)

16-0393470
(I.R.S. employer identification no.)


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class                  Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, $0.50 par value,       New York Stock Exchange
  with attached Preferred Share
  Purchase Right

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days. Yes [x] No [_]

Indicate by check if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will be contained, to the best of
registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

As of February 4, 1998, shares held by non-affiliates of Corning Incorporated
had an aggregate market value of $7,251,401,124. As of February 4, 1998,
231,617,033 shares of Corning's common stock were outstanding.

Documents incorporated by reference in this annual report:

Part III. Proxy Statement of the Registrant dated March 9, 1998 relating to the
annual meeting of stockholders on April 30, 1998.




                                     PART I


Item 1.  Business

General

Corning traces its origins to a glass business established in 1851. The present
corporation was incorporated in the State of New York in December 1936, and its
name was changed from Corning Glass Works to Corning Incorporated on April 28,
1989.

On December 31, 1996, Corning distributed all of the shares of Quest Diagnostics
Incorporated (formerly Corning Clinical Laboratories Inc.) and Covance Inc.
(formerly Corning Pharmaceutical Services Inc.) (the Distributions) to its
shareholders on a pro rata basis. Corning's Consolidated Financial Statements,
appearing on pages 23 through 25, and Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, appearing on pages 26 through 47, report Quest Diagnostics and
Covance, which formerly comprised Corning's Health Care Services segment, as
discontinued operations for all periods presented.

On May 5, 1997, Corning announced that it is exploring the divestiture of its
worldwide consumer housewares business. On December 10, 1997, Corning announced
that a planned recapitalization and sale of a controlling interest in the
consumer business had been terminated. Corning continues to explore the
divestiture of this business. The results of the consumer housewares business
are included in continuing operations.

Corning is a global, technology-based corporation which operates in three
broadly based business segments: Communications, Specialty Materials, and
Consumer Products.

The Communications segment includes the opto-electronics and information display
businesses. The opto-electronics business produces optical fiber, optical cable,
hardware and equipment and optical components for the worldwide
telecommunications industry. The information display business manufactures glass
panels and funnels, projection video lens assemblies and liquid-crystal display
glass for flat panel displays.

The Specialty Materials segment includes the advanced materials business, which
produces high purity fused silica for application in the semiconductor and other
industries, the environmental products business, which produces emission control
substrates and related technologies for all major vehicle producing markets, and
the science products business, which produces various plastic and glass
laboratory products. The other businesses which operate in this segment
specialize in the production of optical and lighting products.

The Consumer Products segment produces cookware, glassware and dinnerware that
is sold primarily in the North American retail market through mass-market and
other distribution channels. The Steuben crystal business and Serengeti eyewear
business, prior to its divestiture in early 1997, are also in this segment.

Corning and its subsidiaries manufacture products at 45 plants in ten countries.

Additional discussion of Corning and each of its segments is discussed in Item
7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations, appearing on pages 6 through 14, and Note 4 (Information by Industry
Segment) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing on pages 28
through 30.

Competition

Corning competes across all of its product lines with many large and varied
manufacturers, both domestic and foreign.

Competition within the Communications segment's primary products is intense
among several significant companies. Corning represents an important market
presence in the segment's principal product lines. Price and new product
innovations are significant competitive factors.

Within the Specialty Materials segment, Corning's principal products face
competition from a variety of material manufacturers, some of which manufacture
similar products made from materials other than glass and ceramics. Among other
things, innovation, product quality, performance, and service are key
competitive elements.





Competition is also intense in the Consumer Products business. Corning competes
in a broad range of products and markets with equally diverse competitors.
Primary competitive influences include price, function, design, customer
service, and the overall retail economies in which Corning's products compete.
In certain consumer product lines, Corning has a sizeable market presence.

Corning strives to maintain its market position through technology and product
innovation. For the future, Corning's competitive advantage lies in its
commitment to research and development, its financial resources, and its
commitment to quality.

Raw Materials

Corning's production of specialty glasses and related materials requires
significant quantities of energy and batch materials.

Although energy shortages have not been a problem recently, Corning has achieved
flexibility through important engineering changes to take advantage of the
lowest-cost energy source in most significant processes. Specifically, the
Company's principal manufacturing processes can now be operated with natural
gas, propane, oil or electricity, or a combination of these energy sources.

As to resources (ores, minerals, and processed chemicals) required in
manufacturing operations, availability appears to be adequate. Corning's
suppliers from time to time may experience capacity limitations in their own
operations, or may eliminate certain product lines; nevertheless, Corning
believes it has adequate programs to ensure a reliable supply of batch chemicals
and raw materials. For many products, Corning has alternative glass compositions
that would allow operations to continue without interruption in the event of
specific materials shortages.

Patents and Trademarks

Inventions by members of Corning's research and engineering staff have been, and
continue to be, important to the Company's growth. Patents have been granted on
many of these inventions in the United States and other countries. Some of these
patents have been licensed to other manufacturers, including Corning's
associated companies. Many of the earlier patents have now expired.

Most of Corning's products are marketed under the following trademarks: Corning,
Corning Ware, Celcor, Corelle, Corguide, Costar, Impressions, Puma, Pyrex, Pyrex
Portables, Visions, Steuben and Vycor. Subsidiaries and divisions of Corning
frequently use their own trademarks, such as Revere Ware.

Protection of the Environment

Corning has a program to ensure that its facilities are in compliance with
state, federal and foreign pollution-control regulations. This program resulted
in capital and operating expenditures during the past several years. In order to
maintain compliance with such regulations, capital expenditures for pollution
control by continuing operations were approximately $17.3 million in 1997 and
are estimated to be $40.1 million in 1998.

Corning's 1997 operating results from continuing operations were charged with
approximately $26.5 million for depreciation, maintenance, waste disposal, and
other operating expenses associated with pollution control. The level of these
costs is expected to increase slightly in 1998 due to depreciation costs
associated with capital expenditures. Corning believes that its compliance
program will not place it at a competitive disadvantage.

Other

Additional information in response to Item I is found in Note 18 (International
Activities) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing on page
45 and Five Years in Review - Historical Comparison appearing on pages 50 and
51.

Except as otherwise indicated by the context, the terms "Corning" or "Company"
as used herein, mean Corning Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries.





Item 2.  Properties

Corning operates a total of 45 manufacturing plants and processing facilities,
32 of which are located in the United States. Corning owns substantially all of
its executive and corporate buildings, which are located in Corning, New York.
Corning also owns substantially all of its manufacturing and research and
development facilities and more than half of its sales and administrative
facilities.

During the last five years, Corning has invested $2.4 billion in property,
construction, expansion, and modernization for continuing operations. Of the
$774.8 million spent in 1997, $40.4 million was spent on facilities outside the
United States.

Manufacturing, sales and administrative, and research and development facilities
at consolidated locations have an aggregate floor space of approximately 18
million square feet. Distribution of this total area is:

================================================================================
(million square feet)                          Total       Domestic      Foreign
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Manufacturing                                   14.2         10.9          3.3
Sales and administrative                         3.0          2.6          0.4
Research and development                         1.0          0.9          0.1
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                18.2         14.4          3.8
================================================================================

Many facilities manufacture products included in more than one industry segment.
Total assets and capital expenditures by industry segment are included in Note 4
(Information by Industry Segment) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements appearing on pages 28 through 30. Information concerning lease
commitments is included in Note 17 (Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees)
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing on page 44.

In the opinion of management, Corning's facilities are suitable and adequate for
production and distribution of the Company's products. At December 31, 1997
Corning did not own any significant amounts of surplus or idle property.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

There are no pending legal proceedings to which Corning or any of its
subsidiaries is a party or of which any of their property is the subject which
are material in relation to the consolidated financial statements.

Environmental Litigation. Corning has been named by the Environmental Protection
Agency under the Superfund Act, or by state governments under similar state
laws, as a potentially responsible party at 15 hazardous waste sites. Under the
Superfund Act, all parties who may have contributed any waste to a hazardous
waste site, identified by such Agency, are jointly and severally liable for the
cost of cleanup unless the Agency agrees otherwise. It is Corning's policy to
accrue for its estimated liability related to Superfund sites and other
environmental liabilities related to property owned by Corning based on expert
analysis and continual monitoring by both internal and external consultants.
Corning has accrued approximately $20 million for its estimated liability for
environmental cleanup and litigation at December 31, 1997.





Breast-implant Litigation. Dow Corning Bankruptcy: On May 15, 1995, Dow Corning
Corporation sought protection under the reorganization provisions of Chapter 11
of the United States Bankruptcy Code. The bankruptcy proceeding is pending in
the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of Michigan,
Northern Division (Bay City, Michigan). The effect of the bankruptcy is to stay
the prosecution against Dow Corning of approximately 19,000 breast-implant
product liability lawsuits, including 45 class actions. On December 2, 1996, Dow
Corning filed its first Plan of Reorganization in the bankruptcy case. On
January 10, 1997, the Tort Claimants Committee and the Commercial Creditors
Committee filed a joint motion to modify Dow Corning's exclusivity with respect
to filing a plan of reorganization, requesting the right to file their own
competing plan. The motion was denied by the Bankruptcy Court in May 1997. On
August 25, 1997, Dow Corning filed its First Amended Plan of Reorganization in
the bankruptcy case. After several days of hearings in November 1997 to consider
the disclosure statement pertaining to the Plan, the Bankruptcy Court identified
several potential issues with the Amended Plan and set February 17, 1998 as the
date for Dow Corning to file further amendments. On February 17, 1998 Dow
Corning filed its Second Amended Plan of Reorganization. On February 20, 1998,
the Bankruptcy Court scheduled hearings to begin on April 6, 1998 to consider
the new disclosure statement. Also on February 20, 1998, the Tort Claimants
Committee sought to schedule a hearing on a motion to modify Dow Corning's
exclusivity to permit the Tort Claimants to file an alternative Plan of
Reorganization.

The breast implant claims against Dow Corning's shareholders (Corning and The
Dow Chemical Company), which allege a variety of direct or indirect theories why
they should have liability for Dow Corning's implant products, were in 1997
(with a few exceptions) transferred to the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of Michigan, Southern District (the "Michigan Federal Court")
for coordinated proceedings with the similar cases against Dow Corning. These
transfers resulted from motions made to the Michigan Federal Court in mid-1995.
The Michigan Federal Court granted transfer as to claims against Dow Corning
only, and declined to order transfer of the claims against the shareholders. The
transfer motion as to the shareholders was later granted as a result of
appellate rulings by the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
entered in June 1996 and May 1997. As mandated by the Sixth Circuit, the
Michigan Federal Court entered the transfer order on May 13, 1997 to transfer to
it those breast implant cases against the shareholders pending in state courts
around the country or in federal court. As the single exception to date, the
Michigan Federal Court declined to order transfer of a case against Dow Chemical
which was already in the midst of a lengthy trial.

At the end of June 1997, the Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court
designated and assigned Judge Sam C. Pointer, Jr., a District Judge in the
Northern District of Alabama who has since 1992 been serving as the coordinating
federal judge for all breast implant matters, to serve in the Michigan Federal
Court. In that capacity, Judge Pointer is available to preside over, or
coordinate, the implant personal injury claims arising out of the reorganization
of Dow Corning or against Dow Chemical and/or Corning. While the cases in the
Michigan Federal Court have not been re-assigned to Judge Pointer, he has
participated with Judge Denise Hood of the Michigan Federal Court in certain
status hearings.

In related developments, a Panel of Scientific Experts appointed by Judge
Pointer in the coordinated federal implant cases in the Northern District of
Alabama will also be asked to address certain questions pertinent to the disease
causation issues in the cases against Dow Corning or its shareholders. The Panel
has held hearings in 1997 and is expected to issue its report in Summer 1998. In
April 1997, Dow Corning filed in the Bankruptcy Court an omnibus objection to
all claims in the bankruptcy to the extent based on the alleged causation of
disease by silicones. Dow Corning also filed a motion for summary judgment that
asserts that the disease claims are not supported by any admissible scientific
evidence of disease causation. Dow Corning has requested the Michigan Federal
Court to initiate procedures on its objection and motion for summary judgment in
coordination with the expected report from the Panel of Scientific Experts. To
date, no procedures have been set by the court and the schedule for considering
the objection and the related motion remains undetermined.

The Bankruptcy Court and the Michigan Federal Court have appointed a special
master, Francis McGovern, to facilitate discussions between Dow Corning and
interested creditor groups.

Although Dow Corning believes that its Second Amended Plan of Reorganization
remedies the issues raised by the Bankruptcy Court when considering the earlier
version, it is not possible to predict the results of the April 1998 disclosure
statement hearings or of the motions or objections the tort claimants or other
creditors may assert.





Implant Tort Lawsuits: As a result of its success in obtaining summary judgment
in the federal coordinating court, and through similar motions in state courts,
and through the transfer orders mentioned above, Corning has substantially
limited the number of breast implant cases pending against it. From 1991 through
February 1, 1998, Corning had been named in approximately 11,470 state and
federal tort lawsuits, some of which were filed as class actions or on behalf of
multiple claimants. In 1992, the federal breast implant cases were coordinated
for pretrial purposes in the United States District Court, Northern District of
Alabama (Judge Sam C. Pointer, Jr.). In 1993, Corning obtained an interlocutory
order of summary judgment, which was made final in April 1995, thereby
dismissing Corning from over 4,000 federal court cases. On March 12, 1996, the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit dismissed the plaintiffs' appeal
from that judgment. The District Court thereafter entered orders in May and June
1997 directing that Corning be dismissed from each case pending in or later
transferred to that Court. That order dismissing Corning encompassed hundreds of
state court cases that were removed to federal court and transferred to the
Northern District of Alabama after Dow Corning filed for bankruptcy protection.
In state court litigation, Corning was awarded summary judgment in California,
Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Mississippi, New Jersey, New York,
Pennsylvania, Tennessee, and Dallas, Harris and Travis Counties in Texas,
thereby dismissing approximately 7,000 state cases. On July 30, 1997, the
judgment in California became final when the Supreme Court of California
dismissed further review as improvidently granted as to Corning. In Louisiana,
Corning was awarded summary judgment dismissing all claims by plaintiffs and a
cross-claim by Dow Chemical on February 21, 1997. On February 11, 1998, this
judgment was vacated as premature by the intermediate appeals court in
Louisiana. Corning is requesting rehearing and intends to seek further appellate
review of that ruling. In the Michigan Federal Court, Corning is named as a
defendant in approximately 60 pending cases (including some cases with multiple
claimants), but Corning is not named as a defendant in the Master Complaint,
which contains claims against Dow Chemical only. Corning has moved for summary
judgment in the Michigan Federal Court to dismiss these remaining cases by
plaintiffs as well as the third party complaint and all cross-claims by Dow
Chemical. Plaintiffs have taken no position on that Corning motion. The Michigan
Federal Court heard Corning's motion for summary judgment on February 27, 1998.

Federal securities case: A federal securities class action lawsuit was filed in
1992 against Corning and certain individual defendants by a class of purchasers
of Corning stock who allege misrepresentations and omissions of material facts
relative to the silicone gel breast implant business conducted by Dow Corning.
This action is pending in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York. The court in 1997 dismissed the individual defendants from
the case, but has permitted the case to proceed into discovery.

Quest Diagnostics: Government Investigations and Related Claims. On December 31,
1996, Corning completed the spin-off of its health care services businesses by
the distribution to its shareholders of the Common Stock of Quest Diagnostics
Incorporated ("Quest Diagnostics") and Covance Inc. ("Covance"). In connection
with these distributions, Quest Diagnostics assumed financial responsibility for
the liabilities related to the clinical laboratory business and Covance assumed
financial responsibility for the liabilities related to the contract research
business. Corning agreed to indemnify Quest Diagnostics against all monetary
penalties, fines or settlements for any governmental claims arising out of
alleged violations of applicable federal fraud and health care statutes and
relating to billing practices of Quest Diagnostics and its predecessors that
were pending at December 31, 1996. Corning also agreed to indemnify Quest
Diagnostics for 50% of the aggregate of all judgment or settlement payments made
by Quest Diagnostics that are in excess of $42.0 million in respect of claims by
private parties (i.e., nongovernmental parties such as private insurers) that
relate to indemnified or previously settled governmental claims and that allege
overbillings by Quest Diagnostics, or any existing subsidiaries of Quest
Diagnostics, for services provided prior to December 31, 1996; provided,
however, such indemnification is not to exceed $25.0 million in the aggregate
and that all amounts indemnified against by Corning for the benefit of Quest
Diagnostics are to be calculated on a net after-tax basis. Such indemnification
does not cover (i) any governmental claims that arise after December 31, 1996
pursuant to service of subpoena or other notice of such investigation after
December 31, 1996, (ii) any nongovernmental claims unrelated to the indemnified
governmental claims or investigations, (iii) any nongovernmental claims not
settled prior to December 31, 2001, (iv) any consequential or incidental damages
relating to the billing claims, including losses of revenues and profits as a
consequence of exclusion for participation in federal or state health care
programs or (v) the fees and expenses of litigation.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders


None.





                                     PART II

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related Security Holder
        Matters

This information is included in Quarterly Operating Results and Related Market
Data, Five Years in Review - Historical Comparison, and Investor Information,
appearing on pages 49 through 53.


Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

This information is included in Five Years in Review - Historical Comparison
appearing on pages 50 and 51.


Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations

On December 31, 1996, Corning distributed shares of Quest Diagnostics
Incorporated and Covance Inc., which collectively comprised Corning's Health
Care Services segment, to its shareholders on a pro rata basis (the
Distributions). Prior to the Distributions, Corning received a ruling from the
Internal Revenue Service that the Distributions were tax-free to Corning and its
shareholders. As a result of the Distributions, Quest Diagnostics and Covance
became independent, publicly traded companies. Corning's Consolidated Financial
Statements report Quest Diagnostics and Covance as discontinued operations.

On May 5, 1997, Corning announced that it is exploring the divestiture of its
worldwide consumer housewares business. On December 10, 1997, Corning announced
that a planned recapitalization and sale of a controlling interest in the
consumer business had been terminated. Corning continues to explore the
divestiture of this business. The results of the consumer housewares business
are included in continuing operations.

Corning's strategy is to focus its resources on growth opportunities in its
Communications and Specialty Materials segments. Key activities in 1997 included
facility and capacity expansions in growth businesses and an increase in
research and development spending.

Results of Continuing Operations

Consolidated sales were $4.1 billion in 1997 and $3.7 billion in 1996, each an
increase of 12% over the prior year. The gains in 1997 and 1996 were primarily
driven by growth in the Communications segment.

Net income totaled $439.8 million, or $1.92 per share, in 1997 compared with net
income from continuing operations of $342.9 million, or $1.50 per share, in 1996
and a net loss from continuing operations of $71.5 million, or $0.32 per share,
in 1995. Net income and earnings per share in 1995 include the net loss
associated with Corning's decision to fully reserve its investment in Dow
Corning Corporation and a restructuring charge. Additional information on Dow
Corning and the 1995 restructuring charge begins on page 11.

Corning's net income and earnings per share from continuing operations increased
28% in 1997. Earnings in 1997 reflect continued strong performance in the
Communications segment, increased earnings from the Specialty Materials segment
and continued improvement in the Consumer Products segment. Equity earnings
decreased in 1997, principally due to lower earnings from the international
optical fiber equity companies and start-up losses at new ventures offset by
gains at Samsung-Corning Company, Ltd.
and Eurokera, S.N.C.

Excluding the losses from Dow Corning and the restructuring charge, Corning's
net income and earnings per share from continuing operations increased 17% and
16%, respectively, in 1996 when compared with 1995. The increases were due to
strong performance in both the Communications and Specialty Materials segments
and significant improvement in the Consumer Products segment. Equity earnings in
1996, excluding Dow Corning, were up 28% driven by strong performance at the
international optical fiber equity companies and improvements at Samsung-Corning
Company, Ltd.

Corning anticipates a more modest growth rate in 1998 compared to the strong
pace set in 1997, principally due to the continued volatility of the Asian
economy which may impact several Corning businesses.





Industry Segments

Corning's products and services are grouped into three industry segments:
Communications, Specialty Materials, and Consumer Products. The sales and
earnings of equity affiliates, which are closely associated with Corning's
segments, are discussed in terms of the three industry segments. Additional
information on the acquisitions and divestitures discussed in the segment
analysis is included in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Communications
(In millions)                                      1997       1996       1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Consolidated sales                             $2,465.9   $1,969.4   $1,711.7
Income from continuing operations before taxes    684.3      528.5      434.9(1)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1) Includes $9.3 million of restructuring charges.

Consolidated Operations: Consolidated sales and earnings in the Communications
segment increased substantially in 1997 and 1996 due primarily to continued
strength in the opto-electronics businesses. The growth of the opto-electronics
businesses during these periods reflects increased demand from continued
telecommunications network builds and upgrades, a broadening global market, and
increased competition in the telecommunications services industry. Segment sales
and earnings in 1997 also reflect improvement in the information display
businesses following a weak performance in 1996.

Sales of Corning's optical fiber and optical cable businesses increased
significantly in 1997 and 1996 as a result of continued strong worldwide demand
for information transmission products. Domestic volume growth has been driven by
regional, local and long-haul telephone companies and cable television operators
who are installing optical fiber to increase network capacity, reducing
operating costs and adding new services. International volume growth has been
driven by China and other developing countries which are modernizing
telecommunications infrastructures. In addition, sales to developed countries
have grown due to privatization of government owned networks and
telecommunications industry deregulation. Sales growth in 1997 reflected price
stability through most of the year, with prices declining somewhat in the fourth
quarter. Earnings in this business increased significantly in both 1997 and
1996, primarily as a result of increased sales.

As a result of the strong worldwide demand for optical fiber, Corning continued
to expand its manufacturing capacity. Corning increased capacity during 1997
with the completion of the approximately $250 million expansion of its optical
fiber production facility in Wilmington, North Carolina. To further participate
in the expected growth of this market, Corning has begun construction on a new
several hundred million dollar optical fiber production facility in Concord,
North Carolina. Construction is expected to be completed in 1999.

Sales in Corning's telecommunications hardware and equipment business increased
substantially in 1997 and 1996 due to volume gains driven by overall market
growth for fiber optic and copper communications product accessories. Earnings
in 1997 and 1996 increased modestly as the volume gains were somewhat offset by
costs associated with plant consolidation efforts.

Sales in the developing photonic technologies business grew significantly in
1997 and 1996 driven by increased sales of fibergain modules and other products
which amplify, split, modify and manage transmissions in high-speed optical
telecommunications systems. Sales in 1997 also increased due to the second
quarter acquisition of Optical Corporation of America, a worldwide supplier of
opto-electronic components and systems. Earnings in the photonic technologies
business in 1997 were lower than 1996 levels as the increase in sales was more
than offset by heavy development spending for new products and increased
manufacturing and operating expenses necessary to support this growing business.
Earnings increased significantly in 1996 due to the sales growth. To increase
capacity in response to growing demand, Corning substantially completed
construction of a $40 million production facility near Corning, New York, during
1997. Sales and earnings of this business were not significant prior to 1996.





Sales and earnings in the conventional video components business increased in
1997 as sales volume continued to reflect a shift in customer demand toward
larger screen televisions and Corning's production capacity for these products
increased. In 1996, Corning completed the second phase of a three phase, $200
million expansion of its State College, Pennsylvania, television glass plant,
which will substantially improve Corning's capability to make larger size video
components. Earnings increased significantly in 1997 over 1996 levels, which
were impacted by costs associated with glass furnace repairs and expansion
related activities. Sales were down slightly in 1996 when compared to 1995, as
the activity related to the State College capacity expansion and glass furnace
repairs limited the effective capacity during the year. Likewise, earnings in
1996 decreased significantly due to the glass furnace repairs and the costs of
expanding the State College facility. Corning anticipates completing the third
phase of the State College capacity expansion in early 1998.

Sales of the projection video components business increased modestly in 1997 as
gains achieved from a stronger institutional market somewhat offset softness in
the consumer market sector. Earnings increased in 1997 due to the sales increase
and manufacturing cost efficiencies when compared to 1996. Sales decreased
slightly in 1996 when compared with 1995 as a result of general market softness.
During 1996, Corning completed the second phase of an approximate $60 million
expansion of its projection video components manufacturing facility in
Cincinnati, Ohio. The lower volume, coupled with expansion related manufacturing
inefficiencies, resulted in significantly decreased earnings in 1996.

Sales in the advanced display products business, which produces liquid crystal
display glass for flat panel displays, were even with 1996 as substantial volume
gains were offset by price declines and the impact of unfavorable exchange
rates. In addition, sales of glass into Korea declined as Samsung-Corning
Precision Glass Company, Ltd., an equity affiliate, began production in that
market. Sales increased in 1996 reflecting strong volume growth offset partially
by price declines. The business incurred a loss in both 1997 and 1996
principally as a result of heavy spending on new product development which more
than offset improved operating performance.

The 1995 restructuring charge in this segment resulted from management's
decision to exit the manufacturing facility for glass ceramic memory disks.

Equity Companies
(In millions)                                      1997       1996       1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net sales                                      $1,350.3   $1,120.4   $  982.2
Corning's share of net income                      57.9       67.5       47.4
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sales of Corning's optical fiber equity companies increased slightly and
earnings decreased in 1997 compared to 1996, as volume increases at European
equity companies were offset by price declines and reduced volume in Australian
and Southeast Asian markets.

In 1997, Corning formed Biccor Pte. Ltd., a holding company owned by Corning and
BICC Cables-Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd., to manage optical fiber cable plants in
Southeast Asia and China. Additionally in 1997, Corning formed Samara Optical
Cable Company, located in Samara, Russia, which is owned by Corning and Samara
Cable Company. These investments are expected to improve geographic market
access for optical fiber produced in Corning's domestic production facilities.

Samsung-Corning Company, Ltd. is a South Korea-based manufacturer which produces
glass panels and funnels for television and display monitors. Samsung-Corning's
sales increased in 1997 and 1996. Sales in both years benefited from
Samsung-Corning's global expansion which included the acquisition and building
of manufacturing and sales facilities in Germany and Malaysia. Sales in 1997
were also favorably impacted by additional volume received while a competitor
incurred an employee strike, but adversely impacted by price declines driven by
a competitive Asian market. Earnings increased in 1997 as the increased volume
and cost reductions more than offset the impact of price declines. Earnings
increased in 1996 as volume gains were partially offset by the impact of the
start up of new capacity in both Germany and Malaysia during the year.





Equity earnings of the Communications segment in 1997 and 1996 were impacted by
start-up costs incurred by Samsung-Corning Precision Glass Company, Ltd. and the
American Video Glass Company. Samsung-Corning Precision, a Corning and Samsung
Group equity venture formed in 1995, began producing liquid-crystal display
glass in Korea in late 1996. This start-up venture achieved break-even operating
results in 1997; however, earnings were adversely affected by currency
translation losses at year end 1997. During 1997, the American Video Glass
Company, a partnership between Sony Electronics, Inc., Asahi Glass of America
and Corning began to manufacture and supply television glass components to
Sony's North American operations. In 1997, Corning, Asahi Glass Company Ltd. of
Japan and the Samsung Group formed Video Monitores de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., an
equity venture that may establish a manufacturing facility in Mexico to finish
glass funnels and panels for color television tubes for the North American
market.

Outlook: Sales and earnings of the Communications segment are expected to
increase in 1998 but at a significantly lower rate than experienced in 1997.
Volume gains expected in the optical fiber and cable businesses will be
substantially offset by pricing pressures due in part to weakened Asian markets.
Sales and earnings of the photonic technology business are expected to increase.
Sales of the information display businesses are expected to be flat, with a
decline in the conventional video components business offset by growth in the
advanced display products and projection video components businesses; however,
earnings are expected to increase as a result of cost reduction programs,
improved manufacturing and reduced development spending.

Equity earnings from the optical fiber equity companies are expected to be even
with 1997 levels as both volume and price may be impacted by weakened Asian
markets. Samsung-Corning's earnings are expected to decline due to pricing
pressures of a competitive Asian market offset somewhat by cost reductions.
Earnings at Samsung-Corning Precision and American Video Glass Company are
expected to improve.


Specialty Materials
(In millions)                                      1997       1996       1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Consolidated sales                             $1,022.7   $  996.4   $  871.9
Income from continuing operations before taxes    237.1      195.8      174.7(1)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1) Includes $6.6 million of restructuring charges.

Consolidated Operations: Consolidated sales of the Specialty Materials segment
increased slightly in 1997 as significant growth from the advanced materials
business was offset by a decline in the optical products business and relatively
flat sales in the other businesses of this segment. Segment earnings increased
significantly in 1997 from the sales gains in the advanced materials business
and performance improvements in the science products business and at Quanterra
Incorporated, an environmental testing business. Consolidated sales increased in
1996 due primarily to the consolidation of Quanterra in the first quarter of
1996 and in part from growth in the environmental products, science products and
advanced materials businesses. Segment earnings increased significantly in 1996,
reflecting strong performance in the environmental products, science products
and advanced materials businesses, offset somewhat by losses at Quanterra.

Sales and earnings of the environmental products business in 1997 were flat
compared to 1996, reflecting steady volume levels in North America and an
increase in volume in Europe, which were offset by the impact of employee
strikes at Korean automobile manufacturers during the year and from unfavorable
exchange rates. Earnings in 1997 also reflect higher development spending for
new products. Sales increased in 1996 reflecting significant volume gains in the
automotive substrate market driven by strong market demand particularly in
Europe, while sales of substrates in North America and in diesel applications
increased slightly from 1995 levels. Earnings increased substantially in 1996 as
a result of worldwide volume and operational gains in both the United States and
European operations.

In January 1996, Corning completed a transaction whereby Corning increased its
ownership in Quanterra to 81% in exchange for an investment of approximately $20
million. As a result of this transaction, Corning began consolidating
Quanterra's results in the first quarter of 1996. Quanterra's 1996 sales
reflected declining market demand and downward pricing pressure. Despite cost
reduction efforts, Quanterra incurred a loss in 1996 due to the volume decrease
and lower prices. Sales in 1997 stabilized and were comparable with 1996. Due to
continued cost reduction efforts in 1997, performance improved and results were
essentially break-even for the year.





Sales and earnings of the advanced materials business increased significantly in
1997 and 1996 due to continued strong growth in high purity fused silica
applications for the semiconductor equipment industry and in isolators for the
telecommunications industry. As a result of the tremendous growth in demand for
high purity fused silica products, Corning began construction in 1997 of a new
manufacturing facility near Charleston, South Carolina, to increase capacity for
this business. Production at this facility is expected to start in the second
quarter of 1998 and reach planned production levels by the end of the year. This
facility will complement the current manufacturing operations in Canton, New
York, which were also expanded during 1997.

Sales of the science products business in 1997 were comparable with 1996, with
gains in plastic products driven by international growth and in new products
being offset by declines in glass products. Sales in 1997 were also impacted by
inventory reductions in the distribution channels for the plastics business and
unfavorable exchange rates. Earnings increased in 1997 due to a favorable sales
mix and cost reduction efforts. Sales and earnings increased in 1996 over 1995
as a result of improved volume, manufacturing efficiencies and cost reductions.

Sales of Corning's other Specialty Materials businesses, consisting of optical
products and lighting products, decreased in 1997 due to a decline in the
optical products business which experienced market demand that continues to
shift from glass to plastic lenses. Earnings decreased in 1997 as a result of
lower sales and development spending for new products, which decreased results
in the optical products business, offsetting performance improvements in the
lighting products business. Sales decreased in 1996 due to volume declines in
the lighting business as a result of exiting certain product lines. Earnings
decreased in 1996 due to the lower volume and higher development spending by the
optical products business.

Equity Companies
(In millions)                                      1997       1996       1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net sales                                      $  210.5   $  182.5   $  290.8
Corning's share of net income                      13.1        8.8        6.4
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Equity earnings in the Specialty Materials segment in 1997 and 1996 primarily
include Eurokera, S.N.C., a French-based manufacturer of glass-ceramic cooktops.
Equity earnings in 1995 also include Quanterra, which Corning began
consolidating in 1996.

Sales and earnings of Eurokera increased in both 1997 and 1996 as a result of
growing demand for glass-ceramic cooktops. In response to increased demand in
North America, Eurokera formed Eurokera North America Inc., which opened a
manufacturing facility in South Carolina during 1995.

Outlook: Consolidated sales in 1998 for this segment are expected to increase in
comparison to 1997, led by the advanced materials business as it increases
capacity during 1998. Modest sales growth in the environmental products and
science products business is expected from gains in international markets and
new products. Earnings are expected to increase as a result of the anticipated
sales gains. Certain businesses in the Specialty Materials segment, primarily
the advanced materials and environmental products businesses, could be impacted
by decreased demand from Asian markets.


Consumer Products
(In millions)                                      1997       1996       1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Consolidated sales                             $  601.1   $  685.8   $  673.5
Income from continuing operations before taxes     57.0       38.2       10.1
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Consolidated Operations: Consolidated sales in the Consumer Products segment
decreased in 1997 primarily as a result of the planned reduction in the number
of stock-keeping units offered and less profitable customer accounts, as well as
due to market softness in the second half of the year. Consolidated sales were
also affected by the sale of the Serengeti eyewear business in early 1997.
Earnings in this segment increased significantly in 1997 due to continued
manufacturing efficiencies and cost reduction programs with the objectives of
process simplification and improved customer service.





Consolidated sales in the Consumer Products segment increased slightly in 1996
as a result of volume gains in the mass-market channels and in international
markets despite continued difficult retail houseware market conditions. Earnings
in this segment increased significantly in 1996 due to the increased sales
volume, cost reductions in the manufacturing and administrative areas and the
gain recognized on the sale of CALP S.p.A., an equity company. The increase in
international sales in 1996 was principally due to strength in Asia, but all
geographic markets experienced improvements during the year.

In 1997, Corning sold the Serengeti eyewear business to Solar Mates, Inc. for
approximately $28 million. The gain recognized on this transaction was not
material.

Equity Companies
(In millions)                                      1997       1996       1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net sales                                            --   $   27.5   $   95.0
Corning's share of net income                        --        0.5        1.2
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Equity earnings in the Consumer segment are principally from CALP S.p.A., which
Corning sold in March 1996 for approximately $30 million. The gain recognized on
the transaction was not material.

Outlook: Consolidated segment sales in 1998 are expected to be slightly higher
than 1997 levels, primarily as a result of the planned introductions of new
products and increased promotional activity. The consumer housewares market is
expected to continue to be competitive. Earnings in 1998 are expected to
continue to improve due to continued manufacturing cost reductions. Sales and
earnings of this segment may also be impacted by decreased demand from Asian
markets.

As discussed on page 6, Corning continues to explore the divestiture of its
worldwide consumer housewares business.

Corporate Investments

Other than Dow Corning Corporation
(In millions)                                      1997       1996       1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net sales                                      $  247.3   $  262.9   $  223.3
Corning's share of net income                       8.2        8.3       11.7
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Corning's corporate equity companies include Pittsburgh Corning, Pittsburgh
Corning Europe, N.V. and other small strategic investments that are not
integrated with Corning's segments.

Sales of Pittsburgh Corning in 1997 were relatively flat compared to 1996, as
volume increases in the glass block product line were offset by volume decreases
in the foam glass insulation product line. Earnings increased in 1997 due to
cost reductions in administrative areas. Sales and earnings of Pittsburgh
Corning increased slightly in 1996 as increased volume in the foam glass
insulation product line was partially offset by decreased volume in glass block
sales.

Sales of Pittsburgh Corning Europe decreased in 1997 as volume increases in the
foam glass insulation product line were more than offset by price declines.
Earnings in 1997 were flat in comparison to 1996 as cost reductions in
administrative areas offset price declines. Sales and earnings of Pittsburgh
Corning Europe decreased in 1996 due to market softness.

Dow Corning Corporation

Corning is a 50% owner of Dow Corning Corporation, a manufacturer of silicones.
The other 50% of Dow Corning is owned by The Dow Chemical Company.

On May 15, 1995, Dow Corning voluntarily filed for protection under Chapter 11
of the United States Bankruptcy Code as a result of several negative
developments related to the breast implant litigation. At that time, Corning
management believed it was impossible to predict if and when Dow Corning would
successfully emerge from Chapter 11 proceedings. As a result, Corning recorded
an after-tax charge of $365.5 million, or $1.62 per share, in the second quarter
of 1995 to fully reserve its investment in Dow Corning.





Corning also discontinued recognition of equity earnings from Dow Corning
beginning in the second quarter of 1995. Corning recognized equity earnings from
Dow Corning of $17.5 million, or $0.08 per share, in the first quarter 1995.
Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements includes additional
financial information related to this investment.

Dow Corning filed its first plan of a reorganization with the Federal Bankruptcy
Court in December 1996. In August 1997, Dow Corning filed its first amended plan
of reorganization. On February 17, 1998, Dow Corning filed its Second Amended
Plan of reorganization with the Bankruptcy Court. Corning continues to believe
that it is impossible to predict if and when Dow Corning will successfully
emerge from Chapter 11 proceedings.

Provision for Restructuring

In the second quarter 1995, Corning recorded a restructuring charge of $26.5
million ($16.1 million after tax), or $0.07 per share. The charge included
severance for workforce reductions, primarily in corporate staff groups, a
curtailment loss in Corning's primary pension plan attributable to workforce
reductions and the write-off of production equipment resulting from the decision
to exit the manufacturing facility for glass ceramic memory disks. These actions
have been completed.

Taxes

Corning's effective tax rate was 33.5% in 1997, 33.5% in 1996 and 29.1% in 1995.
The lower 1995 rate was due to a higher percentage of Corning's earnings
resulting from consolidated entities with lower effective tax rates and the
restructuring charge. Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
reconciles the effective tax rate to the statutory tax rate.

Results of Discontinued Operations

The loss from discontinued operations in 1996 totaled $167.3 million, or $0.74
per share, and includes a provision for loss on Distributions of $176.5 million,
or $0.78 per share, offset by income from discontinued operations totaling $9.2
million, or $0.04 per share, recognized in the first quarter of 1996, prior to
Corning's decision to complete the Distributions. The $176.5 million provision
for loss on Distributions included a $142 million after-tax charge to increase
reserves for government claims and an after-tax charge for transaction costs
offset by the results of operations of the distributed businesses from April 1,
1996 through December 31, 1996, the Distribution date.

Income from discontinued operations in 1995 totaled $20.7 million, or $0.09 per
share. The results in 1995 reflect a restructuring charge of $24.4 million after
tax, which includes severance for workforce reduction programs and the costs of
exiting a number of leased facilities primarily at Quest Diagnostics.

Results of the discontinued operations include allocations of consolidated
interest expense totaling $51.7 million and $48.5 million in 1996 and 1995,
respectively. The allocations were based on the ratio of net assets of
discontinued operations to consolidated net assets.

Corning has agreed to indemnify Quest Diagnostics on an after-tax basis, for the
settlement of certain government claims against certain other claims that were
pending at December 31, 1996. Coincident with the Distributions, Corning
recorded a payable to Quest Diagnostics of approximately $25 million, which is
equal to management's best estimate of amounts which are probable of being paid
by Corning to Quest Diagnostics to satisfy the remaining indemnified claims on
an after-tax basis. Payments during 1997 were not significant.

Although management believes that established reserves for indemnified claims
are sufficient, it is possible that additional information may become available
to Quest Diagnostics' management, which may cause the final resolution of these
matters to exceed established reserves by an amount which could be material to
Corning's results of operations and cash flow in the period in which such claims
are settled. Management does not believe that these issues will have a material
adverse impact on Corning's overall financial condition.





Liquidity and Capital Resources

Corning's working capital decreased from $611.2 million at the end of 1996 to
$406.9 million at the end of 1997. The ratio of current assets to current
liabilities was 1.4 at the end of 1997 compared with 1.8 at year end 1996.
Corning's long-term debt as a percentage of total capital was 36% at the end of
1997, compared with 42% at the end of 1996. The decrease in the current ratio is
due primarily to an increase in current borrowings in 1997.

During the fourth quarter of 1996, Quest Diagnostics and Covance borrowed
approximately $650 million from third-party lenders and repaid intercompany debt
to Corning prior to the Distributions. Corning used the proceeds from the
repayment of intercompany debt to repay approximately $375 million of short-term
borrowings and $75 million of long-term debt.

Corning's working capital position is reinforced by available bank credit lines
totaling $799 million and the ability to issue up to $375 million of medium- and
long-term debt under existing shelf-registration statements filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Corning's management believes the Company
has sufficient financial flexibility and ready access to funds to meet seasonal
working capital requirements and for capital expenditures.

Cash Flows

Cash and short-term investments at the end of 1997 decreased from 1996 by $121.9
million due to operating activities which provided cash of $720.1 million,
offset by investing and financing activities which used cash of $742.3 million
and $87.5 million, respectively. Cash and short-term investments at the end of
1996 increased from 1995 by $35.6 million as operating activities and investing
activities provided cash of $602.8 million and $80.0 million, respectively,
offset by financing activities and discontinued operations which used cash of
$439.2 million and $188.3 million, respectively.

Net cash provided by operating activities increased in 1997 compared with 1996
due primarily to increased earnings. Cash flows from operating activities in
1996 increased compared with 1995 primarily due to increased earnings of
continuing operations before special charges partially offset by an increase in
cash used for working capital.

Corning invested significant cash in capital expansions in 1997 and 1996.
Corning generated cash from investing activities in 1996 as proceeds from the
repayment of intercompany debt by Quest Diagnostics and Covance, prior to the
Distributions, were greater than capital spending. Capital spending amounted to
$774.8 million, $597.8 million and $381.8 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively. Corning anticipates capital spending will approximate $750 million
in 1998. The high level of capital spending in 1996, 1997 and expected in 1998
relates primarily to capacity expansions in Corning's growth businesses and
expanded research and development facilities.

Corning used cash in financing activities in 1997 as dividend payments and
repurchases of common stock more than offset net borrowings. The level of cash
used in financing activities in 1997 was lower than in 1996, which reflected a
high level of net loan repayments with the proceeds from the Distributions.

Corning repurchased $50.1 million, $83.9 million and $33.1 million of its common
stock in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. All of the 1997 and 1995 amounts and
approximately $50 million of the 1996 amount were repurchased pursuant to a
systematic plan authorized by the Board of Directors. Corning's systematic plan
is designed to provide shares for Corning's various employee benefit programs.
The remainder of the 1996 stock repurchases were from employees to satisfy tax
withholding requirements on shares issued under employee benefit plans.

Dividends paid to common shareholders in 1997 totaled $166.2 million compared
with $165.3 million in 1996 and $165.2 million in 1995.

Cash used in discontinued operations totaled $15.3 million, $188.3 million and
$18.5 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. The high level of cash used
in discontinued operations in 1996 primarily relates to the payment of
government claims settlements related to Quest Diagnostics.





Environment

Corning has been named by the Environmental Protection Agency under the
Superfund Act, or by state governments under similar state laws, as a
potentially responsible party for 15 hazardous waste sites. Under the Superfund
Act, all parties who may have contributed any waste to a hazardous waste site,
identified by such Agency, are jointly and severally liable for the cost of
cleanup unless the Agency agrees otherwise. It is Corning's policy to accrue for
its estimated liability related to Superfund sites and other environmental
liabilities related to property owned and operated by Corning based on expert
analysis and continual monitoring by both internal and external consultants.
Corning has accrued approximately $20 million for its estimated liability for
environmental cleanup and related litigation at December 31, 1997.

Effects of Inflation

Amounts reflected in the financial statements do not provide for the effect of
inflation on operations or financial position. The expenses and asset values,
specifically those related to long-lived assets, reflect historical cost and do
not necessarily represent replacement cost or charges to operations based on
replacement cost. Corning's operations provide funds from operations which,
along with other sources, are sufficient to replace fixed assets as necessary.
Net income would be lower than reported if the effects of inflation were
reflected by charging operations for replacement costs.

Year 2000

The Company has performed an assessment of required modification or replacement
of its internal software to become Year 2000 compliant. Management believes the
required software changes will be completed without causing operational issues
and does not believe that the costs associated with these changes will
materially impact the Company's results of operations or financial condition.

Market Risk Disclosures

Corning operates and conducts business in many foreign countries. As a result,
there is exposure to potentially adverse movement in foreign currency rate
changes. Corning enters into foreign exchange forward contracts with durations
generally less than 12 months to reduce its exposure to exchange rate risk on
foreign source income and purchases. The objective of these contracts is to
neutralize the impact of exchange rate movements on Corning's operating results.

Corning does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading
purposes. The fair value of market sensitive instruments at December 31, 1997,
and the potential near-term losses in future earnings, fair values and cash
flows from reasonable possible near-term changes in exchange rates is not
material.


Item 8.  Financial Statements

See Item 14 (a) 1.


Item 9.  Disagreements on Accounting and Financial Disclosures

None.





                                    PART III


Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers

A list of Directors of the Company, appearing under the caption "Nominees for
Election as Directors" in the Proxy Statement relating to the annual meeting of
stockholders to be held on April 30, 1998, is incorporated by reference in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Executive Officers of the Registrant*

Roger G. Ackerman (59) Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Ackerman joined Corning in 1962. In 1972 he was appointed president of
Corhart Refractories Co. He was elected senior vice president and general
manager of Corning Ceramics in 1975, a senior vice president in 1980, director
of the Manufacturing and Engineering Division in 1981, and president and chief
executive officer of MetPath Inc. (now Quest Diagnostics Incorporated) in 1983.
In 1985, he was elected group president and a director. In 1990 Mr. Ackerman was
elected president and in 1996 was elected to his present position.

Van C. Campbell (59) Vice Chairman
Mr. Campbell joined Corning in 1964. He was elected assistant treasurer in 1971,
treasurer in 1972, a vice president in 1973, financial vice president in 1975
and senior vice president for finance in 1980. He became general manager of the
Consumer Products Division in 1981. Mr. Campbell was elected vice chairman and a
director in 1983.

Norman E. Garrity (56) Sector President and Co-Chief Operating Officer
Mr. Garrity joined Corning in 1966 and subsequently served in a variety of
manufacturing and engineering management positions. In 1979 he was appointed
sales and marketing manager for Corning Electronics. In 1984 he was appointed
general manager of the Electrical Products Division and subsequently appointed
vice president. He was elected senior vice president in 1987 and executive vice
president in 1990, responsible for the Specialty Materials Group and the
manufacturing and engineering function. In 1996 he was elected to his present
position of President, Corning Technologies.

John W. Loose (55) Sector President and Co-Chief Operating Officer
Mr. Loose joined Corning in 1964 and subsequently held a variety of sales and
marketing positions in the Consumer Products Division. In 1986 he was appointed
vice president and general manager for the Asia-Pacific area. In 1988 he was
appointed vice president for Corning International Corporation and president and
chief executive officer of Corning Asahi Video Products Company and subsequently
senior vice president, International. In April 1990 he was elected executive
vice president responsible for the Information Display Group. In 1993, Mr. Loose
became responsible for the consumer business and was elected president and chief
executive officer of Corning Consumer Products Company. In 1996 he was elected
to his present position of President, Corning Communications.

James M. Ramich (52) Executive Vice President
Mr. Ramich joined Corning in 1973 and served in a variety of managerial
positions in Purchasing, Treasury, and the Electronic Components Division. In
1988, he was appointed director of Corporate Development, vice president in 1990
and became vice president and general manager of the Advanced Display Products
business the same year. Mr. Ramich was elected executive vice president
responsible for the Information Display Group in 1993.

Katherine A. Asbeck (41) Vice President and Controller
Ms. Asbeck joined Corning in 1991 as director of accounting. She was appointed
assistant controller in 1993, designated chief accounting officer in 1994 and
elected vice president and controller effective as of May 16, 1997. Prior to
joining Corning, Ms. Asbeck was a senior audit manager of Price Waterhouse LLP.

Peter Booth (58) Senior Vice President
Mr. Booth joined Corning in 1974 as international counsel and was elected a vice
president of Corning International Corporation in 1975. He became corporate
counsel in 1980. In 1983 he was appointed director of Corporate Plans and
elected vice president and secretary. He became executive vice president of
Corning Japan K.K. in 1986. In 1991, Mr. Booth was named senior vice president
responsible for Strategy and Development.





Peter F. Campanella (52) President and CEO of Corning Consumer Products Company
Mr. Campanella joined Corning in 1971 and subsequently served in a variety of
sales and marketing positions in the Consumer Products Division and Corning
International. He became director of sales and marketing in Science Products in
1989, vice president and general manager in 1990 and was named senior vice
president in 1994. He assumed responsibility for the Advanced Materials &
Process Technologies group in 1995 and was elected to his present position in
April 1996.

James R. Cooke (46) Vice President
Mr. Cooke joined Corning in 1980 and has served in various accounting, finance,
and strategic planning positions. In July 1994, he was appointed
Opto-Electronics division vice president and general manager, Components
Products Business and director of external development in June 1995. He was
named vice president business development and general manager of
Opto-Electronics Components Products Business in March 1996 and
vice-president-new business of Corning Communications in November, 1997.

Charles W. Deneka (53) Senior Vice President
Mr. Deneka joined Corning in 1972 and subsequently held manufacturing,
engineering and development positions in several divisions. In 1990, he was
named vice president and director of Development responsible for new product
development activities. In January 1995, he was appointed senior vice president
and chief technical officer.

Robert L. Ecklin (59) Senior Vice President
Mr. Ecklin joined Corning in 1961 and served in a variety of U.S. and
international manufacturing and engineering managerial positions. For Corning
Engineering he served as its vice president in 1982 and was appointed its
president in 1983. In 1986 he became vice president of Business Development. Mr.
Ecklin was appointed general manager of the Industrial Products Division in 1989
and senior vice president in 1990.

James B. Flaws (49) Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Flaws joined Corning in 1973 and has held a variety of positions within
Corning's Consumer Products group and in 1991 was appointed vice president and
chief financial officer. Mr. Flaws was elected assistant treasurer of Corning
Incorporated in 1993, vice president and controller effective as of February 1,
1997 and vice president-finance and treasurer effective as of May 16, 1997. He
was elected senior vice president and chief financial officer in December, 1997.

A. John Peck, Jr. (58) Secretary
Mr. Peck joined Corning in 1972. He has served as assistant counsel and as
associate counsel in the Legal Department. He was appointed assistant secretary
in 1981 and elected secretary in 1988.

William C. Ughetta (65) Senior Vice President and General Counsel
Mr. Ughetta joined Corning in 1968 as assistant secretary and assistant counsel.
He was elected secretary of the corporation in 1971 and vice president and
general counsel in 1972. He was elected a senior vice president in 1983.

Wendell P. Weeks (38) Senior Vice President
Mr. Weeks joined Corning in 1983 and has served in various accounting, business
development, and business manager positions. In 1992, he was named general
manager and director of external development, Opto-Electronics Components
Business, division vice president in July 1994, and deputy general manager in
June 1995. He was appointed vice president and general manager of the
Telecommunications Products Division in March 1996 and senior vice president
effective November 1, 1997.


*as of December 31, 1997





Item 11.  Management Remuneration and Transactions

Information covering Management Remuneration and Transactions, appearing under
the captions "Report of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on
Executive Compensation" and "Other Matters" in the Proxy Statement relating to
the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on April 30, 1998, is incorporated
by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Information with respect to Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners,
appearing under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners" in
the Proxy Statement relating to the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on
April 30, 1998, is incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

A description of transactions with management and others and certain business
relationships, appearing under the captions "Directors' Compensation and Other
Matters Relating to Directors" and "Other Matters" in the Proxy Statement
relating to the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on April 30, 1998, is
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.





                                     PART IV


Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)   Documents filed as part of this report:

      1.    Index to financial statements and financial statement schedules,
            filed as part of this report:

                                                                            Page

                  Report of Independent Accountants                           22

                  Consolidated Statements of Income                           23

                  Consolidated Balance Sheets                                 24

                  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows                       25

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements               26-47

                  Financial Statement Schedule:
                           II       Valuation Accounts and Reserves           48

      2.    Supplementary Data:

                  Quarterly Operating Results and Related Market Data         49
                  Five Years in Review - Historical Comparison             50-51
                  Investor Information                                     52-53

      3.    Exhibits filed as part of this report: see (c) below.

(b)   Reports on Form 8-K filed during the last quarter of fiscal 1997:

      A report on Form 8-K dated October 15, 1997, filed in connection with the
      registrant's medium-term note facility, includes Corning's third quarter
      earnings press release of October 15, 1997.

(c)   Exhibits filed as part of this report:

      #3(i) Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant:

            Restated Certificate of Incorporation, dated July 12, 1989, and the
            Certificate of Amendment, dated September 28, 1989, of the Restated
            Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant which appear as
            Exhibit 3(a) to the 1989 Annual Report on Form 10-K are incorporated
            herein by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to
            an exemption in accordance with Section 232.102(a) of Regulation
            S-T.

            Certificate of Amendment, dated April 30, 1992, of the Restated
            Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant which appears as
            Exhibit 3(a) to the 1992 Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated
            herein by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to
            an exemption in accordance with Section 232.102(a) of Regulation
            S-T.

            Certificate of Amendment, dated July 15, 1994, as amended by the
            Certificate of Correction filed on July 26, 1994, of the Restated
            Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant which appears as
            Exhibit 3 to the 1994 Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated
            herein by reference in this Annual Report pursuant to an exemption
            in accordance with Section 232.102(a) of Regulation S-T.





             Certificate of Amendment, dated October 24, 1994, of the Restated
             Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant which appears as
             Exhibit 3 to the 1994 Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated
             herein by reference in this Annual Report pursuant to an exemption
             in accordance with Section 232.102(a) of Regulation S-T.
             
             Certificate of Amendment, dated June 24, 1996, of the Restated
             Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant which amends the
             number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock designated.
            
      #3(ii) By-laws of Corning Incorporated as amended to and effective as of
             April 25, 1996.

      #4     Rights Agreement dated June 5, 1996, that defines the preferred
             share purchase rights which trade with the Registrant's common
             stock, which appears as Exhibit 1 to Form 8-K, dated July 10, 1996,
             is incorporated herein by reference in this Annual Report on Form
             10-K.
           
      #12    Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and
             Preferred Dividends
           
      #21    Subsidiaries of the Registrant at December 31, 1997
            
      #23    Consent of Independent Accountants
            
      #24    Powers of Attorney
            
      #27    Financial Data Schedule
            
(d)   Dow Corning Corporation:                                              Page

             Report of Independent Accountants                                54

             Consolidated Balance Sheets                                   55-56

             Consolidated Statements of Operations and Retained Earnings      57

             Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow                             58

             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                    59-86

Financial statements of unconsolidated subsidiary companies and associated
companies accounted for under the equity method, other than Dow Corning
Corporation, have been omitted. Summary financial information on Corning's
equity-basis companies is presented in Note 5 (Investments) of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements appearing on pages 31 and 32.





Signatures

Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Corning Incorporated


By       /s/ Roger G. Ackerman        Chairman of the Board and                 
   --------------------------------   Chief Executive Officer      March 9, 1998
          (Roger G. Ackerman)                                                   
                                                                                
                                                                                
                                                                                
By        /s/ James B. Flaws          Senior Vice President,                    
   --------------------------------   Treasurer, and                            
           (James B. Flaws)           Chief Financial Officer      March 9, 1998
                                      
                                                                                
                                                                                
By      /s/ Katherine A. Asbeck       Vice President and                        
   --------------------------------   Controller                   March 9, 1998
         (Katherine A. Asbeck)           

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
on the date indicated.
                                      
                                      Capacity                          Date


                  *                   Chairman of the Board,       March 9, 1998
- -----------------------------------   Chief Executive Officer
                                      and Director
         (Roger G. Ackerman)        
                                    
                                                                                
                                    
                  *                   Director                     March 9, 1998
- -----------------------------------           
           (Robert Barker)                    
                                                                                
                                              
                  *                   Director                     March 9, 1998
- -----------------------------------           
         (John Seely Brown)                   
                                                                                
                                              
                  *                   Director                     March 9, 1998
- -----------------------------------           
          (Van C. Campbell)                   
                                                                                
                                              
                  *                   Director                     March 9, 1998
- -----------------------------------           
      (Lawrence S. Eagleburger)               
                                                                                
                                              
                  *                   Director                     March 9, 1998
- -----------------------------------           
          (John H. Foster)                    
                                                                                
                                              
                  *                   Director                     March 9, 1998
- -----------------------------------   
         (Norman E. Garrity)        





                  *                   Director                     March 9, 1998
- -----------------------------------
           (Gordon Gund)


                  *                   Director                     March 9, 1998
- -----------------------------------
         (John M. Hennessy)


                  *                   Director                     March 9, 1998
- -----------------------------------
        (James R. Houghton)


                  *                   Director                     March 9, 1998
- -----------------------------------
         (James W. Kinnear)


                  *                   Director                     March 9, 1998
- -----------------------------------
          (John W. Loose)


                  *                   Director                     March 9, 1998
- -----------------------------------
        (James J. O'Connor)


                  *                   Director                     March 9, 1998
- -----------------------------------
        (Catherine A. Rein)


                  *                   Director                     March 9, 1998
- -----------------------------------
          (Henry Rosovsky)


                  *                   Director                     March 9, 1998
- -----------------------------------
          (H. Onno Ruding)


                  *                   Director                     March 9, 1998
- -----------------------------------
       (William D. Smithburg)



       /s/ William D. Eggers
*By
   --------------------------------
        (William D. Eggers,
         Attorney-in-fact)





REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


Price Waterhouse LLP


January 28, 1998



To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Corning Incorporated

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index
appearing under item 14(a)(1) on page 18 present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Corning Incorporated and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1997, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards which require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed
above.


/s/ Price Waterhouse LLP
1177 Avenue of the Americas
New York, New York  10036







See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 26.







See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 26.







See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page 26.






NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Corning Incorporated and Subsidiary Companies
(Dollars in millions, except share and per-share amounts)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


1.   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

On December 31, 1996, Corning distributed all of the shares of its health care
services segment (Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and Covance Inc.), to its
shareholders on a pro rata basis. Corning's consolidated financial statements
and notes to consolidated financial statements report Quest Diagnostics and
Covance as discontinued operations.

On May 5, 1997, Corning announced that it is exploring the divestiture of its
worldwide consumer housewares business. On December 10, 1997, Corning announced
that a planned recapitalization and sale of a controlling interest in the
consumer business had been terminated. Corning continues to explore the
divestiture of this business. The results of the consumer housewares business
are included in continuing operations.

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all entities
controlled by Corning. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions
are eliminated.

The equity method of accounting is used for investments in associated companies
which are not controlled by Corning and in which Corning's interest is generally
between 20% and 50%.

Effective January 1, 1996, Corning made several changes to its accounting
calendar to make Corning's results more comparable with other companies and to
enable Corning to report results of certain subsidiaries on a more current
basis. As part of the changes, Corning adopted an annual reporting calendar.
Previously, Corning operated on a fiscal year ending on the Sunday nearest
December 31.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Foreign Currencies

Balance sheet accounts of foreign subsidiaries are translated at current
exchange rates and income statement accounts are translated at average exchange
rates for the year. Translation gains and losses are accumulated in a separate
component of common stockholders' equity. Foreign currency transaction gains and
losses affecting cash flows are included in current earnings.

Corning enters into foreign exchange contracts primarily as hedges against
identifiable foreign currency commitments. Gains and losses on contracts
identified as hedges are deferred and included in the measurement of the related
foreign currency transactions. Gains and losses on foreign currency contracts
which are not designated as hedges of foreign currency commitments are included
in current earnings.

Corning management does not believe that its foreign exchange exposure or its
hedging program are material to Corning's financial position or results of
operations.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Short-term investments, comprised of repurchase agreements and debt instruments
with original maturities of three months or less, are considered cash
equivalents.






1.   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Approximately 54% and 50%
of Corning's inventories at December 31, 1997, and 1996, respectively, are
valued using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. The first-in, first-out
(FIFO) method is used to value the remaining inventories, which are principally
at consolidated subsidiaries.

Property and Depreciation

Land, buildings and equipment are recorded at cost. Depreciation is based on
estimated useful lives of properties using straight-line and accelerated
methods.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Investment costs in excess of the fair value of net assets acquired are
amortized over appropriate periods not exceeding 40 years. Other intangible
assets are recorded at cost and amortized over periods not exceeding 15 years.

Taxes on Income

Corning uses the asset and liability approach to account for income taxes. Under
this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected
future tax consequences of differences between the carrying amounts of assets
and liabilities and their respective tax bases using enacted tax rates in effect
for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect on
deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in
income in the period when the change is enacted.

2.   Earnings Per Common Share

Corning adopted Financial Accounting Standard No. 128, "Earnings per Share,"
(FAS 128) in 1997. FAS 128 revised standards for the computation and
presentation of earnings per share (EPS), requiring the presentation of both
basic and diluted earnings per share.

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income, less dividends on
Series B convertible preferred stock, by the weighted-average number of common
shares outstanding during each period. Diluted earnings per share is computed by
dividing net income, plus dividends on convertible preferred securities of
subsidiary, by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during
the period after giving effect to dilutive stock options and adjusted for
dilutive common shares assumed to be issued on conversion of Corning's
convertible securities.

A reconciliation of the basic and diluted earnings per share computations for
1997 and 1996 are as follows:








2.   Earnings Per Common Share (continued)

In January 1997, the conversion rate of the convertible monthly income preferred
shares was increased to recognize the effect of the Distributions of Quest
Diagnostics and Covance.

At December 31, 1996, 222,000 shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock
were outstanding. Each Series B share is convertible into four shares of Corning
common stock. These shares were not included in the calculation of diluted EPS
due to the anti-dilutive effect they would have had on EPS if converted.

Due to Corning's loss from continuing operations in 1995, a calculation of
diluted EPS is not required. In 1995, dilutive securities consisted of options
convertible into 1.6 million shares of common stock, Series B convertible
preferred stock which paid dividends of $2.0 million and were convertible into
1.0 million shares of common stock, and convertible monthly income preferred
securities which paid dividends of $13.7 million and were convertible into 9.6
million shares of common stock.
Weighted-average shares outstanding were 226.6 million.

3.   Business Combination and Divestitures

Purchases

In April 1997, Corning acquired 100% of the stock of Optical Corporation of
America (OCA) for a total purchase price of approximately $70 million. The
consideration was comprised of approximately 950,000 shares of Corning
restricted stock, options and $32 million of cash. The acquisition was recorded
using the purchase method of accounting. The results of operations of OCA are
included in the consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition.
The excess cost over the fair value of the net tangible assets acquired is
approximately $52 million and is being amortized over periods of up to 20 years.

Divestitures

In February 1997, Corning sold its Serengeti eyewear business to Solar-Mates,
Inc. for approximately $28 million. In March 1996, Corning sold its equity
investment in CALP S.p.A. for approximately $30 million. The gains recognized on
these transactions were not material.

Other

In January 1996, Corning and International Technology completed a transaction
whereby Corning increased its ownership in Quanterra Incorporated, a jointly
owned company between Corning and International Technology, from 50% to 81% in
exchange for an investment of approximately $20 million. In addition, Corning
granted International Technology the right to put the remaining 19% interest in
Quanterra to Corning at fair market value in January 2003. As a result of this
transaction, Corning began consolidating Quanterra's results beginning in 1996.

4.   Information by Industry Segment

Corning is a diversified, global, technology-based corporation which operates in
three broadly-based business industry segments: Communications, Specialty
Materials, and Consumer Products.

The Communications segment includes the opto-electronics and information display
businesses. The opto-electronics business produces optical fiber, optical cable,
hardware and equipment and photonic technology components for the worldwide
telecommunications industry. The information display business manufactures glass
panels and funnels for the conventional television industry, projection video
lens assemblies and liquid crystal display glass for flat panel displays.

The Specialty Materials segment includes the environmental products business,
which produces emission control substrates and related technologies for all
major vehicle producing market applications worldwide, the advanced materials
business, which produces high purity fused silica for high-performance optical
applications, and the science products business, which produces various plastic
and glass laboratory products. The other businesses which operate in this
segment specialize in the production of optical and lighting products.






4.   Information by Industry Segment (continued)

The Consumer Products segment produces cookware, glassware and dinnerware that
is sold primarily in the North American retail market through mass-market and
other distribution channels. The Steuben crystal and Serengeti eyewear
businesses are also included in this segment.

Many of Corning's administrative and staff functions are performed on a
centralized basis. Corning charges these expenses to operating segments based on
the extent to which each business uses a centralized function. Certain staff
functions and certain research and development expenses which benefit all
businesses or relate to future technologies are included in Other.

As a result of Corning's decision to fully reserve its investment in Dow Corning
Corporation and discontinue recognition of equity earnings from Dow Corning
during 1995, summary financial information for Dow Corning is not included in
the segment data. Information for Dow Corning is presented separately in Note 5
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain equity companies that
are not associated with Corning's operating segments are classified in Other.

Information about the Company's segment operations is summarized on the
following page.








(1)  The 1995 restructuring charge totaling $26.5 million was included in income
     from continuing operations before taxes of Communications ($9.3 million),
     Specialty Materials ($6.6 million) and Other, including R&D ($10.6
     million).






5.   Investments

Investments Other Than Dow Corning Corporation

Samsung-Corning Company Ltd., a 50% owned South Korea-based manufacturer of
glass panels and funnels for cathode-ray tubes, represented $134.1 million and
$150.3 million of Corning's investments accounted for by the equity method at
year end 1997 and 1996, respectively.

The financial position and results of operations of Samsung-Corning and
Corning's other equity companies are summarized as follows:



(1) Equity in earnings shown above and in the Consolidated Statements of Income
are net of amounts recorded for income tax.

Dividends received from Samsung-Corning and Corning's other equity companies
totaled $65.3 million, $88.2 million and $74.3 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively. At December 31, 1997, approximately $232.3 million of equity in
undistributed earnings of equity companies were included in Corning's retained
earnings.

Dow Corning Corporation

Corning is a 50% owner of Dow Corning Corporation, a manufacturer of silicones.
The other 50% of Dow Corning is owned by The Dow Chemical Company.

On May 15, 1995, Dow Corning voluntarily filed for protection under Chapter 11
of the United States Bankruptcy Code as a result of several negative
developments related to the breast implant litigation. At that time, Corning
management believed it was impossible to predict if and when Dow Corning would
successfully emerge from Chapter 11 proceedings. As a result, Corning recorded
an after-tax charge of $365.5 million in the second quarter of 1995 to fully
reserve its investment in Dow Corning. Corning also discontinued recognition of
equity earnings from Dow Corning beginning in the second quarter of 1995.






5.   Investments (continued)

The financial position and results of operations of Dow Corning are summarized
as follows:


(1) Equity in earnings shown above and in the Consolidated Statements of Income
    are net of amounts recorded for income tax.
(2) Includes $17.5 million of equity earnings recognized in the first quarter of
    1995 and a charge taken by Corning of $365.5 million in the second quarter
    of 1995 to fully reserve its investment in Dow Corning. Corning discontinued
    recognition of equity earnings from Dow Corning beginning in the second
    quarter of 1995.
(3) Dow Corning's financial statements for 1997, 1996 and 1995 have been
    prepared in conformity with the American Institute of Certified Public
    Accountants' Statement of Position 90-7, "Financial Reporting by Entities in
    Reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code," (SOP 90-7). SOP 90-7 requires a
    segregation of liabilities subject to compromise by the Bankruptcy Court as
    of the filing date (May 15, 1995) and identification of all transactions and
    events that are directly associated with the reorganization.

As disclosed in Dow Corning's financial statements, its 1995 results were
impacted by charges related to breast implant litigation matters. Subsequent to
Corning's decision to fully reserve its investment in Dow Corning in 1995, Dow
Corning recorded an accounting charge of $221.2 million after tax. Dow Corning's
1997, 1996 and 1995 results have also been impacted by the suspension of
interest payments and reorganization costs resulting from the Chapter 11 filing.

Dow Corning filed its first plan of reorganization with the Federal Bankruptcy
Court in December 1996. Dow Corning filed a first amended plan of reorganization
in August 1997. On February 17, 1998, Dow Corning filed its Second Amended Plan
of reorganization with the Bankruptcy Court. Corning continues to believe that
it is impossible to predict if and when Dow Corning will successfully emerge
from Chapter 11 proceedings.






6.   Employee Retirement Plans

Pension Benefits

Corning has defined benefit pension plans covering certain domestic employees
and certain employees in foreign countries. Corning's funding policy has been to
contribute as necessary an amount determined jointly by the Company and its
consulting actuaries, which provides for the current cost and amortization of
prior service cost.

The funded status of Corning's pension plans as of year end is as follows:


Plan assets are comprised principally of publicly traded debt and equity
securities. Corning common stock represented 3.1% and 7.7% of plan assets at
year end 1997 and 1996, respectively.

The unrecognized prior service cost, unrecognized transition gain, net gains and
losses from changes in actuarial assumptions and net experience gains are
deferred and amortized to pension expense over the remaining service life of
plan participants, if they exceed certain limits.

For Corning's principal defined benefit plan, the assumed discount rate and rate
of increase in future compensation levels used in determining the actuarial
present value of the projected benefit obligation were 7.5% and 4.5%,
respectively, in both 1997 and 1996. The expected long-term rate of return on
plan assets was 9% for 1997 and 1996. Assumptions of the Company's other plans
are not significantly different.

The components of pension expense for Corning's defined benefit pension plans
are as follows:



Measurement of pension expense is based on assumptions used to value the pension
liability at the beginning of the year. Total consolidated pension expense,
including defined contribution pension plans, was $49.0 million in 1997, $47.3
million in 1996 and $42.7 million in 1995.






6.   Employee Retirement Plans (continued)

Postretirement Health Care and Life Insurance Benefits

Corning and certain of its domestic subsidiaries have defined benefit
postretirement plans that provide health care and life insurance benefits for
retirees and eligible dependents. Certain employees may become eligible for such
benefits upon reaching retirement age. Corning's principal retiree medical plans
require increased retiree contributions each year equal to the excess of medical
cost increases over general inflation rates.

Corning's consolidated postretirement benefit obligation is determined by
application of the terms of health care and life insurance plans, together with
relevant actuarial assumptions and health care cost trend rates. The discount
rate used in determining the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was
7.5% in 1997 and 1996. The health care cost trend rate for Corning's principal
plan is assumed to be 9% in 1997 for covered individuals under age 65 decreasing
gradually to 5% in 2010 and thereafter. For covered individuals over 65, the
rate is assumed to be 8% in 1997 decreasing gradually to 5% in 2010 and
thereafter. Assumptions for Corning's other plans are not significantly
different. The effect of a 1% annual increase in the assumed healthcare cost
trend rates would increase the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation and
the net periodic postretirement benefit expense by $45.9 million and $4.6
million, respectively.

Gains and losses from plan amendments or changes in actuarial assumptions are
deferred and amortized to post-retirement benefit expense, if they exceed
certain limits, over the expected remaining service life of plan participants.

Corning's accrued postretirement liability as of year end was comprised of the
following:


Measurement of postretirement benefit expense is based on assumptions used to
value the postretirement liability at the beginning of the year.






7.   Taxes on Income






7.   Taxes on Income (continued)

The tax effects of temporary differences and carryforwards that gave rise to
significant portions of the deferred tax assets and liabilities as of year end
are comprised of the following:


The net change in the total valuation allowance for the years ended December 31,
1997, and 1996, was an increase of $9.3 million and a decrease of $4.7 million,
respectively.

Corning currently provides income taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries
and associated companies to the extent they are currently taxable or expected to
be remitted. Taxes have not been provided on $407.1 million of accumulated
foreign unremitted earnings which are expected to remain invested indefinitely.
It is not practicable to estimate the amount of additional tax that might be
payable on the foreign earnings; however, if these earnings were remitted,
income taxes payable would be provided at a rate which is significantly lower
than the effective tax rate.

The Company has, as required, provided for tax on undistributed earnings of its
domestic subsidiaries and affiliated companies beginning in 1993 even though
these earnings have been and will continue to be reinvested indefinitely. The
Company estimates that $32.1 million of tax would be payable on pre-1993
undistributed earnings of its domestic subsidiaries and affiliated companies
should the unremitted earnings reverse and become taxable to the Company. The
Company expects these earnings to be reinvested indefinitely.

Total payments for taxes on income were $214.4 million, $123.5 million and
$103.8 million during 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. Deferred income tax
benefits totaling $71.3 million and $69 million were included in other current
assets at year end 1997 and 1996, respectively. At December 31, 1997, Corning
had tax benefits attributable to loss carryforwards and credits aggregating
$49.6 million that expire at various dates through 2012.




8.   Supplemental Income Statement Data


Consolidated interest expense allocated to discontinued operations totaled $51.7
million and $48.5 million in 1996 and 1995, respectively. The allocations were
based on the ratio of net assets of discontinued operations to consolidated net
assets.

9.   Provision for Restructuring

In the second quarter 1995, Corning recorded a restructuring charge of $26.5
million ($16.1 million after tax). The charge included $18.5 million of
severance for workforce reductions, primarily in corporate staff groups, a
curtailment loss in Corning's primary pension plan attributable to workforce
reductions and $8.0 million for the write-off of production equipment caused by
the decision to exit the manufacturing facility for glass ceramic memory disks.
Spending under this restructuring program was completed in 1997.

10.  Supplemental Balance Sheet Data







11.  Loans Payable


Based on borrowing rates currently available to Corning for loans with similar
terms and maturities, the fair value of loans payable beyond one year was $1.4
billion at year end 1997.

Unused bank revolving credit agreements in effect at December 31, 1997 provide
for Corning to borrow up to $799 million. The revolving credit agreements
provide for borrowing of U.S. dollars and Eurocurrency at various rates. Corning
also has the ability to issue up to $375 million of medium- and long-term debt
through public offerings under existing shelf-registration statements filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission.






12.  Convertible Monthly Income Preferred Securities

In July 1994, Corning and Corning Delaware L.P., a special purpose limited
partnership in which Corning is the sole general partner, completed a public
offering of 7.5 million shares of Convertible Monthly Income Preferred
Securities (MIPS). The MIPS are guaranteed by Corning and convertible into
Corning common stock at the rate of 1.534 shares of Corning common stock for
each preferred security (equivalent to a conversion price of $32.59 per share).
Dividends on the preferred securities are payable by Corning Delaware at the
annual rate of 6% of the liquidation preference of $50 per preferred security.

After August 5, 1998, the preferred securities will be redeemable, at the option
of Corning Delaware, for $51.80 per preferred security reduced annually by $0.30
to a minimum of $50 per preferred security. The preferred securities are subject
to mandatory redemption on July 21, 2024, at a redemption price of $50 per
preferred security.

Corning may cause Corning Delaware to delay the payment of dividends for up to
60 months. During such period, dividends on the MIPS will compound monthly and
Corning may not declare or pay dividends on its common stock. If Corning
Delaware fails to pay dividends on the MIPS for 15 consecutive months or upon
the occurrence of certain other events, the preferred securities may convert, at
the option of the holders, to Corning Series C convertible preferred stock, par
value $100 per share. The Series C convertible preferred stock will have
dividend, conversion, optional redemption and other terms substantially similar
to the terms of the MIPS, except that the holders of Series C preferred stock
will have the right to elect two additional directors of Corning whenever
dividends are in arrears for 18 months and the Series C preferred stock will not
be subject to mandatory redemption.

Based on quoted market prices at December 31, 1997, the fair value of the
preferred securities approximated $461 million.

13.  Convertible Preferred Stock

Corning has 10 million authorized shares of Series Preferred Stock, par value
$100 per share. Of the authorized shares, 2.4 million shares have been
designated Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of which no shares have
been issued.

At year end 1997, 1996 and 1995, 198,100, 222,000 and 239,400 shares of Series B
Convertible Preferred Stock were outstanding, respectively. Each Series B share
is convertible into 4.79 shares of Corning common stock and has voting rights
equivalent to four common shares. The Series B shares were sold exclusively to
the trustee of Corning's existing employee investment plans, based upon
directions from plan participants. Participants may cause Corning to redeem the
shares at 100% of par upon reaching age 55 or later, retirement, termination of
employment or in certain cases of financial hardship. The Series B shares are
redeemable by Corning at $108 per share reduced annually on October 1,
commencing in 1990, by $1 per share to a minimum of $100 per share.






14.  Common Stockholders' Equity







14.  Common Stockholders' Equity (continued)

As part of Corning's change to its accounting calendar, effective January 1,
1996, certain consolidated subsidiaries that previously reported on a fiscal
year ending November 30 adopted a calendar year end. The December 1995 net loss
of these subsidiaries totaled $7.7 million and was recorded in retained earnings
in the first quarter of 1996.

Corning has established the Corning Stock Ownership Trust (CSOT) to fund future
employee purchases of common stock through its contributions to Corning's
Investment and Employee Stock Purchase Plans (the Plans). Corning sold 4 million
treasury shares to the CSOT. At December 31, 1997, 2.2 million shares remained
in the CSOT. Shares held by the CSOT are not considered outstanding for earnings
per common share calculations until released to the Plans. Corning and the
trustee of the CSOT reached an agreement whereby the trustee waived its right to
receive the Distribution of Quest Diagnostics and Covance and, in lieu thereof,
received 400,000 additional shares of Corning common stock.

Corning repurchased approximately 1.1 million, 2.2 million and 1.2 million
shares of its common stock in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. All of the 1997
and 1995 amounts and approximately 1.3 million shares of the 1996 amount were
repurchased pursuant to a systematic plan authorized by the Board of Directors.
Corning's systematic plan is designed to provide shares for Corning's various
employee benefit programs. The remainder of the 1996 stock repurchases were from
employees to satisfy tax withholding requirements on shares issued under
employee benefit plans.

In June 1996, the Board of Directors approved the renewal of the Preferred Share
Purchase Right Plan which entitles shareholders to purchase one-hundredth of a
share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock upon the occurrence of
certain events. In addition, the rights entitle shareholders to purchase shares
of common stock at a 50 percent discount in the event a person or group acquires
20 percent or more of Corning's outstanding common stock. The preferred share
purchase rights became effective July 15, 1996 and expire July 15, 2006.

15.  Stock Compensation Plans

At December 31, 1997, Corning's stock compensation plan includes the 1994
Employee Equity Participation Program, which covers 9 million shares. This plan
and predecessor plans provide the authorization for Corning's common stock plans
discussed below. No future awards or grants may be made under the predecessor
plans except for currently outstanding rights. At December 31, 1997, 1.2 million
shares were available for sale or grant under this plan.

Proceeds from the sale of stock under this plan are added to capital stock
accounts. This plan does not include stock options granted in substitution for
stock options assumed in connection with Corning's acquisition of certain
companies. Accordingly, these grants do not reduce shares available under the
stock compensation plan.

In October 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No.
123 "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (FAS 123). This statement defines
a fair value-based method of accounting for employee stock options and similar
equity investments and encourages adoption of that method of accounting for
employee stock compensation plans. However, it also allows entities to continue
to measure compensation cost for employee stock compensation plans using the
intrinsic value-based method of accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB 25).
Corning applies APB 25 accounting for its stock-based compensation plans.
Compensation expense is recorded for awards of shares or share rights over the
period earned. This plan resulted in compensation expense of $29.2 million in
1997, $27.6 million in 1996 and $12.0 million in 1995.

Corning has adopted the disclosure-only provisions of FAS 123. If Corning had
elected to recognize compensation expense under FAS 123, Corning's net income in
1997, 1996 and 1995 would have decreased by $5.3 million, $2.0 million and $2.6
million, respectively. Corning's basic and diluted earnings per share amounts
would have decreased by $0.02 in 1997 and $0.01 in 1995. Earnings per share
amounts in 1996 would not have been affected.

The pro forma effect on net income for 1997, 1996 and 1995 may not be
representative of the pro forma effect on net income of future years because the
FAS 123 method of accounting for pro forma compensation expense has not been
applied to options granted prior to January 1, 1995.






15.  Stock Compensation Plans (continued)

Stock Option Plan

Non-qualified and incentive stock options to purchase unissued shares at the
market price on the grant date generally become exercisable in installments from
one to two years from the grant date, except for the December 1995 and February
1997 grants, which become exercisable in installments from two to five years
from the grant date; the maximum term of non-qualified and incentive stock
options is generally 10 years from the grant date.

Transactions for the three years ended December 31, 1997 were:


At the end of 1996, the number and exercise price of all options outstanding
were adjusted for the Distributions of Quest Diagnostics and Covance. This
adjustment increased the number of options outstanding by approximately 908,000
and decreased the exercise price of the options by approximately 18%.

For purposes of FAS 123, the fair value of each option grant is estimated on the
date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following
weighted-average assumptions used for grants in 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively: risk-free interest rate of 6.4%, 6.6% and 5.7%; dividend yield of
1.6%, 2.3% and 2.3%; expected volatility of 25.0%, 24.5% and 24.5% and expected
life of 6, 7 and 7 years.

The number of options exercisable and the corresponding weighted-average
exercise price was 5.3 million and $24.73 in 1997, 6.5 million and $23.11 in
1996 and 5.2 million and $23.93 in 1995. The weighted-average fair value of
options granted was $14.45 in 1997, $10.77 in 1996 and $9.12 in 1995.






15.  Stock Compensation Plans (continued)

The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at
December 31, 1997:




Incentive Stock Plans

The Incentive Stock Plan permits stock grants, either determined by specific
performance goals or issued directly, in most instances, subject to the
possibility of forfeiture and without cash consideration.

In 1997, 1996 and 1995, grants of 999,000, 340,000 and 549,000 shares,
respectively, were made under this plan. In connection with the 1996
Distributions, approximately 280,000 additional shares were issued to employees
in lieu of receiving the Distributions and approximately 180,000 shares were
forfeited by employees of the Distributed companies. At December 31, 1997, there
were no outstanding incentive rights. The weighted-average exercise price of the
grants was $40.07 in 1997, $32.61 in 1996, and $30.52 in 1995, respectively. A
total of 2.7 million shares issued in prior years remain subject to forfeiture
at December 31, 1997.

Worldwide Employee Share Purchase Plan

In addition to the Stock Option Plan and Incentive Stock Plans, Corning has a
Worldwide Employee Share Purchase Plan (WESPP). Under the WESPP, substantially
all employees can elect to have up to 10% of their annual wages withheld to
purchase Corning common stock. The purchase price of the stock is 85% of the
lower of the beginning-of-quarter or end-of-quarter market price. The Corning
Stock Ownership Trust is utilized to fund employee purchases of common stock
under the WESPP.

Equity Purchase Plan

Under the Equity Purchase Plan (EPP), shares were sold to certain employees at
book value and must be repurchased by the Company at book value or converted to
equivalent unrestricted shares. Effective September 30, 1996, the Board of
Directors voted to terminate the EPP. As a result of the EPP termination,
approximately 1.4 million restricted shares outstanding under the EPP were
repurchased by Corning for approximately $3.4 million and 312,000 unrestricted
common shares during the fourth quarter of 1996.

16.  Employee Stock Ownership Plan

Corning has established the Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) within its
existing employee investment plans. At inception of the plan, Corning borrowed
$50 million and loaned the proceeds to the ESOP. The ESOP used the proceeds to
purchase 4 million treasury shares. Corning's receivable from the ESOP was $2.9
million and $9.6 million at the end of 1997 and 1996, respectively, and is
classified as unearned compensation in common stockholders' equity.

Corning is obligated to make monthly contributions to the plan sufficient to
enable the ESOP to pay its loan, including interest. These contributions are
classified as expense at the time they are made.






16.  Employee Stock Ownership Plan (continued)

Contributions to the ESOP were $7.0 million in 1997, $6.7 million in 1996 and
$6.4 million in 1995. Dividends on unallocated shares reduced contribution
requirements by $0.2 million in 1997, $0.5 million in 1996 and $0.8 million in
1995. Interest costs amounted to $0.8 million in 1997, $1.2 million in 1996 and
$1.6 million in 1995. Shares held by the ESOP are included in weighted-average
shares outstanding for earnings per share calculations. The trustee of the ESOP
sold the shares of Quest Diagnostics and Covance that it received from the
Distributions. The proceeds from the sale of these shares were used to purchase
shares of Corning common stock.

17.  Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Hedging Activities

Minimum rental commitments under leases outstanding at December 31, 1997 are:



At December 31, 1997, future minimum lease payments to be received under a
noncancelable sublease to Quest Diagnostics totaled $74 million. Quest
Diagnostics, in turn, has a noncancelable sublease covering approximately $48.6
million of the minimum lease payments due to Corning. Corning has agreed to
indemnify Quest Diagnostics should Quest Diagnostics' subleasee default on the
minimum lease payments. Additionally, Corning continues to guarantee certain
obligations of Quest Diagnostics totaling $20.9 million.

Corning operates and conducts business in many foreign countries. As a result,
there is exposure to potentially adverse movement in foreign currency rate
changes. Corning enters into foreign exchange forward contracts with durations
generally less than 12 months to reduce its exposure to exchange rate risk on
foreign source income and purchases. The objective of these contracts is to
neutralize the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on Corning's
operating results.

These contracts require Corning to exchange currencies at rates agreed upon at
the inception of the contracts. The hedge contracts reduce the exposure to
fluctuations in exchange rate movements because the gains and losses associated
with foreign currency balances and transactions are generally offset with the
gains and losses of the hedge contracts. Because the impact of movements in
foreign exchange rates on forward contracts offsets the related impact on the
underlying items being hedged, these financial instruments help alleviate the
risk that might otherwise result from changes in currency exchange rate
fluctuations.

At December 31, 1997, Corning had foreign currency contracts to purchase $115.1
million U.S. dollars with a fair value of $14.7 million. These contracts are
held by Corning and its subsidiaries and will mature at varying dates in 1998.

The ability of certain subsidiaries and associated companies to transfer funds
is limited by provisions of certain loan agreements and foreign government
regulations. At December 31, 1997, the amount of equity subject to such
restrictions for consolidated subsidiaries totaled $68.7 million. While this
amount is legally restricted, it does not result in operational difficulties
since Corning has generally permitted subsidiaries to retain a majority of
equity to support their growth programs. At December 31, 1997, loans of equity
affiliates guaranteed by Corning totaled $44.9 million.

Corning has agreed to indemnify Quest Diagnostics, on an after-tax basis, for
the settlement of certain governmental claims pending at December 31, 1996. In
addition, Corning, Quest Diagnostics and Covance have entered into tax
indemnification and tax sharing agreements. Additional information on these
indemnification agreements is presented in Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.






18.  International Activities

Information by geographic area is presented below on a source basis, with
exports shown in their area of origin, and research and development expenses
shown in the area where the activity was performed. Other revenues, interest
expense and miscellaneous income and expense are included with other unallocated
amounts to allow a reconciliation to amounts reported in the Consolidated
Statements of Income. Transfers between areas are accounted for at prices
approximating prices to unaffiliated customers.



(1) U.S. sales to unaffiliated customers in 1997, 1996 and 1995 include $885
    million, $647 million and $497 million of export sales; $237 million, $213
    million and $130 million to Europe; $377 million, $237 million and $191
    million to Asia-Pacific, and $271 million, $197 million and $176 million to
    Latin America, Canada and Other.
(2) The 1995 restructuring charge of $26.5 million was included in income before
    tax of the United States.






19.  Discontinued Operations

On December 31, 1996, Corning distributed all of the shares of Quest Diagnostics
Incorporated (formerly Corning Clinical Laboratories Inc.) and Covance Inc.
(formerly Corning Pharmaceutical Services Inc.) (the Distributions)
(collectively, the Health Care Services segment) to its shareholders on a pro
rata basis. Prior to the Distributions, Corning received a ruling from the
Internal Revenue Service that the Distributions were tax-free to Corning and its
shareholders. As a result of the Distributions, Quest Diagnostics and Covance
became independent, publicly traded companies.

Corning's stockholders' equity was reduced by $1.1 billion, which represented
Corning's investment in equity and intercompany debt of Quest Diagnostics and
Covance on the date of the Distributions. Prior to the Distributions, Quest
Diagnostics and Covance borrowed $650 million from third-party lenders and
repaid intercompany debt to Corning. Corning used the proceeds from the
repayment of intercompany debt to repay approximately $375 million of short-term
borrowings and $75 million of long-term debt.

Summarized results of Corning's discontinued operations are as follows:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                             1996        1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sales                                                    $   515.0    $ 2,055.0

Income before income taxes                               $    20.5    $    57.2
Income tax provision                                          11.3         36.5
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income from operations, net of income taxes                    9.2         20.7
Provision for loss on Distributions, including income
  tax benefit of $3.5 million                               (176.5)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discontinued operations, net of income taxes             $  (167.3)   $    20.7
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The 1996 sales of $515 million and income from operations of $9.2 million of the
discontinued businesses only includes results through March 31, 1996. Results of
the discontinued businesses include allocations of consolidated interest expense
totaling $51.7 million and $48.5 million in 1996 and 1995, respectively. The
allocations were based on the ratio of net assets of discontinued operations to
consolidated net assets.

The $176.5 million provision for loss on Distributions includes a second quarter
after-tax charge of $56.8 million, a third quarter after-tax charge of $115
million and a fourth quarter after-tax charge of $4.7 million. The second
quarter charge includes a $37 million after-tax charge to increase reserves for
government claims and an after-tax charge for the estimated costs related to the
Distributions, offset by the estimated results of operations of the businesses
to be Distributed from April 1, 1996 through December 31, 1996, the Distribution
date. The third quarter charge related primarily to a $105 million after-tax
charge taken by Quest Diagnostics to increase reserves related to certain
government investigations of billing practices of certain clinical laboratories
acquired by Quest Diagnostics in 1993 and 1994. The fourth quarter charge of
$4.7 million represents the final accounting for estimates recorded in the
second quarter of 1996.

Quest Diagnostics has entered into several settlement agreements with various
governmental and private payors during recent years. At present, government
investigations of certain practices by clinical laboratories acquired in recent
years are ongoing. In the second quarter 1996, the U.S. Department of Justice
(DOJ) notified Quest Diagnostics that it had taken issue with certain payments
received by Damon Corporation (Damon) from federally funded healthcare programs
prior to its acquisition by Quest Diagnostics. As a result, in the second
quarter 1996, Quest Diagnostics increased its reserves by $46 million ($37
million after tax) to equal management's estimate, at that time, of the low end
of the range of potential amounts which could be required to satisfy claims
related to the Damon and other related and similar investigations.

During the third quarter of 1996, Quest Diagnostics' management met with the
government several times to evaluate the substance of the government's
allegations. As a result of these discussions in October 1996, Quest
Diagnostics' management, on behalf of its Damon subsidiary, reached a settlement
agreement with the DOJ which caused Quest Diagnostics to pay $119 million to the
government. This settlement concludes all federal and Medicaid claims relating
to the billing by Damon of certain blood tests to Medicare and Medicaid patients
and other matters relating to Damon being investigated by the DOJ.






19.  Discontinued Operations (continued)

As a result of this settlement agreement, Quest Diagnostics' management
reassessed the level of reserves recorded for other asserted and unasserted
claims related to the Damon and other similar government investigations,
including the investigation of billing practices by Nichols Institute (Nichols)
prior to its acquisition by Quest Diagnostics in 1994. Quest Diagnostics
recorded a charge totaling $142 million ($105 million after tax) in the third
quarter 1996 to establish additional reserves equal to the Damon settlement
agreement and Quest Diagnostics management's best estimate of potential amounts
which could be required to satisfy the remaining claims.

Corning has agreed to indemnify Quest Diagnostics on an after-tax basis for the
settlement of the Nichols' and certain other claims that were pending at
December 31, 1996. Coincident with the Distributions, Corning recorded a reserve
accrual of approximately $25 million which is equal to management's best
estimate of amounts, which are probable of being paid by Corning to Quest
Diagnostics to satisfy the remaining indemnified claims on an after-tax basis.

Although management believes that established reserves for indemnified claims
are sufficient, it is possible that additional information may become available
to Quest Diagnostics' management, which may cause the final resolution of these
matters to exceed established reserves by an amount which could be material to
Corning's results of operations and cash flow in the period in which such claims
are settled. Corning does not believe that these issues will have a material
adverse impact on Corning's overall financial condition.

Corning, Quest Diagnostics and Covance have entered into tax indemnification
agreements that prohibit Quest Diagnostics and Covance for a period of two years
after the Distributions from taking certain actions that might jeopardize the
favorable tax treatment of the Distributions and provide Corning with certain
rights of indemnification against Quest Diagnostics and Covance. The tax
indemnification agreements also require Quest Diagnostics and Covance to take
such actions as Corning may request to preserve the favorable tax treatment
provided for in any rulings obtained from the Internal Revenue Service in
respect of the Distributions.

Corning, Quest Diagnostics and Covance have also entered into a tax sharing
agreement which allocates among Corning, Quest Diagnostics and Covance
responsibility for federal, state and local taxes relating to taxable periods
before and after the Distributions and provide for computing and apportioning
tax liabilities and tax benefits for such periods among the parties. Quest
Diagnostics and Covance have paid or will pay Corning for all income taxes due
at December 31, 1996. Corning will indemnify Quest Diagnostics and Covance for
any adjustments to these liabilities resulting from future audits of Corning's
consolidated federal and certain other tax returns for periods prior to the
Distribution date.





Corning Incorporated and Subsidiary Companies
Schedule II - Valuation Accounts and Reserves








QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS AND RELATED MARKET DATA
(unaudited)



(1)  Discontinued operations are described in Note 19 of the Notes to
     Consolidated Financial Statements.
(2)  Includes the value of Quest Diagnostics and Covance up to the Distribution
     date. At the Distribution date, the fair value of Quest Diagnostics and
     Covance included in Corning's share price was $7 1/4.













FIVE YEARS IN REVIEW - HISTORICAL COMPARISON
(Continued)


(1) Amounts do not include employees of discontinued operations.





INVESTOR INFORMATION

Annual Meeting
The annual meeting of shareholders will be held on Thursday, April 30, 1998, in
Corning, NY. A formal notice of the meeting together with a proxy statement will
be mailed to shareholders on or about March 16, 1998. A summary report of the
proceedings at the annual meeting will be available without charge upon written
request to Mr. A. John Peck Jr., vice president and secretary, Corning
Incorporated, HQ-E2-A10, Corning, NY 14831.

Additional Information
A copy of Corning's 1997 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission is available upon written request to Mr. A. John Peck
Jr., vice president and secretary, Corning Incorporated, HQ-E2-A10, Corning, NY
14831. The Annual Report on Form 10-K can also be accessed electronically
through the Corning home page on the internet at http://www.corning.com.

Investor Information
Investment analysts who need additional information may contact Mr. Richard B.
Klein, senior vice president and director, Investor Relations, or Ms. Katherine
M. Dietz, assistant director of Investor Relations, Corning Incorporated,
HQ-E2-20, Corning, NY 14831; Telephone (607) 974-9000.

Common Stock
Corning Incorporated common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and
the Zurich Stock Exchange. In addition, it is traded on the Boston, Midwest,
Pacific and Philadelphia stock exchanges. Common stock options are traded on the
Chicago Board Options Exchange. The abbreviated ticker symbol for Corning
Incorporated is "GLW."

Convertible Monthly Income Preferred Securities
Corning Delaware L.P. convertible monthly income preferred securities (MIPS) are
listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The abbreviated ticker symbol for the
Corning MIPS is "GLW pfM."

Dividend Reinvestment
Corning's Dividend Reinvestment Plan allows shareholders to reinvest dividends
in Corning Incorporated common stock automatically, regularly and conveniently.
In addition, participating shareholders may supplement the amount invested with
voluntary cash investments. Plan participation is voluntary and shareholders may
join or withdraw at any time.

Full details of the plan are available by writing to the Secretary of the
company or to Harris Trust and Savings Bank at the address listed below. Be
certain to include a reference to Corning Incorporated.

Transfer Agent, Registrar and Dividend Disbursing Agent
Harris Trust and Savings Bank
Shareholder Services Division
P.O. Box 755
Chicago, IL  60690-0755
Telephone:  (800) 255-0461
http://www.harrisbank.com

For people with hearing impairments, Harris Bank has a Telecommunication Device
for the Deaf (TDD) telephone. The listing is Harris Bank, Hearing Impaired
Telephone, TDD (312) 461-5633 or TDD (312) 461-5637.

Change of Address
Report change of address to Harris Trust and Savings Bank at the above address.

Independent Accountants
Price Waterhouse LLP
1177 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY  10036





INVESTOR INFORMATION
(Continued)


Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995 The statements in this Annual Report which are not historical facts or
information are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
involve risks and uncertainties that could cause the outcome to be materially
different. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, global
economic conditions, product demand and industry capacity, competitive products
and pricing, manufacturing efficiencies, cost reductions, availability and costs
of critical materials, new product development and commercialization,
manufacturing capacity, facility expansions and new plant start-up costs, the
effect of regulatory and legal developments, capital resource and cash flow
activities, capital spending, equity company activities, interest costs,
acquisition and divestiture activity, the rate of technology change, ability to
enforce patents and other risks detailed in Corning's Securities and Exchange
Commission filings.






                           Suite 3900                   Telephone 313 259 0500
                           200 Renaissance Center
                           Detroit, MI  48243


Price Waterhouse LLP


                        Report of Independent Accountants



January 21, 1998



To the Stockholders and
Board of Directors of
Dow Corning Corporation

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of operations and retained earnings and of cash flows
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Dow Corning
Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based upon our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards which require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed
above.

The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming
that the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 4 to the
consolidated financial statements, on May 15, 1995, Dow Corning Corporation
voluntarily filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the United States
Bankruptcy Code. This action, which was taken primarily as a result of breast
implant litigation as discussed in Note 3 to the financial statements, raises
substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern in
its present form. Management's plans in regard to these matters are also
described in Notes 3 and 4. The financial statements do not include any
adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty.



/s/ Price Waterhouse LLP








         The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral
                       part of these financial statements.







         The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral
                       part of these financial statements.







         The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral
                       part of these financial statements.







         The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral
                       part of these financial statements.








                DOW CORNING CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                   (in millions of dollars except where noted)


NOTE 1 - BUSINESS AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION

Dow Corning Corporation was incorporated in 1943 by Corning Glass Works (now
"Corning Incorporated") and Dow Chemical for the purpose of developing and
producing polymers and other materials based on silicon chemistry. Dow Corning
Corporation operates in various countries around the world through numerous
wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiary corporations. Most of the Company's
products are based on polymers known as silicones which have a
silicon-oxygen-silicon backbone. Through various chemical processes, the Company
manufactures silicones that have an extremely wide variety of characteristics in
forms ranging from fluids, gels, greases and elastomeric materials to resins and
other rigid materials. Silicones combine the temperature and chemical resistance
of glass and the versatility of plastics and, regardless of form or application,
generally possess such qualities as electrical resistance, resistance to extreme
temperatures, resistance to deterioration from aging, water repellency,
lubricating characteristics, relative chemical and physiological inertness and
resistance to ultraviolet radiation. The Company currently manufactures over
10,000 products and serves approximately 50,000 customers worldwide, with no
single customer accounting for more than three percent of the Company's sales in
1997. Principal United States manufacturing plants are located in Kentucky,
Michigan and North Carolina. Principal non-U.S. manufacturing plants are located
in Belgium, Germany, Japan and the United Kingdom. The Company also owns
research and development facilities in the United States, Belgium, Japan,
Germany and the United Kingdom. Dow Corning's average employment for 1997 was
approximately 9,100 persons.

       On May 15, 1995, Dow Corning Corporation, excluding its subsidiaries (the
"Debtor Company"), voluntarily filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code (the "Bankruptcy Code") with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the
Eastern District of Michigan, Northern Division, in Bay City, Michigan (the
"Bankruptcy Court"). The Debtor Company consists of a majority of the Company's
United States operations and certain non-U.S. branches. The Debtor Company's
Chapter 11 proceeding (the "Chapter 11 Proceeding") does not include any
subsidiaries of the Debtor Company (see Note 4 below for further discussion of
this matter).

       The consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared
on a "going-concern" basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the
liquidation of liabilities in the ordinary course of business. However, as a
result of the Chapter 11 Proceeding of the Debtor Company, such realization of
assets and liquidation of liabilities is subject to significant uncertainties
including the approval of a plan of reorganization by the Bankruptcy Court.
Also, the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern (including its
ability to meet post-petition obligations of the Debtor Company and to meet
obligations of the subsidiaries of the Debtor Company) is dependent primarily on
(a) the ability of the Company to maintain adequate cash on hand, the ability of
the Company to generate cash from operations and the ability of the subsidiaries
of the Debtor Company to obtain necessary financing and (b) if required, the
availability of a debtor-in-possession credit facility. Management believes that
conditions (a) and (b) will be satisfied.

       The Company's financial statements have been presented in conformity with
the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants' Statement of Position
90-7 ("SOP 90-7"), "Financial Reporting By Entities In Reorganization Under the
Bankruptcy Code," issued November 19, 1990. SOP 90-7 requires a segregation of
liabilities subject to compromise by the Bankruptcy Court as of the bankruptcy
filing date (May 15, 1995) and identification of all transactions and events
that are directly associated with the reorganization of the Debtor Company.

       The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments
relating to the recoverability of recorded asset amounts or the amounts of
liabilities that may result from the Chapter 11 Proceeding. Upon confirmation of
a plan of reorganization by the Bankruptcy Court, if there are no material
unsatisfied conditions precedent to the effectiveness of a confirmed plan of
reorganization, adjustments to the carrying values of the Company's assets and
liabilities may be required to reflect the terms of such plan.






NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Principles of Consolidation

       The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts
of Dow Corning Corporation and all of its wholly-owned and majority-owned
domestic and international subsidiaries. The Company's interests in 20% to 50%
owned affiliates are carried on the equity basis and are included under the
caption "OTHER ASSETS - Other" in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

       Cash equivalents include all highly liquid investments purchased with an
original maturity of ninety days or less. The carrying amounts for cash
equivalents approximate their fair values.

Inventories

       Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. The cost of the
majority of inventories is determined using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method
and the remainder is valued using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method.

Property and Depreciation

       Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less any impairment and
is depreciated principally using accelerated methods over estimated useful lives
ranging from 10 to 20 years for land improvements, 10 to 45 years for buildings
and 3 to 20 years for machinery and equipment. Upon retirement or other
disposal, the asset cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from
the accounts and the net amount, less any proceeds, is charged or credited to
income.

       Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged against income as
incurred. Expenditures which significantly increase asset value or extend useful
asset lives are capitalized.

       The Company follows the policy of capitalizing interest as a component of
the cost of capital assets constructed for its own use. Interest capitalized was
$3.3 in 1995. However, in conformity with the provisions of SOP 90-7, the
Company has discontinued accruing interest expense related to unsecured
pre-petition debts of the Debtor Company. As a result, the Company has also
discontinued the capitalization of interest as a component of the cost of
capital assets for its own use, since any amounts that would be capitalized
after the application of SOP 90-7 would be considered immaterial.

       The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121,
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
Be Disposed Of", effective January 1, 1996. This statement establishes
accounting standards for the impairment of long-lived assets, certain
identifiable assets and certain identifiable intangibles to be disposed of. The
adoption of the new standard did not have a material impact on the Company's
financial statements for the year ended December 31, 1996.

Restricted and Unrestricted Investments

       The Company accounts for investments in debt and equity securities in
conformity with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115 ("SFAS
115"), "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities." SFAS
115 requires the use of fair value accounting for trading or available-for-sale
securities, while retaining the use of the amortized cost method for investments
in debt securities that the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold
to maturity. Investments in debt and equity securities are included in the
captions "Marketable securities," "Restricted insurance proceeds," "Implant
deposit," and "Environmental trusts" in the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets.





NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

Intangibles

       Other assets include $27.1 and $36.2 of intangible assets, net of
accumulated amortization, at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Goodwill,
representing the excess of cost over net assets of businesses acquired is
included in the above amounts, and is being amortized on a straight-line basis
over 10 years. Other identifiable intangible assets are amortized on a
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.

Deferred Investment Grants

       Included in other long-term liabilities are deferred investment
incentives (grants) which the Company has received related to certain capital
expansion projects in Belgium and the United Kingdom. Such grants are deferred
and recognized in income over the service lives of the related assets. At
December 31, 1997 and 1996, gross deferred investment incentives were $79.7 and
$90.3 with related accumulated amortization of $73.4 and $80.3, respectively.

Income Taxes

       The Company accounts for income taxes in conformity with the provisions
of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 ("SFAS 109"), "Accounting
for Income Taxes." SFAS 109 requires a company to recognize deferred tax assets
and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have
been recognized in a company's financial statements or tax returns. Under this
method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the
difference between the financial statement carrying amounts and tax bases of
assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect in the years in which
the differences are expected to reverse.

Research and Development Costs

       Research and development costs are charged to operations when incurred
and are included in manufacturing cost of sales. These costs totaled $210.4 in
1997, $203.5 in 1996 and $194.5 in 1995.

Currency Translation

       Assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries, for which the U.S.
dollar is not the functional currency, are translated into U.S. dollars at
end-of-period exchange rates; translation gains and losses, hedging activity and
related tax effects for these subsidiaries are reported as a separate component
of stockholders' equity. Revenues and expenses for these non-U.S. subsidiaries
are translated at average exchange rates during the period. For all consolidated
entities for which the U.S. dollar is the functional currency, monetary assets
and liabilities are remeasured into U.S. dollars using end-of-period exchange
rates; remeasurement gains and losses, hedging activity and related tax effects
for these entities are recognized in the consolidated statement of operations.
Historical exchange rates are used for non-monetary assets and related elements
of expense. All other revenues and expenses are remeasured at average exchange
rates during the period. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are
included in the consolidated statement of operations.

Currency  Derivatives

       The Company enters into currency derivative instruments to manage certain
currency exposures, which principally include monetary assets and liabilities
not denominated in functional currencies, and net investments in non-U.S.
entities for which the U. S dollar is not the functional currency. The Company
does not hold or enter into currency derivative instruments for trading or
speculative purposes. All currency derivative instruments are designated as
hedges of currency exposures. The derivative instruments are reviewed regularly
against the exposure to which they have been designated to ensure that they
continue to serve as an effective hedge. To the extent that the position created
by the instruments is in excess of the exposure to which it has been designated,
the gain or loss attributable to that excess position is recognized currently
under the caption "Other, net" in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
Operations and Retained Earnings, and the excess position is eliminated by the
Company entering into offsetting instruments. The types of instruments used to
manage these risks are primarily forward exchange contracts.





NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

       Realized and unrealized gains and losses on currency derivative
instruments are recognized currently under the caption "Other, net" in the
accompanying consolidated statements of operations and retained earnings if
designated as a hedge of monetary assets and liabilities, or, in the cumulative
translation adjustment account, net of tax, in stockholders' equity if
designated as a hedge of a net investment. Any gains or losses on currency
derivative instruments which are intended to hedge the tax effects of the
currency exposure are included as an offset to the related tax effects in the
period in which such tax effects are recognized.

       Discounts and premiums on all forward exchange contracts are amortized
over the life of the contracts and are included under the caption "Other, net"
in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and retained earnings.
Discounts and premiums on forward exchange contracts which are intended to hedge
the tax effects of the currency exposure are amortized over the life of the
contracts and are included in the tax provision.

Use of Estimates

       The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications

       Certain reclassifications of prior year amounts have been made to conform
to the presentation adopted in 1997.


NOTE 3 - CONTINGENCIES

Breast Implant Litigation and Claims - Background

       Prior to 1992, the Company was engaged in the manufacture and sale of
silicone gel breast implants and the raw material components of these products.
In January, 1992, the United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") asked
breast implant producers to voluntarily halt the sale of silicone gel breast
implants pending the FDA's further review of the safety and effectiveness of
such devices, and the Company complied with the FDA's request. Subsequently, the
Company announced that it would not resume the production or sale of breast
implants.

       Between 1991 and 1995, the Company experienced a substantial increase in
the number of lawsuits against the Company relating to breast implants. As of
December 31, 1997, the Company has been named, often together with other
defendants, in approximately 19,000 pending breast implant products liability
lawsuits filed by or on behalf of individuals who claim to have or have had
breast implants. Many of these cases involve multiple plaintiffs. In addition,
there are 46 breast implant products liability class action lawsuits which have
been filed against the Company as of December 31, 1997; however, only three of
these class actions have been certified. The Company has sometimes been named as
the manufacturer of breast implants, and other times the Company is named as the
supplier of silicone raw materials to other breast implant manufacturers. Since
the commencement of the Company's Chapter 11 Proceeding, the Company has been
dismissed from a number of breast implant lawsuits in which the Company was
named as a supplier of silicone raw material to other breast implant
manufacturers. However, other breast implant manufacturers which purchased
silicone raw materials from the Company, and other defendants in breast implant
litigation, have filed claims for indemnity and contribution against the Company
in the Company's Chapter 11 Proceeding (see Note 4 for further discussion).

       The typical alleged factual bases for these lawsuits primarily include
allegations that the plaintiffs' breast implants (a) caused specific, recognized
autoimmune diseases including scleroderma, systemic lupus erythematosus, and
multiple sclerosis, (b) caused a vague combination of symptoms, including
chronic fatigue and joint pain, alleged to be a new disease not generally
recognized in the medical community and variously described by terms such as
"human adjuvant disease," "siliconosis," "atypical connective tissue disease,"
and "atypical neurological disease," (c) have or may have ruptured (d) caused
other local complications, and/or (e) caused disfigurement. The Company
vigorously asserts, among other defenses, that there is no causal connection
between silicone breast implants and the ailments alleged by the plaintiffs in
these cases. A substantial number of breast implant lawsuits were consolidated
for pretrial purposes in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Alabama (the "Court"), and in various state courts. Further information related
to the jurisdictional status of these cases is described in Note 4 below.





NOTE 3 - CONTINGENCIES (Continued)

       The Debtor Company's filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the
Bankruptcy Code has resulted in a stay of this litigation in the United States.
However, claims prosecuted against the Debtor Company in non-U.S. jurisdictions
and against subsidiaries of the Debtor Company are not stayed by the Chapter 11
Proceeding. In addition to the 19,000 individual breast implant lawsuits
referred to above, approximately 6,000 individual claims had been filed in
non-U.S. jurisdictions, primarily in Australia. Of these approximately 6,000
individual claims, approximately 170 have been served and are in a position to
proceed under the legal systems of their relevant jurisdictions, approximately
3,330 of these claims have been effectively terminated as to the Company under
the Australian court system and approximately 2,500 of these claims are
inactive. The Company believes that many of the non-U.S. claims are duplicative
of proofs of claim filed by such non-U.S. claimants in the Debtor Company's
Chapter 11 Proceeding. Approximately 5,700 non-U.S. plaintiffs have filed claims
in the United States (included in the 19,000 lawsuits referenced above);
however, these approximately 5,700 claims are stayed by the Debtor Company's
Chapter 11 Proceeding. In addition to the 46 class action lawsuits referred to
above, five class actions are pending in non-U.S. jurisdictions. Two of these
non-U.S. class actions have not been served and none of the non-U.S. class
actions are stayed by the Chapter 11 Proceeding.

Breast Implant Litigation and Claims - Settlement Agreement

       In 1994, the Company, along with other defendants and representatives of
breast implant litigation plaintiffs, entered into a settlement agreement under
the supervision of the Court (the "Settlement Agreement"). Under the Settlement
Agreement, certain industry participants originally agreed to contribute up to
approximately $4.2 billion, of which the Company agreed to contribute up to
approximately $2.02 billion, over a period of more than thirty years. Although
the Settlement Agreement was designed to cover claims of most breast implant
recipients brought in the courts of U.S. federal and state jurisdictions,
approximately 7,000 U.S. and non-U.S. potential claimants elected not to settle
their claims by way of the Settlement Agreement and elected to pursue their
individual breast implant litigation against the Company. In 1995, the Court
concluded the total amount of claims likely to be approved for payment would
result in substantially lower payments to claimants than anticipated under the
Settlement Agreement, and the Court requested the parties negotiate possible
modifications to the Settlement Agreement. The Company did not actively
participate in the subsequent negotiations and is not a party to the resulting
modification of the Settlement Agreement. The Company has not exercised its
option to withdraw from, and the Company has not been released from, the
Settlement Agreement. In addition, the Company has not been officially excluded
from participating in modification of the Settlement Agreement. The Company
anticipates breast implant litigation and claims pending against it will be
resolved pursuant to the Debtor Company's plan of reorganization arising out of
the Debtor Company's Chapter 11 Proceeding (see Note 4 below for further
discussion).

Breast Implant Litigation and Claims - Insurance Matters

       The Company has a substantial amount of unexhausted claims-made,
occurrence and occurrence-noticed products liability insurance coverage with
respect to breast implant lawsuits and claims commencing in 1986 and thereafter.
For breast implant lawsuits and claims involving implant dates prior to 1986,
substantial coverage exists under a number of primary and excess occurrence and
occurrence-noticed policies having various limits. For breast implant lawsuits
and claims filed after 1985 in cases with implant dates prior to 1986, potential
coverage exists under all of the above referenced policies. Because defense
costs and disposition of particular breast implant lawsuits and claims may be
covered, in whole or in part, both by the coverage issued from and after 1986,
and one or more of the policies issued prior to 1986, the ultimate determination
of aggregate insurance coverage depends on, among other things, how defense and
indemnity costs are allocated among the various policy periods. Depending on
policy language, applicable law and agreements with insurers, compensatory and
punitive damages which may be awarded pursuant to breast implant lawsuits may or
may not be covered, in whole or in part, by insurance.

       A substantial number of the Company's insurers reserved the right to deny
coverage, in whole or in part, due to differing theories regarding, among other
things, when coverage may attach and their respective obligations relative to
other insurers. Since 1993, the Company has been involved in litigation against
certain insurance companies which issued occurrence based products liability
insurance policies to the Company from 1962 through 1985 ("Occurrence
Insurers"). This litigation resulted from an inability of the Occurrence
Insurers to reach an agreement with the Company on a formula for the allocation
among the Occurrence Insurers of payments of defense and indemnity expenses
submitted by the Company related to breast implant products liability lawsuits
and claims. The Company sought a judicial enforcement of the obligations of the
Occurrence Insurers under the relevant insurance policies. Following certain
initial procedural steps, this litigation has been conducted in the Wayne
County, Michigan Circuit Court (the "Michigan Court"). A number of the
Occurrence Insurers have been dismissed from this litigation pursuant to
settlements reached with the Company.





NOTE 3 - CONTINGENCIES (Continued)

       During 1994, the Michigan Court (a) ruled that certain of the Company's
primary Occurrence Insurers have a duty to defend the Company with respect to
breast implant products liability lawsuits, (b) directed these insurers to
reimburse the Company for certain defense costs previously incurred and (c)
ruled in favor of the Company on allocation of defense costs.

       During 1995, the Michigan Court ruled in favor of the Company on
allocation of indemnity costs, ordering that each primary Occurrence Insurer is
obligated to pay the defense costs for all cases alleging a date of implant
either before or during the insurers' policy periods and for all cases involving
unknown implant dates; once implant dates become known, the appropriate insurer
becomes responsible for relevant claims. The Michigan Court also ruled that
relevant insurance contracts afford coverage for punitive damages except where
specific policy provisions expressly exclude coverage for such damages. In
addition, a trial on the merits of the claims in this litigation commenced.

       During 1996, a Michigan Court jury found the remaining Occurrence
Insurers liable for coverage including costs of defense and settlement of the
Company's breast implant lawsuits and claims in the United States and in other
countries. The Michigan Court also ruled that the Company is entitled to recover
substantially all defense, settlement and judgment costs previously incurred.
Certain of the Occurrence Insurers have appealed the results of this litigation
to the Michigan Court of Appeals. The Company is uncertain as to when these
appeals will be resolved. In the interim, the Company is continuing settlement
negotiations with the Occurrence Insurers as well as other insurers that are not
involved in the litigation. Furthermore, the Company is pursuing resolution of a
significant portion of currently unresolved insurance coverage provided by
solvent non-Occurrence Insurers through arbitration proceedings. The Company is
also pursuing recovery from insolvent insurance carriers via settlement
discussions.

       Based on the results of this litigation, management continues to believe
it is probable the Company will recover from its insurers a substantial amount
of breast implant-related payments which have been or may be made by the
Company. In addition to the results of this litigation, this belief is further
supported by the fact that the Company received insurance recoveries of $628.6
from September 1, 1994, through December 31, 1997 (see Note 6 for further
discussion), and entered into settlements with certain insurers for future
reimbursement.

Breast Implant Litigation and Claims - Financial Provisions

       The Company has taken steps in the past to reflect the anticipated
financial consequences to the Company of the breast implant situation. Prior to
1995 the Company recorded aggregate pre-tax charges of $1.981 billion and
related insurance receivables of $1.006 billion to cover (a) the Company's best
estimate, at the time, of its potential liability under the Settlement
Agreement, (b) the Company's best estimate, at the time, of additional costs to
resolve breast implant litigation outside of the Settlement Agreement and (c)
legal, administrative, and research costs related to the breast implant
controversy. The portion of the pre-1995 charges related to the Settlement
Agreement and related to the anticipated implant insurance receivable were
recorded on a present value basis. In 1995, the Company recorded a pre-tax
charge of $351.1 to abandon this present value treatment. This charge was taken
because of the uncertainty associated with the Debtor Company's filing for
protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. As a result of filing for
Chapter 11 protection, management could no longer make the assessment that the
amount and timing of the settlement payments were reliably determinable as
required by accounting rules relevant to present value discounting of future
liabilities. Based on information currently available and due to the uncertainty
associated with the Debtor Company's filing for protection under Chapter 11 of
the Bankruptcy Code, management cannot currently estimate the ultimate cost of
resolving breast implant litigation and claims.

       Notwithstanding the inherent uncertainties associated with estimating the
ultimate cost of resolving breast implant litigation and claims, management
believes it has accrued amounts required under generally accepted accounting
principles. The Company has not revised its implant reserves since the Debtor
Company's filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, except
(a) to reflect the 1995 charge referred to above, and (b) to reflect payment of
certain legal, administrative, and research costs related to the breast implant
controversy. The Company anticipates that the ultimate cost to resolve breast
implant litigation and claims will be estimated for purposes of determining the
feasibility of any plan of reorganization during the Debtor Company's Chapter 11
Proceeding (see Note 4 below). As additional facts and circumstances develop, it
is at least reasonably possible that the amount of the Company's implant
reserves may be revised in the near term to reflect any material developments
relating to the resolution of the breast implant litigation and claims. Future
revisions, if required, could have a material effect on the Company's financial
position or results of operations in the period or periods in which such
revisions are recorded.





NOTE 3 - CONTINGENCIES (Continued)

       The "Anticipated implant insurance receivable" recorded in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets is the result of the provisions
described above; a substantial portion of this "Anticipated implant insurance
receivable" relates to amounts expected to be recovered from the Occurrence
Insurers. The principal uncertainties which exist with respect to the
realization of this asset include the ultimate cost of resolving breast implant
litigation and claims, the results of litigation against and settlement
negotiations with insurers and the extent to which insurers may become insolvent
in the future. The Company took these factors into account when estimating the
amount of insurance recovery to record in the financial statements. As
additional facts and circumstances develop, it is at least reasonably possible
that the estimate may be revised in the near term to reflect any material
developments relating to insurance matters. Future revisions, if required, could
have a material effect on the Company's financial position or results of
operations in the period or periods in which such revisions are recorded.
Notwithstanding the above, the Company believes it is probable that the
"Anticipated implant insurance receivable" recorded in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 1997 will ultimately be realized.

Securities Laws Class Action Lawsuits

       As previously reported, in 1992 the Company and certain of its former and
present directors and officers were named, as defendants with others, in two
securities laws class action lawsuits filed by purchasers of stock of Corning
Incorporated and Dow Chemical. These cases were originally filed as several
separate cases in the Federal District Court for the Southern District of New
York; they were subsequently consolidated so that there is one case involving
claims on behalf of purchasers of stock of Corning Incorporated and one case
involving claims on behalf of purchasers of stock of Dow Chemical. The
plaintiffs in these cases allege, among other things, misrepresentations and
omissions of material facts and breach of duty with respect to purchasers of
stock of Corning Incorporated and Dow Chemical relative to the breast implant
issue. The relief sought in these cases is monetary damages in unspecified
amounts.

       The Debtor Company's filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the
Bankruptcy Code has resulted in a stay of this litigation with respect to the
Debtor Company. These cases have been dismissed without prejudice with respect
to directors, officers and other individuals originally named as defendants.
Corning Incorporated and Dow Chemical continue as defendants in this litigation.

Tax Matters

       On January 20, 1997, the Company received a Statutory Notice of
Deficiency (the "Notice") from the United States Internal Revenue Service (the
"IRS"). The Notice asserts tax deficiencies totaling approximately $105.3. The
alleged deficiencies in the Notice relate to the Company's consolidated federal
income tax returns for the 1992, 1993 and 1994 calendar years. The Company
believes that the deficiencies asserted by the IRS are excessive. The Company is
vigorously contesting the IRS' claims, has filed refund claims aggregating
approximately $4.5 relating to research and development credits, and intends to
file additional refund claims in connection with its protest, which was filed
May 1, 1997. The Company anticipates that this matter will be resolved either in
the Company's Chapter 11 Proceeding or through procedures provided by the
Internal Revenue Code, and that such resolution will not have a material adverse
impact on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of
operations. The Company is currently engaged in discussions with the IRS in an
effort to resolve this matter.

Environmental Matters

       The Company has been advised by the United States Environmental
Protection Agency ("EPA") or by similar state regulatory agencies that the
Company, together with others, is a Potentially Responsible Party ("PRP") with
respect to a portion of the cleanup costs and other related matters involving a
number of abandoned hazardous waste disposal sites. Management currently
believes that there are 13 sites at which the Company may have some liability,
although management currently expects to settle the Company's liability for a
majority of these sites for de minimis amounts. Based upon preliminary estimates
by the EPA or the PRP groups formed with respect to these sites, the aggregate
liabilities for all PRPs at those sites at which management currently believes
the Company may have more than a de minimis liability is $15.5. Management
cannot currently estimate the aggregate liability for all PRPs at those sites at
which management expects the Company has a de minimis liability.

       The Company records accruals for environmental matters when it is
probable that a liability has been incurred and the Company's costs can be
reasonably estimated. The amount accrued for environmental matters at December
31, 1997, was $7.8. In addition, receivables of $4.0 for probable third-party
recoveries have been recorded related to these environmental matters.





NOTE 3 - CONTINGENCIES  (Continued)

       Reductions in aggregate environmental liability estimates, reserves, and
receivables from amounts previously reported are the result of a negotiated
fourth quarter 1997 indemnification commitment to the Company from another PRP
at a significant hazardous waste disposal site relating to the Company's
potential environmental liability at the site.

       As additional facts and circumstances develop, it is at least reasonably
possible that either the accrued liability or the recorded receivable relative
to environmental matters may be revised in the near term. While there are a
number of uncertainties with respect to the Company's estimate of its ultimate
liability for cleanup costs at these hazardous waste disposal sites, the Company
believes that any costs incurred in excess of those accrued will not have a
material adverse impact on the Company's consolidated financial position or
results of operations. This opinion is based upon the number of identified PRPs
at each site, the number of such PRPs that are believed by management to be
financially capable of paying their share of the ultimate liability, and the
portion of waste sent to the sites for which management believes the Company
might be held responsible based on available records.

       As a result of financial provisions recorded with respect to breast
implant liability, the Debtor Company has been unable to meet certain federal
and state environmental statutory financial ratio tests. Consequently, in order
for the Debtor Company to continue to operate hazardous waste storage facilities
at certain plant sites, the states involved have required the Debtor Company to
establish trusts to provide for aggregate estimated closure, post-closure,
corrective action and potential liability costs of $23.2 associated with these
hazardous waste storage facilities; and the Debtor Company has fully funded
these trusts as of December 31, 1997. Interest on the funds held in trust will
be available to the Debtor Company under certain circumstances, and the amount
required to be held in trust may vary annually. At such time as the Debtor
Company satisfies the above referenced financial ratio tests or the Debtor
Company no longer needs or closes the permitted facilities, the funds then
remaining in these trusts will revert to the Debtor Company. The establishment
and funding of these trusts is subject to the continuing jurisdiction of the
Bankruptcy Court.

Other Litigation

       Due to the nature of its business as a supplier of specialty materials to
a variety of industries, the Company, at any particular time, is a defendant in
a number of products liability lawsuits for injury allegedly related to the
Company's products and, in certain instances, products manufactured by others.
Many of these lawsuits seek damages in substantial amounts. The Company has been
named in products liability lawsuits pertaining to materials previously used in
connection with temporomandibular joint implant applications and raw materials
supplied by the Company to manufacturers of the NORPLANT(R) Implant
contraceptive device (NORPLANT(R) is a registered trademark of the Population
Council for Subdermal Levonorgestrel Implants). The Company believes that these
claims are covered in whole or in part by substantial insurance or certain
indemnity arrangements. This belief is supported in part by the fact that the
indemnitors under these arrangements have been honoring their indemnity
commitments. The Company has followed a practice of aggressively defending all
products liability claims asserted against it, and although the Company intends
to continue this practice, currently pending proceedings and any future claims
are subject to the uncertainties attendant to litigation and the ultimate
outcome of any such proceedings or claims cannot be predicted with certainty.
The prosecution of lawsuits and claims against the Debtor Company has been
stayed in the U.S. as a result of the Debtor Company's filing for protection
under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. However, claims prosecuted against the
Debtor Company in non-U.S. jurisdictions and against subsidiaries of the Debtor
Company are not stayed by the Chapter 11 Proceeding. The Company is currently
unable to estimate its potential liability for these claims; however, the
Company believes that these products liability claims will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations or financial
condition. The Company anticipates that the cost to resolve a substantial
portion of these claims will ultimately be determined during the Debtor
Company's Chapter 11 Proceeding (see Note 4).

NOTE 4 - PROCEEDING UNDER CHAPTER 11

Filing for Chapter 11 Protection

       On May 15, 1995, the Debtor Company voluntarily filed for protection
under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. The Debtor Company consists of a
majority of the Company's U.S. operations and certain non-U.S. branches. The
Debtor Company's Chapter 11 Proceeding does not include any subsidiaries of the
Debtor Company. This action was taken because (a) the Debtor Company was not
satisfied with the rate of progress toward resolving breast implant litigation
outside of the Settlement Agreement, (b) the Debtor Company was not satisfied
with the rate of progress toward achieving commitments from certain of the
Company's insurers relative to insurance recovery and (c) the Debtor Company was
concerned by the uncertainty associated with the conclusions of the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Alabama relative to the Settlement
Agreement (see Note 3 above for further discussion).




NOTE 4 - PROCEEDING UNDER CHAPTER 11 (Continued)

       The Debtor Company is operating as a debtor-in-possession under the
supervision of the Bankruptcy Court. As a debtor-in-possession, the Debtor
Company is authorized to operate its business but may not engage in transactions
outside the ordinary course of its business without the approval of the
Bankruptcy Court. Under the Bankruptcy Code, any creditor actions to obtain
possession of property from the Debtor Company are stayed by the Chapter 11
Proceeding. As a result, the creditors of the Debtor Company are precluded from
collecting pre-petition debts without the approval of the Bankruptcy Court.
Certain pre-petition liabilities, including wages and benefits of employees and
obligations to certain non-U.S. vendors, have been paid after obtaining the
approval of the Bankruptcy Court. In November, 1996, the Bankruptcy Court
granted the Debtor Company's motion to allow for the offset of certain
receivables and payables between the Debtor Company and its subsidiaries
existing as of May 15, 1995.

       Subject to certain exceptions under the Bankruptcy Code, the Debtor
Company's Chapter 11 filing automatically stayed the continuation of any
judicial or administrative proceedings against the Debtor Company. The Debtor
Company filed notices to remove certain lawsuits filed by plaintiffs from state
courts to federal courts. The Debtor Company also filed transfer motions seeking
to transfer certain lawsuits filed by plaintiffs from various federal courts to
the federal district court having jurisdiction over the Debtor Company's Chapter
11 Proceeding (the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan, the
"U.S. District Court in Michigan"). The purpose of these transfer motions was to
lay a foundation for the eventual consolidation of these lawsuits in connection
with a threshold "common issues" trial on the core issue, among others, of
whether silicone gel implants cause the diseases claimed by those who filed such
lawsuits.

       In September, 1995, the U.S. District Court in Michigan granted the
Debtor Company's transfer motion to transfer certain lawsuits filed by
plaintiffs to the U.S. District Court in Michigan. This court also indicated
that if trials ultimately proceed, they should be conducted in either the U.S.
District Court in Michigan or the U.S. district court for the district in which
the claim underlying the lawsuit arose. In the interim, the U.S. District Court
for the Northern District of Alabama has been assigned jurisdiction over these
cases for pretrial purposes. The U.S. District Court in Michigan also suggested
that a "common issues" trial could proceed, if needed, in connection with the
Bankruptcy Court's estimation of products liability claims against the Debtor
Company during the Debtor Company's Chapter 11 Proceeding.

       The U.S. Trustee appointed a "Committee of Unsecured Creditors," a
"Committee of Tort Claimants" and an "Official Physicians' Committee"
(collectively, the "Creditor Committees") in the Chapter 11 Proceeding. In
accordance with the provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, the Creditor Committees
have been appointed to represent the diversity of interests of the entire
constituency that each committee is designated to serve, and the Creditor
Committees have the right to be heard with respect to transactions outside the
ordinary course of business and other matters arising in the Chapter 11
Proceeding.

Bar Date and Creditors Claims

       In June, 1996, the Bankruptcy Court established bar dates, deadlines for
creditors to file claims against the Debtor Company, of January 15, 1997, for
all claims against the Debtor Company arising out of the United States and its
territories, and of February 14, 1997, for all claims against the Debtor Company
arising out of non-U.S. jurisdictions. Creditors who are required to file claims
but fail to meet the bar dates generally will be prohibited from voting upon or
receiving distributions under any plan of reorganization. As of January 21,
1998, approximately 722,000 proofs of claim have been filed by creditors of the
Debtor Company with the Bankruptcy Court. Of these proofs of claim,
approximately 463,000 are Implant Primary Claims (claims by implant recipients),
approximately 205,000 are Implant Supplemental Claims (claims by persons related
to implant recipients) and approximately 54,000 are General Claims (claims by
lenders, holders of public debt securities, vendors and other miscellaneous
parties, including claims for contribution and indemnity). Because the
cataloging of filed proofs of claim is ongoing, the ultimate number of claims is
not precisely determinable at this time. The Bankruptcy Court and the Debtor
Company continue to assess the validity and accuracy of the information
contained in or submitted with the filed proofs of claim. In addition, the
Debtor Company believes that a significant number of the filed proofs of claim
are duplicative. On December 4, 1997, the Bankruptcy Court disallowed
approximately 33,000 of these duplicate claims. On December 30, 1997, a motion
for summary judgment was filed with the Bankruptcy Court requesting the
disallowance of approximately 18,000 additional duplicate claims. The process of
identifying possible duplicate claims is ongoing. The Debtor Company anticipates
that all duplicate claims will ultimately be disallowed. In addition, a number
of these proofs of claim were received subsequent to the bar date and may be
disallowed on that basis. Other than as described above, there has been no
determination of allowability of the filed proofs of claim by either the
Bankruptcy Court or the Debtor Company.





NOTE 4 - PROCEEDING UNDER CHAPTER 11 (Continued)

       On April 7, 1997, the Debtor Company filed (a) an omnibus objection with
the Bankruptcy Court challenging all claims alleging that silicone breast
implants caused disease and (b) a motion for summary judgment requesting that
the Bankruptcy Court dismiss all such claims on the basis that there is no
scientifically valid evidence sufficient to support such claims. Also on April
7, 1997, the Debtor Company filed a motion with the Chief Judge of the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit requesting that, to the extent that a
U.S. District Judge is required to decide the Debtor Company's motion for
summary judgment or to decide issues related to disease claims which might
survive the motion for summary judgment, such issues be referred to U.S.
District Judge Sam C. Pointer, Jr. (of the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Alabama) due to his experience as the federal multi-district
litigation judge for breast implant litigation. Under this request, Judge
Pointer would be temporarily assigned to the U.S. District Court in Michigan to
preside over any proceedings regarding all claims arising from implanted medical
devices, including breast implant claims, against the Debtor Company and its
shareholders. The Chief Justice of the United States granted his approval of
this request on June 29, 1997. Implementation of this action may be subject to
the operation of local procedural rules of the U.S. District Court in Michigan.
On December 19, 1997, the Bankruptcy Court recommended that, although it has the
authority to decide the issues presented in the Debtor Company's omnibus
objection and motion for summary judgment described above, the U.S. District
Court in Michigan should take responsibility for ruling on such matters. The
U.S. District Court in Michigan has indicated that it will take such
responsibility with the participation of Judge Pointer. In addition, the U.S.
District Court in Michigan indicated that the results of Judge Pointer's
National Science Panel, established in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Alabama under the U.S. Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, will be
used in connection with resolving the issue of whether silicone gel implants
cause the diseases claimed by those who assert such claims.

       On August 19, 1997, the Tort Creditors Committee filed a motion with the
Bankruptcy Court requesting that issues regarding estimation or liquidation of
products liability claims in the Debtor Company's Chapter 11 Proceedings,
including issues relating to confirmation of a plan of reorganization, be
removed from the Bankruptcy Court to the U.S. District Court in Michigan. This
motion will be adjudicated by the U.S. District Court in Michigan. On September
26, 1997, the U.S. District Court in Michigan conducted a hearing on this
motion, but no decision has yet been rendered.

Initial Plan of Reorganization and Exclusivity Period

       Under applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, a debtor in Chapter
11 has certain periods of exclusivity during which it has the exclusive right to
file and seek acceptances of its reorganization plan. After the expiration of
such periods, as may be extended from time to time, any creditor has the right
to file a plan of reorganization with the Bankruptcy Court.

       The Debtor Company had the exclusive right to file a plan of
reorganization for 120 days after its Chapter 11 filing (the "Plan Exclusivity
Period"). After several extensions of the Plan Exclusivity Period, in May, 1996,
the Bankruptcy Court extended the Plan Exclusivity Period until the expiration
of 21 days after the Bankruptcy Court enters orders related to (a) the procedure
for the estimation of products liability and other claims against the Debtor
Company, (b) the Debtor Company's request for the appointment of a panel of
scientific experts to assist the Bankruptcy Court in the products liability
claims estimation process, (c) the Debtor Company's request to establish a bar
date for creditors to file claims against the Debtor Company and (d) the
establishment by the Bankruptcy Court of a claims notice procedure. Also in May,
1996, the Bankruptcy Court extended the Debtor Company's exclusive statutory
60-day period for soliciting acceptances of its plan of reorganization (the
"Solicitation Exclusivity Period") for an indefinite period, subject to further
order of the Bankruptcy Court. In June, 1996, the Bankruptcy Court issued an
order establishing bar dates for creditors to file claims against the Debtor
Company, and approved a claims notice procedure.

       In December, 1996, the Debtor Company filed its initial plan of
reorganization (the "Initial Plan") and related initial disclosure statement
with the Bankruptcy Court. Under the Initial Plan, the Debtor Company would have
committed up to $3.0 billion to satisfy claims of the Debtor Company's
creditors. Critical to the treatment of claims related to breast implants under
the Initial Plan was a common issue causation trial to determine if any causal
connection exists between the Debtor Company's silicone implants and the various
diseases claimed by the products liability claimants (see Note 3 for further
discussion). The Initial Plan was superseded by the Debtor Company's amended
plan of reorganization (the "Amended Plan") and a related amended disclosure
statement (the "Amended Disclosure Statement") discussed below.






NOTE 4 - PROCEEDING UNDER CHAPTER 11 (Continued)

       On July 29, 1997, the Bankruptcy Court issued an order (a) denying
previously filed separate motions of the Debtor Company and the Tort Creditor
Committee regarding the procedure for the estimation of products liability and
other claims against the Debtor Company and (b) denying without prejudice the
Debtor Company's request for the appointment of a panel of scientific experts to
assist the Bankruptcy Court in the products liability claims estimation process.
Issuance of this order fixed the expiration date of the Plan Exclusivity Period
at August 19, 1997. Subsequently, the expiration date of the Plan Exclusivity
Period was extended by the Bankruptcy Court until August 26, 1997.

       Also on July 29, 1997, the Bankruptcy Court issued an opinion regarding
(a) a process for estimation of products liability claims and (b) the use of a
panel of scientific experts and a common issues trial in connection with such
estimation process. The opinion indicated that a common issues trial, to resolve
the core issue of whether silicone implants cause certain diseases as alleged by
products liability claimants (see Note 3 for further discussion), should be used
as a means for resolving products liability claims if (a) a plan of
reorganization is not agreed between the Debtor Company and its creditors or (b)
the disease causation issue is not resolved through rulings on other motions
pending before the Bankruptcy Court. The opinion also indicated that
court-appointed experts should be involved with the causation trial.

Amended Plan of Reorganization and Amended Disclosure Statement

      On August 25, 1997, the Debtor Company filed its Amended Plan and Amended
Disclosure Statement with the Bankruptcy Court. On November 20, 1997, the
Bankruptcy Court indicated that the Debtor Company's Amended Disclosure
Statement would not be approved in its current form. The Bankruptcy Court also
expressed concerns about certain provisions of the Amended Plan (see below for
further discussion).

       The Amended Plan would have provided up to $3.7 billion to satisfy claims
of the Debtor Company's creditors. Specifically, under the Amended Plan, the
Debtor Company would have committed up to $2.4 billion to resolve products
liability claims through several settlement options or through litigation.
Amounts allocated to resolution of products liability claims by settlement would
have been placed in a settlement trust (the "Settlement Trust"), and amounts
allocated to resolution of products liability claims by litigation would have
been placed in a litigation trust (the "Litigation Trust"). In addition, the
Amended Plan would have provided $1.3 billion to satisfy commercial claims which
would have been paid in full, including accrued interest. The Amended Plan would
have provided that seven year senior notes of the Debtor Company would have been
issued to satisfy 70% of the amount of allowed unsecured commercial creditor
claims.

      Under the Amended Plan, breast implant claimants voting to approve the
Amended Plan would have been required to settle their claims through the
Settlement Trust. The amount of funds allocated by the Amended Plan to settle
breast implant claims through the Settlement Trust would have been directly
linked to the number of breast implant claimants voting to approve the Amended
Plan. The Amended Plan would have provided that, as more individuals in each
class of breast implant claimants would have voted to approve the Amended Plan,
the amount available to each class of breast implant claimants for resolution of
breast implant claims through the Settlement Trust would have increased, and the
amount of funds available for resolution of breast implant claims by litigation
through the Litigation Trust would have decreased.

      The Settlement Trust would have provided four settlement options for
breast implant claimants, with individual settlement amounts ranging up to
approximately $200,000.00. Under the Amended Plan, breast implant claimants
could have chosen one of the following four settlement options: (a) an expedited
settlement option which would have paid between $650.00 and $1,000.00 to breast
implant claimants (the "Expedited Settlement Option"); (b) a rupture settlement
option which would have paid between $5,000.00 and $8,000.00 to breast implant
claimants who, prior to final approval of the Amended Plan, had undergone
surgery to remove a ruptured breast implant manufactured by the Debtor Company
(the "Rupture Settlement Option"); (c) a medical procedure settlement option
which would have paid expenses for approved procedures to remove breast implants
manufactured by the Debtor Company from breast implant claimants after final
approval of the Amended Plan and also would have paid up to $1,000.00 to such
claimants for reasonable related expenses (the "Medical Procedure Settlement
Option"); and (d) a qualified medical condition settlement option which would
have paid between $2,500.00 and $200,000.00 to breast implant claimants if they
had certain specified symptoms or medical conditions which were adequately
documented and evaluated (the "Qualified Medical Condition Settlement Option").






NOTE 4 - PROCEEDING UNDER CHAPTER 11 (Continued)

      Under the Amended Plan, amounts otherwise payable under the Qualified
Medical Condition Settlement Option would have been reduced by one-half for
breast implant claimants who have had breast implants manufactured by the Debtor
Company and have also had breast implants produced by another manufacturer. The
Amended Plan also would have provided that breast implant claimants who (a)
would not have previously had their breast implants removed, (b) would not have
currently qualified for the Qualified Medical Condition Settlement Option and
(c) did not elect to settle their claims under either the Expedited Settlement
Option or the Medical Procedure Settlement Option would have been limited to
recovery of 20% of the amounts that were provided by the Qualified Medical
Condition Settlement Option, in the event that such claimants would have
qualified for that option in the future. Finally, settlement amounts payable to
breast implant claimants who have had breast implants produced by another
manufacturer using raw materials supplied by the Debtor Company would have been
limited to $500.00 per claimant.

      Under the Amended Plan, non-breast implant products liability claimants
who would have chosen to settle their claims through the Settlement Trust
mechanism would have been able to elect (a) the Expedited Settlement Option
under which such claimants would have been paid $500.00 or (b) the Qualified
Medical Condition Settlement Option. Under the latter option, non-breast implant
products liability claimants would have received a single level of payment
depending on the type of Debtor Company implant product involved, with a second
level of payment for claimants with a more severe condition related to a
tempormandibular joint implant. For non-breast implant products liability claims
settled under either of these options, there would have been no enhancement of
the payment levels based on the percentage of claimants voting for the Amended
Plan in each class of claimants.

      The Amended Plan would also have provided for settlement payments to
family members of settling products liability claimants under certain
circumstances specified in the Amended Plan. In addition, settlement payments to
non-U.S. products liability claimants, other than those payments provided under
the Expedited Settlement Option, would have been subject to downward adjustment
based on local economic and legal system factors. Furthermore, the Amended Plan
provided that punitive damage claims would have been waived with respect to
products liability claimants who would have settled their claims through the
Settlement Trust.

      The Debtor Company would have funded the Settlement Trust pursuant to a
funding agreement with the Settlement Trust. The Debtor Company anticipated that
it would have been able to meet its payment obligations to the Settlement Trust
utilizing cash flow from operations, insurance proceeds, cash on hand and/or
prospective borrowings. In addition, under certain circumstances, the Settlement
Trust and the Debtor Company would have had access to a substantial revolving
credit facility which would have been made available by Dow Chemical and Corning
Incorporated. Upon termination of the Settlement Trust, any funds remaining in
the Settlement Trust would have been distributed to an organization involved in
research on the cause of and cure for autoimmune-connective tissue diseases.

      The Settlement Trust would have been managed by five independent trustees
who would have reviewed claims under set guidelines and procedures and would
have paid claims once they were qualified under one of the four settlement
options specified above.

      Under the Amended Plan, products liability claimants voting against the
Amended Plan would have been required to pursue their claims through a process
potentially including mediation, arbitration, and/or litigation against the
Litigation Trust if their claims would have survived a common issue causation
trial. Such claimants would initially have been subject to a common issue
causation trial to resolve the core issue of whether silicone implants cause
certain diseases as alleged by those claimants (see Note 3 for further
discussion). The result of this common issue causation trial would not have
affected those claimants who would have elected to resolve their claims through
the Settlement Trust.

      If the common issue causation trial would have concluded that silicone
implants do not cause disease, all disease claims against the Litigation Trust
would have been disallowed and the products liability claimants choosing to
resolve their disease claims by litigation would not have received any
distribution from the Litigation Trust. If the common issue causation trial
would have concluded that silicone implants do cause disease, individual claims
that would have remained against the Litigation Trust would have been resolved
either through (a) an individual claim review process leading to settlement, (b)
nonbinding mediation, (c) binding arbitration or (d) trial. The Amended Plan
also contemplated that other common issue trials may have been undertaken by the
Litigation Trust, including trials to determine (a) the application of
bulk-supplier defenses to raw material claims, (b) the amount, if any, of
punitive damages which might have been available, and (c) other issues.





NOTE 4 - PROCEEDING UNDER CHAPTER 11 (Continued)

      The actual level of funding of the Litigation Trust would have depended on
the level of vote on the Amended Plan; if the vote had called for an enhanced
level of funding of the Settlement Trust, it would have reduced the level of
funding for the Litigation Trust.

       If the Amended Plan would have been accepted by all classes of products
liability claimants and confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court (a "Consensual Plan"),
the Debtor Company would have funded the Litigation Trust with an amount
intended to cover initial administration of the Litigation Trust and preparation
for the common issue causation trial. If the common issue causation trial would
have concluded that silicone implants do cause disease, the Litigation Trust
would have been funded with an amount, payable in annual installments, which
would have reflected the results of products liability claimants voting in favor
of the Amended Plan (see discussion above). If the amount of claims allowed in a
given year would have exceeded the amount available in the Litigation Trust for
distribution to claimants in that year, the balance of the claims payable would
have been paid when additional funding became available. Upon termination of the
Litigation Trust, any funds that would have remained in the Litigation Trust
would have been distributed to the Debtor Company.

       If the Amended Plan would not have been accepted by all classes of
products liability claimants, but would nonetheless have been confirmed by the
Bankruptcy Court under the "cramdown" provisions of the Bankruptcy Code (a
"Non-Consensual Plan"), funding of the Litigation Trust would have varied for
classes which would have voted to accept the Amended Plan (the "Assenting
Classes") and for classes which would have voted to reject the Amended Plan (the
"Dissenting Classes"). In this situation, the funding for Assenting Classes
would have operated in a manner consistent with the funding of the Litigation
Trust under a Consensual Plan as described above. With respect to Dissenting
Classes, if the amount of funding of the Litigation Trust would have been
insufficient to satisfy claims of the Dissenting Classes in full, the trustees
of the Litigation Trust would have been able to call on the Debtor Company to
provide the additional funding needed to satisfy such claims. If the Debtor
Company would not or could not pay the additional amounts needed, the trustees
of the Litigation Trust would have been able to direct that all or a portion of
the Debtor Company's stock (which, in the case of a Non-Consensual Plan, would
have been conditionally pledged to the Litigation Trust by Dow Chemical and
Corning Incorporated) be transferred to the Trust or sold to provide the
additional funding needed.

      Furthermore, the Amended Plan would have provided that, in the case of
either a Consensual Plan or a Non-Consensual Plan, punitive damage claims would
have been waived with respect to products liability claimants in Assenting
Classes, and with respect to those products liability claimants in Dissenting
Classes who would have voted to accept the Amended Plan. Punitive damage claims
by products liability claimants in Dissenting Classes who would have voted to
reject the Amended Plan would have been separated from the compensatory damage
claims of such claimants. Subsequently, after the litigation and payment of all
compensatory damage claims from the Litigation Trust, the amount, if any, of
punitive damages which might have been available would have been determined by a
common issue trial. Only claimants who would have rejected the Amended Plan and
who would have liquidated their claims through litigation would have been
eligible to participate in this trial.

      Under the Amended Plan, products liability claims relating to long-term
contraceptive implants would have been assigned to the Litigation Trust for
administrative purposes and would have been resolved as to the Debtor Company by
indemnification from and/or litigation against the ultimate manufacturers of
these implants.

      The Litigation Trust would have been managed by three trustees appointed
by the Debtor Company.

      If the Amended Plan would have been confirmed, all claims against the
Debtor Company subject to the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court would have
been discharged and released. Personal injury claims, and certain related
claims, would have been transferred to the Settlement Trust and the Litigation
Trust for handling and payment. The treatment of claims would have been binding
on all claimants regardless of whether they would have voted to accept or reject
the Amended Plan, or whether they would have voted at all. All claims subject to
the jurisdiction of Bankruptcy Court relating to products of the Debtor Company
against (a) the Debtor Company, Dow Chemical, Corning Incorporated, and their
subsidiaries and affiliates, (b) certain of the Debtor Company's insurers who
have settled coverage issues with the Debtor Company relating to products
liability claims, and (c) all of the officers, directors, employees and
representatives of these parties, would have been discharged and released, and
any prosecution or enforcement of those claims would have been permanently
barred.

      In an effort to encourage resolution of key issues between the Debtor
Company and the Creditor Committees regarding the Amended Plan and the Amended
Disclosure Statement, the Bankruptcy Court appointed a mediator on November 5,
1997. The term of the mediator's appointment is scheduled to expire on February
2, 1998, unless extended by the Bankruptcy Court.





NOTE 4 - PROCEEDING UNDER CHAPTER 11 (Continued)

      After extensive hearings on the adequacy of the Amended Disclosure
Statement, the Bankruptcy Court, on November 20, 1997, indicated that the Debtor
Company's Amended Disclosure Statement would not be approved in its current
form. The Bankruptcy Court also expressed the following five concerns about
certain provisions of the Amended Plan: (a) the treatment of foreign claimants;
(b) the use of insurance proceeds; (c) the degree of discretion reserved by the
Debtor Company over the post-confirmation litigation process; (d) the proposal
that the Bankruptcy Court would order releases of products liability claims
against parties other than the Debtor Company; and (e) the linkage of claimants
voting on the Amended Plan with the treatment of such claimants under the
Amended Plan. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court expressed various concerns
regarding several aspects of the Amended Disclosure Statement. In early January,
1998, the Debtor Company was given until February 17, 1998, to file a second
amended plan of reorganization and related second amended disclosure statement.
The Debtor Company intends to file a second amended plan of reorganization and a
related second amended disclosure statement designed to address the Bankruptcy
Court's concerns by February 17, 1998.

Implant Reserves and Confirmation Procedure

       The "Implant reserve" as of December 31, 1997, was approximately $2.4
billion as recorded in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. Since May
15, 1995, the "Implant reserve" recorded in the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets has been reduced only as a result of payments made by the Debtor
Company for certain legal, administrative, and research costs related to the
breast implant controversy that were taken into consideration when the reserve
was recorded in prior years (see Note 3 for further information). The Company
anticipates that the ultimate cost to resolve breast implant litigation and
claims will be determined as part of the Debtor Company's Chapter 11 Proceeding.
As additional facts and circumstances develop, it is at least reasonably
possible that the amount of the Company's implant reserves may be revised in the
near term to reflect any material developments relating to the resolution of the
breast implant litigation and claims. Future revisions, if required, could have
a material effect on the Company's financial position or results of operations
in the period or periods in which such revisions are recorded.

       Confirmation of a plan of reorganization requires, among other things,
acceptance of the plan by the affirmative vote (in excess of 50% of the number
and in excess of 66 2/3% of the dollar amount of the claims) of the creditors
who vote in each class of creditors having claims that are impaired by the plan
of reorganization. The Company is prohibited from soliciting acceptances of a
plan of reorganization from creditors until after the Bankruptcy Court approves
the adequacy of the related disclosure statement. Thereafter, the Debtor Company
will have a period of time to obtain necessary acceptances from its creditors
for its plan of reorganization. In the interim, the Debtor Company will continue
to conduct discussions with the Creditor Committees regarding its plan of
reorganization and related disclosure statement. Absent the requisite approvals
referenced above, the Bankruptcy Court may confirm the Debtor Company's plan of
reorganization, or a competing plan of reorganization, under the "cramdown"
provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, assuming certain tests are met.

Debtor Company Financial Statements

       The condensed financial statements of the Debtor Company are presented as
follows:




NOTE 4 - PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11  (Continued)
- -------------------------------------






NOTE 4 - PROCEEDING UNDER CHAPTER 11 (Continued)








NOTE 4 - PROCEEDING UNDER CHAPTER 11 (Continued)








NOTE 4 - PROCEEDING UNDER CHAPTER 11 (Continued)










NOTE 4 - PROCEEDING UNDER CHAPTER 11 (Continued)

       The financial statements of the Debtor Company reflect transactions of
the Debtor Company and transactions between the Debtor Company and all
subsidiaries of the Debtor Company. The Debtor Company condensed statement of
operations and retained earnings includes $686.0 of sales to subsidiaries in the
caption "NET SALES." These sales are conducted at prices substantially
comparable to those which would prevail in open-market transactions between
unrelated parties.

       While operating in the Chapter 11 Proceeding, the Debtor Company is
generally prohibited from paying interest on unsecured pre-petition debts of the
Debtor Company. During such time as the Debtor Company is operating in the
Chapter 11 Proceeding, it will only report interest expense to the extent that
such interest will be paid during the Chapter 11 Proceeding at the direction or
with the approval of the Bankruptcy Court. The amount of interest that has not
been accrued as a result of the Chapter 11 Proceeding amounted to $49.0 ($30.9
after tax) for the year ended December 31, 1997, and $49.2 ($31.0 after tax) for
the year ended December 31, 1996. Since May 15, 1995, the cumulative amount of
interest that has not been accrued as a result of the Chapter 11 Proceeding
amounted to $129.1 ($81.5 after tax). In accordance with the provisions of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 34, "Capitalization of Interest
Cost," $25.4 ($16.0 after tax) would have been capitalized as part of the
historical cost of acquiring certain assets for the year ended December 31,
1997, and $14.1 ($8.9 after tax) for the year ended December 31, 1996. Since May
15, 1995, $46.1 ($29.1 after tax) would have been capitalized as part of the
historical cost of acquiring certain assets.

       The Debtor Company has incurred and will continue to incur significant
costs associated with the Chapter 11 Proceeding. The aggregate amount of these
costs, which are being expensed as incurred, may have a material adverse impact
on the Company's results of operations in future periods. These costs are
recorded under the caption "Reorganization costs" in the accompanying statements
of operations and retained earnings.

       The accompanying Debtor Company condensed statement of operations and
retained earnings reflects interest income of $57.6 for the year ended December
31, 1997. The amount of interest income that the Debtor Company has earned as a
result of the Chapter 11 Proceeding is immaterial.

       Due to the Debtor Company's status as a debtor-in-possession under
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, the Debtor Company is in default of its debt
agreements. All outstanding debt of the Debtor Company as of May 15, 1995, has
been presented under the caption "LIABILITIES SUBJECT TO COMPROMISE" in the
accompanying balance sheets.


 NOTE 5 - FOREIGN CURRENCY

       Following is an analysis of the changes in the cumulative translation
adjustment:



       Net foreign currency losses currently recognized in income amounted to
$(0.1) in 1997, $(3.9) in 1996, and $(4.5) in 1995. The net foreign currency
loss currently recognized in income for 1997 includes $1.3 in net foreign
currency gains which are included as part of the income tax provision in the
accompanying consolidated statement of operations and retained earnings.





NOTE 6 - RESTRICTED ASSETS

Implant Deposit

       In connection with the Settlement Agreement (as further described in Note
3 above), the Company has entered into an agreement whereby $275.0 is restricted
to use for future breast implant settlement payments. Accordingly, this amount
is included in the caption "Implant deposit" in the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets. This amount is also subject to the provisions of a related
escrow agreement which, among other things, appointed an independent escrow
agent. The escrowed funds are invested in investment categories approved by the
Bankruptcy Court. At December 31, 1997, the marketable securities included in
the caption "Implant deposit" in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet
primarily consisted of certificates of deposit, fixed rate and floating rate
federal agency and corporate notes, and commercial paper.

Anticipated Implant Insurance Receivable and Restricted Insurance Proceeds

       In addition, $492.3 of cash proceeds from settlements with insurers
(received since the commencement of the Chapter 11 Proceeding) and $24.9 (net of
tax) of related investment income is restricted as to its use pursuant to orders
of the Bankruptcy Court. Accordingly, $517.2 is included in the caption
"Restricted insurance proceeds" in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
A majority of these proceeds relate to settlements of policies which name the
Company and Dow Chemical as co-insureds. The Company and/or Dow Chemical will
have rights to petition the Bankruptcy Court for distribution of these proceeds
primarily for the purpose of making specified indemnity payments or reimbursing
specified expense payments under conditions prescribed by the Bankruptcy Court.
The "Restricted insurance proceeds" are invested in investment categories
approved by the Bankruptcy Court. As of December 31, 1997, the marketable
securities included in the caption "Restricted insurance proceeds" consisted
primarily of state and municipal securities, and fixed and floating rate
corporate notes.

       A majority of the "Anticipated implant insurance receivable" recorded in
the accompanying consolidated balance sheets relates to policies which name the
Company and Dow Chemical as co-insureds. The Company anticipates that future
settlements of policies which name the Company as a co-insured will be subject
to the approval of the Bankruptcy Court and restricted in a manner similar to
that described above. Notwithstanding the above, the Company believes that it is
probable that it will have access to such restricted funds sufficient to
ultimately realize the "Restricted insurance proceeds" and "Anticipated implant
insurance receivable" recorded in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

       At December 31, 1997 and 1996, the aggregate fair value of the marketable
securities included in the caption "Restricted insurance proceeds" approximates
carrying value. These amounts are summarized in the accompanying balance sheet
as follows (at cost):

                                                   December 31,    December 31,
                                                      1997            1996
                                                   ------------    ------------

       Money Market Funds                            $ 13.9           $ 22.6

       Demand Notes, Commercial Paper and
          Certificates of Deposit
               Maturity in a year or less              17.4             28.3
               Maturity greater than one year           2.0               --

       State and Municipal Securities
               Maturity in a year or less             289.7            365.7
               Maturity between 1 and 5 years         141.0             55.1

       Corporate Obligations
               Maturity in a year or less              53.2              9.2
                                                     --------        ---------

                                                     $517.2           $480.9
                                                     ========        =========






NOTE 6 - RESTRICTED ASSETS (Continued)

Other Assets - Environmental Trusts

       In order to comply with certain environmental regulations, the Company
has contributed $23.2 to fund certain trusts in order to provide a financial
assurance for the potential payment of aggregate estimated closure,
post-closure, corrective action and potential liability costs associated with
the operation of hazardous waste storage facilities at certain plant sites (see
Note 3 for further discussion). Accordingly, this amount is included in the
caption "Environmental trusts" in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
As of December 31, 1997, these funds were primarily invested in money market
funds.

NOTE 7 - INVENTORIES

       Following is a summary of inventories by costing method at December 31:



       Under the dollar value LIFO method used by the Company, it is
impracticable to separate inventory values by classifications. Inventories
valued using LIFO at December 31, 1997 and 1996 are stated at approximately
$76.0 and $55.8, respectively, less than they would have been if valued at
replacement cost.


NOTE 8 -  UNRESTRICTED INVESTMENTS

       Excluding investments accounted for on the equity basis, the carrying
amount for unrestricted investments at December 31, 1997 and 1996 was $340.3 and
$234.8, respectively. These unrestricted investments consist principally of
obligations backed by the U. S. Government or one of its agencies and corporate
issue preferred equities; and have been classified as "available for sale" in
conformity with SFAS 115. The aggregate fair value of these unrestricted
investments approximates carrying value, and there were no material realized
gain or losses for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996, nor unrealized
gains or losses at December 31, 1997 or 1996. Fair values are determined based
on quoted market prices or, if quoted market prices are not available, on market
prices of comparable instruments. Unrestricted investments are included in the
captions "Marketable securities" in the current and noncurrent section of the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets.


NOTE 9 - NOTES PAYABLE AND CREDIT FACILITIES

       Notes payable at December 31, consisted of the following:

                                                     1997                  1996
                                                     ----                  ----

       CURRENT LIABILITIES:

              Notes payable                        $  14.8              $    5.0
                                                   =======              ========



       LIABILITIES SUBJECT TO COMPROMISE:

              Revolving credit agreement            $375.0                $375.0
                                                    ======                ======





NOTE 9 - NOTES PAYABLE AND CREDIT FACILITIES (Continued)

       During 1993, the Debtor Company entered into a revolving credit agreement
with 16 domestic and foreign banks which provided for borrowings on a revolving
credit basis until November, 1997, of up to $400.0. Under the provisions of the
revolving credit agreement, the Debtor Company is subject to certain debt
restrictions and provisions. Due to the Debtor Company's status as a
debtor-in-possession under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, the Debtor Company
is in default on its debt agreements, including the revolving credit agreement.
At May 15, 1995, the interest rate on amounts outstanding under the revolving
credit agreement was 7.13%. While operating in the Chapter 11 Proceeding, the
Debtor Company is prohibited from paying interest on unsecured pre-petition
debts including the debt incurred under the revolving credit agreement. The
Company is unable to estimate the fair value of the debt incurred under the
revolving credit agreement due to the uncertainty associated with the Debtor
Company's filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code.

       Amounts outstanding under short-term lines of credit are liabilities of
the subsidiaries of the Debtor Company and are described as "Other bank
borrowings" in the table above. The carrying amounts of these short-term
borrowings approximate their fair value.


NOTE 10 - LONG-TERM DEBT

       Long-term debt at December 31, consisted of the following:


       Due to the Debtor Company's filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the
Bankruptcy Code (see Note 4 above), long-term debt of the Debtor Company was
reclassified in 1995 to the caption "LIABILITIES SUBJECT TO COMPROMISE" in the
table above and in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. At December 31,
1997, the amount shown under the caption "Long-term debt" in the table above
represents long-term debt of the subsidiaries of the Debtor Company.

      At December 31, 1997, the fair value of the long-term debt of the
subsidiaries of the Debtor Company approximated the book value of $165.1. The
Company is unable to estimate the fair value of the long-term debt of the Debtor
Company at December 31, 1997, due to the uncertainty associated with the Debtor
Company's filing for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code.







NOTE 10 - LONG-TERM DEBT (Continued)

       Due to the Debtor Company's status as a debtor-in-possession under
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, the Debtor Company is in default on its debt
agreements.

       Annual aggregate maturities of the long-term debt of the subsidiaries of
the Debtor Company are: $24.2 in 1998, $19.7 in 1999, $1.7 in 2000, $0.5 in
2001, and $119.0 thereafter.

       While operating in the Chapter 11 Proceeding, the Debtor Company is
prohibited from paying interest on unsecured pre-petition debts of the Debtor
Company. Cash paid during the year for interest was $10.7 in 1997, $7.8 in 1996
and $34.5 in 1995.


NOTE 11 - CURRENCY RATE DERIVATIVES

       The Company enters into forward exchange contracts primarily to hedge
monetary assets and liabilities not denominated in functional currencies. In
1997, the Company entered into additional forward exchange contract positions to
hedge the tax effects attributable to this exposure. Gains and losses on these
contracts are recognized concurrent with the gains and losses from the
associated exposures. Forward exchange contracts are shown in the following
table:




       The fair values of forward exchange contracts are estimated by obtaining
quotes from brokers. The book values of these instruments approximate fair
values. The weighted average maturity for all outstanding forward exchange
contracts at December 31, 1997 and 1996 was less than one year.

       The Company maintains defined benefit employee retirement plans covering
most domestic and certain non-U.S. employees. The Company also has various
defined contribution and savings plans covering certain employees. Plan benefits
for defined benefit employee retirement plans are based primarily on years of
service and compensation. The Company's funding policy is consistent with
national laws and regulations. Plan assets include marketable equity securities,
insurance contracts, corporate and government debt securities, real estate and
cash.







NOTE 12 - POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS

       The components of pension expense for the Company's domestic and
international plans are set forth below:




       The following table presents reconciliations of defined benefit plans'
funded status with amounts recognized in the Company's consolidated balance
sheets as part of other assets and other long-term liabilities. Plans with
assets exceeding the accumulated benefit obligation ("ABO") are segregated by
column from plans with ABO exceeding assets.








NOTE 12 - POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS  (Continued)

       The weighted average discount rate used in determining the actuarial
present value of the projected benefit obligation for defined benefit plans was
7.6% in 1997 and 7.9% in 1996. The weighted average rate of increase in future
compensation levels was determined using an age specific salary scale and was
5.6% in 1997 and 5.5% in 1996. The weighted average expected long-term rate of
return on plan assets was 8.5% in 1997 and 8.5% in 1996.

       In addition to providing pension benefits, the Company, primarily in the
United States, provides certain health care and life insurance benefits for most
retired employees. The cost of providing these benefits to retirees outside the
United States is not significant. Net periodic postretirement benefit cost
includes the following components:





       The following table presents the accrued postretirement benefit cost
recognized in the Company's consolidated balance sheets as part of liabilities
subject to compromise:



       In December 1992, the Company amended its retiree health care benefit
plan to require that, beginning in 1994, employees have a certain number of
years of service to be eligible for any retiree health care benefit. This
amendment resulted in the Company recording an unrecognized negative prior
service cost, which is being amortized in the accompanying consolidated
statement of operations. The retiree health care plan provides for certain
cost-sharing changes which limit the Company's share of retiree health care
costs. The Company continues to fund benefit costs on a pay-as-you-go basis with
the retiree paying a portion of the costs.

       The health care cost trend rate used in measuring the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation was 8.17% in 1997 and was assumed to decrease
gradually to 5.0% in 2004 and remain at that level thereafter. For retirees
under age 65, plan features limit the health care cost trend rate assumption to
a maximum of 8.0% for years 1994 and later. The health care cost trend rate
assumption has a significant effect on the amounts reported. Increasing the
assumed health care cost trend rate by one percentage point in each year would
increase the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by 7.8% and the
aggregate of the service and interest cost components of net periodic
postretirement benefit cost for 1997 by 7.7%.

       The discount rate used in determining the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation was 7.5% at December 31, 1997 and 8.0% at December 31, 1996.






NOTE 13 - RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

       The Company purchased raw materials and services totaling $59.5 in 1997,
$51.1 in 1996 and $49.7 in 1995 from Dow Chemical and its affiliates. The
Company believes the costs of such purchases were competitive with alternative
sources of supply. Other transactions between the Company and related parties
were not material.


NOTE 14 - INCOME TAXES

       The components of income (loss) before income taxes are as follows:

                                      1997             1996              1995
                                      ----             ----              ----

              U.S. companies         $385.4            $387.9          $(126.4)
              Non-U.S. companies       41.9              21.1            103.5
                                     ------           -------         --------
                                     $427.3            $409.0          $ (22.9)
                                     ======            ======         ========


       The components of the income tax provision (benefit) are as follows:


                                       1997             1996              1995
                                       ----             ----              ----
              Current
                    U.S.              $ 93.7            $ 96.7          $  38.5
                    Non-U.S.            35.2              35.0             52.6
                                      ------            ------          -------
                                       128.9             131.7             91.1
                                      ------            ------          -------
              Deferred
                    U.S.                28.7              35.5           (101.8)
                    Non-U.S.            11.2               1.7              1.1
                                      ------            ------          -------
                                        39.9              37.2           (100.7)
                                      ------            ------          -------
                                      $168.8            $168.9          $  (9.6)
                                      ======            ======          =======

       The tax effects of the principal temporary differences giving rise to
deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows:




       Management believes that it is more likely than not that the net deferred
tax asset will be realized. This belief is based on criteria established in
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income
Taxes."







NOTE 14 - INCOME TAXES (Continued)

       At December 31, 1997 income and remittance taxes have not been recorded
on $225.1 of undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries, either because any
taxes on dividends would be offset substantially by foreign tax credits or
because the Company intends to indefinitely reinvest those earnings. Cash paid
during the year for income taxes, net of refunds received, was $108.8 in 1997,
$142.0 in 1996 and $107.4 in 1995.

       The income tax provision (benefit) at the effective rate differs from the
income tax provision (benefit) at the U.S. federal statutory tax rate in effect
during those years for the following reasons:




NOTE 15 - COMMON STOCK

       The outstanding shares of the Company's common stock are held in equal
portions by Corning Incorporated and Dow Holdings Inc., a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Dow Chemical. There were no changes in outstanding shares during
1997, 1996 or 1995. Per share data is based upon 2,500,000 shares outstanding
for all periods.


NOTE 16 - COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES

       The Company leases certain real and personal property under agreements
which generally require the Company to pay for maintenance, insurance and taxes.
Rental expense was $49.4 in 1997, $46.3 in 1996 and $47.9 in 1995. The minimum
future rental payments required under noncancelable operating leases at December
31, 1997, in the aggregate are $89.7 including the following amounts due in each
of the next five years: 1998 - $36.9, 1999 - $25.2, 2000 - $14.9, 2001 - $5.7,
and 2002 - $2.3.

       At December 31, 1997, the Company had entered into various take or pay
agreements for steam, electrical power, and materials used in the normal course
of business for terms extending from one to fifteen years at prices not in
excess of current market prices.

       The Company has not issued any guarantees of a material nature as of
December 31, 1997.





NOTE 17 - INDUSTRY SEGMENT AND  INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

       The Company's operations are classified as a single industry segment.
Financial data by geographic area are presented below:




       Interarea sales are made on the basis of arm's length pricing. Operating
profit is total sales less certain operating expenses. General corporate
expenses, equity in earnings of associated companies, interest income and
expense, certain currency gains (losses), minority interests' share in income,
and income taxes have not been reflected in computing operating profit.

       General corporate expenses include implant costs, certain research and
development costs and corporate administrative personnel and facilities costs
not specifically identified with a geographic area. Identifiable assets are
those operating assets identified with the operations in each geographic area.
Corporate assets are principally cash and cash equivalents, marketable
securities, restricted insurance proceeds, anticipated implant insurance
receivables, certain deferred income tax assets, intangible assets, investments
accounted for on the equity basis and corporate facilities.





Item 14(c) Exhibit 3(i)


                           CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT OF

                        THE CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION

                                       OF

                              CORNING INCORPORATED

                Under Section 805 of the Business Corporation Law

                              ---------------------


       We, ROGER G. ACKERMAN and A. JOHN PECK, JR., being, respectively, the
Chairman and the Secretary of Corning Incorporated, a corporation organized
under the laws of the State of New York, DO HEREBY CERTIFY as follows:

       FIRST: The name of the Corporation is Corning Incorporated. The
Corporation was formed under the name Corning Glass Works.

         SECOND: The Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (being the
Preliminary Certificate of Consolidation Forming the Corporation) was filed in
the office of the Secretary of State of the State of New York on December 24,
1936.

         THIRD: The said Certificate of Incorporation, as heretofore amended
[and restated], is hereby amended pursuant to Section 801(b) of the Business
Corporation Law to increase by 1,800,000 the number of shares designated as the
Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Corporation. This Amendment
does not change the number of authorized shares of the Corporation but only
increases the number of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock
by designating additional shares of such from the Preferred Shares which the
Corporation is already authorized to issue.

         FOURTH: The text of Section 1 of Paragraph 4A of the Certificate of
Incorporation of the Corporation, as heretofore amended and restated, which sets
forth the number of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, is
hereby amended to read as follows:

         "(1) Designation and Amount. An aggregate of 2,400,000 shares of Series
Preferred Stock, par value $100, of the Corporation are hereby constituted as a
series designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" (the
"Series A Preferred Stock")."

         FIFTH: This Amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation of the
Corporation was authorized by resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors
of the Corporation at a meeting duly called and held on June 5, 1996, at which a
quorum was present and acting throughout.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have signed this certificate this 24th day of
June, 1996.




                                                      ROGER G. ACKERMAN
                                                    Chairman of the Board




                                                     A. JOHN PECK, JR.
                                                         Secretary






Item 14(c) Exhibit 3(ii)

                              CORNING INCORPORATED

                                   -----------

                                     BY-LAWS
                                   -----------


                                   ARTICLE I.

                           Offices of the Corporation

ss.1. Principal Office. The principal office and place of business of the
corporation shall be located in the City of Corning, Steuben County, New York.

ss.2. Other Offices. The Board of Directors may establish and discontinue, from
time to time, other offices and places of business as it deems advisable and
proper for the conduct of the company's business.


                                   ARTICLE II.

                            Meetings of Stockholders

ss.1. Place of Meeting. All meetings of stockholders of the corporation may be
held at such place, within or without the State of New York, as may be fixed
from time to time by the Board of Directors.

ss.2. Annual Meeting. The annual meeting of stockholders for the election of
directors and consideration of such other business as may come before the
meeting shall be held on the last Thursday in April of each year, or on such
other day, which shall not be a legal holiday, as shall be determined by the
Board of Directors. Any previously scheduled annual meeting of stockholders may
be postponed by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given
prior to the date previously scheduled for such annual meeting of stockholders.

ss.3. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the stockholders may be called at
any time by the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Executive Committee,
a Vice Chairman or the President and shall be called by the Secretary or an
Assistant Secretary upon order of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the
Board of Directors or a majority of the directors.

ss.4. Notice of Meetings. Notice of each annual or special meeting of the
stockholders shall be served either personally or by mail upon each stockholder
entitled to vote thereat. If served by mail, the notice shall be sent postpaid
addressed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the stock record of
the corporation. Service of such notice shall be made not less than ten nor more
than fifty days before the meeting date, unless the meeting is to be held
elsewhere than at the principal office, in which case service of the notice
shall be made not less than twenty nor more than fifty days before the meeting.

ss.5. Waiver of Notice. Notice of meeting need not be given to any stockholder
who submits a signed waiver of notice, in person or by proxy, either before or
after the meeting. The attendance of any stockholder at a meeting, in person or
by proxy, without protesting prior to the conclusion of the meeting the lack of
notice of such meeting, shall constitute a waiver of notice by him.

ss.6. Chairman and Secretary of Meeting. The Chairman of the Board of Directors,
or, in his absence and in the order named, the Chairman of the Executive
Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President present at the meeting shall call to
order and preside at all meetings of stockholders, and the Secretary of the
corporation, or in his absence, the senior of the Assistant Secretaries
(determined by the order of their election) present at the meeting shall act as
secretary.







ss.7. Stockholders Entitled to Vote. Unless otherwise provided in the
Preliminary Certificate of Consolidation forming this corporation or other
certificate filed pursuant to law, every stockholder of record shall be entitled
at every meeting of the corporation to one vote for every share of stock
standing in his name on the books of the corporation. The Board of Directors may
prescribe a period, not exceeding fifty days prior to the date of any meeting of
the stockholders or prior to the last day on which the consent or dissent of a
stockholder may be effectively expressed for any purpose without a meeting,
during which no transfer of stock on the books of the corporation may be made;
or in lieu of prohibiting the transfer of stock may fix a time not more than
fifty days prior to the date of any meeting of stockholders or prior to the last
day on which the consent or dissent of stockholders may be effectively expressed
for any purpose without a meeting as the time as of which stockholders entitled
to notice of and to vote at such a meeting or whose consent or dissent is
required or may be expressed for any purpose, as the case may be, shall be
determined, and all persons who were holders of record of voting stock at such
time and no others shall be entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting or
to express their consent or dissent as the case may be.

ss.8. Quorum and Adjournment. Holders of a majority of the issued and
outstanding stock entitled to vote at the meeting shall constitute a quorum at
all meetings, except as otherwise provided by law, by the Preliminary
Certificate of Consolidation forming this corporation or by these By-Laws. If,
however, such majority, represented either in person or by proxy, be not present
at any meeting, the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or
by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without
other notice than announcement at the meeting, until the requisite amount of
voting stock shall be present; provided, however, that any stockholders'
meeting, annual or special, whether or not a quorum is present, may be adjourned
from time to time by the Chairman of the meeting. When the requisite amount of
voting stock is present at an adjourned meeting, any business may be transacted
which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.

ss.9. Vote of Stockholders. At each meeting of stockholders, every stockholder
entitled to vote shall have the right to vote in person or by proxy duly
appointed by an instrument in writing, subscribed by such stockholder and
executed not more than eleven months prior to the meeting, unless the instrument
provides for a longer period. The vote for directors shall be by ballot. In a
vote by ballot each ballot shall state the number of shares voted and the name
of the shareholder or proxy voting. Except as otherwise provided by law, or by
the Preliminary Certificate of Consolidation forming this corporation or other
certificate filed pursuant to law, all elections and all questions shall be
decided by a majority vote of the stock present.

                                  ARTICLE III.

                                    Directors

ss.1.  Election and Term.

(a) At the 1985 annual meeting of stockholders, the directors shall be divided
into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible, with the term of
office of the first class to expire at the 1986 annual meeting of stockholders,
the term of office of the second class to expire at the 1987 annual meeting of
stockholders and the term of office of the third class to expire at the 1988
annual meeting of stockholders. Commencing with the 1986 annual meeting of
stockholders, directors elected to succeed those directors whose terms have
thereupon expired shall be elected for a term of office to expire at the third
succeeding annual meeting of stockholders after their election. If the number of
directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the
classes so as to maintain or attain, if possible, the equality of the number of
directors in each class, but in no case will a decrease in the number of
directors shorten the term of any incumbent director. If such equality is not
possible, the increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes in
such a way that the difference in the number of directors in any two classes
shall not exceed one.

(b) Whenever the holders of any one or more series of Preferred Stock issued by
the corporation shall have the right, voting separately by series, to elect
directors at an annual or a special meeting of stockholders, the election, term
of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall
be governed by Sections 1(a), 5 and 6 of this Article III unless expressly
otherwise provided by the resolution or resolutions providing for the creation
of such series.





ss.2.  Nominations and Stockholder Business.

(a)  Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

(1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the
corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders
may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (i) pursuant to the
corporation's notice of meeting, (ii) by or at the direction of the Board of
Directors or (iii) by any stockholder of the corporation who was a stockholder
of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 2, who is
entitled to vote at the meeting and who complied with the notice procedures set
forth in this Section 2.

(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual
meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (iii) of paragraph (a)(1) of this
Section 2, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to
the Secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be
delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation
not less than 60 days nor more than 90 days prior to the first anniversary of
the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that
the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days or delayed by
more than 60 days from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be
timely must be so delivered not earlier than the 90th day prior to such annual
meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 60th day
prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public
announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. Such stockholder's
notice shall set forth (i) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to
nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to
such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for
election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to
Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
"Exchange Act") (including such person's written consent to being named in the
proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (ii) as
to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting,
a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting,
the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material
interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any,
on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (iii) as to the stockholder giving the
notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or
proposal is made (A) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on
the corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (B) the class and
number of shares of the corporation which are owned beneficially and of record
by such stockholder and such beneficial owner.

(3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(2) of this
Section 2 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be
elected to the Board of Directors of the corporation is increased and there is
no public announcement naming all of the nominees for Director or specifying the
size of the increased Board of Directors made by the corporation at least 70
days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a
stockholder's notice required by this Section 2 shall also be considered timely,
but only with respect to nominees for any new position created by such increase,
if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of
the corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following
the day on which such public announcement is first made by the corporation.

(b) Special Meetings of Stockholders. Only such business shall be conducted at a
special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting
pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for
election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of
stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the corporation's
notice of meeting (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii)
by any stockholder of the corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time
of giving of notice provided for in this Section 2, who shall be entitled to
vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in
this Section 2. Nominations by stockholders of persons for election to the Board
of Directors may be made at such a special meeting of stockholders if the
stockholder's notice required by paragraph (a)(2) of this Section 2 shall be
delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation
not earlier than the 90th day prior to such special meeting and not later than
the close of business on the later of the 60th day prior to such special meeting
or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of
the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of
Directors to be elected at such meeting.





(c)  General.

(1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set
forth in this Section 2 shall be eligible to serve as directors and only such
business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been
brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this
Section 2. The Chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to
determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the
meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2
and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this
Section 2, to declare that such defective proposal shall be disregarded.

(2) For purposes of this Section 2, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure
in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or
comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the
corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13,
14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.

(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2, a stockholder
shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the
rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this
Section 2. Nothing in this Section 2 shall be deemed to affect any rights of
stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the corporation's proxy
statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.

ss.3. Qualification. Directors need not be stockholders. Acceptance of the
office may be expressed orally or in writing, except as otherwise provided in
these By-Laws.

ss.4. Number. The number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the
corporation shall be not less than nine nor more than twenty-four, the exact
number within such minimum and maximum limitations to be fixed from time to time
by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by the affirmative
vote of a majority of the whole Board of Directors; and such exact number shall
be twenty-one unless otherwise determined by a resolution so adopted by a
majority of the whole Board of Directors. As used in these By-Laws, the terms
"whole Board of Directors" and "whole Board" mean the total authorized number of
directors which the corporation would have if there were no vacancies.

ss.5. Vacancies. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred
Stock or any other class of capital stock of the corporation (other than the
Common Stock) then outstanding, vacancies in any class of directors resulting
from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or
other cause shall, if occurring prior to the expiration of the term of office of
such class, be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the
remaining directors of the whole Board of Directors then in office, although
less than a quorum or by the sole remaining director. Any director so elected
shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until his
successor is elected and qualified.

ss.6. Removal of Directors. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series
of Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the corporation (other
than the Common Stock) then outstanding, (i) any director, or the whole Board of
Directors, may be removed by the stockholders from office at any time prior to
the expiration of his term of office, but only for cause and only by the
affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing a
majority of the voting power of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock
of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, and
(ii) any director may be removed from office by the affirmative vote of a
majority of the whole Board of Directors, at any time prior to the expiration of
his term of office, but only for cause.

ss.7. General Powers. The business, properties and affairs of the corporation
shall be managed by the Board of Directors. Notwithstanding any other provision
of the Preliminary Certificate of Consolidation and these By-Laws and subject to
the other provisions of Sections 1(a) and (b), 4, 5 and 6 of this Article III,
the Board of Directors shall determine the rules and procedures that shall
affect the directors' power to manage and direct the business and affairs of the
corporation. Without limiting the foregoing, the Board of Directors shall
designate and empower committees of the Board of Directors, shall elect and
empower the officers of the corporation and fix their salaries and other
compensation, may appoint and empower other officers and agents of the
corporation, may grant general or limited authority to its Chairman, the
Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Vice Chairmen, the President and the
Sector Presidents and other officers and agents of the corporation to make,
execute and deliver contracts and other instruments and documents in the name
and on behalf of the corporation and under its seal without specific authority
in each case, and shall determine to the extent not inconsistent with these
By-Laws the time and place of, and the notice requirements for, Board meetings,
as well as quorum and voting requirements for, and the manner of taking, Board
action. In addition, the Board may exercise all of the powers of the corporation
and do all lawful acts and things which are not reserved to the stockholders by
statute, the Preliminary Certificate of Consolidation or the By-Laws.





ss.8. Executive Committee. The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by
vote of a majority of the whole Board, appoint an Executive Committee, to
consist of the Chairman of the Board of Directors ex officio, and two or more
other Directors, which shall be empowered to perform such functions as may be
delegated to it by the Board. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall act
as chairman of the Executive Committee unless another member shall have been
appointed chairman by the Board of Directors.

ss.9. Audit Committee. The Board of Directors, not later than April 30 in each
year, shall by resolution adopted by vote of a majority of the whole Board
appoint an Audit Committee to consist of three or more Directors (none of whom
shall be an officer of the corporation or of any of its subsidiary companies)
and may appoint one of the members of such Committee to be its Chairman. The
Committee shall recommend, annually, a firm of certified public accountants to
be appointed by the Board of Directors to audit the books and accounts of the
corporation and its subsidiary companies and to report to the Committee. The
Committee shall confer with such accountants and shall determine the scope of
the audits of the books and accounts of the corporation and its subsidiary
companies and shall bring to the attention of the Board of Directors those items
relating to the audits or the corporation's accounting practices which the
Committee and the auditors believe to merit Board review. As soon as practicable
after the close of each fiscal year the Committee shall transmit to the Board of
Directors the consolidated balance sheet of the corporation and its subsidiary
companies as at the end of each such fiscal year and related statements of
consolidated income and surplus for such year, with the certificate of the
accountants with respect thereto; and such financial statements and certificate
shall be incorporated in the Annual Report to the stockholders of the
corporation. The Audit Committee shall establish the rules for the conduct of
its meetings; shall keep minutes of its acts and proceedings, which in each
instance shall be reported at the next meeting of the Board of Directors; and
shall appoint one of its members to act as its Secretary.

ss.10. May Adopt Savings Plans and Sell Stock to Employees. The Board may, from
time to time, adopt, modify and discontinue savings plans for the promotion of
saving and thrift among the company's employees and make reasonable
contributions on behalf of the corporation for such purposes. It may also sell
Preferred stock to the employees on an installment basis whereby payments
therefor are deducted from salaries and wages. In addition it may, from time to
time, issue and sell over a period of time and on a deferred payment basis
unissued common stock, for not less than the par value thereof but for less than
its market value, to employees of the company, as it may deem advisable for the
best interests of the corporation. The term "employees" as used in this section
shall include officers and directors.

ss.11. May Make Provision for the Payment of Retirement Annuities or Pensions to
Employees. The Board may from time to time make such provision for the payment
of retirement annuities or pensions to the employees of the company including
officers of the company, as in its discretion the Board may deem advisable and
the Board may from time to time adopt and carry out any plan or plans of
providing such annuities or pensions or modify, discontinue or terminate any
such plan as may then be in force. If any such retirement annuity or pension
plan entitles members of the Board to participate as employees of the company,
every member of the Board shall be entitled to vote upon any matter relating to
the adoption, administration, carrying out, modification, discontinuance or
termination of any such plan. The Board shall have power to appropriate funds of
the company to defray, in whole or in part, the cost of providing any such
retirement annuities or pensions which may be based upon services rendered by
employees prior to the date of establishment or modification of such plan and
upon services to be rendered thereafter prior to the retirement date provided
therein and may obligate the company to make payments toward defraying any such
expenses over a period of years, subject always to the power of the Board in its
discretion to modify, discontinue and terminate any such plan to the extent then
permitted in existing tax or other laws. The Board shall have full power in its
discretion to provide for the administration of any such retirement annuity or
pension plan and the investment and reinvestment of funds therein by an
insurance company, trustee, or other agency under such terms and conditions as
the Board may deem advisable or to provide for the administration of such plan
and the investment and reinvestment of the funds therein by the company. The
Board shall have full power in its discretion to delegate to such committees,
individuals or independent consultants such part of the carrying out of such
plan as in its discretion it may deem advisable.





ss.12. Meetings of the Board; Quorum and Manner of Acting. The Board of
Directors may meet and organize immediately after and at the place where the
annual meeting of stockholders is held, without notice of such meeting, provided
a majority of the whole Board shall be present. Regular meetings of the Board
may be held without notice at such time and place as from time to time may be
determined by the Board. Special meetings of the Board or of any Committee
thereof may be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of
the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President and shall be called by
the Secretary or, in his absence, an Assistant Secretary, on the written request
of any two directors. Notice of any special meeting of the Board or any
Committee thereof shall be mailed to each director, or each Committee member,
including alternates as the case may be, addressed to him at his residence or
usual place of business, not later than the second day before the day on which
the meeting is to be held, or shall be sent to him at such place by telegraph,
or be delivered personally, or by telephone, not later than the day before the
day on which the meeting is to be held. Notice of any meeting of the Board or of
any Committee need not be given, however, to any director, if waived by him in
writing, either before or after such meeting be held, or if he shall be present
at the meeting; and any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any Committee
shall be a legal meeting without any notice thereof having been given, if all
the members shall be present thereat. A majority of the directors in office at
the time of any regular or special meeting of the Board or any Committee thereof
shall be present in person at such meeting in order to constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business. Any one or more directors or Committee members may
participate in any meeting of the Board or any Committee thereof by means of a
conference telephone or similar communications equipment permitting all persons
participating in such meeting to hear each other at the same time, participation
by such means to constitute presence in person at such meeting. Except as
otherwise required by statute or by the Preliminary Certificate of Consolidation
forming this corporation or other certificate filed pursuant to law or by the
By-Laws, the act of a majority of the directors or Committee members present at
any such meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of
Directors or any Committee thereof. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of
the directors or Committee members present may adjourn the meeting from time to
time until a quorum be had. Notice of any adjourned meeting need not be given.
Action by the Board or any Committee thereof may be taken without a meeting
provided that all members of the Board or Committee consent in writing to the
adoption of a resolution authorizing such action, such resolution and written
consent thereto by the directors or Committee members to be filed with the
minutes of the proceedings of the Board or Committee.

ss.13. Directors' Fees. In consideration of his serving in such capacity, each
director of the corporation, other than directors who are officers of the
corporation or any of its subsidiary companies, shall be entitled to receive an
annual fee in such amount and payable in such installments, as the Board of
Directors, by vote of a majority of the whole Board, may from time to time
determine. The Board of Directors shall also have authority to determine, from
time to time, the amount of compensation which shall be paid to its members for
attendance at meetings of any committee of the Board as well as to any director
rendering special services to the corporation.

                                   ARTICLE IV.

                                    Officers

ss.1. Officers. The elected officers of the corporation shall be a Chairman of
the Board of Directors (who shall be a director), a Chairman of the Executive
Committee, one or more Vice Chairmen, a President or one or more Sector
Presidents, a Controller, a General Counsel, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The
Board of Directors may elect or appoint an Honorary Chairman of the Board of
Directors, an Honorary Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, an Honorary
Chairman of the Executive Committee, one or more Honorary Vice Presidents, and
corresponding Officers Emeriti: and either the Board of Directors or the
Executive Committee may elect or appoint one or more Executive Vice Presidents,
one or more Senior Vice Presidents, one or more Vice Presidents, one or more
Assistant Secretaries, one or more Assistant Treasurers, one or more Assistant
Controllers, and such other assistant officers and agents as, from time to time,
may appear to be necessary or advisable in the conduct of the affairs of the
Corporation. Either the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee may
designate one or more officers or assistant officers as the principal financial
officer of the corporation or the principal accounting officer of the
corporation. The same person may be elected or appointed to two or more offices
except that no person shall simultaneously hold the offices of President or
Sector President and Secretary. So far as practicable, all elected officers
shall be elected at the organization meeting of the Board, in each year, and
shall hold office until the organization meeting of the Board in the next
subsequent year and until their respective successors are chosen; but any
officer, elected or appointed, may be removed at any time, either for or without
cause, by vote of a majority of the whole Board of Directors, at any meeting.
All officers shall hold office during the pleasure of the Board. If any vacancy
occurs in any office, the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee, as
provided above, may elect or appoint a successor to fill such vacancy for the
remainder of the term.





ss.2. Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors
shall preside, when present, at all meetings of the Board of Directors and of
the shareholders and at all meetings of the Executive Committee in the absence
of a chairman of such Committee appointed by the Board. The Chairman of the
Board of Directors shall be the chief executive officer of the corporation and,
under the direction of the Board of Directors, shall have general management,
direction and superintendence of the business and affairs of the corporation. He
shall have such further powers and duties as may be given to him by the Board of
Directors or the Executive Committee.

ss.3. Chairman of the Executive Committee. The Chairman of the Executive
Committee shall preside, when present, at all meetings of the Executive
Committee. He shall act in a general consultative and advisory capacity to the
Chairman of the Board of Directors and shall have such further powers and duties
as may be given to him by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, or
the Chairman of the Board of Directors.

ss.4. Vice Chairmen. The Vice Chairmen shall perform, in the absence or
incapacity of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the
Executive Committee or when so directed by either, the duties of such officer.
They shall have such further powers and duties as may be given them by the Board
of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or
the Chairman of the Executive Committee.

ss.5. President. The President shall be the principal operating officer of the
corporation and, under the direction of the Chairman of the Board of Directors,
shall have superintendence of the business, properties and affairs of the
corporation. He shall have such further powers and duties as may be given him by
the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, or the Chairman of the Board of
Directors. In the absence or incapacity of the Chairman of the Board of
Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee and the Vice Chairmen, he
shall perform the duties of those officers.

ss.6. Sector President. A Sector President shall, under the direction of the
Chairman of the Board of Directors, have superintendence of such segments of the
business, properties and affairs of the Corporation and such further powers and
duties as may be given or assigned to him by the Board of Directors, the
Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chairman of
the Executive Committee. The Sector Presidents acting together shall constitute
the office of the President and in the absence of a President shall be the chief
operating officers of the Corporation.

ss.7. Executive Vice Presidents. The Executive Vice Presidents shall perform
such duties and shall have such powers as may be given them by the Board of
Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the
Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President or a
Sector President.

ss.8. Senior Vice Presidents. The Senior Vice Presidents shall perform such
duties and shall have such powers as may be given them by the Board of
Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the
Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Vice Chairmen or the President or a
Sector President. From time to time one of the Senior Vice Presidents may be
designated as the Senior Vice President for Finance. The Senior Vice President
for Finance may hold any other office in the corporation.

ss.9. Vice Presidents. The Vice Presidents shall perform such duties and shall
have such powers as may be given them by the Board of Directors, the Executive
Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive
Committee, the Vice Chairmen, the President or a Sector President, or an
Executive Vice President.

ss.10. Treasurer. The Treasurer shall have the care and custody of the corporate
funds and securities. He shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in
the name and to the credit of the corporation in such depositories as may be
designated by the Board of Directors. He shall disburse the funds of the
corporation in the manner ordered by the Board He shall upon request render an
account of all his transactions as Treasurer to the Board of Directors. He
shall, at all reasonable hours, exhibit his books and accounts to any director
upon application. He or an Assistant Treasurer or such other officers, directors
or agents as may be designated by the Board of Directors shall endorse checks,
notes or drafts payable to the order of the corporation and sign and countersign
checks, drafts and orders for the payment or withdrawal of moneys or securities
on deposit in the corporate accounts in such manner as the Board may direct. He
shall have such further powers and duties as may be given him by the Board of
Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the
Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman, or the President.





ss.11. Secretary. The Secretary shall keep the minutes of the meetings of the
Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee and of the stockholders. He
shall attend to the giving and serving of all notices of the corporation. He
shall affix the seal of the corporation to all certificates of stock, except in
cases where the transfer agent of the corporation is authorized to affix the
seal. He shall have charge of the stock certificate books, other than those in
the hands of the transfer agent, and such other books and papers as the Board
may direct. He shall attend to such correspondence as may be assigned to him,
and perform all other duties incidental to his office. He shall keep a stock
record containing the names, alphabetically arranged, of all persons who are
stockholders of the corporation, showing their places of residence, the number
of shares of stock held by them respectively, and the time when they became
owners. He shall have such further powers and duties as may be given him by the
Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of
Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the
President.

ss.12. General Counsel. The General Counsel shall be the legal adviser of the
corporation. The General Counsel may hold any other office in the corporation.

ss.13. Controller. The Controller shall be responsible for and have active
control of all matters pertaining to the accounts of the corporation. He shall
audit all payrolls and vouchers and shall direct the manner of certifying the
same; shall supervise the manner of keeping all vouchers for payments and all
other documents relating to such payments; shall receive, audit and consolidate
all operating and financial statements of the corporation and its subsidiaries;
and shall have the care, custody and supervision of the books of account of the
corporation. He shall, at all reasonable hours, exhibit his books and accounts
to any director upon application. He shall, upon request, render an account of
the financial condition of the corporation to the Board of Directors. He shall
have such further powers and duties as may be given him by the Board of
Directors, the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the
Chairman of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President.

ss.14. Assistant Secretaries. Assistant Secretaries shall perform the duties of
the Secretary in the absence of the Secretary, and shall have such further
powers and duties as may be given to them by the Board of Directors, the
Executive Committee, the Chairman, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a
Vice Chairman, the President or the Secretary.

ss.15. Assistant Treasurers. Assistant Treasurers shall perform the duties of
the Treasurer in the absence of the Treasurer, and shall have such further
powers and duties as may be given to them by the Board of Directors, the
Executive Committee, the Chairman, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a
Vice Chairman, the President or the Treasurer.

ss.16. Assistant Controllers. Assistant Controllers shall perform the duties of
the Controller in the absence of the Controller, and shall have such further
powers and duties as may be given to them by the Board of Directors the
Executive Committee, the Chairman, the Chairman of the Executive Committee, a
Vice Chairman, the President or the Controller.

ss.17. Emeriti and Honorary Officers. No individual elected or appointed to an
Honorary Office or an Emeritus Office pursuant to this Article IV shall have as
a result of such election or appointment any rights, duties or responsibilities
with respect to the business or affairs of this corporation as determined by law
or the By-Laws of this corporation.

                                   ARTICLE V.

                                  Capital Stock

ss.1. Payments. All payments for stock of the corporation shall be received by
the Treasurer. Failure to pay an installment upon a stock subscription when
required to be paid by the Board of Directors shall work a forfeiture of the
shares of stock in arrears, pursuant to Section 503 of the Business Corporation
Law of the State of New York.

ss.2. Certificates of Stock. The stock of the corporation shall be represented
by certificates signed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman
of the Executive Committee, a Vice Chairman or the President and the Secretary
or an Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, and may be
sealed with the seal of the corporation or a facsimile thereof. Where any such
certificate is manually countersigned by either a transfer agent or a registrar
(other than the corporation itself or its employee) any other signature on such
certificate may be a facsimile, engraved, stamped or printed. In case any
officer who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon such
certificate shall have ceased to be such officer before such certificate was
issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if he were
such officer at the date of issue.





ss.3. Transfer Agents and Registrars. The Board of Directors may, in its
discretion, appoint responsible banks or trust companies in the Borough of
Manhattan, in the City of New York and in such other cities or states as the
Board may deem advisable, to act as transfer agents or registrars of the stock
of the corporation; and, upon such appointments being made, no stock
certificates shall be valid until countersigned by one of such transfer agents
and registered by one of such registrars.

ss.4. Transfers. Transfers of stock shall be made on the books of the
corporation only by the person named in the certificate or by attorney lawfully
constituted in writing and upon surrender and cancellation of a certificate or
certificates for a like number of shares of the same class of stock, with duly
executed assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto,
and with such proof of the authenticity of the signatures as the corporation or
its agents may reasonably require.

ss.5. Determination of Stockholders of Record for Certain Purposes. The Board of
Directors may fix a time, not exceeding fifty days preceding the date fixed for
the payment of any dividend, or the making of any distribution or for the
delivery of evidences of rights or evidences of interest arising out of any
change, conversion or exchange of capital stock, as a record time for the
determination of the stockholders entitled to receive any such dividend,
distribution, rights or interest. The Board of Directors at its option, in lieu
of so fixing a record time, may prescribe a period not exceeding fifty days
prior to the date for such payment, distribution or delivery during which no
transfer of stock on the books of the corporation may be made.

ss.6. Stockholders of Record Recognized. The corporation shall be entitled to
treat the holder of record of any stock certificate as the holder in fact and
owner of the shares represented thereby and shall not be bound to recognize any
equitable claim to or interest in such stock on the part of any other person,
whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof save as expressly
provided by the laws of New York.

ss.6. Lost Certificate. In case any certificate of stock shall be lost or
destroyed, the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may authorize the issue of
a substitute certificate in place of the certificate so lost or destroyed, and
may cause such substitute certificate to be countersigned by the appropriate
transfer agent and registered by the appropriate registrar; provided, that, in
each such case, the applicant for a substitute certificate shall furnish to the
corporation and to such of its transfer agents and registrars as may require the
same, evidence to their satisfaction, in their discretion, of the loss or
destruction of such certificate and of the ownership thereof and also such
security and indemnity as may by them be required.

                                   ARTICLE VI.

                             Inspectors of Election

ss.1. Inspectors of Election. At every meeting of stockholders the vote shall be
conducted by two inspectors of election elected at the last annual meeting of
stockholders or, if not so elected, appointed for that purpose by the Board of
Directors or, if not so elected or appointed, elected by a per capita vote of
the stockholders present at the meeting in person or by proxy; and all questions
respecting the qualification of voters, the validity of the proxies and the
acceptance or rejection of votes shall be decided by such inspectors who, before
entering upon the discharge of their duties, shall be duly sworn faithfully to
execute the duties of inspectors at such meeting with strict impartiality, and
according to the best of their ability. If any inspector elected or appointed to
act at any meeting shall be absent or refuse to act, or if his office shall
become vacant, the stockholders present at the meeting in person or by proxy
shall, by a per capita vote, appoint another inspector to act in his place.

                                  ARTICLE VII.

                                      Seal

ss.1. Seal. The seal of the corporation shall be in the form of a circle and
shall bear the name of the corporation followed by the words "Corning, NY", the
year of its incorporation, and in the center of the circle the words "Founded
1851".

ss.2. Affixing and Attesting. The seal of the corporation shall be in the
custody of the Secretary, who shall have power to affix it to the proper
corporate instruments and documents, and who shall attest it. In his absence it
may be affixed and attested by an Assistant Secretary or affixed and attested by
the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer. The transfer agent of the stock of the
corporation may have a facsimile thereof and affix the same to stock
certificates issued by it.







                                  ARTICLE VIII.

                                  Miscellaneous

ss.1. Signatures to Negotiable Paper. All checks, drafts, notes and other
negotiable instruments of the corporation shall be signed, countersigned and
endorsed by such directors, officers and agents as the Board of Directors may
designate from time to time.

ss.2. Delegation of Duties. In the absence of any officer, or for any other
reason, the Board of Directors may delegate the powers or duties of an officer
to another officer or director.

ss.3. Dividends. Dividends upon the shares of the capital stock of the
corporation may be declared and paid out of the net assets of the corporation in
excess of its capital, as often and at such times as the Board of Directors may
determine, subject to the limitations set forth in the Preliminary Certificate
of Consolidation forming this corporation or any certificate filed pursuant to
law.

ss.4(a). Indemnification of Directors and Officers. To the full extent
authorized or permitted by law, the corporation shall indemnify any person made,
or threatened to be made, a defendant to an action or proceeding, whether civil
or criminal, including an action by or in the right of the corporation, by
reason of the fact that he, his testator or intestate, is or was a director or
officer of the corporation, or is serving or served as an officer or director of
any other corporation, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other
enterprise, in which the corporation has a financial interest as an investor or
creditor, and such person is serving or served at the express request of and on
behalf of this corporation. Without limitation of the foregoing, such
indemnification shall include indemnification against all judgments, fines,
amounts paid in settlement and reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees
and costs of investigation or defense, reasonably incurred by any such person in
connection with any such action or proceeding or any appeal therein, and which
expenses have not been recouped by him in any other manner, unless a judgment or
other final adjudication adverse to the director or officer establishes that his
acts were committed in bad faith, or were the result of active and deliberate
dishonesty and were material to the cause of action so adjudicated, or that he
personally gained in fact a financial profit or other advantage to which he was
not legally entitled; provided that no such indemnification shall be required
with respect to any settlement or other nonadjudicated disposition of any
threatened or pending action or proceeding unless the corporation has given its
prior consent to such settlement or other disposition. If any unexhausted right
of recoupment shall exist, payment of this indemnification shall be conditioned
upon its release or assignment to the corporation.

ss.4(b). Indemnification Procedure; Expenses. A person who has been successful,
on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of a civil or criminal action or
proceeding of the character described in Section 4(a) of this Article VIII shall
be entitled to indemnification as provided therein. Except as provided in the
preceding sentence and unless ordered by a court, indemnification hereunder
shall be made by the corporation if, and only if, authorized in the specific
case: (i) by the board of directors of the corporation acting by a quorum
consisting of directors who are not parties to such action or proceeding upon a
finding that the director or officer has met the standard of conduct set forth
in Section 4(a) of this Article VIII, or (ii) if such a quorum is not obtainable
or, even if obtainable, a quorum of disinterested directors so directs: (a) by
the board of directors of the corporation upon the opinion in writing of
independent legal counsel that indemnification is proper in the circumstances
because the standard of conduct set forth in Section 4(a) of this Article VIII
has been met by such director or officer, or (b) by the shareholders upon a
finding that the director or officer has met the applicable standard of conduct
set forth in such Section. Upon the request of any person entitled to
indemnification pursuant to Section 4 of this Article VIII, the corporation
shall pay promptly to such person all expenses reasonably incurred by such
person in connection with an action or proceeding with respect to which such
person is, in the absence of a final adjudication adverse to such person,
entitled to indemnification hereunder; provided that such payment shall be
subject to the receipt by the corporation of that person's undertaking to repay
the portion of such expenses to which it is finally determined that such person
is not entitled; and provided further that no such payment shall be made if a
majority of disinterested directors of the corporation, provided such majority
constitutes a quorum of the Board, or if there is not a quorum of disinterested
directors, independent legal counsel not a party to such action or proceeding
and not regular counsel to the corporation, determines in good faith that it is
likely that such person will be found not to be entitled to such indemnification
and will not in that event fulfill his undertaking to repay such advances. A
person entitled to indemnification shall cooperate in good faith with any
request by the corporation that common counsel be utilized by parties to an
action or proceeding who are similarly situated unless to do so would be
inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between or among
such parties.





ss.4(c). Contractual Article. Section 4 of this Article VIII shall be deemed to
constitute a contract between the corporation and a person entitled to
indemnification and may not, without the consent of such person, be amended to
effect adversely such person with respect to any event, act or omission
occurring or allegedly occurring prior to the end of the term of office he is
serving when such amendment is adopted. The corporation is authorized to enter
into agreements with any of its directors or officers extending rights to
indemnification and advancement of expenses to such person to the fullest extent
permitted by applicable law, but the failure to enter into any such agreement
shall not affect or limit the rights of such person pursuant to Section 4 of
this Article VIII, it being expressly recognized that all directors and officers
of the corporation, by serving as such after the adoption hereof, are acting in
reliance hereon and the corporation is estopped to contend otherwise.

ss.4(d). Insurance. The corporation may, but need not, maintain insurance at its
expense insuring persons entitled to indemnification under Section 4 of this
Article VIII against liabilities whether or not such liabilities are
indemnifiable pursuant to Section 4 of this Article VIII.

ss.4(e). Non-exclusivity. The indemnification provided by Section 4 of this
Article VIII shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which a
director or officer of the corporation may be entitled.

ss.4(f). Amendment to Conform to Business Corporation Law. If and to the extent
that any provision of Section 4 of this Article VIII is inconsistent with
Article 7 of the Business Corporation Law of the State of New York, such
provision shall be deemed to have been amended to the extent necessary to make
it consistent with such Article 7.

ss.5. Signatures to Contracts. Except as otherwise prescribed by the Board of
Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive
Committee, the Vice Chairmen, the President, any Sector President, any Executive
Vice President, any Senior Vice President or any other Vice President shall sign
and execute all contracts, instruments and documents in the name of the
corporation.

                                   ARTICLE IX.

                                   Amendments

ss.1.  Amendments.

(a) The affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares
representing at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all the
outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote
generally in the election of directors shall be required to amend, alter or
repeal, or adopt any provision or provisions inconsistent with, any provision of
Sections 1(a) and (b), 4, 5, 6 and 7 of Article III of these By-Laws and this
Section 1(a); provided, however, that this Section 1(a) shall not apply to, and
such eighty percent (80%) vote shall not be required for, any amendment,
alteration, repeal, or adoption of any inconsistent provision or provisions,
declared advisable by the Board of Directors by the affirmative vote of
two-thirds of the whole Board of Directors.

(b) Subject to the provisions of Section 1(a) of this Article IX, these By-Laws
may be altered or repealed, in any particular, and new By-Laws, not inconsistent
with any provision of the Preliminary Certificate of Consolidation forming this
corporation or any certificate filed pursuant to law or any provision of law,
may be adopted, either by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of a
majority in number of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote, given at
an annual meeting, or at any special meeting the notice of which shall include
the form of the proposed amendment or repeal or of the proposed new By-Laws, or
a summary thereof, or by vote of a majority of the whole Board of Directors,
given at any meeting thereof, the notice of which shall include the form of the
proposed amendment or repeal or of the proposed new By-Laws, or a summary
thereof.







ss.2. Repeal of Old By-Laws. All prior By-Laws of the Company are hereby
repealed.

                   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

         The undersigned Secretary of CORNING INCORPORATED, a corporation of the
State of New York, HEREBY CERTIFIES that the foregoing is a true and complete
copy of the By-Laws of the said corporation, as at present in force and effect.

         WITNESS, the hand of the undersigned and the seal of the said
corporation, this _____ day of ______________________________________.




                                              _______________________________

                                                         Secretary






Item 14(c) Exhibit #12

Corning Incorporated and Subsidiary Companies
Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred
Dividends:
(Dollars in millions, except ratios)









Item 14(c) Exhibit #21

Corning Incorporated and Subsidiary Companies

Subsidiaries of the Registrant as of December 31, 1997 are listed below:









Item 14(c) Exhibit #21 (continued)

Subsidiaries of the Registrant as of December 31, 1997 are listed below:









Item 14(c) Exhibit #21 (continued)

Subsidiaries of the Registrant as of December 31, 1997 are listed below:



As explained on page 19, financial statements of companies accounted for under
the equity method, except Dow Corning Corporation, are omitted. Summary
financial information on Corning's equity basis companies is included in Note 5
(Investments), appearing on pages 31 and 32, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.







Item 14(c) Exhibit #23

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


Price Waterhouse LLP


We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Prospectus
constituting part of the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 2-77248,
33-12605, 33-25162, 33-30575, 33-30815, 33-47133, 33-62682, 33-50201, 33-55345,
33-34602, 33-58193, 33-63887, 33-18329, 33-3036, 333-24337, 333-26049 and
333-26151) and Form S-3 (Nos. 33-40956, 33-44295, 33-49903, 33-53821 and
33-56887) of Corning Incorporated of our report dated January 28, 1998,
appearing on page 22 of this Form 10-K and our report relating to the Dow
Corning Corporation financial statements dated January 21, 1998, appearing on
page 54 of this Form 10-K.


/s/ Price Waterhouse LLP
1177 Avenue of the Americas
New York, New York  10036

March 9, 1998






Item 14(c) Exhibit #24


                              CORNING INCORPORATED

                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

                            ------------------------



         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned Director and/or
Officer of CORNING INCORPORATED, a New York corporation, hereby constitutes and
appoints Katherine A. Asbeck, Van C. Campbell, William D. Eggers and James B.
Flaws, or any of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, in the
name and on behalf of the undersigned, to do any and all acts and things to
comply with the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all
rules, regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in
respect thereof, in connection with the filing under the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Corning Incorporated for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, including specifically, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign on
behalf of the undersigned in his capacity as Director and/or Officer of Corning
Incorporated the appropriate signature pages of said Annual Report on Form 10-K
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the undersigned
hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any
one of them, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has subscribed these presents this
11th day of February, 1998.


                                                    /s/ Roger G. Ackerman
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                    (Roger G. Ackerman)







                              CORNING INCORPORATED

                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

                            ------------------------



         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned Director and/or
Officer of CORNING INCORPORATED, a New York corporation, hereby constitutes and
appoints Katherine A. Asbeck, Van C. Campbell, William D. Eggers and James B.
Flaws, or any of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, in the
name and on behalf of the undersigned, to do any and all acts and things to
comply with the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all
rules, regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in
respect thereof, in connection with the filing under the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Corning Incorporated for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, including specifically, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign on
behalf of the undersigned in his capacity as Director and/or Officer of Corning
Incorporated the appropriate signature pages of said Annual Report on Form 10-K
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the undersigned
hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any
one of them, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has subscribed these presents this
11th day of February, 1998.



                                                      /s/ Van C. Campbell
                                                      --------------------------
                                                      (Van C. Campbell)







                              CORNING INCORPORATED

                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

                            ------------------------



         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned Director and/or
Officer of CORNING INCORPORATED, a New York corporation, hereby constitutes and
appoints Katherine A. Asbeck, Van C. Campbell, William D. Eggers and James B.
Flaws, or any of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, in the
name and on behalf of the undersigned, to do any and all acts and things to
comply with the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all
rules, regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in
respect thereof, in connection with the filing under the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Corning Incorporated for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, including specifically, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign on
behalf of the undersigned in his capacity as Director and/or Officer of Corning
Incorporated the appropriate signature pages of said Annual Report on Form 10-K
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the undersigned
hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any
one of them, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has subscribed these presents this
11th day of February, 1998.



                                                     /s/ Norman E. Garrity
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                     (Norman E. Garrity)







                              CORNING INCORPORATED

                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

                            ------------------------



         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned Director and/or
Officer of CORNING INCORPORATED, a New York corporation, hereby constitutes and
appoints Katherine A. Asbeck, Van C. Campbell, William D. Eggers and James B.
Flaws, or any of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, in the
name and on behalf of the undersigned, to do any and all acts and things to
comply with the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all
rules, regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in
respect thereof, in connection with the filing under the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Corning Incorporated for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, including specifically, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign on
behalf of the undersigned in his capacity as Director and/or Officer of Corning
Incorporated the appropriate signature pages of said Annual Report on Form 10-K
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the undersigned
hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any
one of them, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has subscribed these presents this
11th day of February, 1998.



                                                       /s/ John W. Loose
                                                       -------------------------
                                                       (John W. Loose)







                              CORNING INCORPORATED

                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

                            ------------------------



         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned Director and/or
Officer of CORNING INCORPORATED, a New York corporation, hereby constitutes and
appoints Katherine A. Asbeck, Van C. Campbell, William D. Eggers and James B.
Flaws, or any of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, in the
name and on behalf of the undersigned, to do any and all acts and things to
comply with the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all
rules, regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in
respect thereof, in connection with the filing under the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Corning Incorporated for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, including specifically, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign on
behalf of the undersigned in his capacity as Director and/or Officer of Corning
Incorporated the appropriate signature pages of said Annual Report on Form 10-K
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the undersigned
hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any
one of them, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has subscribed these presents this
16th day of February, 1998.



                                                    /s/ James R. Houghton
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                    (James R. Houghton)







                              CORNING INCORPORATED

                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

                            ------------------------



         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned Director and/or
Officer of CORNING INCORPORATED, a New York corporation, hereby constitutes and
appoints Katherine A. Asbeck, Van C. Campbell, William D. Eggers and James B.
Flaws, or any of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, in the
name and on behalf of the undersigned, to do any and all acts and things to
comply with the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all
rules, regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in
respect thereof, in connection with the filing under the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Corning Incorporated for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, including specifically, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign on
behalf of the undersigned in his capacity as Director and/or Officer of Corning
Incorporated the appropriate signature pages of said Annual Report on Form 10-K
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the undersigned
hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any
one of them, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has subscribed these presents this
13th day of February, 1998.



                                                    /s/ Robert Barker
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                    (Robert Barker)







                              CORNING INCORPORATED

                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

                            ------------------------



         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned Director and/or
Officer of CORNING INCORPORATED, a New York corporation, hereby constitutes and
appoints Katherine A. Asbeck, Van C. Campbell, William D. Eggers and James B.
Flaws, or any of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, in the
name and on behalf of the undersigned, to do any and all acts and things to
comply with the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all
rules, regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in
respect thereof, in connection with the filing under the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Corning Incorporated for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, including specifically, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign on
behalf of the undersigned in his capacity as Director and/or Officer of Corning
Incorporated the appropriate signature pages of said Annual Report on Form 10-K
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the undersigned
hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any
one of them, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has subscribed these presents this
16th day of February, 1998.



                                                    /s/ John Seely Brown
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                    (John Seely Brown)







                              CORNING INCORPORATED

                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

                            ------------------------



         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned Director and/or
Officer of CORNING INCORPORATED, a New York corporation, hereby constitutes and
appoints Katherine A. Asbeck, Van C. Campbell, William D. Eggers and James B.
Flaws, or any of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, in the
name and on behalf of the undersigned, to do any and all acts and things to
comply with the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all
rules, regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in
respect thereof, in connection with the filing under the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Corning Incorporated for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, including specifically, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign on
behalf of the undersigned in his capacity as Director and/or Officer of Corning
Incorporated the appropriate signature pages of said Annual Report on Form 10-K
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the undersigned
hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any
one of them, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has subscribed these presents this
11th day of February, 1998.



                                                    /s/ Lawrence S. Eagleburger
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                    (Lawrence S. Eagleburger)






                              CORNING INCORPORATED

                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

                            ------------------------



         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned Director and/or
Officer of CORNING INCORPORATED, a New York corporation, hereby constitutes and
appoints Katherine A. Asbeck, Van C. Campbell, William D. Eggers and James B.
Flaws, or any of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, in the
name and on behalf of the undersigned, to do any and all acts and things to
comply with the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all
rules, regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in
respect thereof, in connection with the filing under the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Corning Incorporated for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, including specifically, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign on
behalf of the undersigned in his capacity as Director and/or Officer of Corning
Incorporated the appropriate signature pages of said Annual Report on Form 10-K
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the undersigned
hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any
one of them, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has subscribed these presents this
12th day of February, 1998.



                                                     /s/ John H. Foster
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                     (John H. Foster)







                              CORNING INCORPORATED

                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

                            ------------------------



         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned Director and/or
Officer of CORNING INCORPORATED, a New York corporation, hereby constitutes and
appoints Katherine A. Asbeck, Van C. Campbell, William D. Eggers and James B.
Flaws, or any of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, in the
name and on behalf of the undersigned, to do any and all acts and things to
comply with the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all
rules, regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in
respect thereof, in connection with the filing under the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Corning Incorporated for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, including specifically, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign on
behalf of the undersigned in his capacity as Director and/or Officer of Corning
Incorporated the appropriate signature pages of said Annual Report on Form 10-K
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the undersigned
hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any
one of them, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has subscribed these presents this
12th day of February, 1998.



                                                    /s/ Gordon Gund
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                    (Gordon Gund)







                              CORNING INCORPORATED

                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

                            ------------------------



         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned Director and/or
Officer of CORNING INCORPORATED, a New York corporation, hereby constitutes and
appoints Katherine A. Asbeck, Van C. Campbell, William D. Eggers and James B.
Flaws, or any of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, in the
name and on behalf of the undersigned, to do any and all acts and things to
comply with the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all
rules, regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in
respect thereof, in connection with the filing under the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Corning Incorporated for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, including specifically, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign on
behalf of the undersigned in his capacity as Director and/or Officer of Corning
Incorporated the appropriate signature pages of said Annual Report on Form 10-K
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the undersigned
hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any
one of them, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has subscribed these presents this
12th day of February, 1998.



                                                     /s/ John M. Hennessy
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                     (John M. Hennessy)







                              CORNING INCORPORATED

                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

                            ------------------------



         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned Director and/or
Officer of CORNING INCORPORATED, a New York corporation, hereby constitutes and
appoints Katherine A. Asbeck, Van C. Campbell, William D. Eggers and James B.
Flaws, or any of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, in the
name and on behalf of the undersigned, to do any and all acts and things to
comply with the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all
rules, regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in
respect thereof, in connection with the filing under the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Corning Incorporated for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, including specifically, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign on
behalf of the undersigned in his capacity as Director and/or Officer of Corning
Incorporated the appropriate signature pages of said Annual Report on Form 10-K
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the undersigned
hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any
one of them, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has subscribed these presents this
10th day of February, 1998.



                                                     /s/ James W. Kinnear
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                     (James W. Kinnear)








                              CORNING INCORPORATED

                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

                            ------------------------



         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned Director and/or
Officer of CORNING INCORPORATED, a New York corporation, hereby constitutes and
appoints Katherine A. Asbeck, Van C. Campbell, William D. Eggers and James B.
Flaws, or any of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, in the
name and on behalf of the undersigned, to do any and all acts and things to
comply with the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all
rules, regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in
respect thereof, in connection with the filing under the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Corning Incorporated for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, including specifically, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign on
behalf of the undersigned in his capacity as Director and/or Officer of Corning
Incorporated the appropriate signature pages of said Annual Report on Form 10-K
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the undersigned
hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any
one of them, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has subscribed these presents this
10th day of February, 1998.



                                                     /s/ James J. O'Connor
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                     (James J. O'Connor)








                              CORNING INCORPORATED

                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

                            ------------------------



         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned Director and/or
Officer of CORNING INCORPORATED, a New York corporation, hereby constitutes and
appoints Katherine A. Asbeck, Van C. Campbell, William D. Eggers and James B.
Flaws, or any of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, in the
name and on behalf of the undersigned, to do any and all acts and things to
comply with the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all
rules, regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in
respect thereof, in connection with the filing under the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Corning Incorporated for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, including specifically, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign on
behalf of the undersigned in his capacity as Director and/or Officer of Corning
Incorporated the appropriate signature pages of said Annual Report on Form 10-K
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the undersigned
hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any
one of them, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has subscribed these presents this
12th day of February, 1998.



                                                    /s/ Catherine A. Rein
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                    (Catherine A. Rein)








                              CORNING INCORPORATED

                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

                            ------------------------



         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned Director and/or
Officer of CORNING INCORPORATED, a New York corporation, hereby constitutes and
appoints Katherine A. Asbeck, Van C. Campbell, William D. Eggers and James B.
Flaws, or any of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, in the
name and on behalf of the undersigned, to do any and all acts and things to
comply with the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all
rules, regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in
respect thereof, in connection with the filing under the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Corning Incorporated for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, including specifically, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign on
behalf of the undersigned in his capacity as Director and/or Officer of Corning
Incorporated the appropriate signature pages of said Annual Report on Form 10-K
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the undersigned
hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any
one of them, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has subscribed these presents this
11th day of February, 1998.



                                                    /s/ Henry Rosovsky
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                    (Henry Rosovsky)








                              CORNING INCORPORATED

                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

                            ------------------------



         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned Director and/or
Officer of CORNING INCORPORATED, a New York corporation, hereby constitutes and
appoints Katherine A. Asbeck, Van C. Campbell, William D. Eggers and James B.
Flaws, or any of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, in the
name and on behalf of the undersigned, to do any and all acts and things to
comply with the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all
rules, regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in
respect thereof, in connection with the filing under the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Corning Incorporated for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, including specifically, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign on
behalf of the undersigned in his capacity as Director and/or Officer of Corning
Incorporated the appropriate signature pages of said Annual Report on Form 10-K
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the undersigned
hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any
one of them, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has subscribed these presents this
11th day of February, 1998.


                                                         /s/ H. Onno Ruding
                                                         -----------------------
                                                         (H. Onno Ruding)








                              CORNING INCORPORATED

                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

                            ------------------------



         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned Director and/or
Officer of CORNING INCORPORATED, a New York corporation, hereby constitutes and
appoints Katherine A. Asbeck, Van C. Campbell, William D. Eggers and James B.
Flaws, or any of them, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, in the
name and on behalf of the undersigned, to do any and all acts and things to
comply with the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all
rules, regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in
respect thereof, in connection with the filing under the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Corning Incorporated for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, including specifically, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign on
behalf of the undersigned in his capacity as Director and/or Officer of Corning
Incorporated the appropriate signature pages of said Annual Report on Form 10-K
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the undersigned
hereby ratifies and confirms all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any
one of them, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has subscribed these presents this
12th day of February, 1998.



                                                       /s/ William D. Smithburg
                                                       -------------------------
                                                       (William D. Smithburg)



The following exhibits are included only in copies of the 1997 Annual Report on
Form 10-K filed with Securities and Exchange Commission.



Copies of these exhibits may be obtained by writing to Mr. A. John Peck Jr.,
secretary, Corning Incorporated, MP-HQ-E2-10, Corning, New York 14831.



Item 14(c) Exhibit #27

                                                    CORNING INCORPORATED
                                                   FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
                                                  YEAR ENDING DEC. 31, 1997


