
10-K405
FORM 10-K405




SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

FORM 10-K

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the Fiscal Year ended December 31, 1999
Commission file number 1-3247

CORNING INCORPORATED
One Riverfront Plaza, Corning, NY  14831
607-974-9000

NEW YORK
(State of incorporation)

16-0393470
(I.R.S. employer identification no.)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

TITLE OF EACH CLASS                    NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED

Common Stock, $0.50 par value,         New York Stock Exchange
  with attached Preferred Share
  Purchase Right

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days. Yes   X     No
                      -----

Indicate by check if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will be contained, to the best of
registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. Yes   X      No
               -----

As of February 2, 2000, shares held by non-affiliates of Corning Incorporated
had an aggregate market value of $38,117,403,514. As of February 2, 2000,
275,814,906 shares of Corning's common stock were outstanding.

Documents incorporated by reference in this annual report:

Part III. Proxy Statement of the Registrant dated March 6, 2000 relating to the
annual meeting of shareholders on April 27, 2000.



                                     PART I


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

GENERAL

Corning traces its origins to a glass business established in 1851. The present
corporation was incorporated in the State of New York in December 1936, and its
name was changed from Corning Glass Works to Corning Incorporated on April 28,
1989.

Corning is a global, technology-based corporation which operates in three
broadly based business segments: Telecommunications, Advanced Materials and
Information Display.

The Telecommunications Segment produces optical fiber and cable, optical
hardware and equipment and photonic modules and components for the worldwide
telecommunications industry.

The Advanced Materials Segment manufactures specialized products with unique
properties for customer applications utilizing glass, glass ceramic and polymer
technologies. Businesses within this segment include environmental products,
science products, semiconductor materials and optical and lighting products.

The Information Display Segment manufactures glass panels and funnels for
televisions and CRTs, liquid crystal display glass for flat panel displays and
projection video lens assemblies.

Corning and its subsidiaries manufacture products at approximately 40 plants in
20 countries.

Additional discussion of Corning and each of its segments is discussed in Item
7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations, appearing on pages 6 through 18, and Note 3 (Information by
Operating Segment) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing
on pages 34 through 38.

COMPETITION

Corning competes across all of its product lines with many large and varied
manufacturers, both domestic and foreign.

Competition within the telecommunications industry is intense among several
significant companies. Corning represents an important market presence in the
segment's principal product lines. Price and new product innovations are
significant competitive factors.

Within the Advanced Materials Segment, Corning's principal products face
competition from a variety of materials manufacturers, some of which
manufacture similar products made from materials other than glass and
ceramics. Among other things, innovation, product quality, performance, and
service are key competitive elements. Competition is also intense for certain
businesses within the Information Display Segment. In the advanced display
products business, Corning continues to expand its capacity to produce liquid
crystal display glass in an effort to supply this growing market.

Corning strives to maintain its market position through technology and product
innovation. For the future, Corning's competitive advantage lies in its
commitment to research and development, its financial resources and its
commitment to quality.

RAW MATERIALS

Corning's production of specialty glasses and related materials requires
significant quantities of energy and batch materials.

Although energy shortages have not been a problem recently, Corning has achieved
flexibility through important engineering changes to take advantage of the
lowest-cost energy source in most significant processes. Specifically, Corning's
principal manufacturing processes can now be operated with natural gas, propane,
oil or electricity, or a combination of these energy sources.




As to resources (ores, minerals, and processed chemicals) required in
manufacturing operations, availability appears to be adequate. Corning's
suppliers from time to time may experience capacity limitations in their own
operations, or may eliminate certain product lines; nevertheless, Corning
believes it has adequate programs to ensure a reliable supply of batch chemicals
and raw materials. For many products, Corning has alternative glass compositions
that would allow operations to continue without interruption in the event of
specific materials shortages.

Certain key optical components used in the manufacture of products within
Corning's Telecommunications Segment are currently available only from a limited
number of sources. Any future difficulty in obtaining sufficient and timely
delivery of components could result in delays or reductions in product
shipments.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

Inventions by members of Corning's research and engineering staff have been, and
continue to be, important to the Company's growth. Patents have been granted on
many of these inventions in the United States and other countries. Some of these
patents have been licensed to other manufacturers, including Corning's
associated companies. Many of the earlier patents have now expired.

Most of Corning's products are marketed under the following trademarks: Corning,
Celcor, Costar, FiberGain, HPFS, LEAF, Pyrex, Steuben and Vycor. Subsidiaries
and divisions of Corning frequently use their own trademarks.

PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT

Corning has a program to ensure that its facilities are in compliance with
state, federal and foreign pollution-control regulations. This program resulted
in capital and operating expenditures during the past several years. In order to
maintain compliance with such regulations, capital expenditures for pollution
control in continuing operations were approximately $63.3 million in 1999 and
are estimated to be $30.3 million in 2000. The increase in 1999 was primarily
due to pollution control expenditures on new facilities constructed during the
year.

Corning's 1999 operating results from continuing operations were charged with
approximately $34.7 million for depreciation, maintenance, waste disposal and
other operating expenses associated with pollution control. The level of these
costs is expected to increase slightly in 2000 due to depreciation costs
associated with capital expenditures. Corning believes that its compliance
program will not place it at a competitive disadvantage.

OTHER

Additional information in response to Item I is found in Note 3 (Information by
Operating Segment) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing
on pages 34 through 38 and Five Years in Review - Historical Comparison
appearing on pages 57 and 58.

Except as otherwise indicated by the context, the terms "Corning" or "Company"
as used herein, mean Corning Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

Corning operates a total of 40 manufacturing plants and processing facilities,
25 of which are located in the United States. Corning owns substantially all of
its executive and corporate buildings, which are located in Corning, New York.
Corning also owns substantially all of its manufacturing and research and
development facilities and more than half of its sales and administrative
facilities.

During the last five years, Corning has invested $3.1 billion in property,
construction, expansion, and modernization for continuing operations. Of the
$733.4 million spent in 1999, $105.5 million was spent on facilities outside the
United States.






Manufacturing, sales and administrative, and research and development facilities
at consolidated locations have an aggregate floor space of approximately 17.4
million square feet. Distribution of this total area is:



Some facilities manufacture products included in more than one operating
segment. Total assets and capital expenditures by operating segment are included
in Note 3 (Information by Operating Segment) of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements appearing on pages 34 through 38. Information concerning
lease commitments is included in Note 16 (Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees
and Hedging Activities) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
appearing on pages 31 and 54.

In the opinion of management, Corning's facilities are suitable and adequate for
production and distribution of the Company's products. At December 31, 1999
Corning did not own any significant amounts of surplus or idle property.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

There are no pending legal proceedings to which Corning or any of its
subsidiaries is a party or of which any of their property is the subject which
are material in relation to the consolidated financial statements.

ENVIRONMENTAL LITIGATION. Corning has been named by the Environmental Protection
Agency under the Superfund Act, or by state governments under similar state
laws, as a potentially responsible party at 10 active hazardous waste sites.
Under the Superfund Act, all parties who may have contributed any waste to a
hazardous waste site, identified by such Agency, are jointly and severally
liable for the cost of cleanup unless the Agency agrees otherwise. It is
Corning's policy to accrue for its estimated liability related to Superfund
sites and other environmental liabilities related to property owned by Corning
based on expert analysis and continual monitoring by both internal and external
consultants. Corning has accrued approximately $20 million for its estimated
liability for environmental cleanup and litigation at December 31, 1999. Based
upon the information developed to date, management believes that the accrued
reserve is a reasonable estimate of Corning's estimated liability and that the
risk of an additional loss in an amount materially higher than that accrued is
remote.

The largest single component of the estimated liability for environmental
litigation relates to property damage and personal injury cases in state court
in Phoenix, Arizona. In the third quarter, the personal injury cases and the
class action property damages cases were settled for $4.5 million, subject to
court approval of the terms of the class action settlement. The hearing for
court approval of the settlement was held in the first quarter of 2000. The
court approved the settlement. The time for appeal has not yet run. Management
expects that approximately 60% of the settlement payment will be offset by
insurance recoveries.




BREAST-IMPLANT LITIGATION. DOW CORNING BANKRUPTCY: Corning and The Dow Chemical
Company each own 50% of the common stock of Dow Corning Corporation. On May 15,
1995, Dow Corning sought protection under the reorganization provisions of
Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. The bankruptcy proceeding is
pending in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of
Michigan, Northern Division (Bay City, Michigan). The effect of the bankruptcy
is to stay the prosecution against Dow Corning of approximately 19,000
breast-implant product liability lawsuits, including 45 class actions. In the
period from December 1996 through February 1998, Dow Corning filed a plan of
reorganization and two amended plans, each of which was opposed by the Tort
Claimants committee and other creditor representatives. In 1998, Dow Corning and
the Tort Claimants Committee engaged in extended negotiations and reached
certain compromises. On November 8, 1998, Dow Corning and the Tort Claimants
Committee jointly filed a revised Plan of Reorganization ("Joint Plan"). The
Joint Plan and related disclosure materials were mailed to claimants for their
approval. Following a favorable vote from all but four classes of creditors, a
hearing to confirm the Joint Plan was held in late June and into July 1999. On
November 30, 1999, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order confirming the Joint
Plan and indicated that certain written opinions would follow. On December 21,
1999, the Bankruptcy Court issued an opinion that approved the principal
elements of the Joint Plan with respect to tort claimants, but construed the
Joint Plan as providing releases for the third parties (including Corning and
Dow Chemical as shareholders) only with respect to tort claimants who voted in
favor of the Joint Plan. Opponents of the Joint Plan have filed appeals on a
variety of grounds to the United States District Court for the Eastern District
of Michigan. Dow Corning and the Committee of Tort Claimants have filed a notice
of appeal (as well as motions to vacate and for related relief) seeking review
of the ruling limiting the scope of the shareholder releases. Corning and Dow
Chemical filed separate notices of appeal on this issue and each joined in the
motions by the Proponents of the Joint Plan. These appeals and motions are set
for argument before the District Court on April 12, 2000. The Proponents contend
that the Bankruptcy Court misconstrued the release provisions in the Joint Plan
and that the Plan cannot be confirmed without the shareholder releases. The
timing and eventual outcome of these proceedings, including any subsequent
appeals, remain uncertain.

Under the terms of the Joint Plan, Dow Corning would be required to establish a
Settlement Trust and a Litigation Facility to provide means for tort claimants
to settle or litigate their claims. Dow Corning would have the obligation to
fund the Trust and the Facility, over a period of up to 16 years, in an amount
up to approximately $3.2 billion (nominal value), subject to the limitations,
terms and in conditions stated in the Joint Plan. Dow Corning proposes to
provide the required funding over the 16 year period through a combination of
cash, proceeds from insurance, and cash flow from operations. Corning and Dow
Chemical have each agreed to provide a credit facility to Dow Corning of up to
$150 million ($300 million in the aggregate), subject to the terms and
conditions stated in the Joint Plan. The Joint Plan also provides for Dow
Corning to make full payment, through cash and the issuance of senior notes, to
its commercial creditors.

IMPLANT TORT LAWSUITS: In the period from 1991 through December 1999, Corning
and Dow Chemical, the shareholders of Dow Corning Corporation, were named in a
number of state and federal tort lawsuits alleging injuries arising from Dow
Corning's implant products. The claims against the shareholders allege a variety
of direct or indirect theories of liability. From 1991 through December 1999,
Corning has been named in approximately 11,470 state and federal tort lawsuits,
some of which were filed as class actions or on behalf of multiple claimants. In
1992, the federal breast implant cases were coordinated for pretrial purposes in
the United States District Court, Northern District of Alabama (Judge Sam C.
Pointer, Jr.). In 1993, Corning obtained an interlocutory order of summary
judgment, which was made final in April 1995, thereby dismissing Corning from
over 4,000 federal court cases. On March 12, 1996, the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Eleventh Circuit dismissed the plaintiffs' appeal from that judgment. The
District Court thereafter entered orders in May and June 1997 directing that
Corning be dismissed from each case pending in or later transferred to the
Northern District of Alabama after Dow Corning filed for bankruptcy protection.
In state court litigation, Corning was awarded summary judgment in California,
Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Mississippi, New Jersey, New York,
Pennsylvania, Tennessee, and Dallas, Harris and Travis Counties in Texas,
thereby dismissing approximately 7,000 state cases. On July 30, 1997, the
judgment in California became final when the Supreme Court of California
dismissed further review as to Corning. In Louisiana, Corning was awarded
summary judgment dismissing all claims by plaintiffs and a cross-claim by Dow
Chemical on February 21, 1997. On February 11, 1998, the intermediate appeals
court in Louisiana vacated this judgment as premature. Corning has filed notices
transferring the Louisiana cases to the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of Michigan, Southern District (the "Michigan Federal Court")
to which substantially all breast implant cases were transferred in 1997. In the
Michigan Federal Court, Corning is named as a defendant in approximately 70
pending cases (including some cases with multiple claimants), in addition to the
transferred Louisiana cases, but Corning is not named as a defendant in the
Master Complaint, which contains claims against Dow Chemical only. Corning has
moved for summary judgment in the Michigan Federal Court to dismiss these
remaining cases by plaintiffs as well as the third party complaint and all
cross-claims by Dow Chemical. The Michigan Federal Court heard Corning's motion
for summary judgment on February 27, 1998, but has not yet ruled. Based upon the
information developed to date and recognizing that the outcome of complex
litigation is uncertain, management believes that the risk of a materially
adverse result in the implant litigation against Corning is remote.




FEDERAL SECURITIES CASE: A federal securities class action lawsuit was filed in
1992 against Corning and certain individual defendants by a class of purchasers
of Corning stock who allege misrepresentations and omissions of material facts
relative to the silicone gel breast implant business conducted by Dow Corning.
This action is pending in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York. The class consists of those purchasers of Corning stock in
the period from June 14, 1989 to January 13, 1992 who allegedly purchased at
inflated prices due to the non-disclosure or concealment of material information
and were damaged when Corning's stock price declined in January 1992 after the
Food and Drug Administration requested a moratorium on Dow Corning's sale of
silicone gel implants. No amount of damages is specified in the complaint. In
1997 the Court dismissed the individual defendants from the case. In December
1998, Corning filed a motion for summary judgment requesting that all claims
against it be dismissed. Plaintiffs requested the opportunity to take
depositions before responding to the motion for summary judgment. The Court
permitted limited additional discovery of certain Dow Corning, Corning and Dow
Chemical officers and directors. These depositions were completed in the second
quarter of 1999. On September 23, 1999, the Court granted in part the request by
plaintiffs for certain additional documentary discovery. The discovery process
is continuing and the Court has set no schedule to address the pending summary
judgment motion. Corning intends to continue to defend this action vigorously.
Based upon the information developed to date and recognizing that the outcome of
litigation is uncertain, management believes that the possibility of a
materially adverse verdict is remote.

SHIN ETSU QUARTZ PRODUCTS COMPANY: In July 1999, Shin Etsu Quartz Products
Company filed a patent suit in Japan against Corning for alleged infringement of
one or more patents relating to the properties of fused silica materials used in
the optical components of stepper machines. The suit requests damages and an
injunction preventing sales of infringing products in Japan. Corning has denied
infringement and claimed prior user rights to continue the sale of its fused
silica. Corning intends to defend this suit vigorously. While recognizing that
litigation is inherently uncertain, based upon the information developed to
date, management believes that Corning has strong defenses to Shin Etsu's claims
and believes that the likelihood of a materially adverse outcome is remote. In
February 2000, Shin Etsu filed a second suit against Corning in Japan alleging
that Corning's fused silica sold in Japan for use in the optical components of
stepper machines infringed another Shin Etsu patent. Corning is currently
reviewing this complaint.

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS: GOVERNMENT INVESTIGATIONS AND RELATED CLAIMS. On December 31,
1996, Corning completed the spin-off of its health care services businesses by
the distribution to its shareholders of the Common Stock of Quest Diagnostics
Incorporated ("Quest Diagnostics") and Covance Inc. ("Covance"). In connection
with these distributions, Quest Diagnostics assumed financial responsibility for
the liabilities related to the contract research business. Corning agreed to
indemnify Quest Diagnostics against all monetary penalties, fines or settlements
for any governmental claims arising out of alleged violations of applicable
federal fraud and health care statutes and relating to billing practices of
Quest Diagnostics and its predecessors that were pending at December 31, 1996.
Corning also agreed to indemnify Quest Diagnostics for 50% of the aggregate of
all judgment or settlement payments made by Quest Diagnostics that are in excess
of $42.0 million in respect of claims by private parties (i.e., non-governmental
parties such as private insurers) that relate to indemnified or previously
settled governmental claims and that allege over billings by Quest Diagnostics,
or any existing subsidiaries of Quest Diagnostics, for services provided prior
to December 31, 1996; provided, however, such indemnification is not to exceed
$25.0 million in the aggregate and that all amounts indemnified against by
Corning for the benefit of Quest Diagnostics are to be calculated on a net
after-tax basis. Such indemnification does not cover (i) any governmental claims
that arise after December 31, 1996 pursuant to service of subpoena or other
notice of such investigation after December 31, 1996, (ii) any non-governmental
claims unrelated to the indemnified governmental claims or investigations, (iii)
any non-governmental claims not settled prior to December 31, 2001, (iv) any
consequential or incidental damages relating to the billing claims, including
losses of revenues and profits as a consequence of exclusion for participation
in federal or state health care programs or (v) the fees and expenses of
litigation. Although management believes that established reserves for
indemnified claims are sufficient, it is possible that additional information
may become available to Quest Diagnostics' management which may cause the final
resolution of these matters to exceed established reserves by an amount which is
not readily estimable and which could be material to Corning's results of
operations and cash flow in the period in which such claims are settled. Corning
does not believe that these issues will have a material adverse impact on
Corning's overall financial condition.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.




                                     PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER
         MATTERS

This information is included in Quarterly Operating Results and Related Market
Data, Five Years in Review - Historical Comparison, and Investor Information,
appearing on pages 56 through 59.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

This information is included in Five Years in Review - Historical Comparison
appearing on pages 57 and 58.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

During 1999, Corning continued its strategy of research and development,
capacity expansion and new product development in key growth markets. In
addition, over the past two years Corning has entered into several major
transactions which specifically addressed Corning's strategic growth initiatives
within the Telecommunications Segment. These transactions included:

- -    A merger with Oak Industries, a pioneer in the development of active
     fiber-optic devices and producer of other key components used in the
     telecommunications industry
- -    The acquisition of Siemens AG's worldwide optical fiber, cable and
     equipment business, including its 50% ownership in Siecor Corporation and
     Siecor GmbH (Siemens transaction)
- -    The acquisition of the optical cable business from BICC, plc and the
     remaining 50% interest in Optical Waveguides Australia, Pty. Ltd. in the
     second quarter of 1999
- -    The acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in Optical Fibres in the
     fourth quarter of 1998

The addition of Oak Industries will enhance Corning's photonic product offering
and development activities and extend Corning's opto-electronic portfolio into
important new market segments. The merger was consummated on January 28, 2000
and accounted for as a pooling of interests. Corning will restate its financial
statements to present the combined results of the merged companies within an
amended Form 10-K filing.

The Siemens transaction will allow Corning to align its optical fiber and cable
business with additional optical cable, hardware and equipment sources to
strengthen its position and increase its potential within the telecommunications
market. The transaction was substantially completed in February 2000. The
purchase price of $1.4 billion included debt to be assumed by Corning and
contingent performance payments. This acquisition was recorded using the
purchase method of accounting. Corning's results of operations do not include
the impact of this transaction.

These acquisitions provide Corning with additional resources to capitalize on
new product and business opportunities in the worldwide telecommunications
marketplace.

Continuing this strategy into 2000, Corning announced the following in February:

- -    A signed definitive agreement to acquire NetOptix Corporation, a
     manufacturer of thin film filters used in dense wavelength division
     multiplexing (DWDM) components
- -    The formation of Samsung Corning Micro-Optics, a new equity company that
     will package thin film filters into DWDM components
- -    The acquisition of British Telecommunication's Photonics Technology
     Research Center (PTRC), one of the world's pre-eminent photonic research
     facilities

The acquisition of NetOptix Corporation will allow Corning to increase its thin
film filter capacity and strengthen its position as a supplier of optical
networking devices. The acquisition, which was valued at approximately $2.0
billion at the date of the agreement, is expected to be accounted for as a
purchase transaction. The transaction is expected to be completed during the
second quarter of 2000 after customary regulatory approvals and the approval of
NetOptix shareholders. Corning's results do not reflect the impact of this
transaction. Concurrently, Corning announced the formation of Samsung Corning
Micro-Optics, which will automate the packaging of thin film filters into DWDM
components.




The acquisition of PTRC is expected to expedite Corning's commercialization of
new opto-electronic products in the near future and strengthen research on the
next generation of photonic components and network devices. A portion of the
purchase price relates to in-process research and development, which will be
expensed in the first quarter of 2000 resulting in an after tax charge of
approximately $20 million to $30 million. The transaction will be accounted for
as a purchase transaction.

Overall, Corning reported strong results in 1999 as each of its three segments
experienced sales and earnings growth over 1998, a year in which results were
adversely impacted by the effects of the Asian economic slowdown, particularly
within the Telecommunications Segment. Sales growth in 1999 was most pronounced
in the Telecommunications Segment, where the impact of acquisitions and demand
for Corning's new premium fiber and cable products drove the results to
double-digit growth.

Looking forward, Corning is committed to the continued investment in developing
new products and capacity expansion and is optimistic that the sales and
earnings growth will continue in 2000.

RESULTS OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS

Consolidated sales in 1999 were $4.3 billion, a 23% increase over 1998. Strong
demand for Corning's new premium fiber and cable products and the impact of
acquisitions contributed to the overall sales growth. Excluding the impact of
acquisitions, Corning's consolidated sales in 1999 totaled $4.1 billion, an
increase of 17% over 1998. In 1998, consolidated sales totaled $3.5 billion and
were impacted by significant pricing pressures in many key businesses. These
pricing pressures were exacerbated by the volatility in the Asian marketplace
throughout the year.

Corning's income from continuing operations totaled $476.9 million in 1999, an
increase of 46% over income from the same operations in 1998. Income from
continuing operations decreased 20% from $408.9 million in 1997 to $327.5
million in 1998. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased
39% to $1.93 per share in 1999. In 1998, diluted earnings per share from
continuing operations decreased 19% from $1.72 per share in 1997 to $1.39 per
share.

Corning's 1999 and 1998 results were impacted by several significant
non-recurring items:

- -    a release of restructuring reserves of $14.1 million ($8.6 million after
     tax), or $0.03 per share, in the fourth quarter of 1999
- -    an impairment charge of $15.5 million ($10.0 million after tax), or $0.04
     per share, in the third quarter of 1999
- -    a non-operating gain of $30.0 million ($9.5 million after tax and minority
     interest), or $0.04 per share, in the third quarter of 1999
- -    a non-operating gain of $19.2 million ($9.7 million after tax), or $0.04
     per share, in the fourth quarter of 1998
- -    a restructuring charge of $84.6 million ($49.2 million after tax), or $0.21
     per share, in the second quarter of 1998
- -    a non-operating gain of $20.5 million ($13.2 million after tax), or $0.06
     per share, in the second quarter of 1998

Corning believes comparing its operating results excluding non-recurring items,
a measure that is not in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP) and may not be consistent with measures used by other
companies, provides a better understanding of the changes in its operating
results. Excluding these non-recurring items, income from continuing operations
was $468.8 million in 1999, an increase of 33% compared to 1998 income of $353.8
million, which declined 13% compared with 1997. Diluted earnings per share from
continuing operations, excluding these non-recurring items was $1.90 in 1999, an
increase of 27% in 1999 compared to 1998 diluted earnings per share of $1.50,
which declined 13% in 1998 compared to 1997. The 1999 results reflect growth in
all three of Corning's segments. The decline in 1998 results compared to 1997
primarily reflects a significant decline in the performance of the
Telecommunications Segment, a modest decline in the results of the Advanced
Materials Segment, and improved operating performance of the Information Display
Segment.

OPERATING SEGMENTS

Corning groups its products into three operating segments: Telecommunications,
Advanced Materials and Information Display. Corning also includes the earnings
of equity affiliates that are closely associated with Corning's operating
segments in segment net income.





Corning prepared the financial results for its three operating segments on a
basis that is consistent with the manner in which Corning management internally
disaggregates financial information to assist in making internal operating
decisions. Corning has allocated some common expenses among segments differently
than it would for stand alone financial information prepared in accordance with
GAAP. The non-recurring items noted above are excluded from segment net income,
but are described more fully on page 13.



The Telecommunications Segment produces optical fiber and cable, optical
hardware and equipment and photonic modules and components for the worldwide
telecommunications industry.

1999 VS. 1998

Sales in the Telecommunications Segment increased 40% over 1998 to $2.5 billion.
The sales growth in the segment was led primarily by volume gains in the optical
fiber and cable and photonic technologies businesses. Segment net income rose
24% in 1999 compared to 1998. The percentage increase in net income is lower
than that of sales because of planned higher research and development spending
and an increased volume of lower margin products.

Sales in the optical fiber and cable business in 1999 increased 45% over 1998 to
approximately $1.7 billion. The increase in sales resulted primarily from the
impact of acquisitions and volume gains. Approximately $220 million of the
increase in optical fiber and cable sales resulted from the following
acquisitions:

- -    the acquisition of the optical cable business from BICC, plc and the
     remaining 50% interest in Optical Waveguides Australia, Pty. Ltd. in the
     second quarter of 1999
- -    the acquisition of Optical Fibres in December 1998

Excluding the impact of these acquisitions, sales in the optical fiber and cable
business increased approximately 26% for the year due to volume gains of
approximately 40%, reflecting continued strong demand for Corning's premium
fiber products. Volume growth continues to be driven by regional, local and
long-haul telephone companies and cable television operators, including large
European carriers. These operators and carriers are installing optical fiber and
adding new services to increase network capacity, as well as reducing operating
costs. Volume of premium fiber and cable products, including Corning's new
LEAF(R) optical fiber, tripled over the same period in 1998. Price declines
ranged between 10% and 20% for Corning's optical fiber and cable products in
comparison with last year. However, the weighted average optical fiber and cable
price in 1999 declined approximately 5% compared to 1998, due to the higher mix
of premium product sales. The rate of price declines slowed during the second
half of 1999 commensurate with the worldwide tightening of supply of optical
fiber.

As a result of continued strong worldwide demand for optical fiber and cable,
Corning continues to produce at maximum manufacturing capacity. To meet this
growing demand, the new optical fiber production facility in Concord, North
Carolina was opened in July 1999. This facility is expected to reach full
capacity during the fourth quarter of 2000. In addition, on February 3, 2000,
Corning announced an approximate $750 million expansion of its Concord and
Wilmington, North Carolina fiber production facilities which are expected to
come on-line between 2001 and 2002.




Net income from the optical fiber and cable business increased more than 30% in
1999 compared to 1998. The percentage increase in net income is lower than that
of sales because of an increased volume of lower margin products, start-up costs
incurred at the Concord, North Carolina facility and lower equity earnings.

The photonic technologies business, which manufactures photonic modules and
components primarily for the optical amplification market, realized strong
volume gains throughout 1999 led by new product sales. Sales in this business
increased 70% in 1999 to approximately $410 million compared to 1998 sales of
approximately $240 million. The operating performance in this business improved
substantially in 1999 as a result of manufacturing efficiencies and cost
reductions. Due to continued investment in research and development, this
business continues to incur a loss, however, the overall results improved
approximately 25% in comparison to 1998.

Corning continues to invest significantly in the research and development of
future technologies, including spending on products within the optical switching
market. Corning invested approximately $30 million in 1999 on these products and
anticipates spending an additional $50 million in 2000.

Sales in the telecommunications hardware and equipment business increased 11% in
1999 to approximately $390 million. This increase resulted primarily from a
higher volume of existing products, offset in part by price declines and the
impact of the sale of Republic Wire and Cable (RWC) in the third quarter of
1999. Net income declined approximately 20% reflecting the impact of lower
margins due to price declines and the divestiture of RWC. Excluding the impact
of this divestiture, sales in this business increased 17% and net income
decreased 15%.

Sales to Corning's largest customer accounted for approximately 13% of the
Telecommunications Segment sales in 1999, including a significant portion of the
total sales in the photonic technologies business. Sales to this customer prior
to 1999 were not significant.

1998 VS. 1997

Sales in the Telecommunications Segment were flat in 1998 compared to 1997, as
significant declines in the optical fiber and cable business offset gains in the
photonic technologies and hardware and equipment businesses. Segment net income
decreased 31% in 1998, primarily due to a decline in the profitability of
optical fiber and cable, higher research and development spending and lower
equity earnings.

Sales in the optical fiber and cable business decreased 6% in 1998 to
approximately $1.2 billion. This decline was primarily due to price declines,
particularly in the international fiber cable markets, which offset strong
volume growth in the domestic fiber cable markets. The continued reduction in
optical fiber cable prices during 1998 was the result of overcapacity in the
worldwide optical fiber cable market, which was exacerbated during the year by
the economic events occurring throughout the Asian marketplace. Price declines
ranged between 10% and 40% for Corning's optical fiber and cable products in
1998 compared to 1997. However, the weighted-average optical fiber and cable
price declined approximately 25% compared to 1998, due to a higher mix of
international fiber cable sales where the rate of decline was higher. Volume
increased approximately 20% in 1998, primarily due to the introduction of
premium fiber and cable products, particularly in the second half of the year.

Net income in the optical fiber and cable business decreased 20% in 1998
compared to 1997, reflecting lower margins on optical fiber and cable sales and
decreased equity earnings in Corning's international optical fiber equity
companies.

Sales in the photonic technologies business increased more than 30% in 1998 to
approximately $240 million. This growth was led by a substantial increase in
volume of FiberGain(R) modules and the introduction of new products. The growth
in sales continued to be offset by costs related to expanding production
facilities and by substantial research and development spending, which caused
the business to incur a loss.

Sales in the telecommunications hardware and equipment business increased 3% in
1998 to approximately $355 million. The increase resulted primarily from a
higher volume of existing products, mostly offset by price declines. Net income
increased 8% reflecting the impact of cost reduction efforts.





OUTLOOK: Sales in the Telecommunications Segment are expected to increase
significantly in 2000, led by the following factors:

- -    the Siemens transaction
- -    the continued demand for Corning's LEAF optical fiber including additional
     volume of optical fiber from the Concord, North Carolina production
     facility as it reaches full capacity in 2000
- -    continued growth in demand for Corning's photonic technology devices

Segment net income is expected to continue its double-digit growth as sales
gains and cost reductions in optical fiber and cable and photonics products will
more than offset increased research and development spending and goodwill and
integration costs related to the Siemens transaction.



The Advanced Materials Segment manufactures specialized products with unique
applications utilizing glass, glass ceramic and polymer technologies. The
largest businesses in this segment are environmental products and science
products.

1999 VS. 1998

Sales in the Advanced Materials Segment increased 3% in comparison to 1998 to
approximately $1.1 billion, primarily due to growth in the environmental
products business, offset by lower sales in the optical products business.
Segment net income increased 20% in 1999 in comparison to last year. This
significant increase resulted from sales gains, as well as manufacturing
efficiencies, in the environmental products business. Increased equity
earnings also contributed to segment results.

Sales in the environmental products business, the largest business in the
segment, increased 12% over 1998 to approximately $400 million. The increase in
sales in this business resulted primarily from the introduction of Corning's new
thin-wall ceramic substrate product and strong sales in North America. Earnings
in this business increased over 30%, reflecting the strong sales gains and
manufacturing efficiencies. To meet anticipated demands for emission control
products, Corning started construction on a new $80 million wholly-owned
manufacturing facility in China and announced plans to build a finishing
facility in South Africa. Both facilities are expected to be completed during
the second half of 2000.

Sales in the science products business in 1999 of approximately $265 million
were flat in comparison to 1998 sales reflecting the impact of divestitures in
1998 and 1999. Excluding the impact of divestitures, sales in this business
increased 9% in 1999 as a result of strong volume gains in the advanced life
science market. Earnings in this business decreased significantly in 1999,
primarily due to higher research and development spending on advanced life
science products.




Sales in Corning's other Advanced Materials businesses, including semiconductor
materials and optical products, decreased 2% from 1998 to approximately $390
million. Sales of high purity fused silica products in the semiconductor
materials business continued to be impacted by softness in the semiconductor
manufacturing equipment industry, particularly during the first half of the
year. During the latter part of 1999, Corning brought a portion of its
manufacturing facility near Charleston, South Carolina on-line as demand
increased. Sales in the optical products business in 1999 were impacted by the
continued erosion in the worldwide demand for glass optical products, due to the
consumer's increased preference for plastic lenses. Earnings from the other
Advanced Materials businesses remained flat in comparison to 1998, as these
sales declines were offset by increased equity earnings from Eurokera and
Keraglass, S.N.C., French-based manufacturers of glass ceramic cooktops.

In January 2000, Corning sold Quanterra Incorporated to Severn Trent
Laboratories for $35 million. Concurrent with management's decision to dispose
of this business, Corning recognized an impairment loss in the third quarter of
1999 of $15.5 million ($10.0 million after tax), or $0.04 per share. This
impairment charge is not included in the results of the Advanced Materials
Segment.

1998 VS. 1997

Sales in the Advanced Materials Segment in 1998 decreased slightly in comparison
to 1997, as volume gains in the science products business were offset by a
decline in volume in the semiconductor materials and optical products
businesses. Segment net income decreased 9% in 1998, primarily due to higher
research and development spending within the science products business and
expansion related costs in the semiconductor materials business.

Sales in the environmental products business in 1998 were approximately $355
million and comparable to 1997 sales. Strong volume growth in Europe and modest
growth in North America were offset by a substantial decline in demand within
the Asian market. Earnings in this business increased 36% in 1998, as
manufacturing efficiencies offset unfavorable exchange rates. In 1998, Corning
announced its plans to build a new $80 million wholly-owned manufacturing
facility in China to meet anticipated demand for emission-control products
throughout Asia.

Sales in the science products business increased 3% in 1998 to approximately
$270 million reflecting volume gains in plastic products driven mainly by
international growth and in products used in the advanced life science market.
Earnings in this business decreased 22% in 1998 compared to 1997, as volume
growth and manufacturing efficiencies were more than offset by higher research
and development spending on new products for advanced life science applications.

Sales in Corning's other Advanced Materials businesses declined 4% and
approximated $395 million, led by declines in the semiconductor materials and
optical products businesses. The semiconductor materials business was impacted
by the slowdown in the semiconductor manufacturing equipment industry, which
reduced demand and pricing for high purity fused silica products. As a result of
the decline in demand for these products, the start-up of Corning's new
manufacturing facility near Charleston, South Carolina was delayed until 1999.
Sales in the optical products business declined as the preference for lenses
continued to shift from glass to plastic. The demand for optical products was
also impacted by weakened economies within the Asian, European and Latin
American markets. Earnings in these businesses decreased approximately 50% in
comparison to 1997, primarily due to the softness in the high purity fused
silica and glass optical lenses markets. These volume declines were partially
offset by increased equity earnings from Eurokera and Keraglass, S.N.C., as the
demand for glass ceramic cooktops grew over 1997 levels.

OUTLOOK: Segment sales in 2000 are expected to increase in comparison to 1999,
as increased demand for high purity fused silica, advanced life science and
environmental products will offset the impact of the divestiture of Quanterra.
Segment net income is expected to increase in 2000 reflecting anticipated growth
in the semiconductor materials and environmental businesses, offset in part by
the start-up costs of the new catalytic converter production facilities and
higher research and development spending on advanced life science products.






The Information Display Segment manufactures glass panels and funnels for
televisions and CRTs (conventional video components), liquid crystal display
glass for flat panel display (advanced display products) and projection video
lens assemblies.

1999 VS. 1998

Sales in the Information Display Segment increased 9% in 1999 to approximately
$700 million in comparison to 1998, primarily due to growth in the advanced
display products business, partially offset by declines in the conventional
video components business. Segment net income almost doubled, reflecting strong
equity earnings and gains within the advanced display products business.

Sales in the conventional video components business declined 6% in 1999 to
approximately $355 million, primarily due to volume declines and price
reductions caused by a surplus of television glass. Earnings in this business
decreased approximately 5% as the impact of volume and price declines more than
offset higher equity earnings, cost reductions and the elimination of tank
repair costs incurred in the prior year. The increase in equity earnings
reflects strong volume and stable pricing at Samsung Corning, a manufacturer
based in South Korea that produces glass panels and funnels for television and
display monitors.

Sales in the advanced display products business in 1999 increased almost 60%
compared to 1998 to approximately $190 million. This significant increase was
the result of strong demand for the business' liquid crystal glass for flat
panel displays, led by increased penetration into the desktop display market.
Earnings in this business increased substantially in 1999, compared to 1998,
reflecting volume gains, stable pricing and manufacturing improvements, along
with significant equity earnings from Samsung Corning Precision, a Korean
manufacturer of liquid crystal display glass. The increase in earnings from
Samsung Corning Precision was primarily due to strong volume gains in the Korean
marketplace and favorable exchange rates.

As a result of continued strong demand for flat panel displays, Corning
continues to produce at maximum manufacturing capacity. To meet this growing
demand, Corning announced an expansion and construction project to double its
worldwide production capabilities. These plans include an expansion of Corning's
facility in Japan and Samsung Corning Precision's facility in Korea in 2000 and
the construction of a new finishing facility in Taiwan to be completed in 2001.

Sales in the projection video components business increased 8% in 1999 to
approximately $155 million as a result of strong volume growth for projection
televisions driven by demand for larger size televisions in the entertainment
market sector. Earnings in this business increased approximately 25% in 1999
compared to 1998, primarily due to volume gains and manufacturing efficiencies.

1998 VS. 1997

Sales in the Information Display Segment decreased 3% in 1998, primarily due to
lower prices in the conventional video components and advanced display products
businesses, partially offset by volume gains in the projection video business.
Segment net income increased substantially in 1998 as a result of increased
equity earnings, improved performance within the projection video components
business and reduced research and development spending.




Sales in the conventional video components business in 1998 totaled
approximately $380 million, a decrease of 5% in comparison to 1997, reflecting
price reductions caused by a worldwide surplus of television glass. Earnings in
this business increased 18% in 1998, primarily due to increased equity earnings
from Samsung Corning, which offset the costs incurred from a scheduled glass
furnace repair at the consolidated video components business. This increase in
equity earnings was driven by significant restructuring and cost control
measures implemented during the year.

Sales in the advanced display products business decreased 6% in 1998 to
approximately $120 million, as volume gains were offset by price declines and
unfavorable exchange rates. This business generated a modest net income in 1998,
a significant improvement to the loss in 1997. This trend is primarily due to
reduced research and development spending, manufacturing efficiencies and
increased equity earnings. Equity earnings growth reflects the results of
Samsung Corning Precision, which experienced strong volume growth in the Korean
market and favorable exchange rates.

Sales in the projection video components business increased 7% in 1998 to
approximately $145 million, primarily due to renewed growth of projection
televisions in the consumer market sector. Earnings in this business increased
significantly in 1998 reflecting volume gains and continued manufacturing
efficiencies.

OUTLOOK: Sales in the Information Display Segment are expected to increase in
2000, primarily reflecting higher demand for Corning's liquid crystal display
glass. Segment net income is expected to increase significantly in 2000,
primarily due to volume gains and strong equity earnings within the advanced
display products business.

NON-SEGMENT RESULTS

Corning's non-segment results include the operations of Steuben, a crystal
manufacturer, and equity earnings from Pittsburgh Corning Corporation,
Pittsburgh Corning Europe N.V. and other small strategic investments that are
not aligned with Corning's three operating segments. In addition, the results of
operating segments do not include non-operating gains and restructuring and
impairment charges.

NON-OPERATING GAINS

In 1999, Corning recorded a third quarter non-operating gain of $30.0 million
($9.5 million after tax and minority interest), or $0.04 per share, as a result
of the sale by Siecor Corporation of Republic Wire and Cable for approximately
$52 million in cash and short-term notes.

In 1998, Corning recorded a second quarter non-operating gain of $20.5 million
($13.2 million after tax), or $0.06 per share, as a result of the merger between
Molecular Simulations, Inc. and Pharmacopeia, Inc. The 1998 results also include
a fourth quarter non-operating gain of $19.2 million ($9.7 million after tax),
or $0.04 per share, related to the divestiture of several small science products
businesses.

RESTRUCTURING AND IMPAIRMENT CHARGES

In the third quarter of 1999, Corning recognized an impairment loss of $15.5
million ($10.0 million after tax), or $0.04 per share, in connection with
management's decision to sell Quanterra Incorporated.

In the second quarter of 1998, Corning recorded a restructuring charge of $84.6
million ($49.2 million after tax and minority interest), or $0.21 per share. The
charge was comprised of early retirement incentives offered to certain salaried
non-union employees 55 years old or older satisfying service criteria and
severance costs associated with workforce reductions of other non-union
employees. The restructuring charge related to approximately 650 employees, all
of whom were terminated as of June 30, 1999. Corning has paid $62.7 million of
restructuring and severance related costs since inception of the plan, $39.4
million of which was paid in 1999. The program required retirees to provide
certain information by September 30, 1999. As a result, Corning determined in
the fourth quarter that the total costs of the incentive package would be less
than anticipated. Consequently, Corning released restructuring reserves totaling
$14.1 million pretax ($8.6 million after tax), or $0.03 per share, in the fourth
quarter of 1999. The remaining reserve at December 31, 1999 of $7.8 million
primarily represents amounts related to lump sum payments to be paid in the
first quarter of 2000 in accordance with the original terms of the restructuring
plan, as well as amounts to be paid in satisfaction of remaining benefits
included in the package. Management estimates that the annualized cost savings
related to these programs is approximately $30 million per year after taxes.




TAXES

Corning's effective tax rate for continuing operations, excluding non-recurring
items, was 30.0% in 1999, 30.5% in 1998 and 33.3% in 1997. The lower 1999 rate
was due to a higher percentage of Corning's earnings resulting from consolidated
entities with lower effective tax rates. Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements reconciles the effective tax rate to the statutory tax
rate.

RESULTS OF DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

On April 1, 1998, Corning completed the recapitalization and sale of a
controlling interest in its consumer housewares business (the Consumer
transaction). Corning's Supplemental Consolidated Financial Statements report
the consumer housewares business as discontinued operations.

Results of discontinued operations in 1999, 1998 and 1997 pertain to the
consumer housewares business and include operating results through March 31,
1998. During the fourth quarter of 1999, certain indemnification agreements
related to this transaction expired. As a result, Corning recorded income from
discontinued operations in 1999 of $4.8 million after tax, or $0.02 per share,
from the release of reserves provided at the date of the transaction. Income
from discontinued operations in 1998 totaled $66.5 million, or $0.28 per share,
and included an after-tax gain from the transaction of $67.1 million, or $0.29
per share, recognized in the second quarter. Income from discontinued operations
in 1997 totaled $30.9 million, or $0.13 per share.

Results of discontinued operations include allocations of consolidated interest
expense totaling $2.7 million and $13.0 million in 1998 and 1997, respectively.
The allocations were based on the ratio of net assets of discontinued operations
to consolidated net assets.

On December 31, 1996, Corning distributed shares of Quest Diagnostics
Incorporated and Covance Inc., which collectively comprised Corning's Health
Care Services Segment, to its shareholders on a pro rata basis (the
Distributions). Corning has agreed to indemnify Quest Diagnostics on an after
tax basis for the settlement of certain government claims and against certain
other claims that were pending at December 31, 1996. Coincident with the
Distributions, Corning recorded a payable to Quest Diagnostics of approximately
$25 million, which was equal to management's best estimate of amounts which were
probable of being paid by Corning to Quest Diagnostics to satisfy the remaining
indemnified claims on an after tax basis.

Although management believes that established reserves for indemnified claims
are sufficient, it is possible that additional information may become available
to Quest Diagnostics' management, which may cause the final resolution of these
matters to exceed established reserves by an amount which could be material to
Corning's results of operations and cash flow in the period in which such claims
are settled. Corning does not believe that these issues will have a material
adverse impact on Corning's overall financial condition.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Corning's working capital increased from $235.6 million at the end of 1998 to
$294.5 million at the end of 1999. The ratio of current assets to current
liabilities was 1.2 at the end of 1999 and 1998. The increase in working capital
is due primarily to higher accounts receivable and inventory balances. Corning's
long-term debt as a percentage of total capital increased from 31% at year-end
1998 to 34% at the end of 1999. The increase is primarily due to the issuance of
$300 million in long-term debt securities in the first quarter of 1999. The
issuance of Corning common stock upon the conversion of the monthly income
preferred securities did not impact the percentage of long-term debt to total
capital.

In 1998, Corning used a portion of the proceeds from the sale of the consumer
housewares business to repay approximately $343 million of short-term
borrowings.

Corning believes it has sufficient financial flexibility and ready access to
funds to meet seasonal working capital requirements and fund long-term growth
opportunities. During 1999, Corning took the following actions to ensure its
financial flexibility:

- -    Called for the redemption of all Convertible Monthly Income Preferred
     Securities
- -    Filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) a $2 billion shelf
     registration statement
- -    Increased its bank credit line commitments by $400 million to a new total
     of $1.2 billion
- -    Issued $300 million of debt securities under a shelf registration statement
     previously filed with the SEC





Corning has identified the following financial needs that will impact its use of
funds during 2000:

- -    In February 2000, Corning completed the previously announced transaction to
     acquire Siemens AG's worldwide optical cable and hardware business and the
     remaining 50% of its investment in Siecor Corporation and Siecor GmbH for
     $1.4 billion. This purchase price includes approximately $120 million of
     assumed debt and contingent consideration of $145 million.
- -    Corning anticipates 2000 capital expenditures to approximate $1.2 billion
     as a result of major capacity additions in the optical fiber and the
     advanced display products businesses.

To address these needs, Corning undertook the following actions during the first
quarter of 2000:

- -    On January 31, 2000 Corning completed an equity offering of 14,950,000
     shares of common stock which generated net proceeds of approximately $2.2
     billion.
- -    In February 2000, Corning completed an offering of Euro-denominated
     securities which generated net proceeds of approximately $485 million.

In addition to funding the Siemens acquisition, proceeds from the first quarter
2000 financing transactions will be used to repay debt assumed in the merger
with Oak and all of Corning's outstanding commercial paper.

CASH FLOWS

Cash and short-term investments at the end of 1999 increased from 1998 by $208.0
million. This increase is the result of operating and financing activities which
provided cash of $788.2 million and $344.5 million, respectively, offset
partially by investing activities which used $908.8 million of cash. The 1999
year end cash balance includes a substantial cash reserve to ensure adequate
liquidity in January 2000. Cash and short-term investments at year end 1998
decreased from 1997 by $51.6 million. This decrease is the result of investing
and financing activities, which used a total of $522.3 million in cash, as well
as $172.0 million in cash used in discontinued operations, offsetting cash
provided by operating activities of $637.6 million.

Net cash provided by operating activities increased in 1999 from 1998 primarily
due to the increase in net income from continuing operations before depreciation
and amortization. Cash flows from operating activities decreased in 1998
compared to 1997 as lower cash from operations and equity affiliates offset less
cash used by working capital.

Net cash used by investing activities totaled $908.8 million in 1999, compared
to cash used of $125.7 million and $713.4 million in 1998 and 1997,
respectively. The 1998 amount includes the receipt of proceeds from the
divestiture of the consumer housewares business.

Corning has invested significant cash in capital expansions in the last three
years. Capital spending totaled to $733.4 million, $713.6 million and $745.6
million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The high level of capital spending
since 1997 relates primarily to capacity expansions in Corning's growth
businesses and expanded research and development facilities.

Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $344.5 million in 1999, due
primarily to the issuance of long-term debt securities. In 1998, Corning used
cash in financing activities of $396.6 million, reflecting repayments of
long-term debt with a portion of the proceeds from the divestiture of the
consumer housewares business.

Corning repurchased $66.0 million, $59.7 million and $50.1 million of its common
stock in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

Dividends paid to common shareholders in 1999 totaled $175.7 million compared
with $166.8 million in 1998 and $166.2 million in 1997.

Cash used in discontinued operations totaled $12.5 million and $172.0 million in
1999 and 1998, respectively. Discontinued operations provided cash of $22.0
million in 1997. The high level of cash used in discontinued operations in 1998
is primarily a result of transaction costs and tax payments related to the
Consumer transaction.




DOW CORNING CORPORATION

Corning is a 50% owner of Dow Corning Corporation (Dow Corning), a manufacturer
of silicones. The other 50% of Dow Corning is owned by The Dow Chemical Company
(Dow Chemical).

On May 15, 1995, Dow Corning voluntarily filed for protection under Chapter 11
of the United States Bankruptcy Code as a result of several negative
developments related to the breast implant litigation. At that time, Corning
management believed it was impossible to predict if and when Dow Corning would
successfully emerge from Chapter 11 proceedings. As a result, Corning recorded
an after-tax charge of $365.5 million, or $1.62 per share, to fully reserve its
investment in Dow Corning and discontinued recognition of equity earnings from
Dow Corning in 1995. Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
include additional financial information related to this investment.

On November 30, 1999, the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern
District of Michigan entered an order confirming the plan of reorganization (the
Joint Plan) filed jointly by Dow Corning and the Committee of Tort Claimants
(the Proponents). Despite the broad terms of its confirmation order, the
Bankruptcy Court issued an opinion on December 21, 1999 which limited the
third-party releases provided in the Joint Plan in favor of the shareholders
(Corning and Dow Chemical) and certain other parties. The Court ruled that these
releases would apply to all claimants who voted in favor of the Joint Plan and
not to those who voted no or abstained. All other aspects of the December 21,
1999 opinion were favorable to the Proponents. Opponents of the Joint Plan have
filed appeals on a variety of grounds to the United States District Court for
the Eastern District of Michigan. Dow Corning and the Committee of Tort
Claimants have filed a notice of appeal (as well as motions to vacate and for
related relief) seeking review of the ruling limiting the scope of the
shareholder releases. Corning and Dow Chemical filed separate notices of appeal
on this issue and each joined in the motions by the Proponents of the Joint
Plan. These appeals and motions are set for argument before the District Court
on April 12, 2000. The Proponents contend that the Bankruptcy Court misconstrued
the release provisions in the Joint Plan and that the Plan cannot be confirmed
without the shareholder releases. The timing and eventual outcome of these
proceedings, including any subsequent appeals, remain uncertain.

ENVIRONMENT

Corning has been named by the Environmental Protection Agency under the
Superfund Act, or by state governments under similar state laws, as a
potentially responsible party for 10 active hazardous waste sites. Under the
Superfund Act, all parties who may have contributed any waste to a hazardous
waste site, identified by such Agency, are jointly and severally liable for the
cost of cleanup unless the Agency agrees otherwise. It is Corning's policy to
accrue for its estimated liability related to Superfund sites and other
environmental liabilities related to property owned and operated by Corning
based on expert analysis and continual monitoring by both internal and external
consultants. Corning has accrued approximately $20 million for its estimated
liability for environmental cleanup and related litigation at December 31, 1999.
Based upon the information developed to date, management believes that the
accrued reserve is a reasonable estimate of Corning's estimated liability and
that the risk of an additional loss in an amount materially higher than that
accrued is remote.

EFFECTS OF INFLATION

Amounts reflected in the financial statements do not provide for the effect of
inflation on operations or financial position. The expenses and asset values,
specifically those related to long-lived assets, reflect historical cost and do
not necessarily represent replacement cost or charges to operations based on
replacement cost. Corning's operations provide funds from operations which,
along with other sources, are sufficient to replace fixed assets as necessary.
Net income would be lower than reported if the effects of inflation were
reflected by charging operations for replacement costs.

YEAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE

As of the date of this report, all of Corning's mission-critical systems have
been successfully tested for Year 2000 compliance and all of our manufacturing
locations are fully operational. Corning completed an assessment and developed
an implementation plan to mitigate risks associated with the Year 2000. The
assessment and implementation plans addressed both internal systems and external
dependencies. Each business unit developed and implemented its own plan of
action and Corning managed and monitored its Year 2000 readiness on an
enterprise-wide basis. In addition, an external study team assisted Corning in
evaluating systems remediation and contingency planning for the Year 2000
project. Progress was monitored and reported to management and to the Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors on a regular basis.




Corning used a four-phase process to address its internal systems:

- -    Phase 1: Problem Definition
         Included inventorying of software, hardware and interfaces

- -    Phase 2: Assessment
         Included identification of what may fail, the impact on operations and
         a determination of a resolution strategy

- -    Phase 3: Planning and Preparation
         Included developing specific plans for implementing the required
         modifications or replacements

- -    Phase 4: Implementation
         Included implementing and testing the planned solutions

Corning completed the Problem Definition and Assessment Phases by December 31,
1998. These phases involved all known areas of concern including business,
manufacturing, process controls, engineering, research, and facilities systems,
third party suppliers and service providers. Corning completed the Planning and
Preparation Phase for all key systems. Corning substantially completed the
Implementation Phase for key systems by December 31, 1998, and completed the
remainder by October 31, 1999.

During the Problem and Definition Phase, Corning identified 334 key systems
which were considered critical to the overall operational success of the
Company. These systems are integral to many functional areas and processes,
including manufacturing, process controls, financial, order entry and
purchasing.

In 1995, Corning initiated a significant project to upgrade and improve access
to business information using integrated enterprise-wide corporate applications
that were Year 2000 compliant. This initiative had mitigated to some extent the
amount of Year 2000 costs incurred. Corning's total cost for Year 2000
compliance was approximately $25 million. This amount included incremental costs
of approximately $13 million comprised primarily of contractor costs to modify
existing systems. Year 2000 related costs in 2000, if any, are not expected to
be material.

In addition to evaluating the readiness of internal systems, Corning's Year 2000
program included a review of its key business processes, internal systems and
external dependencies to determine the need for contingency plans. This included
a review of Year 2000 preparedness in geographic regions where Corning operates
or has other key dependencies. Where there was sufficient risk, contingency
plans were developed accordingly.

Although Corning had little control over the Year 2000 readiness of its
customers, suppliers and other third party providers, it took appropriate action
to determine their level of Year 2000 readiness and the potential impact on
Corning. Corning's significant external parties were identified during the
business contingency planning process, a process in which each business unit
assessed the impact these third parties would have on their operations and the
impact they would have on the Company as a whole. Corning communicated with its
approximately 750 identified significant customers, suppliers and other third
parties to determine the extent to which it was vulnerable to third parties'
failures to remediate their own potential Year 2000 problems. These
communications included written correspondences, telephone interviews,
face-to-face discussions and independent tests. Approximately 85% of these third
parties had responded with an assessment of their Year 2000 compliance efforts.

Corning's contingency plans to protect its business from Year 2000 related
interruptions included the following:

- -    enhancing existing contingency procedures to encompass Year 2000 specific
     risks
- -    stocking additional inventory
- -    identifying alternative suppliers
- -    developing manual contingency procedures for key automated processes
- -    increasing year end cash reserves




MARKET RISK DISCLOSURES

Corning operates and conducts business in many foreign countries and as a result
is exposed to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Corning's exposure
to exchange rate effects includes:

- -    Exchange rate movements on financial instruments and transactions
     denominated in foreign currencies which impact earnings.

- -    Exchange rate movements upon conversion of net assets in foreign
     subsidiaries for which the functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar which
     impact Corning's net equity.

Corning's most significant foreign currency exposures relate to Japan, Korea,
and Western European countries. Corning selectively enters into foreign exchange
forward contracts with durations generally less than 12 months to hedge its
exposure to exchange rate risk on foreign source income and purchases. The
hedges are scheduled to mature coincident with the timing of the underlying
foreign currency commitments and transactions. The objective of these contracts
is to neutralize the impact of exchange rate movements on Corning's operating
results. Corning does not hold or issue any derivative contracts that hedge its
foreign currency denominated net asset exposures. In addition, one of Corning's
subsidiaries enters into revenue sales contracts for certain of its revenues
generated in foreign currencies. Such contracts are not subject to foreign
currency gains or losses. Corning does not hold or issue derivative financial
instruments for trading purposes.

Equity in earnings of associated companies represented 24% of Corning's income
from continuing operations in 1999. Foreign-based affiliates comprised 96% of
this amount. Exchange rate fluctuations and actions taken by management of these
entities to reduce this risk can affect the earnings of these companies.

Corning uses a sensitivity analysis to assess the market risk associated with
its foreign currency exchange risk. Market risk is defined as the potential
change in fair value of assets and liabilities resulting from an adverse
movement in foreign currency exchange rates. At December 31, 1999, Corning and
its consolidated subsidiaries had open forward contracts, foreign denominated
debt and foreign cash and cash equivalent holdings with values exposed to
exchange rate movements, all of which were designated as hedges at December 31,
1999. A 10% adverse movement in quoted foreign currency exchange rates could
result in a loss in fair value of these instruments of $11.9 million. This
amount excludes the effect of a change in exchange rates on the revenue sales
contracts as such changes will be offset by a corresponding effect on the
underlying revenues.

The nature of Corning's foreign exchange rate risk exposures have not changed
materially from December 31, 1998. Corning's acquisition activity in 1999 has
expanded its presence in international markets and thus increased its exposures
overall.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENT

In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No. 133,
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" (FAS 133), which
establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments and
hedging activities. FAS 133 requires an entity to recognize all derivatives as
either assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position and measure
those instruments at fair value. Corning currently enters into derivatives in
the form of foreign currency hedge instruments to reduce its exposure to
exchange rate risk on foreign source income and purchases. Management believes
that its current foreign currency hedge instruments qualify as hedges under FAS
133. FAS 133 is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000, and is
not expected to have a material effect on Corning's financial position or
results of operations.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

See Item 14 (a) 1.

ITEM 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES

None.




                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

A list of Directors of the Company, appearing under the captions "Nominees for
Election" and "Directors Continuing in Office" in the Proxy Statement relating
to the annual meeting of shareholders to be held on April 27, 2000, is
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Roger G. Ackerman (61)   CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Mr. Ackerman joined Corning in 1962. In 1972 he was appointed president of
Corhart Refractories Co. He was elected senior vice president and general
manager of Corning Ceramics in 1975, a senior vice president in 1980, director
of the Manufacturing and Engineering Division in 1981, and president and chief
executive officer of MetPath Inc. (now Quest Diagnostics Incorporated) in 1983.
In 1985, he was elected group president and a director. In 1990 Mr. Ackerman was
elected president and in 1996 was elected to his present position.

Norman E. Garrity (58)   VICE CHAIRMAN
Mr. Garrity joined Corning in 1966 and subsequently served in a variety of
manufacturing and engineering management positions. In 1979 he was appointed
sales and marketing manager for Corning Electronics. In 1984 he was appointed
general manager of the Electrical Products Division and subsequently appointed
vice president. He was elected senior vice president in 1987 and executive vice
president in 1990, responsible for the Specialty Materials Group and the
manufacturing and engineering function. In 1996 he was elected President,
Corning Technologies. He was elected to his present position in 1999.

John W. Loose (57)   PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER
Mr. Loose joined Corning in 1964 and subsequently held a variety of sales and
marketing positions in the Consumer Products Division. In 1986 he was appointed
vice president and general manager for the Asia-Pacific area. In 1988 he was
appointed vice president for Corning International Corporation and president and
chief executive officer of Corning Asahi Video Products Company and subsequently
senior vice president, International. In April 1990 he was elected executive
vice president responsible for the Information Display Group. In 1993, Mr. Loose
became responsible for the consumer business and was elected president and chief
executive officer of Corning Consumer Products Company. In 1996 he was elected
President, Corning Communications. He was elected to his present position in
1999.

Katherine A. Asbeck (43)   VICE PRESIDENT AND CONTROLLER
Ms. Asbeck joined Corning in 1991 as director of accounting. She was appointed
assistant controller in 1993, designated chief accounting officer in 1994 and
elected vice president and controller effective as of May 16, 1997. Prior to
joining Corning, Ms. Asbeck was a senior audit manager of PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP.

Peter Booth (60)   SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, STRATEGY & DEVELOPMENT
Mr. Booth joined Corning in 1974 as international counsel and was elected a vice
president of Corning International Corporation in 1975. He became corporate
counsel in 1980. In 1983 he was appointed director of Corporate Plans and
elected vice president and secretary. He became executive vice president of
Corning Japan K.K. in 1986. In 1991, Mr. Booth was named senior vice president
responsible for Strategy and Development.

Charles W. Deneka (55)   EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER
Mr. Deneka joined Corning in 1972 and subsequently held manufacturing,
engineering and development positions in several divisions. In 1990, he was
named vice president and director of Development responsible for new product
development activities. In January 1995, he was appointed senior vice president
and chief technical officer. He was elected to his present position in 1999.

Robert L. Ecklin (61)   EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, ENVIRONMENTAL AND CORPORATE
MARKETING
Mr. Ecklin joined Corning in 1961 and served in a variety of U.S. and
international manufacturing and engineering managerial positions. For Corning
Engineering he served as its vice president in 1982 and was appointed its
president in 1983. In 1986 he became vice president of Business Development. Mr.
Ecklin was appointed general manager of the Industrial Products Division in 1989
and senior vice president in 1990. Effective January 1, 1999, he was appointed
executive vice president of the Environmental Products Division.




William D. Eggers (55)   SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND GENERAL COUNSEL
Mr. Eggers joined Corning in 1997 as vice president and deputy general counsel.
He was elected senior vice president and general counsel in February of 1998.
Mr. Eggers was a Partner with the Rochester firm of Nixon, Hargrave, Devans &
Doyle, LLP, before joining Corning, and was outside litigation counsel for
Corning in a number of commercial matters.

James B. Flaws (51)   EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
Mr. Flaws joined Corning in 1973 and has held a variety of positions within
Corning's Consumer Products group and in 1991 was appointed vice president and
chief financial officer. Mr. Flaws was elected assistant treasurer of Corning
Incorporated in 1993, vice president and controller effective as of February 1,
1997 and vice president-finance and treasurer effective as of May 16, 1997. He
was elected senior vice president and chief financial officer in December, 1997.
He was elected to his present position in 1999.

Edward W. Rich (49)   VICE PRESIDENT AND TREASURER
Mr. Rich joined Corning in 1999 as vice president and treasurer. Prior to
joining Corning, Mr. Rich was vice president, finance and treasurer of Lyondell
Chemical Company.

Kirk P. Gregg (40)   SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, ADMINISTRATION
Mr. Gregg joined Corning in 1993 as director of Executive Compensation, was
named vice president of Executive Resources and Employee Benefits in December
1994. He was named to his current position in December 1997. Prior to joining
Corning, Mr. Gregg was with General Dynamics Corporation as corporate director,
Key Management Programs, and was responsible for executive compensation and
benefits, executive development and recruiting.

A. John Peck, Jr. (60)   VICE PRESIDENT AND SECRETARY
Mr. Peck joined Corning in 1972. He has served as assistant counsel and as
associate counsel in the Legal Department. He was appointed assistant secretary
in 1981, elected secretary in 1988, and elected vice president in 1998.

Randall D. Price (52)   EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, ADVANCED MATERIALS
Mr. Price joined Corning in 1977 and subsequently held various sales, marketing
and development positions at several divisions. In 1995, he was appointed
division vice president for the Advanced Materials and Process Technology
Groups. In April 1996, he was named vice president and general manager of the
Advanced Materials Division. Effective January 1, 1999, he was appointed
executive vice president of the Advanced Materials Division.

Peter Volanakis (44)   EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, DISPLAY PRODUCTS AND SCIENCE
PRODUCTS
Mr. Volanakis joined Corning in 1982 and subsequently held various marketing,
development and commercial positions in several divisions. In 1991, he was
appointed director of corporate marketing. In 1995, he was named executive vice
president of Siecor Corporation. He was named senior vice president of Advanced
Display Products in October 1997. Effective January 1, 1999, he was appointed
executive vice president of the Advanced Display and Science Products Divisions.

Wendell P. Weeks (40)   EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, OPTO-ELECTRONICS
Mr. Weeks joined Corning in 1983 and has served in various accounting, business
development, and business manager positions. In 1992, he was named general
manager and director of external development, Opto-Electronics Components
Business, division vice president in July 1994, and deputy general manager in
June 1995. He was appointed vice president and general manager of the
Telecommunications Products Division in March 1996 and senior vice president
effective November 1, 1997. Effective January 1, 1999, he was appointed
executive vice president of Opto-Electronics.




ITEM 11.  MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION AND TRANSACTIONS

Information covering Management Remuneration and Transactions, appearing under
the captions "Report of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors on
Executive Compensation" and "Other Matters" in the Proxy Statement relating to
the annual meeting of shareholders to be held on April 27, 2000, is incorporated
by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Information with respect to Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners,
appearing under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners" in
the Proxy Statement relating to the annual meeting of shareholders to be held on
April 27, 2000, is incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

A description of transactions with management and others and certain business
relationships, appearing under the captions "Directors' Compensation and Other
Matters Relating to Directors" and "Other Matters" in the Proxy Statement
relating to the annual meeting of shareholders to be held on April 27, 2000, is
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.





                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(A)      DOCUMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT:

         1. Index to financial statements and financial statement schedules,
            filed as part of this report:



(B)      REPORTS ON FORM 8-K FILED DURING THE LAST QUARTER OF FISCAL 1999:

         A report on Form 8-K dated October 13, 1999, filed in connection with
         the registrant's third quarter results.

         A report on Form 8-K dated November 18, 1999, filed in connection with
         the registrant's proposed merger with Oak Industries Inc.

         A report on Form 8-K dated December 28, 1999, filed in connection with
         the registrant's pro forma financial information in connection with the
         proposed merger with Oak Industries Inc.

         A report on Form 8-K dated December 29, 1999, filed in connection with
         the registrant's agreement to acquire Siemens AG's worldwide optical
         cable and hardware business and the remaining 50% of its two
         co-investments with Siemens.

(C)      EXHIBITS FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT:

         #3 (i)   Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant:

                  Restated Certificate of Incorporation, dated April 24, 1997,
                  filed with the Secretary of State of the State of New York on
                  November 19, 1998, which appears as Exhibit 3(i) to the 1998
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K, is incorporated herein by
                  reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

         #3 (ii)  By-laws of the Registrant as amended to and effective as
                  of October 6, 1998, which appear as Exhibit 3(ii) to the
                  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
                  September 30, 1998 is incorporated herein by reference in this
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K.





(C)      EXHIBITS FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT (CONTINUED):

         #4       Rights Agreement dated June 5, 1996, that defines the
                  preferred share purchase rights which trade with the
                  Registrant's common stock, which appears as Exhibit 1 to Form
                  8-K, dated July 10, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference
                  in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

         #12      Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and
                  Preferred Dividends

         #21      Subsidiaries of the Registrant at December 31, 1999

         #23      Consent of Independent Accountants

         #24      Powers of Attorney

         #27      Financial Data Schedule






SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Corning Incorporated












REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP


To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Corning Incorporated

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index
appearing under item 14(a)(1) on page 22 present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Corning Incorporated and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their operations, cash flows and
changes in shareholders' equity for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1999, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement
schedule listed in the index appearing under item 14(a)(1) on page 22 presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. These financial
statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the
Company's management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards
generally accepted in the United States, which require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed
above.



PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1301 Avenue of the Americas
New York, New York  10019

January 24, 2000, except for Notes 2, 13, and 18,
which are as of February 14, 2000.







The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.







The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.







The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.







The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.





NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Corning Incorporated and Subsidiary Companies
(In millions, except share and per share amounts)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all entities
controlled by Corning. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions
are eliminated.

The equity method of accounting is used for investments in associated companies
which are not controlled by Corning and in which Corning's interest is generally
between 20% and 50%.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and to disclose contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results
could differ from those estimates.

FOREIGN CURRENCIES

Balance sheet accounts of foreign subsidiaries are translated at current
exchange rates and income statement accounts are translated at average exchange
rates for the year. Translation gains and losses are accumulated in a separate
component of common shareholders' equity. Foreign currency transaction gains and
losses affecting cash flows are included in current earnings.

Corning enters into foreign exchange contracts primarily as hedges against
identifiable foreign currency commitments. Gains and losses on contracts
identified as hedges are deferred and included in the measurement of the related
foreign currency transactions. Gains and losses on foreign currency contracts
which are not designated as hedges of foreign currency commitments are included
in current earnings.

In addition to the foreign exchange contracts described in the preceding
paragraph, Corning enters into revenue sales contracts for certain of its
revenues generated in foreign currencies. Such contracts, because of their
terms, are not subject to foreign currency gains and losses.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

Short-term investments, comprised of repurchase agreements and debt instruments
with original maturities of three months or less, are considered cash
equivalents.

MARKETABLE SECURITIES

Corning's marketable securities consist of equity securities classified as
available-for-sale which are stated at estimated fair value based primarily upon
market quotes. Unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, are computed on the
basis of specific identification and are reported as a separate component of
accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders' equity until realized. A
decline in the value of any marketable security below cost that is deemed other
than temporary is charged to earnings, resulting in a new cost basis for the
security.

INVENTORIES

Corning historically used the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for approximately
45% of its inventories, with the remaining inventories valued on a first-in,
first-out (FIFO) basis. In the second quarter of 1999, Corning changed its
method of determining the cost of its LIFO inventories to the FIFO method. As a
result of declining costs and prices for such inventories, Corning believes that
the use of the FIFO method results in a more current inventory valuation at
period end dates and minimizes the likelihood of lower-of-cost-or-market
valuation issues.





1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

PROPERTY AND DEPRECIATION

Land, buildings and equipment are recorded at cost. Depreciation is based on
estimated useful lives of properties using straight-line and accelerated
methods. The estimated useful lives range from 20-40 years for buildings and
3-20 years for the majority of Corning's equipment.

GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Investment costs in excess of the fair value of net assets acquired are
amortized over appropriate periods not exceeding 40 years. Other intangible
assets are recorded at cost and amortized over periods generally not exceeding
15 years. Corning reviews the recoverability of its long-lived assets, including
goodwill and other intangible assets, when events or changes in circumstances
occur that indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable.
The assessment of possible impairment is based on Corning's ability to recover
the asset from the expected future pre-tax cash flows (undiscounted and without
interest charges) of the related operations. If these cash flows are less than
the carrying value of such asset, an impairment loss is recognized for the
difference between estimated fair value and carrying value. The measurement of
impairment requires management to make estimates of these cash flows related to
long-lived assets. It is reasonably possible that future events or circumstances
could cause these estimates to change.

TAXES ON INCOME

Corning uses the asset and liability approach to account for income taxes. Under
this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected
future tax consequences of differences between the carrying amounts of assets
and liabilities and their respective tax bases using enacted tax rates in effect
for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect on
deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in
income in the period when the change is enacted.

2.   BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND DIVESTITURES

POOLING OF INTERESTS

On January 28, 2000, Corning merged with Oak Industries Inc. (Oak Industries) in
a pooling of interests transaction. Oak Industries' shareholders received 0.83
of a share of Corning stock for each share of Oak Industries stock they owned.
Corning issued approximately 14.8 million shares of Corning common stock. Merger
related expenses of approximately $45 million pre-tax will be recorded in the
first quarter of 2000. The unaudited pro forma impact of the merger on Corning's
historical results of operations is as follows:



Corning will subsequently restate its financial statements to present the
combined results of the merged companies within an amended Form 10-K filing.




PURCHASES

In February 2000, Corning acquired Siemens AG's worldwide optical cable and
hardware business and the remaining 50% of its investments in Siecor Corporation
and Siecor GmbH for $1.4 billion. The purchase price includes approximately $120
million in assumed debt and $145 million in contingent performance payments to
be paid, if earned, over a four-year period. The acquisition was recorded using
the purchase method of accounting. Corning funded the acquisition with proceeds
received from a common stock offering completed in January 2000.

In December 1999, Corning completed acquisitions with an aggregate purchase
price of $17.5 million in cash. The excess purchase price over the fair value of
net tangible assets acquired totaled $8.5 million and is being amortized over
periods of up to 10 years. These acquisitions are not significant to the
consolidated financial statements.

During the third quarter of 1999, Corning acquired the 21% interest in Corning
Japan K.K. it did not own for cash consideration of approximately $32 million.
The excess purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired,
accounted for as goodwill, was approximately $18 million and is being amortized
over 20 years. Corning Japan K.K. produces flat panel display glass within the
Information Display Segment, and will continue to be consolidated within
Corning's operating results.

On April 30, 1999, Corning acquired BICC, plc's telecommunications cable
business and the 50% equity interest in Optical Waveguides Australia, Pty. Ltd.
(OWA) it did not already own for cash consideration of approximately $135
million. The acquisition was recorded using the purchase method of accounting.
The excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible assets
acquired, accounted for as goodwill and other intangible assets, was
approximately $37 million and is being amortized over periods ranging from 5 to
25 years. During the third and fourth quarters, adjustments to purchase
accounting increased goodwill and primarily reduced property, plant and
equipment. OWA became a wholly owned subsidiary as a result of this transaction
and the results of its operations are included in the consolidated financial
statements from the date of the transaction. The acquisition in comparison to
Corning's consolidated results was not material.

 On December 1, 1998, Corning acquired the 50% interest in Optical Fibres
previously owned by BICC, plc. The consideration was comprised of approximately
$47 million in cash and the assumption of $27 million in debt. The acquisition
was recorded using the purchase method of accounting. During the fourth quarter
of 1999, adjustments to purchase accounting eliminated intangible assets and
increased property, plant and equipment. Optical Fibres became a wholly owned
subsidiary as a result of this transaction and the results of its operations are
included in the consolidated financial statements from the date of the
transaction. These results are not material to Corning's consolidated financial
statements.

In April 1997, Corning acquired 100% of the stock of Optical Corporation of
America (OCA) for a total purchase price of approximately $70 million. The
consideration was comprised of approximately 950,000 shares of Corning stock,
options and $32 million of cash. The acquisition was recorded using the purchase
method of accounting. The results of operations of OCA are included in the
consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. The excess cost
over the fair value of the net tangible assets acquired was approximately $52
million and is being amortized over periods of up to 20 years.

DIVESTITURES

In January 2000, Corning sold Quanterra Incorporated to Severn Trent
Laboratories for $35 million. Concurrent with management's decision to dispose
of this business, Corning recognized an impairment loss of $15.5 million pre-tax
($10.0 million after tax), or $0.04 per share, in the third quarter of 1999. The
impairment loss reduced Corning's investment in these assets to an amount equal
to management's current estimate of fair value. The results of operations of
this business are not material to Corning.

During the third quarter of 1999, Corning sold Republic Wire and Cable, a
manufacturer of elevator cables and a subsidiary of Siecor Corporation, for
approximately $52 million in cash and short-term notes. Corning recorded a
non-operating gain of $30 million ($9.5 million after tax and minority
interest), or $0.04 per share, as a result of this transaction.





2.   BUSINESS COMBINATION AND DIVESTITURES (CONTINUED)

In the fourth quarter of 1998, Corning recorded a non-operating gain of $19.2
million ($9.7 million after tax), or $0.04 per share, related to the divestiture
of several small businesses within the science products division.

In February 1997, Corning sold its Serengeti eyewear business to Solar-Mates,
Inc. for approximately $28 million. The gain recognized on this transaction was
not material.

OTHER

In June 1998, Molecular Simulations, Inc. (MSI) merged with Pharmacopeia, Inc.,
a publicly traded company. Corning previously owned 35% of MSI and owned
approximately 15% of the combined entity at the time of the merger. Corning
realized a non-operating gain of $20.5 million ($13.2 million after tax), or
$0.06 per share, from this transaction.

3.   INFORMATION BY OPERATING SEGMENT

Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which
separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the
chief operating decision maker, or decision making group, in deciding how to
allocate resources and in assessing performance. Corning's chief operating
decision making group is comprised of the Chief Executive Officer and the
officers who report to him directly.

Corning's reportable segments include Telecommunications, Advanced Materials and
Information Display. The Telecommunications Segment produces optical fiber and
cable, optical hardware and equipment and photonic modules and components for
the worldwide telecommunications industry. The Advanced Materials Segment
manufactures specialized products with unique properties for customer
applications utilizing glass, glass ceramic and polymer technologies. Businesses
within this segment include environmental products, science products,
semiconductor materials and optical and lighting products. The Information
Display Segment manufactures glass panels and funnels for televisions and CRTs,
and projection video lens assemblies and liquid crystal display glass for flat
panel displays.

Corning evaluates performance based on an after tax profit measure, which is
identified as segment net income. The accounting policies of the operating
segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant
accounting policies. The financial results for Corning's three operating
segments have been prepared on a basis which is consistent with the manner in
which Corning management internally disaggregates financial information for the
purposes of assisting in making internal operating decisions. In this regard,
certain common expenses have been allocated among segments less precisely than
would be required for stand alone financial information prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. Revenue attributed to geographic
areas is based on the location of the customer.






(1)  Includes an allocation of depreciation of corporate property, plant and
     equipment not specifically identifiable to a segment. Related depreciable
     assets are not allocated to segment assets.
(2)  Non-direct research, development and engineering expenses are allocated
     based upon direct project spending for each segment.
(3)  Interest income is allocated to segments based on a percentage of segment
     net operating assets.
(4)  Interest expense is allocated to segments based on a percentage of segment
     net operating assets. Consolidated subsidiaries with independent capital
     structures do not receive additional allocations of interest expense.
(5)  Many of Corning's administrative and staff functions are performed on a
     centralized basis. Where practicable, Corning charges these expenses to
     segments based upon the extent to which each business uses a centralized
     function. Other staff functions, such as corporate finance, human resources
     and legal are allocated to segments, primarily as a percentage of sales.
(6)  Includes inventory, accounts receivable, plant, property and equipment,
     investments in associated equity companies and goodwill specifically
     identifiable to segments.





3.   INFORMATION BY OPERATING SEGMENT (CONTINUED)

A reconciliation of the totals reported for the operating segments to the
applicable line items in the consolidated financial statements is as follows:




(1)  Includes amounts derived from corporate investments. Non-segment income
     also includes non-operating gains.
(2)  Includes royalty, interest and dividend income.
(3)  The 1999 amount is the net impact of a $15.5 million impairment charge
     related to the Advanced Materials Segment and the release of restructuring
     reserves totaling $14.1 million. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial
     statements for further discussion of the restructuring reserve. The portion
     of the 1998 restructuring charge related to Telecommunications, Advanced
     Materials and Information Display Segments was $8.3 million, $26.9 million,
     and $16.3 million, respectively. The remainder pertains to corporate
     functions.
(4)  Includes tax associated with the impairment and restructuring charges and
     non-operating gains.
(5)  Represents corporate property, plant and equipment not specifically
     identifiable to a segment.
(6)  Represents corporate investments in associated companies, both at cost and
     at equity.
(7)  Includes current corporate assets, primarily cash, short-term investments
     and deferred taxes.
(8)  Includes non-current corporate assets, primarily pension assets and
     deferred taxes.






(1)  Includes capital spending on shared research facilities of $134.5 million,
     $166.0 million and $82.4 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.





3.   INFORMATION BY OPERATING SEGMENT (CONTINUED)

Information concerning principal geographic areas is as follows:



(1)  Excludes net assets of discontinued operations of $357.6 million in 1997
     and deferred taxes of $38.1 million, $84.4 million and $113.3 million in
     1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

4.   INVESTMENTS

ASSOCIATED COMPANIES AT EQUITY, OTHER THAN DOW CORNING CORPORATION

Samsung Corning Company Ltd., a 50%-owned South Korea-based manufacturer of
glass panels and funnels for television and display monitors, represented $220.5
million and $174.4 million of Corning's investments accounted for by the equity
method at year end 1999 and 1998, respectively.




The financial position and results of operations of Samsung Corning and
Corning's other equity companies are summarized as follows:




(1)  Equity in earnings shown above and in the Consolidated Statements of Income
     are net of amounts recorded for income tax.

Dividends received from Samsung Corning and Corning's other equity companies
totaled $50.9 million, $63.3 million and $65.3 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively. At December 31, 1999, approximately $337.9 million of equity in
undistributed earnings of equity companies was included in Corning's retained
earnings.

DOW CORNING CORPORATION

Corning is a 50% owner of Dow Corning Corporation (Dow Corning), a manufacturer
of silicones. The other 50% of Dow Corning is owned by The Dow Chemical Company
(Dow Chemical).

On May 15, 1995, Dow Corning voluntarily filed for protection under Chapter 11
of the United States Bankruptcy Code as a result of several negative
developments related to the breast implant litigation. At that time, Corning
management believed it was impossible to predict if and when Dow Corning would
successfully emerge from Chapter 11 proceedings. As a result, Corning recorded
an after-tax charge of $365.5 million to fully reserve its investment in Dow
Corning and discontinued recognition of equity earnings from Dow Corning in
1995.

On November 30, 1999, the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern
District of Michigan entered an order confirming the plan of reorganization (the
Joint Plan) filed jointly by Dow Corning and the Committee of Tort Claimants
(the Proponents). Despite the broad terms of its confirmation order, the
Bankruptcy Court issued an opinion on December 21, 1999 which limited the
third-party releases provided in the Joint Plan in favor of the shareholders
(Corning and Dow Chemical) and certain other parties. The Court ruled that these
releases would apply to all claimants who voted in favor of the Joint Plan and
not to those who voted no or abstained. All other aspects of the December 21,
1999 opinion were favorable to the Proponents. Opponents of the Joint Plan have
filed appeals on a variety of grounds to the United States District Court for
the Eastern District of Michigan. Dow Corning and the Committee of Tort
Claimants have filed a notice of appeal (as well as motions to vacate and for
related relief) seeking review of the ruling limiting the scope of the
shareholder releases. Corning and Dow Chemical filed separate notices of appeal
on this issue and each joined in the motions by the Proponents of the Joint
Plan. These appeals and motions are set for argument before the District Court
on April 12, 2000. The Proponents contend that the Bankruptcy Court misconstrued
the release provisions in the Joint Plan and that the Plan cannot be confirmed
without the shareholder releases. The timing and eventual outcome of these
proceedings, including any subsequent appeals, remain uncertain.





4.   INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)

If and when Dow Corning emerges from bankruptcy, Corning will likely begin to
recognize equity earnings from Dow Corning. Corning does not expect to receive
dividends from Dow Corning in the foreseeable future. As part of the Joint Plan,
Corning and Dow Chemical have each agreed to provide a credit facility to Dow
Corning of up to $150 million ($300 million in the aggregate), subject to the
terms and conditions stated in the Joint Plan.

The financial position and results of operations of Dow Corning are summarized
in the table below (amounts in millions):



(1)  Dow Corning's financial statements for 1999, 1998 and 1997 have been
     prepared in conformity with the American Institute of Certified Public
     Accountants' Statement of Position 90-7, "Financial Reporting by Entities
     in Reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code," (SOP 90-7). SOP 90-7 requires
     a segregation of liabilities subject to compromise by the Bankruptcy Court
     as of the filing date (May 15, 1995) and identification of all transactions
     and events that are directly associated with the reorganization.

Dow Corning's 1998 results reflect the impact of a pre-tax charge of
approximately $1.3 billion ($800 million after tax), representing Dow Corning's
best estimate of the anticipated financial consequences to be incurred in
resolving all claims arising from the Chapter 11 proceedings and from the breast
implant controversy. This charge was taken because Dow Corning's management
concluded that implementation of the Joint Plan is probable.

Dow Corning's 1998 and 1997 results have also been impacted by the suspension of
interest payments and reorganization costs resulting from the Chapter 11
proceedings.

OTHER INVESTMENTS

Corning's other investments include equity securities, which are classified as
available-for-sale. At December 31, 1999, the fair value and cost of Corning's
equity securities was $82.4 million and $51.3 million, respectively. The
difference includes gross unrealized gains of $32.8 million and gross unrealized
losses of $1.7 million. At December 31, 1998, the fair value and cost of
Corning's equity securities was $53.1 million and $54.7 million, respectively.
The difference includes gross unrealized gains of $0.3 million and gross
unrealized losses of $1.9 million. The net change in the unrealized gain/(loss)
on marketable securities classified as available-for-sale included as a
component of accumulated other comprehensive income was $31.1 million and $(1.6)
million for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Proceeds from sales of marketable securities were $0.8 million and $5.0 million
in 1999 and 1998, respectively, and related net realized gains included in
income were $0.3 million in both 1999 and 1998.




5.   EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLANS

Corning has defined benefit pension plans covering certain domestic and
international employees. Corning's funding policy has been to contribute as
necessary an amount determined jointly by Corning and its consulting actuaries,
which provides for the current cost and amortization of prior service cost.
Corning and certain of its domestic subsidiaries also offer defined benefit
postretirement plans that provide health care and life insurance benefits for
retirees and eligible dependents. Certain employees may become eligible for such
postretirement benefits upon reaching retirement age. Corning's principal
retiree medical plans require retiree contributions each year equal to the
excess of medical cost increases over general inflation rates.

The change in benefit obligation and funded status of Corning's employee
retirement plans are as follows:



Defined benefit pension plan assets are comprised principally of publicly traded
debt and equity securities. Corning common stock represented 4.1% and 3.5% of
plan assets at year end 1999 and 1998, respectively. Corning has not funded its
postretirement obligations.





5.   EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLANS (CONTINUED)

The weighted-average assumptions for Corning's employee retirement plans are as
follows:



Corning's consolidated postretirement benefit obligation is
determined by application of the terms of health care and life insurance
plans, together with relevant actuarial assumptions and health care cost
trend rates. The health care cost trend rate for Corning's principal plan is
assumed to be 7.75% in 1999 for covered individuals under age 65 decreasing
gradually to 5.0% in 2010 and thereafter. For covered individuals over 65,
the rate is assumed to be 7.08% in 1999 decreasing gradually to 5.0% in 2010
and thereafter.

Assumed health care trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts
reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in 1999
assumed health care trend rates would have the following effects:


The components of net periodic benefit cost for Corning's employee
retirement plans are as follows:



(1)  Included in the gain on sale of the consumer housewares business, which is
     recorded in income from discontinued operations.
(2)  Included in the provision for restructuring.

Measurement of postretirement benefit expense is based on assumptions used to
value the postretirement liability at the beginning of the year. In addition to
defined benefit retirement plans, Corning offers defined contribution plans
covering employees meeting certain eligibility requirements. Total consolidated
defined contribution expense was $47.0 million in 1999, $37.0 million in 1998
and $30.6 million in 1997.




6.   TAXES ON INCOME







6.   TAXES ON INCOME (CONTINUED)

The tax effects of temporary differences and carry forwards that gave rise to
significant portions of the deferred tax assets and liabilities as of year end
are comprised of the following:



The net change in the total valuation allowance for the years ended December 31,
1999, and 1998, was an increase of $16.2 million and $11.8 million,
respectively.

Corning currently provides income taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries
and associated companies to the extent they are currently taxable or expected to
be remitted. Taxes have not been provided on $564.2 million of accumulated
foreign unremitted earnings which are expected to remain invested indefinitely.
It is not practicable to estimate the amount of additional tax that might be
payable on the foreign earnings; however, if these earnings were remitted,
income taxes payable would be provided at a rate which is significantly lower
than the effective tax rate.

Corning, as required, provided for tax on undistributed earnings of its domestic
subsidiaries and affiliated companies beginning in 1993 even though these
earnings have been and will continue to be reinvested indefinitely. Corning
estimates that $34.9 million of tax would be payable on pre-1993 undistributed
earnings of its domestic subsidiaries and affiliated companies should the
unremitted earnings reverse and become taxable to Corning. Corning expects these
earnings to be reinvested indefinitely.

Total payments for taxes on income were $172.8 million, $184.3 million and
$209.4 million during 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Deferred income tax
benefits totaling $103.0 million and $106.2 million were included in other
current assets at year end 1999 and 1998, respectively. At December 31, 1999,
Corning had tax benefits attributable to loss carryforwards and credits
aggregating $76.4 million that expire at various dates through 2014.




7.   SUPPLEMENTAL INCOME STATEMENT DATA



Consolidated interest expense allocated to discontinued operations totaled $2.7
million and $13.0 million in 1998 and 1997, respectively. The allocations were
based on the ratio of net assets of discontinued operations to consolidated net
assets.

8.   PROVISION FOR RESTRUCTURING

In the second quarter of 1998, Corning recorded a restructuring charge of $84.6
million ($49.2 million after tax and minority interest), or $0.21 per share. The
charge was comprised of early retirement incentives offered to certain salaried
non-union employees 55 years old or older satisfying service criteria and
severance costs associated with workforce reductions of other non-union
employees. The restructuring charge related to approximately 650 employees, all
of whom were terminated as of June 30, 1999. Corning has paid $62.7 million of
restructuring and severance related costs since inception of the plan, $39.4
million of which was paid in 1999. The program required retirees to provide
certain information by September 30, 1999. As a result Corning determined in the
fourth quarter that the total costs of the incentive package would be less than
anticipated. Consequently, Corning released restructuring reserves totaling
$14.1 million pre-tax ($8.6 million after tax), or $0.03 per share, in the
fourth quarter of 1999. The remaining reserve at December 31, 1999 of $7.8
million primarily represents amounts related to lump sum payments to be paid in
the first quarter of 2000 in accordance with the original terms of the
restructuring plan, as well as amounts to be paid in satisfaction of remaining
benefits included in the package. Management estimates that the annualized cost
savings related to these programs is approximately $30 million per year after
taxes.





9.   SUPPLEMENTAL BALANCE SHEET DATA



(1)  Corning historically used the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for
     approximately 45% of its inventories, with the remaining inventories valued
     on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis. In the second quarter of 1999,
     Corning changed its method of determining the cost of its LIFO inventories
     to the FIFO method. As a result of declining costs and prices for such
     inventories, Corning believes that the use of the FIFO method results in a
     more current inventory valuation at period end dates and minimizes the
     likelihood of lower-of-cost-or-market valuation issues. As a result,
     Corning recorded a charge of approximately $5.8 million ($3.9 million after
     tax) in the second quarter of 1999. The impact of this change on historical
     operating results was not material and, accordingly, the historical
     financial statements have not been restated to reflect this change.






10.  LOANS PAYABLE



At December 31, 1999 and 1998, the weighted-average interest rate on
short-term borrowings was 6.1% and 5.2%, respectively.

At December 31, 1999, loans payable beyond one year become payable:



Based on borrowing rates currently available to Corning for loans with similar
terms and maturities, the fair value of loans payable beyond one year was $1.3
billion at year end 1999.

In January 2000, Corning called and retired two long-term note issues of Siecor
Corporation, 6.73% due 2008 and 6.83% due 2009, in the aggregate principal
amount of $60.0 million.




10.  LOANS PAYABLE (CONTINUED)

Unused bank revolving credit agreements in effect at December 31, 1999 provide
for Corning to borrow up to $1.2 billion. The revolving credit agreements
provide for borrowing of U.S. dollars and Eurocurrency at various rates.

At December 31, 1999, Corning had the flexibility of issuing up to $2.4 billion
in debt and equity securities under its shelf registration statement filed
earlier in the year. Upon closing of the equity offering in January 2000 Corning
has depleted this capacity.

11.  CONVERTIBLE MONTHLY INCOME PREFERRED SECURITIES

During the first quarter of 1999, Corning Delaware L.P., a special purpose
limited partnership in which Corning was the sole general partner, called for
the redemption of all Convertible Monthly Income Preferred Securities (MIPS).
The MIPS were guaranteed by Corning and convertible into Corning common stock at
a rate of 1.534 shares of Corning common stock for each MIPS. As of March 31,
1999, all of the MIPS were converted into 11.5 million shares of Corning common
stock. The conversion caused Corning's reported income to increase in comparison
to 1998, but has no impact on Corning's diluted earnings per share.

12.  CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

Corning has 10 million authorized shares of Series Preferred Stock, par value
$100 per share. Of the authorized shares, Corning has designated 2.4 million
shares as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock for which no shares have
been issued.

At year end 1999, 1998 and 1997, 134,700, 178,700 and 198,100 shares of Series B
Convertible Preferred Stock were outstanding, respectively. Each Series B share
is convertible into 4.79 shares of Corning common stock and has voting rights
equivalent to four common shares. The Series B shares were sold exclusively to
the trustee of Corning's existing employee investment plans, based upon
directions from plan participants. Participants may cause Corning to redeem the
shares at 100% of par upon reaching age 55 or later, retirement, termination of
employment or in certain cases of financial hardship. The Series B shares are
redeemable by Corning at $100 per share.

13.  COMMON SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

On January 31, 2000, Corning completed an equity offering of 14,950,000 shares
of common stock generating net proceeds to Corning of approximately $2.2
billion.

Corning has established the Corning Stock Ownership Trust (CSOT) to fund future
employee purchases of common stock through its contributions to Corning's
Investment and Employee Stock Purchase Plans (the Plans). Corning sold 4 million
treasury shares to the CSOT. At December 31, 1999, 1.6 million shares remained
in the CSOT. Shares held by the CSOT are not considered outstanding for earnings
per common share calculations until released to the Plans. Corning and the
trustee of the CSOT reached an agreement whereby the trustee waived its right to
receive the Distribution of Quest Diagnostics and Covance and, in lieu thereof,
received 400,000 additional shares of Corning common stock.

Corning repurchased approximately 1.4 million, 2.0 million and 1.1 million
shares of its common stock in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

In June 1996, the Board of Directors approved the renewal of the Preferred Share
Purchase Right Plan which entitles shareholders to purchase one-hundredth of a
share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock upon the occurrence of
certain events. In addition, the rights entitle shareholders to purchase shares
of common stock at a 50 percent discount in the event a person or group acquires
20 percent or more of Corning's outstanding common stock. The preferred share
purchase rights became effective July 15, 1996 and expire July 15, 2006.




Components of other comprehensive income (loss) accumulated in shareholders'
equity are as follows (in millions):



14.  EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing income available to common
shareholders (the numerator) by the weighted-average number of common shares
outstanding (the denominator) for the period. Diluted earnings per share
assumes that any dilutive convertible preferred shares outstanding at the
beginning of the year were converted at those dates, with related preferred
stock dividend requirements and outstanding common shares adjusted
accordingly. It also assumes that outstanding common shares were increased by
shares issuable upon exercise of those stock options for which market price
exceeds the exercise price, less shares which could have been purchased by
Corning with the related proceeds.

A reconciliation of the basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing
operations computations for 1999, 1998 and 1997 are as follows:






14.  EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE (CONTINUED)

During the first quarter of 1999, the convertible monthly income preferred
securities (MIPS) were redeemed and converted into 11.5 million shares of
Corning common stock. The MIPS dividends paid prior to the date of the
conversion are reflected within the dilutive earnings per share calculation for
1999.

At December 31, 1998, 178,700 shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock
were outstanding. Each Series B share is convertible into 4.79 shares of Corning
common stock. These shares were not included in the calculation of diluted
earnings per share due to the anti-dilutive effect they would have had on
earnings per share if converted.

15.  STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS

At December 31, 1999, Corning's stock compensation programs are in accordance
with the 1998 Employee Equity Participation Program (Program). This Program
provides for approximately 9.0 million shares of Corning common stock to be
available for sale or grant, including approximately 1.0 million shares carried
over from the 1994 equity plan. At December 31, 1999, 4.8 million shares were
available under the Program.

STOCK OPTION PLAN

Corning stock option plans provide non-qualified and incentive stock options to
purchase unissued or treasury shares at the market price on the grant date
generally become exercisable in installments from one to five years from the
grant date. The maximum term of non-qualified and incentive stock options is 10
years from the grant date.

Transactions for the three years ended December 31, 1999 were:



The number of options exercisable and the corresponding weighted-average
exercise price was 3.6 million and $29.61 at December 31, 1999, 5.8 million and
$26.83 at December 31, 1998 and 5.3 million and $24.73 at December 31, 1997. The
weighted-average fair value of options granted was $28.35 in 1999, $9.31 in 1998
and $14.45 in 1997.




The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at
December 31, 1999:



INCENTIVE STOCK PLANS

The Incentive Stock Plan permits stock grants, either determined by specific
performance goals or issued directly, in most instances, subject to the
possibility of forfeiture and without cash consideration.

In 1999, 1998 and 1997, grants of 383,000, 698,000 and 999,000 shares,
respectively, were made under this plan. The weighted-average price of the
grants was $67.31 in 1999, $33.52 in 1998 and $40.07 in 1997, respectively. A
total of 2.4 million shares issued in prior years remain subject to forfeiture
at December 31, 1999.

In October 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No.
123 "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (FAS 123). This statement defines
a fair value-based method of accounting for employee stock options and similar
equity investments and encourages adoption of that method of accounting for
employee stock compensation plans. However, it also allows entities to continue
to measure compensation cost for employee stock compensation plans using the
intrinsic value-based method of accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB 25).
Corning applies APB 25 accounting for its stock-based compensation plans.
Compensation expense is recorded for awards of shares or share rights over the
period earned. Compensation expense of $6.2 million, $4.6 million and $29.2
million was recorded in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

PRO FORMA IMPACT

Corning has adopted the disclosure-only provisions of FAS 123. If Corning had
elected to recognize compensation expense under FAS 123, Corning's net income in
1999, 1998 and 1997 would have decreased by $17.0 million, $9.0 million and $5.3
million, respectively. Corning's diluted earnings per share amounts in 1999,
1998 and 1997 would have decreased by $0.07, $0.04 and $0.02, respectively.

FAS 123 requires that reload options be treated as separate grants from the
related original option grants. Under Corning's reload program, upon exercise of
an option, employees may tender unrestricted shares owned at the time of
exercise to pay the exercise price and related tax withholding, and receive a
reload option covering the same number of shares tendered for such purposes at
the market price on the date of exercise. The reload options vest in one year
and are only granted in certain circumstances according to the original terms of
the option being exercised. The existence of the reload feature results in a
greater number of options being measured.

For purposes of FAS 123, the fair value of each option grant is estimated on the
date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following
weighted-average assumptions used for grants in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively: risk-free interest rate of 5.7%, 4.4% and 6.4%; dividend yield of
1.2%, 1.7% and 1.6%; expected volatility of 33.0%, 29.0% and 25.0% and expected
life of 6 years.





15.  STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS (CONTINUED)

WORLDWIDE EMPLOYEE SHARE PURCHASE PLAN

In addition to the Stock Option Plan and Incentive Stock Plans, Corning has a
Worldwide Employee Share Purchase Plan (WESPP). Under the WESPP, substantially
all employees can elect to have up to 10% of their annual wages withheld to
purchase Corning common stock. The purchase price of the stock is 85% of the
lower of the beginning-of-quarter or end-of-quarter market price. The Corning
Stock Ownership Trust is utilized to fund employee purchases of common stock
under the WESPP.

16.  COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENCIES, GUARANTEES AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES

COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES

Minimum rental commitments under leases outstanding at December 31, 1999 are (in
millions):



At December 31, 1999, future minimum lease payments to be received under a
noncancelable sublease to Quest Diagnostics totaled $60.6 million. Quest
Diagnostics, in turn, has a noncancelable sublease covering approximately $40.0
million of the minimum lease payments due to Corning. Corning has agreed to
indemnify Quest Diagnostics should Quest Diagnostics' sublease default on the
minimum lease payments. Additionally, Corning continues to guarantee certain
obligations of Quest Diagnostics totaling $14.8 million.

In January 1998, Corning completed a sale leaseback transaction related to
certain equipment assets and resulted in gross proceeds of approximately $95
million. Approximately $80 million of the proceeds were invested with the
counterparty to the lease. There was no material change to total long-term
assets as a result of this transaction. Payments pursuant to the operating lease
are included above.

The ability of certain subsidiaries and associated companies to transfer funds
is limited by provisions of certain loan agreements and foreign government
regulations. At December 31, 1999, the amount of equity subject to such
restrictions for consolidated subsidiaries totaled $145.5 million. While this
amount is legally restricted, it does not result in operational difficulties
since Corning has generally permitted subsidiaries to retain a majority of
equity to support their growth programs. At December 31, 1999, loans of equity
affiliates guaranteed by Corning totaled $5.6 million. In addition, Corning and
certain of its subsidiaries have provided other financial guarantees and
contingent liabilities in the form of loan guarantees, stand-by letters of
credit and performance bonds. The amounts of these obligations are represented
in the following table. Corning believes that all of the guarantees and almost
all of the other contingent liabilities will expire without being funded (in
millions):



HEDGING ACTIVITIES

Corning operates and conducts business in many foreign countries. As a result,
there is exposure to potentially adverse movement in foreign currency rate
changes. Corning enters into foreign exchange forward contracts with durations
generally less than 12 months to reduce its exposure to exchange rate risk on
foreign source income and purchases. The objective of these contracts is to
neutralize the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on Corning's
operating results.




The forward contracts require Corning to exchange currencies at rates agreed
upon at the inception of the contract. The hedge contracts reduce the exposure
to fluctuations in exchange rate movements because the gains and losses
associated with foreign currency balances and transactions are generally offset
with the gains and losses of the hedge contracts. Because the impact of
movements in foreign exchange rates on forward contracts offsets the related
impact on the underlying items being hedged, these financial instruments help
alleviate the risk that might otherwise result from change in currency exchange
rate fluctuations.

At December 31, 1999, Corning had foreign currency contracts to purchase
approximately $108 million U.S. dollars with a fair value of $6.5 million. Of
this amount, $0.1 million is included in other current assets at December 31,
1999. These contracts are held by Corning and its subsidiaries and will mature
at varying dates in 2000.

In December 1998, one of Corning's subsidiaries entered into financing
agreements which provide for the sale of certain future yen based revenues,
beginning February 1999 and expiring in December 2001. These contracts require
the counterparty to advance U.S. dollars in amounts up to $10.1 million each
month and Corning to repay the notes only to the extent of future yen
denominated revenues. The obligations under these contracts are not cancelable
by either party. Borrowings under the agreements bear interest at a premium to
the Eurodollar rate. Transaction gains or losses related to these contracts are
deferred and recognized as an adjustment to the revenue securing the note
repayments. Borrowings are recorded on the balance sheet only to the extent they
are outstanding. The cumulative borrowings between February 1999 and December
1999 were $95 million and cumulative repayments approximated 9.4 billion yen. At
December 31, 1999 Corning had outstanding amounts due under the contracts
totaling $9.1 million. At December 31, 1999, the contracted value of these
contracts was approximately $28 million more than fair value.

17.  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

RECAPITALIZATION AND SALE OF THE CONSUMER HOUSEWARES BUSINESS

On April 1, 1998, Corning completed the recapitalization and sale of a
controlling interest in its consumer housewares business to an affiliate of
Borden, Inc. Corning received cash proceeds of $593 million and continues to
retain a three percent interest in the World Kitchen Inc., formerly Corning
Consumer Products Company.

During the fourth quarter of 1999 certain indemnification agreements related to
this transaction expired. As a result, Corning recorded income from discontinued
operations of $7.8 million ($4.8 million after tax), or $0.02 per share, from
the release of reserves provided at the date of the transaction.

Summarized results of Corning's discontinued operations are as follows (in
millions):



The results of operations from the consumer housewares business are for the
period through March 31, 1998. Results of the discontinued businesses include
allocations of consolidated interest expense totaling $2.7 million and $13.0
million in 1998 and 1997, respectively. The allocations were based on the ratio
of net assets of discontinued operations to consolidated net assets.





17.  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

DISTRIBUTION OF SHARES OF QUEST DIAGNOSTICS AND COVANCE, INC.

On December 31, 1996, Corning distributed shares of Quest Diagnostics
Incorporated and Covance Inc. to its shareholders (the Distributions). Corning
has agreed to indemnify Quest Diagnostics on an after tax basis for the
settlement of certain claims that were pending at that date. Coincident with the
Distributions, Corning recorded a reserve accrual of approximately $25 million
which is equal to management's best estimate of amounts, which are probable of
being paid by Corning to Quest Diagnostics to satisfy the remaining indemnified
claims on an after tax basis.

Although management believes that established reserves for indemnified claims
are sufficient, it is possible that additional information may become available
to Quest Diagnostics' management, which may cause the final resolution of these
matters to exceed established reserves by an amount which could be material to
Corning's results of operations and cash flow in the period in which such claims
are settled. Corning does not believe that these issues will have a material
adverse impact on Corning's overall financial condition.

18.  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

On February 14, 2000, Corning announced that it had signed a definitive
agreement to acquire NetOptix Corporation for approximately 12 million shares of
Corning common stock. NetOptix manufacturers thin film filters for use in dense
wavelength division multiplexing components. Under the terms of the agreement,
Corning will exchange 0.90 shares of Corning common stock for each share of
NetOptix common stock. Based on the closing price for Corning on February 11,
2000, the transaction would be valued at approximately $2 billion. Corning will
account for the transaction under the purchase method of accounting and expects
the transaction to close during the second quarter of 2000, after customary
regulatory approvals and the approval of NetOptix shareholders.

On February 14, 2000, Corning acquired British Telecommunication's Photonics
Technology Research Center for approximately $66 million in cash. A portion of
the purchase price relates to in-process research and development, which will be
expensed in the first quarter of 2000 resulting in an after tax charge of
approximately $20 million to $30 million. The acquisition will be recorded using
the purchase method of accounting.




CORNING INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
SCHEDULE II - VALUATION ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES







QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS AND RELATED MARKET DATA
(unaudited)



(1)  Discontinued operations are described in Note 17 of the Notes to
     Consolidated Financial Statements.











FIVE YEARS IN REVIEW - HISTORICAL COMPARISON (CONTINUED)
(In millions, except number of employees and shareholders)



(1)  Amounts do not include employees of discontinued operations.





INVESTOR INFORMATION

ANNUAL MEETING
The annual meeting of shareholders will be held on Thursday, April 27, 2000, in
Corning, NY. A formal notice of the meeting together with a proxy statement will
be mailed to shareholders on or about March 16, 2000. The proxy statement can
also be accessed electronically through the Investor Relations section of the
Corning home page on the internet at http://www.corning.com. A summary report of
the proceedings at the annual meeting will be available without charge upon
written request to Mr. A. John Peck Jr., vice president and secretary, Corning
Incorporated, HQ-E2-A10, Corning, NY 14831.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
A copy of Corning's 1999 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission is available upon written request to Mr. A. John Peck
Jr., vice president and secretary, Corning Incorporated, HQ-E2-10, Corning, NY
14831. The Annual Report on Form 10-K can also be accessed electronically
through the Investor Relations section of the Corning home page on the Internet
at http://www.corning.com.

INVESTOR INFORMATION
Investment analysts who need additional information may contact Ms. Katherine M.
Dietz, director of investor relations, Corning Incorporated, HQ-E2-25, Corning,
NY 14831; Telephone (607) 974-9000.

COMMON STOCK
Corning Incorporated common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and
the Zurich Stock Exchange. In addition, it is traded on the Boston, Midwest,
Pacific and Philadelphia stock exchanges. Common stock options are traded on the
Chicago Board Options Exchange. The abbreviated ticker symbol for Corning
Incorporated is "GLW."

DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT
Corning's Dividend Reinvestment Plan allows shareholders to reinvest dividends
in Corning Incorporated common stock automatically, regularly and conveniently.
In addition, participating shareholders may supplement the amount invested with
voluntary cash investments. Plan participation is voluntary and shareholders may
join or withdraw at any time.

Full details of the Plan are available by writing to the Secretary of the
company or to Harris Trust and Savings Bank at the address listed below. Be
certain to include a reference to Corning Incorporated.

TRANSFER AGENT, REGISTRAR AND DIVIDEND DISBURSING AGENT
Harris Trust and Savings Bank
Shareholder Services Division
P.O. Box 755
Chicago, IL  60690-0755
Telephone:  (800) 255-0461
www.harrisbank.com/corporations/shareholders

For people with hearing impairments, Harris Bank has a Telecommunication Device
for the Deaf (TDD) telephone. The listing is Harris Bank, Hearing Impaired
Telephone, TDD (312) 461-5633 or TDD (312) 461-5637.

CHANGE OF ADDRESS
Report change of address to Harris Trust and Savings Bank at the above address.

INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1301 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY  10019





INVESTOR INFORMATION
(Continued)

"SAFE HARBOR" STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF
The statements in this Annual Report which are not historical facts or
information are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
involve risks and uncertainties that may cause the outcome to be materially
different. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to:

- -        global economic conditions,
- -        currency fluctuations,
- -        product demand and industry capacity,
- -        competitive products and pricing,
- -        sufficiency of manufacturing capacity and efficiencies,
- -        realization of cost reductions,
- -        availability and costs of critical materials,
- -        new product development and commercialization,
- -        facility expansions and new plant start-up costs,
- -        the effect of regulatory and legal developments,
- -        capital resource and cash flow activities,
- -        capital spending,
- -        equity company activities,
- -        interest costs,
- -        acquisition and divestiture activity,
- -        the rate of technology change,
- -        the ability to enforce patents, and
- -        other risks detailed in Corning's Securities and Exchange Commission
         filings.






The following exhibits are included only in copies of the 1999 Annual Report on
Form 10-K filed with Securities and Exchange Commission.

              Exhibit #3(i)        Restated Certificate of Incorporation dated
                                   April 24, 1997

              Exhibit #3(ii)       By-Laws of Corning Incorporated, as amended
                                   and effective as of October 6, 1998

              Exhibit #24          Powers of Attorney

              Exhibit #27          Financial Data Schedule

Copies of these exhibits may be obtained by writing to Mr. A. John Peck Jr.,
secretary, Corning Incorporated, MP-HQ-E2-10, Corning, New York 14831.




