
10-K405
10-K405




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                  --------------
                                  FORM 10-K 405
                                  --------------

                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1995

                          Commission file number 1-4121
                                 DEERE & COMPANY
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

               DELAWARE                                 36-2382580
          (State of incorporation)                     (IRS Employer
                                                    Identification No.)

 JOHN DEERE ROAD, MOLINE, ILLINOIS           61265          (309) 765-8000
(Address of principal executive offices)   (Zip Code)      (Telephone Number)

                         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT
                           TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT

TITLE OF EACH CLASS                NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED
Common stock, $1 par value         New York Stock Exchange
                                   Chicago Stock Exchange
                                   Frankfurt, Germany Stock Exchange
5-1/2% Convertible Subordinated
  Debentures Due 2001              New York Stock Exchange
8-1/4% Notes Due 1996              New York Stock Exchange
9-1/8% Notes Due 1996              New York Stock Exchange
8.95% Debentures Due 2019          New York Stock Exchange
8-1/2% Debentures Due 2022         New York Stock Exchange

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes X       No
   ---        ---
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

The aggregate quoted market price of voting stock of registrant held by
nonaffiliates at December 31, 1995 was $9,218,374,986.   At December 31, 1995,
262,301,214 shares of common stock, $1 par value, of the registrant were
outstanding.  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.  Portions of the proxy
statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on February 28, 1996
are incorporated by reference in Part III.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                               Page 1 of 69 pages.
                      Index to exhibits is on pages 50-52.



PART I
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

PRODUCTS

Deere & Company (Company) and its subsidiaries (collectively called John Deere)
have operations which are categorized into six business segments.

     The Company's worldwide AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT segment manufactures and
     distributes a full range of equipment used in commercial farming --
     including tractors; tillage, soil preparation, planting and harvesting
     machinery; sprayers; crop handling equipment; and precision farming
     devices.

     The Company's worldwide INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT segment manufactures and
     distributes a broad range of machines used in construction, earthmoving and
     forestry -- including backhoe loaders; crawler dozers and loaders;
     four-wheel-drive loaders; scrapers; motor graders; excavators; and log
     skidders.  This segment also includes the manufacture and distribution of
     engines and drivetrain components for the original equipment manufacturer
     (OEM) market.

     The Company's worldwide LAWN AND GROUNDS CARE EQUIPMENT segment
     manufactures and distributes equipment for commercial and residential uses
     -- including small tractors for lawn, garden and utility purposes; riding
     and walk-behind mowers; golf course equipment; utility transport vehicles;
     snowblowers; hand-held products such as chain saws, string trimmers and
     leaf blowers; and other outdoor power products.

     The products produced by the equipment segments are marketed primarily
     through independent retail dealer networks and other retail outlets.

     The Company's CREDIT segment, which operates in the United States and
     Canada, primarily finances and services:  retail notes related to sales by
     John Deere dealers of new and used equipment; retail notes related to sales
     by non-Deere dealers of recreational vehicle and recreational marine
     products; leases of John Deere equipment to retail customers; unsecured
     revolving charge accounts acquired from merchants; and wholesale notes from
     certain dealers of the foregoing equipment.

     The Company's INSURANCE segment issues policies in the United States and
     Canada primarily for general and specialized lines of property and casualty
     insurance to the general public; group accident and health insurance for
     employees of participating John Deere dealers and disability insurance for
     employees of John Deere.

     The Company's HEALTH CARE segment provides health management programs and
     related administrative services in the United States to corporate customers
     as well as employees of John Deere.




The Company's worldwide agricultural, industrial and lawn and grounds care
equipment operations and subsidiaries are sometimes referred to as the
"Equipment Operations."  The Company's credit, insurance and health care
subsidiaries are sometimes referred to as "Financial Services."


The Company believes that its worldwide sales of agricultural equipment during
recent years have been greater than those of any other business enterprise.  It
also believes that John Deere is an important provider of most of the types of
industrial equipment that it markets, and a leader in some size ranges.  The
Company also believes it is the largest manufacturer of lawn and garden tractors
and provides the broadest line of grounds care equipment in North America.  The
John Deere enterprise has manufactured agricultural machinery since 1837.  The
present Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1958.

MARKET CONDITIONS AND OUTLOOK

Market demand for John Deere products remains very strong.  Increased overseas
and domestic demand for agricultural commodities, coupled with lower than
anticipated harvest yields, have resulted in substantial increases in commodity
prices.  Additionally, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) is
currently forecasting world grain stocks to be at the lowest levels, relative to
use, since it began keeping systematic records.  The low commodity inventories,
expected increases in worldwide grain demand and the anticipated resulting
strong worldwide commodity price levels should bolster farmers' confidence and
result in continued strong demand for new and used agricultural equipment.
Additionally, government acreage set-asides should be lower in 1996 in response
to the reduction in world grain stocks which should further promote agricultural
demand.  Therefore, the Company expects agricultural equipment industry retail
sales to increase again in 1996, despite some uncertainty surrounding the new
farm bill.

Nonresidential and public construction expenditures in 1996 are anticipated to
show moderate growth.  Housing starts are projected to increase slightly over
1995 levels in response to lower mortgage rates now forecasted for 1996.
Consumer spending is expected to remain at relatively strong levels throughout
most of 1996.  Additionally, the Company's lawn and grounds care equipment
demand should also increase as a result of the introduction of a new product
line, "Sabre by John Deere", which includes entry-level lawn tractors and walk-
behind mowers.  As a result of the many factors cited, industry retail sales for
industrial and lawn and grounds care products are expected to increase in 1996
compared with 1995.  Financial Services revenues should reflect this continued
strong demand for John Deere products.

Based on initial 1996 production schedules, the Company's worldwide physical
volume of sales to dealers in 1996 is expected to increase by four percent
compared with 1995, with first quarter volumes anticipated to be approximately
12 percent higher than the first quarter of 1995.  Additionally, expenditures
targeted at establishing markets for new and existing products in both domestic
and overseas regions are expected to increase substantially in 1996.  However,
the expected volume increases will more than offset the short-term costs
associated with the Company's planned growth initiatives.  Therefore, 1996 is
expected to be another strong year.




1995 COMPARED WITH 1994 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS (UNAUDITED)

Deere & Company achieved record worldwide net income for 1995, totaling $706
million or $2.71 per share compared with last year's income of $604 million or
$2.34 per share on a post-split basis.  The Company's strong results for 1995
were due to higher production and sales levels, coupled with significantly
improved overseas and industrial equipment division results.  Additionally, the
Company's exports from the United States set a new record, totaling $1,314
million.  Company results also continued to benefit from the strong performance
of its Financial Services subsidiaries.  All per share information reflects a
three-for-one stock split effective November 17, 1995 (see "Capital Stock" note
on page 41).

The Company's annual sales and revenues exceeded $10 billion for the first time
in the Company's history, due to continued growth in demand for the Company's
products and services.  Worldwide net sales and revenues increased 15 percent to
$10,291 million in 1995 compared with $8,977 million in 1994.  Net sales of the
Equipment Operations increased 15 percent in 1995 to $8,830 million from $7,663
million last year.  The physical volume of sales increased by 11 percent
compared with a year ago.

Finance and interest income increased 20 percent to $660 million in 1995
compared with $548 million last year, while insurance and health care premiums
increased three percent to $628 million in the current year compared with $609
million in 1994.

The Company's worldwide Equipment Operations, which exclude income from the
credit, insurance and health care operations and unconsolidated affiliates, had
net income of $529 million in 1995 compared with $433 million in 1994.  The
improved operating results of the Equipment Operations in 1995 were the primary
factor behind the Company's record profitability.  The benefits from the higher
production and sales volumes were partially offset by the impact of management's
planned initiatives to reduce service parts inventory and used goods
receivables.  Service parts production was lower and used goods sales incentive
expenses increased compared to last year as a result of the initiatives.  The
worldwide ratio of cost of goods sold to net sales was 78.6 percent in 1995
compared with 78.7 percent last year.

Net income of the Company's Financial Services operations remained strong
totaling $167 million in 1995 compared with $161 million in 1994.  Additional
information is presented in the discussion of credit, insurance and health care
operations on pages 27 through 29.

EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS

AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT

Sales of agricultural equipment, particularly in the United States and Canada,
are affected by total farm cash receipts, which reflect levels of farm commodity
prices, acreage planted, crop yields and government payments.  Sales are also
influenced by general economic conditions, levels of interest rates,
agricultural trends and the levels of costs associated with farming.  Weather
and climatic conditions can also affect buying decisions of equipment
purchasers.

Innovations to machinery and technology also influence buying.  Reduced tillage
practices have been adopted by many farmers to control soil erosion and lower
production costs.  John Deere




has responded to this shift by delivering leading edge planters, drills and
tilling equipment.  Additionally, the Company has developed a precision farming
approach to planting and harvesting.  The application of this advanced
technology should substantially improve annual planting and harvesting results,
while better maintaining soil and environmental conditions.

Large, cost-efficient, highly-mechanized agricultural operations account for an
important share of total United States farm output.  The large-size agricultural
equipment used on such farms has been particularly important to John Deere.  A
large proportion of the Equipment Operations' total agricultural equipment sales
in the United States is comprised of tractors over 100 horsepower,
self-propelled combines and self-propelled cotton pickers.

Seasonal patterns in retail demand for agricultural equipment result in
substantial variations in the volume and mix of products sold to retail
customers during various times of the year.  Seasonal demand must be estimated
months in advance, and equipment must be manufactured in anticipation of such
demand in order to achieve efficient utilization of manpower and facilities
throughout the year.  For certain equipment, the Company offers early order
discounts to retail customers.  Production schedules are based, in part, on
these early order programs.  The Equipment Operations incur substantial seasonal
indebtedness with related interest expense to finance production and inventory
of equipment, and to finance sales to dealers in advance of seasonal demand.
The Equipment Operations often encourage early retail sales decisions for both
new and used equipment, by waiving retail finance charges or offering low-rate
financing, during off-season periods and in early order promotions.

An important part of the competition within the agricultural equipment industry
during the past decade has come from a diverse variety of short-line and
specialty manufacturers with differing manufacturing and marketing methods.
Because of industry conditions, especially consolidation among large integrated
competitors, the competitive environment is undergoing important changes, and
the importance of short-line and specialty manufacturers may continue to
increase in the future.

In addition to the agricultural equipment manufactured by the Equipment
Operations, a number of products are purchased from other manufacturers for
resale by John Deere outside the U.S. and Canada, including eight models of
tractors sourced from a Czech manufacturer and one sourced from a French
manufacturer built around a John Deere engine.

INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT

The industrial equipment industry is broadly defined as including construction,
earthmoving and forestry equipment, as well as some materials handling
equipment, cranes, off-highway trucks and a variety of machines for specialized
industrial applications, including uses in the mining industry. The Equipment
Operations provide types and sizes of equipment that compete for approximately
two-thirds of the estimated total United States market for all types and sizes
of industrial equipment (other than the market for cranes and specialized mining
equipment).  Retail sales of John Deere industrial equipment are influenced by
prevailing levels of residential, industrial and public construction and the
condition of the forest products industry.  Sales are also influenced by general
economic conditions and the level of interest rates.





John Deere industrial equipment falls into three broad categories: utility
tractors and smaller earthmoving equipment, medium capacity construction and
earthmoving equipment, and forestry machines.  The Equipment Operations'
industrial equipment business began in the late 1940s with wheel and crawler
tractors of a size and horsepower range similar to agricultural tractors,
utilizing common components.  Through the years, the Equipment Operations
substantially increased production capacity for industrial equipment, adding to
the line larger machines such as crawler loaders and dozers, log skidders, motor
graders, hydraulic excavators and four-wheel-drive loaders.  These products
incorporate technology and many major components similar to those used in
agricultural equipment, including diesel engines, transmissions and
sophisticated hydraulics and electronics.  In addition to the industrial
equipment manufactured by the Equipment Operations, certain products are
purchased from other manufacturers for resale by John Deere.

The Company and Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Inc. of Japan ("Hitachi")
have a joint venture for the manufacture of hydraulic excavators in the United
States and for the distribution of excavators primarily in North, Central and
South America.  The Company also has supply agreements with Hitachi under which
a broad range of industrial products manufactured by the Company in the United
States, including four-wheel-drive loaders, are distributed by Hitachi in Japan
and other Far East markets.  In addition, Hitachi is manufacturing certain
models of four-wheel-drive loaders for distribution by John Deere primarily in
North, Central and South America.

The Company has recently reached an agreement with a Chinese partner and Hitachi
to establish a joint venture in China for the manufacture, distribution and
servicing of wheel loaders.  The division has also taken a number of initiatives
in the rental equipment market for industrial machinery including specially
designed rental programs for Deere dealers, expanded cooperation with major
national equipment rental companies, such as Hertz, and direct participation in
the rental market.  During the first quarter of 1996, the Company agreed to
acquire a minority ownership interest in Sunstate Equipment Corp., a regional
rental company based in Phoenix, Arizona.

The Equipment Operations manufacture and distribute diesel engines and
drivetrain components both for use in John Deere products and for sale to other
original equipment manufacturers.

LAWN AND GROUNDS CARE EQUIPMENT

The line of John Deere lawn and grounds care equipment includes rear-engine
riding mowers, front-engine lawn tractors, lawn and garden tractors, small
diesel tractors, compact utility tractors, front mowers, small utility transport
vehicles, hand held products such as chain saws, string trimmers and leaf
blowers, and a broad line of associated implements for mowing, tilling, snow and
debris handling, aerating, and many other residential, commercial, golf and
sports turf care applications.  The product line also includes walk-behind
mowers, snow throwers and other outdoor power products.  Retail sales of lawn
and grounds care products are influenced by weather conditions, consumer
spending patterns and general economic conditions.

In 1995, the division introduced a new line of entry-level lawn tractors and
walk-behind mowers under the name "Sabre by John Deere" in North America and
under the name "Europro" in




Europe.  The division also sells consumer products under the Homelite and Green
Machine brand names.

In addition to the lawn and grounds care equipment manufactured by the lawn and
grounds care division, certain products are purchased from other manufacturers
for resale by John Deere, including five models of compact utility tractors
sourced from a Japanese manufacturer.

ENGINEERING AND RESEARCH

John Deere makes large expenditures for engineering and research to improve the
quality and performance of its products, and to develop new products.  Such
expenditures were $327 million, or 3.7 percent of net sales of equipment in
1995, and $276 million in 1994.

MANUFACTURING

MANUFACTURING PLANTS.  In the United States and Canada, the Equipment Operations
own and operate 18 factory locations, which contain approximately 29.7 million
square feet of floor space.  Six of the factories are devoted primarily to the
manufacture of agricultural equipment, two to industrial equipment, one to
engines, one to hydraulics and power train components, one to gray iron and
nodular castings, six to lawn and grounds care equipment, and one to power train
components manufactured mostly for OEM markets.  The Equipment Operations own
and operate tractor factories in Germany and Argentina; agricultural equipment
factories in France, Germany and South Africa; an engine factory in France; a
component factory in Spain; and two lawn and grounds care facilities in Germany
and the Netherlands.  These overseas factories contain approximately 6.1 million
square feet of floor space.  The Equipment Operations also have financial
interests in a combine and tractor manufacturer in Brazil, in a tractor and
implement manufacturer in Mexico and in a joint venture which builds industrial
excavators in the United States.

John Deere's facilities are well maintained, in good operating condition and are
suitable for their present purposes.  These facilities, together with planned
capital expenditures, are expected to meet John Deere's  manufacturing needs in
the foreseeable future.

The Equipment Operations manufacture many of the components included in their
products.  The principal raw materials required for the manufacture of products
are purchased from numerous suppliers.  Although the Equipment Operations depend
upon outside sources of supply for a substantial number of components,
manufacturing operations are extensively integrated.  Similar or common
manufacturing facilities and techniques are employed in the production of
components for industrial, agricultural and lawn and grounds care equipment.

The physical volume of sales in 1995 was 11 percent higher than in 1994.
Although demand for certain key products is nearing production capacity, in
general, capacity is adequate to satisfy anticipated retail demand.  The
Equipment Operations' manufacturing strategy involves the implementation of
appropriate levels of technology and automation, so that manufacturing processes
can remain viable at varying production levels and can be flexible enough to
accommodate many of the product design changes required to meet market
requirements.




In order to utilize manufacturing facilities and technology more effectively,
the Equipment Operations continue to pursue improvements in manufacturing
processes.  Manufacturing activities judged not competitively advantageous for
the Equipment Operations on a long-term basis are being shifted to outside
suppliers, while many of those manufacturing activities that do offer long-term
competitive advantages are being restructured.  Improvements include the
creation of flow-through manufacturing cells which reduce costs and inventories,
increase quality and require less space, and the establishment of flexible
assembly lines which can handle a wider range of product mix and deliver
products at the times when dealers and customers demand them.  Additionally,
considerable effort is being directed to manufacturing cost reduction through
product design, the introduction of advanced manufacturing technology and
improvements in compensation incentives related to productivity and
organizational structure.  The Equipment Operations are also pursuing the sale
to other companies of selected parts and components which can be manufactured
and supplied to third parties on a competitive basis.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES.  The Equipment Operations' capital expenditures were $245
million in 1995 compared with $217 million in 1994 and $196 million in 1993.
Provisions for depreciation applicable to the Equipment Operations' property,
plant and equipment during these years were $243 million, $226 million and $222
million, respectively.  The Equipment Operations' capital expenditures for 1996
are currently estimated to approximate $270 million.  The 1996 expenditures will
be associated with new product and operations improvement programs.
Additionally, 1996 expenditures may increase further as a result of ongoing
studies related to the manufacture and marketing of products in new markets such
as Mexico, India, China, Brazil and the former Soviet Union.  Recommendations
from these studies will be made during 1996 and may lead to additional
expenditures.  Future levels of capital expenditures will depend on business
conditions as well as the results of these studies.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

John Deere owns a significant number of patents, licenses and trademarks which
have been obtained over a period of years.  The Company believes that, in the
aggregate, the rights under these patents, licenses and trademarks are generally
important to its operations, but does not consider that any patent, license,
trademark or group of them (other than its house trademarks) is of material
importance in relation to John Deere's business.

MARKETING

In the United States and Canada, the Equipment Operations, excluding Homelite,
Green Machine and Sabre, distribute equipment and service parts through six
agricultural equipment sales branches, one industrial equipment sales and
administration office and one lawn and grounds care equipment sales and
administration office (collectively called sales branches).  In addition, the
Equipment Operations operate a centralized parts distribution warehouse in
coordination with several regional parts depots in the United States and Canada
and are finalizing an agreement with a third party to operate a high-volume
parts warehouse in Indiana.

The sales branches in the United States and Canada market John Deere products to
approximately 3,090 retail dealers,  all of which are independently owned except
for one retail store owned and operated by the Company.  Of these dealers,
approximately 1,350 sell agricultural equipment, 405 sell industrial equipment,
and 15 sell both agricultural and industrial equipment.  Smaller




industrial equipment is sold by nearly all of the industrial equipment dealers
and larger industrial equipment, forestry equipment and a line of light
industrial equipment are sold by most of these dealers.  Lawn and grounds care
equipment is sold by most John Deere agricultural equipment dealers, a few
industrial equipment dealers, and about 1,320 lawn and grounds care equipment
dealers, many of whom also handle competitive brands and dissimilar lines of
products.  In addition, the Sabre, Homelite and Green Machine product lines are
sold through independent dealers and various general and mass merchandisers.

Outside North America, John Deere agricultural equipment is sold to distributors
and dealers for resale in over 110 countries by sales branches located in five
European countries, South Africa, Argentina and Australia, by export sales
branches in Europe and the United States, and by associated companies in Mexico
and Brazil.  Lawn and grounds care equipment sales overseas occur primarily in
Europe and Australia.  Outside North America, industrial equipment is sold
primarily by an export sales branch located in the United States.

WHOLESALE FINANCING

The Equipment Operations provide wholesale financing to dealers in the United
States for extended periods, to enable dealers to carry representative
inventories of equipment and to encourage the purchase of goods by dealers in
advance of seasonal retail demand.  Down payments are not required, and interest
is not charged for a substantial part of the period for which the inventories
are financed.  A security interest is retained in dealers' inventories, and
periodic physical checks are made of dealers' inventories.  Generally, terms to
dealers require payments as the equipment which secures the indebtedness is sold
to retail customers.  Variable market rates of interest are charged on balances
outstanding after certain interest-free periods, which currently are 6 to 9
months for agricultural tractors, 1 to 5 months for industrial equipment, and
from 5 to 24 months for most other equipment.  Financing is also provided to
dealers on used equipment accepted in trade, on repossessed equipment, and on
approved equipment from other manufacturers.  A security interest is obtained in
such equipment.  Equipment dealer defaults incurred in recent years by John
Deere have not been significant.

In Canada, John Deere products (other than service parts and lawn and grounds
care equipment) in the possession of dealers are inventories of the Equipment
Operations that are consigned to the dealers.  Dealers are required to make
deposits on consigned equipment remaining unsold after specified periods.

Sales to overseas dealers are made by the Equipment Operations' overseas and
export sales branches and are, for the most part, financed by John Deere in a
manner similar to that provided for sales to dealers in the United States and
Canada, although maturities tend to be shorter and a security interest is not
always retained in the equipment sold.

Receivables from dealers, which largely represent dealer inventories, were $3.3
billion at October 31, 1995 compared with $2.9 billion at October 31, 1994 and
$2.8 billion at October 31, 1993.  At those dates, the ratios of worldwide net
dealer receivables to fiscal year net sales, were 37 percent, 38 percent and 43
percent, respectively.  The highest month-end balance of such receivables during
each of the past two fiscal years was $3.6 billion at April 30, 1995 and  $3.2
billion at April 30, 1994.




FINANCIAL SERVICES

CREDIT OPERATIONS

UNITED STATES AND CANADA.  In the United States and Canada, the Company's credit
subsidiaries provide and administer financing for retail purchases of new and
used John Deere agricultural, industrial and lawn and grounds care equipment.
The Company's credit subsidiaries in the United States and Canada include John
Deere Capital Corporation (Capital Corporation) and its subsidiaries (Deere
Credit, Inc., Farm Plan Corporation, Deere Credit Services, Inc. and John Deere
Receivables, Inc.), John Deere Finance Limited and Canadian Equipment Finance
Corporation (collectively referred to as the Credit Companies).  Deere & Company
and John Deere Industrial Equipment Company are referred to as the "sales
companies."  The Capital Corporation purchases retail installment sales and loan
contracts (retail notes) from the sales companies.  These retail notes are
acquired by the sales companies through John Deere retail dealers in the United
States.  John Deere Finance Limited purchases and finances retail notes through
John Deere's equipment sales branches in Canada.  The terms of retail notes and
the basis on which the credit subsidiaries acquire retail notes from the sales
companies are governed by agreements with the sales companies.  A subsidiary of
the Capital Corporation leases John Deere agricultural, industrial and lawn and
grounds care equipment to United States retail customers.

The credit subsidiaries also purchase and finance retail notes unrelated to John
Deere, representing primarily  recreational vehicle and recreational marine
product notes acquired from independent dealers of those products and from
marine product mortgage service companies.  The United States credit
subsidiaries also finance and service unsecured revolving charge accounts
through merchants in the agricultural, lawn and grounds care and marine retail
markets and, additionally, provide wholesale financing for wholesale inventories
of recreational vehicles, manufactured housing units, yachts, John Deere engine
inventories and John Deere industrial equipment owned by dealers of those
products.  The credit subsidiaries intend to continue to seek additional volumes
and types of non-Deere financing with the objective of broadening their base of
business.

Retail notes acquired by the sales companies have been immediately sold to the
Credit Companies.  The Equipment Operations have been the Credit Companies'
major source of business, but in some cases, retail purchasers of John Deere
products finance their purchases outside the John Deere organization.

The Credit Companies' terms for financing equipment retail sales (other than
smaller items purchased through unsecured revolving charge accounts) provide for
retention of a security interest in the equipment financed.  The Credit
Companies' guidelines for  minimum down payments, which vary with the types of
equipment and repayment provisions, are generally not less than 20 percent on
agricultural and industrial equipment, 10 percent on lawn and grounds care
equipment used for personal use and 15 percent for recreational vehicles and
marine products.  Finance charges are sometimes waived for specified periods or
reduced on certain products sold or leased in advance of the season of use or in
other sales promotions.  The Credit Companies generally receive compensation
from the Equipment Operations equal to a competitive interest rate for periods
during which finance charges are waived or reduced on the retail notes




or leases.  The cost is accounted for as a deduction in arriving at net sales by
the Equipment Operations.

Retail leases are offered to equipment users in the United States by Deere
Credit, Inc.  A small number of leases are executed between Deere Credit, Inc.
and units of local government.  Leases are usually written for periods of one to
six years, and in some cases contain an option permitting the customer to
purchase the equipment at the end of the lease term.  Retail leases are also
offered in a generally similar manner to customers in Canada through a Canadian
subsidiary.

The Company has expressed an intention of conducting its business with the
Capital Corporation on such terms that the Capital Corporation's consolidated
ratio of earnings to fixed charges for each fiscal quarter will not be less than
1.05 to 1.  For 1995, the consolidated ratio of the Capital Corporation was 1.73
to 1.  This arrangement is not intended to make the Company responsible for
payment of the obligations of the Capital Corporation.  Additional information
on the Credit Companies appears under the caption "Credit Operations" on pages
27 and 28.

OVERSEAS.  Retail sales financing outside of the United States and Canada is
affected by a diversity of customs and regulations.  The Equipment Operations
retain only a minor part of the obligations arising from retail sales of their
products overseas.

INSURANCE

The Company's insurance subsidiaries consist of John Deere Insurance Group, Inc.
and its subsidiaries in the United States and John Deere Insurance Company of
Canada.  The insurance group business focus is on marketing commercial
property/casualty insurance services and coverages to selected market segments.
Marketing efforts are directed through separate business units that specialize
in a particular market segment.  The Dealer Operations business unit insures
dealership organizations in the United States with primary focus on agricultural
equipment, industrial equipment and automobile dealerships.  The Transportation
business unit insures trucking operations with primary focus on long-haul
trucking firms.  The Specialty Managers business unit provides insurance
coverages for niche markets, such as intracoastal ocean marine operations
through contracted underwriting managers.  Other specialty insurance business
marketed through the different business units include inland marine programs and
providing insurance on equipment utilized in forestry, construction and
agricultural operations.

In 1995, the Company's insurance subsidiaries agreed to sell their 3.1 million
shares (43.8 percent) of ReCapital Corporation to Zurich Reinsurance Centre
Holdings, Inc. for $57 million.  In 1995, the insurance subsidiaries also agreed
to sell their wholly-owned subsidiary, John Deere Life Insurance Company, to
Life Reassurance Corporation of America for $33 million.  These sales did not
have a significant effect on the Company's consolidated financial position or
net income for 1995.

For additional financial information on insurance operations, see the material
under the caption "Insurance Operations" on page 28.




HEALTH CARE

In 1985, the Company formed John Deere Health Care, Inc. to commercialize the
Company's expertise in the field of health care, which was developed from
efforts to control its own health care costs.  John Deere Health Care, Inc.
currently provides health management programs and related administrative
services, either directly or through its health maintenance organization
subsidiaries, Heritage National Healthplan, Heritage National Healthplan of
Tennessee and John Deere Family Healthplan, for companies located in Illinois,
Iowa, Wisconsin, Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia.  At October 31,
1995, approximately 311,000 individuals were enrolled in these programs, of
which approximately 68,300 were John Deere employees, retirees and their
dependents.

For additional financial information on health care operations, see the material
under the caption "Health Care Operations" on pages 28 and 29.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the State of California have
issued regulations concerning permissible emissions from off-road engines.  The
Company does not anticipate that the cost of complying with the regulations will
be material.

The Company has been designated a potentially responsible party (PRP), in
conjunction with other parties, in certain government actions associated with
hazardous waste sites.  As a PRP, the Company has been and will  be required to
pay a portion of the costs of evaluation and cleanup of these sites.  Management
does not expect that these matters will have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated financial position or operating results of the Company.

EMPLOYEES

At October 31, 1995, John Deere had approximately 33,400 employees, including
26,000 employees in the United States and Canada.  Unions are certified as
bargaining agents for approximately 44.5 percent of John Deere's United States
employees.  Most of the Company's United States production and maintenance
workers are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the United Auto
Workers (UAW), with an expiration date of September 30, 1997.  During 1995, the
Company reached an agreement with the Canadian Auto Workers (CAW) with an
expiration date of September 30, 1998.

The majority of employees at John Deere facilities overseas are also represented
by unions.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Following are the names and ages of the executive officers of the Company, their
positions with the Company and summaries of their backgrounds and business
experience.  All executive officers are elected or appointed by the Board of
Directors and hold office until the annual meeting of the Board of Directors
following the annual meeting of stockholders in each year.






ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES.

See "Manufacturing" in Item 1.

The Equipment Operations also own and operate buildings housing seven sales
branches, one centralized parts depot, five regional parts depots and several
transfer houses and warehouses throughout the United States and Canada.  These
facilities contain approximately 4.9 million square feet of floor space.  The
Equipment Operations also own and operate buildings housing three sales
branches, one centralized parts depot and three regional parts depots in Europe.
These facilities contain approximately 850,000 square feet of floor space.

Deere & Company administrative offices, offices for insurance and credit,
research facilities and certain facilities for health care activities, all of
which are owned by John Deere, together contain about 1.9 million square feet of
floor space.  John Deere also leases space in various locations totaling about
725,000 square feet.  John Deere's obligations on these leases are not material.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

The Company is subject to various unresolved legal actions which arise in the
normal course of its business, the most prevalent of which relate to product
liability and retail credit matters.   Although it is not possible to predict
with certainty the outcome of these unresolved legal actions or the range of
possible loss, the Company believes these unresolved legal actions will not have
a material effect on its financial position or results of operations.





ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO  A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

          None.

PART II
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Chicago
Stock Exchange and the Frankfurt, Germany Stock Exchange.  See the information
concerning quoted prices of the Company's common stock and the number of
stockholders in the second table and the third paragraph, and the data on
dividends declared and paid per share in the first table, under the caption
"Supplemental 1995 and 1994 Quarterly Information (Unaudited)" on page 43.

ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.


Financial Summary





ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

          See the information under the caption "Management's Discussion and
          Analysis" on pages 24 - 30.


ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

          See the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and
          supplementary data on pages 18 - 43 .


ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

          None.

PART III
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

          The information regarding directors in the proxy statement dated
          January 13, 1996 (the "proxy statement"), under the captions "Election
          of Directors" and "Directors Continuing in Office", is incorporated
          herein by reference.  Information regarding executive officers is
          presented in Item 1 of this report under the caption "Executive
          officers of the registrant".

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

          The information in the proxy statement under the captions "Option/SAR
          Grants in Last Fiscal Year", "Summary Compensation Table" and
          "Aggregate Option/SAR Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-
          End Option/SAR Values" is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

          (a)  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS.

               The information on the security ownership of a certain beneficial
               owner contained in the proxy statement under the caption
               "Principal Holders of Voting Securities" is incorporated by
               reference.




          (b)  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF MANAGEMENT.

               The information on shares of common stock of the Company
               beneficially owned by, and under option to (i) each director and
               (ii) the directors and officers as a group, contained in the
               proxy statement under the captions "Election of Directors",
               "Directors Continuing in Office" and "Aggregate Option/SAR
               Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End Option/SAR
               Values" is incorporated herein by reference.

          (c)  CHANGE IN CONTROL.

               None.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.


               None.


PART IV
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(a)(1)  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                PAGE

Statement of Consolidated Income for the years ended October 31, 1995,
 1994 and 1993                                                                18

Consolidated Balance Sheet, October 31, 1995 and 1994                         20

Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows for the years ended
 October 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993                                              22

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                    31

(a)(2)  SCHEDULE TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended
 October 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993                                              48

(a)(3)  EXHIBITS




     SEE THE "INDEX TO EXHIBITS" ON PAGES 50-52 OF THIS REPORT.

Certain instruments relating to long-term borrowings, constituting less than 10%
of registrant's total assets, are not filed as exhibits herewith pursuant to
Item 601(b)4(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K.  Registrant agrees to file copies of
such instruments upon request of the Commission.

(b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

Current report on Form 8-K dated August 31, 1995 (Item 5).
Current report on Form 8-K dated August 17, 1995 (Item 7).

     FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES OMITTED
The following schedules for the Company and consolidated subsidiaries are
omitted because of the absence of the conditions under which they are required:
I, III, IV and V.




                      (THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.)



DEERE & COMPANY
STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED INCOME
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




The "Consolidated" (Deere & Company and Consolidated Subsidiaries) data in this
statement conform with the requirements of FASB Statement No. 94. In the
supplemental consolidating data in this statement, "Equipment Operations" (Deere
& Company with Financial Services on the Equity Basis) reflect the basis of
consolidation described on page 31 of the notes to the consolidated financial
statements. The consolidated group data in the "Equipment Operations" income
statement reflect the results of the agricultural equipment, industrial
equipment and lawn and grounds care equipment operations. The supplemental
"Financial Services" consolidating data in this statement include Deere &
Company's credit, insurance and health care subsidiaries. Transactions
between the "Equipment Operations" and "Financial Services" have been
eliminated to arrive at the "Consolidated" data.

*Adjusted for three-for-one stock split effective November 17, 1995.

The information on pages 24 through 43 is an integral part of this statement.




DEERE & COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The "Consolidated" (Deere & Company and Consolidated Subsidiaries) data in this
statement conform with the requirements of FASB Statement No. 94. In the
supplemental consolidating data in this statement, "Equipment Operations" (Deere
& Company with Financial Services on the Equity Basis) reflect the basis of
consolidation described on page 31 of the notes to the consolidated financial
statements. The supplemental "Financial Services" consolidating data in this
statement include Deere & Company's credit, insurance and health care
subsidiaries. Transactions between the "Equipment Operations" and "Financial
Services" have been eliminated to arrive at the "Consolidated" data.

*Adjusted for three-for-one stock split effective November 17, 1995.

The information on pages 24 through 43 is an integral part of this statement.




DEERE & COMPANY
STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




The "Consolidated" (Deere & Company and Consolidated Subsidiaries) data in this
statement conform with the requirements of FASB Statement No. 94. In the
supplemental consolidating data in this statement, "Equipment Operations" (Deere
& Company with Financial Services on the Equity Basis) reflect the basis of
consolidation described on page 31 of the notes to the consolidated financial
statements. The supplemental "Financial Services" consolidating data in this
statement include Deere & Company's credit, insurance and health care
subsidiaries. Transactions between the "Equipment Operations" and "Financial
Services" have been eliminated to arrive at the "Consolidated" data.

The information on pages 24 through 43 is an integral part of this statement.




MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED
OCTOBER 31, 1995, 1994 AND 1993 (UNAUDITED)

Deere & Company and its subsidiaries manufacture, distribute and finance a full
range of agricultural equipment; a broad range of industrial equipment for
construction, forestry and public works; and a variety of lawn and grounds care
equipment. The company also provides credit, insurance and health care products
for businesses and the general public. Additional information on these business
segments is presented beginning on page 32.


1995 COMPARED WITH 1994 (UNAUDITED)

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
Deere & Company achieved record worldwide net income for 1995, totaling $706
million or $2.71 per share compared with last year's income of $604 million or
$2.34 per share on a post-split basis. The company's strong results for 1995
were due to higher production and sales levels, coupled with significantly
improved overseas and industrial equipment division results. Additionally, the
company's exports from the United States set a new record, totaling $1,314
million. Company results also continued to benefit from the strong performance
of its Financial Services subsidiaries. All per share information reflects a
three-for-one stock split effective November 17, 1995 (see "Capital Stock" note
on page 41).
     The company's annual sales and revenues exceeded $10 billion for the first
time in the company's history, due to continued growth in demand for the
company's products and services. Worldwide net sales and revenues increased 15
percent to $10,291 million in 1995 compared with $8,977 million in 1994. Net
sales of the Equipment Operations increased 15 percent in 1995 to $8,830 million
from $7,663 million last year. The physical volume of sales increased by 11
percent compared with a year ago.
     Finance and interest income increased 20 percent to $660 million in 1995
compared with $548 million last year, while insurance and health care premiums
increased three percent to $628 million in the current year compared with $609
million in 1994.
     The company's worldwide Equipment Operations, which exclude income from the
credit, insurance and health care operations and unconsolidated affiliates, had
income of $529 million in 1995 compared with $433 million in 1994. The improved
operating results of the Equipment Operations in 1995 were the primary factor
behind the company's record profitability. The benefits from the higher
production and sales volumes were partially offset by the impact of management's
planned initiatives to reduce service parts inventory and used goods
receivables. Service parts production was lower and used goods sales incentive
expenses increased compared to last year as a result of the initiatives. The
worldwide ratio of cost of goods sold to net sales was 78.6 percent in 1995
compared with 78.7 percent last year.
   Net income of the company's Financial Services operations remained strong
totaling $167 million in 1995 compared with $161 million in 1994. Additional
information is presented in the discussion of credit, insurance and health care
operations on pages 27 through 29.

BUSINESS SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA RESULTS
The following discussion of operating results by industry segment and geographic
area relates to information beginning on page 32. Operating profit is defined as
income before interest expense, foreign exchange gains and losses, income taxes
and certain corporate expenses, except for the operating profit of the credit
segment, which includes the effect of interest expense.

                          1995 NET SALES AND REVENUES
                               BY BUSINESS SEGMENT

[Pie Chart]
Agricultural Equipment 52%
Industrial Equipment 18%
Lawn and Grounds Care Equipment 17%
Health Care 3%
Insurance 4%
Credit 6%

     Operating profit of each of the company's Equipment Operations was
favorably affected by higher sales volumes compared with last year's results.

                        WORLDWIDE AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT

[Graph]
Net Sales (in billions) 93 - $4.1
                        94 - $4.7
                        95 - $5.3


Operating Profit (before restructuring)(in millions) 93 - $230
                                                     94 - $553
                                                     95 - $643

   Operating profit of the worldwide agricultural equipment segment increased
to $643 million in 1995 compared with $553 million in 1994, as a result of a 12
percent increase in worldwide agricultural equipment sales, along with a
substantial improvement in overseas results. These higher sales margins on
complete goods were partially offset by the previously mentioned used goods and
service parts initiatives.

                         WORLDWIDE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT
[Graph]

Net Sales (in billions) 93 - $1.3
                        94 - $1.6
                        95 - $1.9


Operating Profit (in millions) 93 - $20
                               94 - $132
                               95 - $198





     The worldwide industrial equipment operations improved substantially in
1995, generating an operating profit of $198 million this year compared with
$132 million in 1994, primarily as a result of higher production and sales
volumes, and improved operating efficiency. In 1995, sales increased 14 percent
compared to last year.

                    WORLDWIDE LAWN AND GROUNDS CARE EQUIPMENT
[Graph]

Net Sales (in billions) 93 - $1.1
                        94 - $1.3
                        95 - $1.7

Operating Profit (in millions) 93 - $99
                               94 - $162
                               95 - $165

   The worldwide lawn and grounds care equipment operations had an operating
profit of $165 million in 1995 compared with $162 million in 1994. The
Homelite division of Textron, Inc. was purchased in August 1994 and its
results since the acquisition are included in the lawn and grounds care
equipment operations. Net sales in 1995 included Homelite sales of $287
million compared to $36 million last year. Excluding Homelite, lawn and
grounds care equipment sales increased 10 percent in 1995. The benefits from
the small increase in production and sales volumes were offset by unfavorable
currency fluctuations on imported components. Including Homelite, lawn and
grounds care equipment sales increased 29 percent this year.

                             FINANCIAL SERVICES
[Graph]

Revenues (in billions) 93 - $1.1
                       94 - $1.2
                       95 - $1.3

Operating Profit (in millions) 93 - $247
                               94 - $238
                               95 - $261

   The combined operating profit of the credit, insurance and health care
business segments was $261 million in 1995 compared to $238 million in 1994.
Additional information on these businesses is presented in the discussion of
credit, insurance and health care operations on pages 27 through 29.
   On a geographic basis, the United States and Canadian
equipment operations had a higher operating profit of $839 million in 1995
compared with $764 million last year as a result of higher volumes, which were
partially offset by used goods sales incentive expenses and lower service parts
production. Sales increased 13 percent in 1995 and the physical volume of sales
increased 12 percent.
   The overseas equipment operations generated a significantly higher
operating profit of $167 million in 1995 compared with $83 million last year
primarily due to the higher sales volumes and the previous restructuring of
these operations. Overseas sales increased 21 percent and the physical volume
of sales increased nine percent in 1995 compared with 1994.

MARKET CONDITIONS AND OUTLOOK
Market demand for John Deere products remains very strong. Increased overseas
and domestic demand for agricultural commodities, coupled with lower than
anticipated harvest yields, have resulted in substantial increases in commodity
prices. Additionally, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) is
currently forecasting world grain stocks to be at the lowest levels, relative to
use, since it began keeping systematic records. The low commodity inventories,
expected increases in worldwide grain demand and the anticipated resulting
strong worldwide commodity price levels should bolster farmers' confidence and
result in continued strong demand for new and used agricultural equipment.
Additionally, government acreage set-asides should be lower in 1996 in response
to the reduction in world grain stocks which should further promote agricultural
demand. Therefore, the company expects agricultural equipment industry retail
sales to increase again in 1996, despite some uncertainty surrounding the new
farm bill.
   Nonresidential and public construction expenditures in 1996 are anticipated
to show moderate growth. Housing starts are projected to increase slightly over
1995 levels in response to lower mortgage rates now forecasted for 1996.
Consumer spending is expected to remain at relatively strong levels throughout
most of 1996. Additionally, the company's lawn and grounds care equipment demand
should also increase as a result of the introduction of a new product line,
"Sabre by John Deere," which includes entry-level lawn tractors and walk-behind
mowers. As a result of the many factors cited, industry retail sales for
industrial and lawn and grounds care products are expected to increase in 1996
compared with 1995. Financial Services revenues should reflect this continued
strong demand for John Deere products.
   The company's worldwide physical volume of sales to dealers in 1996 is
expected to increase by four percent compared with 1995, with first quarter
volumes anticipated to be approximately 12 percent higher than the first quarter
of 1995. Additionally, expenditures targeted at establishing markets for new and
existing products in both domestic and overseas regions are expected to increase
substantially in 1996. However, the expected volume increases will more than
offset the short-term costs associated with the company's planned growth
initiatives. Therefore, 1996 is expected to be another strong year.




1994 COMPARED WITH 1993 (UNAUDITED)

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS
Deere & Company's worldwide net income for 1994 was a record totaling $604
million or $2.34 per share compared with income of $248 million or $1.07 per
share in 1993 before the effects of the special items as shown in the following
table and described on pages 31, 34, and 36. The company's strongly improved
1994 results reflected substantially higher North American production and sales
volumes, improved operating efficiencies and significantly better overseas
results. Additionally, the company's exports from the United States set a
record, totaling $1,144 million. Company results also continued to benefit from
the strong performance of its Financial Services subsidiaries. Income in 1993
was $184 million or $.80 per share after the effects of the restructuring
charges and the tax rate change as shown in the table below. However, the
company incurred a worldwide net loss of $921 million or $3.97 per share in 1993
after the cumulative effect of accounting changes.



- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


   The company's total worldwide net sales and revenues increased 16 percent to
$9,030 million in 1994 compared with $7,754 million in 1993. Worldwide net sales
were $7,663 million in 1994, an increase of 18 percent from sales of $6,479
million in 1993. The physical volume of the company's worldwide sales increased
approximately 14 percent in 1994.
   Finance and interest income decreased three percent to $548 million in 1994
compared with $563 million in 1993, while insurance and health care premiums
increased 23 percent to $609 million in 1994 compared with $497 million in 1993.
   The company's worldwide Equipment Operations, which exclude income from the
credit, insurance and health care operations and unconsolidated affiliates, had
income of $433 million in 1994 compared with income of $77 million in 1993
before the effects of the restructuring charges and the tax rate change.
Including these special items, the Equipment Operations' income was $13 million
in 1993. The Equipment Operations incurred a net loss of $1,085 million in 1993
after all of the special items including the cumulative effect of the accounting
changes. Net income of the company's Financial Services subsidiaries totaled
$161 million in 1994 compared with income before accounting changes of $164
million in 1993 ($157 million after accounting changes). Additional information
is presented in the discussion of credit, insurance and health care operations
on pages 27 through 29.
   The improved operating results of the Equipment Operations in 1994 were
primarily due to higher North American production and sales volumes, and
continued improvements in operating efficiencies. North American sales were
19 percent higher than in 1993. The overseas equipment operations had
significantly higher income in 1994, primarily due to lower operating costs
generated by the ongoing restructuring of the company's European operations,
coupled with higher sales and production volumes. Reflecting the effects of
the improved operations, the worldwide ratio of cost of goods sold to net
sales decreased to 78.7 percent in 1994 compared with 83.1 percent in 1993.
After-tax results of the Equipment Operations in 1993 benefited by $33
million or $.14 per share from the reduction of inventories valued on a
last-in, first-out (LIFO) basis. A LIFO benefit was not recognized in 1994.

BUSINESS SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA RESULTS
The following discussion of operating results by industry segment and geographic
area relates to information beginning on page 32.
   Operating profit of each of the company's Equipment Operations in 1994 was
favorably affected by higher volumes and improved productivity compared with
results in 1993.
   Operating profit of the worldwide agricultural equipment segment increased to
$553 million in 1994 compared with $230 million in 1993 before restructuring
charges. This improvement was caused primarily by a 16 percent increase in sales
and improvements in operating efficiencies. There were no benefits from the
reduction of LIFO inventories in 1994 compared with $38 million in 1993. After
restructuring charges of $107 million, 1993 operating profit was $123 million.
   The worldwide industrial equipment operations improved significantly in 1994,
generating an operating profit of $132 million in 1994 compared with $20 million
in 1993. In 1994, sales increased 22 percent and operating costs were lower.
There were no LIFO inventory benefits in 1994 compared with $13 million in 1993.
   The worldwide lawn and grounds care equipment operations had a higher
operating profit of $162 million in 1994 compared with $99 million in 1993. Lawn
and grounds care equipment sales were up 24 percent in 1994. The Homelite
division of Textron, Inc. was purchased in August 1994 and its results since the
acquisition are included in the lawn and grounds care equipment operations.
   The combined operating profit of the credit, insurance and health care
business segments was $238 million in 1994 compared to $247 million in 1993.
Additional information on these businesses is presented in the discussion of
credit, insurance and health care operations on pages 27 through 29.
   On a geographic basis, the United States and Canadian equipment operations
had significantly higher operating profit of $764 million in 1994 compared with
$372 million in 1993. Sales increased 19 percent and operating efficiency
improved in all





of the company's businesses in 1994. There were no LIFO inventory benefits in
1994 compared with $13 million in 1993.
   The overseas equipment operations generated an operating profit of $83
million in 1994 compared with an operating loss of $23 million in 1993,
excluding restructuring charges. Overseas sales increased 17 percent and the
physical volume of sales increased approximately 11 percent in 1994 compared
with 1993. As previously mentioned, 1994 results were also favorably affected by
lower cost levels resulting primarily from the restructuring of the European
operations. However, there were no benefits from the reduction of LIFO
inventories in 1994 compared with $38 million in 1993. Including restructuring
charges of $107 million, the operating loss in 1993 was $130 million.


CREDIT OPERATIONS

Deere & Company's credit subsidiaries consist of John Deere Credit Company and
its subsidiaries in the United States and John Deere Finance Limited in Canada.
The credit operations bear all credit risk, net of recovery from withholdings
from dealers, and perform all servicing and collection functions on retail notes
and leases on John Deere products acquired by the credit subsidiaries from the
Equipment Operations. The Equipment Operations receive compensation from the
United States credit operations for originating retail notes and leases. The
Equipment Operations are reimbursed by the credit operations for staff support
and other administrative services at estimated cost, and for credit lines
provided by Deere & Company based on utilization of the lines. The credit
subsidiaries generally receive compensation from the Equipment Operations equal
to a competitive interest rate for periods during which finance charges have
been waived or reduced on retail notes and leases.
   Condensed combined financial information of the credit operations in millions
of dollars follows:


- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

   Total acquisitions of credit receivables and leases by the credit
subsidiaries increased 19 percent during 1995 compared to 1994. The higher
acquisitions this year resulted from an increased volume of retail notes,
revolving charge accounts and wholesale receivables.
   During 1995, retail notes acquired by the credit subsidiaries totaled $3,315
million, an 18 percent increase compared with 1994 acquisitions of $2,816
million. Acquisitions of recreational product retail notes accounted for 10
percent of total note acquisitions in 1995 and 11 percent in 1994. Acquisitions
of John Deere equipment notes were 16 percent higher in the current year due
primarily to increased retail sales of John Deere equipment and an improvement
in the credit subsidiaries' market share for the financing of John Deere
agricultural equipment. The credit operations also securitized and sold retail
notes which partially offset the increase in acquisitions, receiving proceeds of
$837 million during 1995 compared with $560 million last year. At October 31,
1995 and 1994, credit receivables and leases administered, which include
receivables previously sold but still administered, were $6,666 million and
$5,725 million, respectively. The discussion of "Credit Receivables" on pages 37
and 38 presents additional information.
   Income of the credit operations was $121 million in 1995 compared with $114
million in 1994 and $122 million in 1993 before the cumulative effect of
adopting FASB Statements No. 106 and 112. Net income in 1995 was higher than in
1994 reflecting higher earnings from a larger average receivable and lease
portfolio financed, partially offset by lower financing margins. Total revenues
of the credit operations increased 19 percent in




1995, due primarily to a larger average portfolio financed and a higher overall
yield on the receivables held in 1995 compared with 1994. The average balance of
credit receivables and leases financed was 13 percent higher in 1995 compared
with 1994. Higher average borrowings and higher borrowing rates in 1995 resulted
in a 43 percent increase in interest expense in 1995 compared to 1994.
   Income in 1994 was lower than in 1993 primarily reflecting the impact of a
higher dividend payout during the year, lower gains from the sale of retail
notes and higher selling, administrative and general expenses. These effects
were partially offset by higher securitization and servicing fee income from
notes previously sold but still administered. Total revenues of the credit
operations decreased two percent in 1994 compared with 1993. Revenues were
affected by lower gains from the sale of retail notes and lower interest rates
resulting in lower finance charges earned in 1994. These decreases in revenues
were partially offset by an increase in securitization and servicing fee income.
Additionally, lower average borrowing rates in 1994 resulted in a one percent
decrease in interest expense compared to 1993. The average balance of credit
receivables and leases financed was approximately the same in 1994 compared with
1993. Net income of the credit operations totaled $118 million in 1993 including
the cumulative effect of the changes in accounting standards.


INSURANCE OPERATIONS
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deere & Company's insurance subsidiaries consist of John Deere Insurance Group,
Inc. and its subsidiaries in the United States, which mainly provide general and
specialized property and casualty coverages to the general public, and John
Deere Insurance Company of Canada.
   Condensed combined financial information of the insurance operations in
millions of dollars follows:


- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(continued)


- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

   Insurance premium revenues of $20 million in 1995, $19 million in 1994 and
$26 million in 1993 related to coverages provided to Deere & Company and its
subsidiaries.
   Income of the insurance operations totaled $29 million in 1995 compared with
$31 million in 1994 and $31 million in 1993 before the cumulative effect of
adopting FASB Statements No. 106 and 112. The decrease in 1995 net income
compared with 1994 resulted from a loss from the sale of the John Deere Life
Insurance Company, lower equity income due to the sale of the insurance
operations' interest in Re Capital Corporation and a higher effective tax rate.
This decline was partially offset by an improvement in underwriting results and
investment income in 1995. The sales of the insurance companies mentioned above
will not significantly affect the future profitability of the insurance
operations and will enable the division to focus on growing its property and
casualty businesses. Premiums increased seven percent in 1995, while total
claims, benefits, and selling, administrative and general expenses increased one
percent from 1994.
   The benefits in 1994 of a lower effective tax rate, higher equity income from
Re Capital Corporation and improved underwriting results were offset by lower
investment income compared to 1993. Insurance premiums increased seven percent
in 1994, while total claims, benefits, and selling, administrative and general
expenses increased six percent from 1993. Net income of the insurance operations
totaled $29 million in 1993 including the cumulative effect of the changes in
accounting standards.


HEALTH CARE OPERATIONS

John Deere Health Care, Inc., directly or through its health maintenance
organizations and Deere & Company's insurance subsidiaries, provides
administrative services and managed health care programs for commercial clients
and Deere & Company.






   Condensed combined financial information of the health care operations in
millions of dollars follows:


- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

   Health care revenues of $28 million in 1995, $21 million in 1994 and $21
million in 1993 related to administrative services provided to Deere & Company
and its subsidiaries.
   Income of the health care operations totaled $16 million in 1995 and 1994,
and $11 million in 1993 before the cumulative effect of adopting FASB Statements
No. 106 and 112. Income in 1995 was affected by the development of new health
care delivery systems. Although managed care membership grew by five percent
during 1995, premium revenues increased one percent due to the shift from
insured to self-insured accounts. Total claims, benefits, and selling,
administrative and general expenses also increased one percent from 1994.
   The increase in 1994 income compared with 1993 resulted mainly from higher
membership and increased investment income. Health care premiums increased 38
percent in 1994, while total claims, benefits, and selling, administrative and
general expenses also increased 38 percent from 1993. Net income of the health
care operations totaled $10 million in 1993 including the cumulative effect of
the changes in accounting standards.

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY (UNAUDITED)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The discussion of capital resources and liquidity has been
organized to review separately, where appropriate, the company's Equipment
Operations, Financial Services operations and the consolidated totals.

EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS
The company's equipment businesses are capital intensive and are subject to
large seasonal variations in financing requirements for receivables from dealers
and inventories. Accordingly, to the extent necessary, funds provided from
operations are supplemented from external borrowing sources.

[Chart]




   Positive cash flows from operating activities in 1995 were primarily the
result of the record level of net income. In addition, dividends of $93 million
were received from the Financial Services subsidiaries. Partially offsetting
these positive operating cash flows were increases in dealer receivables and
contributions of $285 million to the pension fund. The aggregate amount of these
operating cash flows of $715 million, along with proceeds from the reduction in
receivables from the Financial Services subsidiaries of $135 million and an
increase in borrowings of $25 million, were used primarily to fund purchases of
property and equipment of $245 million and the payment of dividends to
stockholders of $191 million. Cash and cash equivalents also increased $427
million.
   Over the last three years, operating activities have provided an aggregate
of $2,094 million in cash, including dividends received from the Financial
Services subsidiaries of $405 million. Proceeds from the issuance of common
stock were $667 million during this three-year period. The aggregate amount
of these cash flows was used mainly to fund a decrease in borrowings of $967
million, purchases of property and equipment of $657 million, stockholders'
dividends of $515 million and the acquisition of Homelite for $120 million.
Cash and cash equivalents also increased $491 million.
   Net dealer accounts and notes receivable result mainly
from sales to dealers of equipment that is being carried in their inventories.
Although dealer receivables increased by $320 million during 1995, the ratios of
worldwide net dealer accounts and notes receivables at October 31 to fiscal year
net sales were 37 percent in 1995 compared to 38 percent in 1994 and 43 percent
in 1993. North American agricultural, industrial and lawn and grounds care
equipment dealer receivables increased approximately $210 million, $30 million
and $70 million, respectively. Total overseas dealer receivables were
approximately $10 million higher than one year ago.






   The collection period for receivables from dealers averages less than 12
months. The percentage of receivables outstanding for a period exceeding 12
months was eight percent at October 31, 1995 compared with seven percent at
October 31, 1994 and 11 percent at October 31, 1993.
   Company-owned inventories increased slightly in 1995 compared to 1994, while
net sales increased 15 percent.
   Total interest-bearing debt of the Equipment Operations was $1,099 million at
the end of 1995 compared with $1,073 million at the end of 1994 and
$1,546 million at the end of 1993. The ratio of total debt to total capital
(total interest-bearing debt and stockholders' equity) at the end of 1995,
1994 and 1993 was  26.3 percent, 29.6 percent and 42.6 percent, respectively.

FINANCIAL SERVICES
The Financial Services credit subsidiaries rely on their ability to raise
substantial amounts of funds to finance their receivable and lease portfolios.
Their primary sources of funds for this purpose are a combination of borrowings
and equity capital. Additionally, the credit subsidiaries periodically sell
substantial amounts of retail notes in the public market. The insurance and
health care subsidiaries generate their funds through internal operations and
have no external borrowings.
   Cash flows from the company's Financial Services operating activities were
$218 million in 1995. Cash provided by financing activities totaled $837 million
in 1995, representing an increase in total borrowings of $930 million, which was
partially offset by $93 million of dividends paid to the Equipment Operations.
The aggregate cash provided by operating and financing activities was used
primarily to increase credit receivables and a $151 million increase in cash and
cash equivalents. Cash used for investing activities totaled $903 million in
1995, primarily due to acquisitions of credit receivables exceeding collections
by $1,737 million, which was partially offset by proceeds of $837 million
received from the sale of receivables. Within the Financial Services operations,
the positive cash flows from insurance and health care operations were primarily
invested in marketable securities.
   Over the past three years, the Financial Services operating activities have
provided $705 million in cash, the sale of receivables $2,579 million and total
borrowings $1,145 million. These amounts have been used mainly to fund credit
receivable acquisitions which exceeded collections by $3,682 million, $405
million of dividends to the Equipment Operations and an excess of
$160 million in marketable security purchases over maturities and sales. Cash
and cash equivalents also increased $116 million.
   Marketable securities consist primarily of debt securities held by the
insurance and health care operations in support of their obligations to
policyholders. The $297 million decrease in 1995 compared with 1994 resulted
primarily from the sale of the John Deere Life Insurance Company including its
marketable securities.
   Credit receivables increased by $841 million in 1995 compared with 1994. The
discussion of "Credit Operations" on pages 27 through 28, and pages 37 through
38 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements provides detailed
information on these receivables.

   Total interest-bearing debt of the credit subsidiaries was $4,217 million at
the end of 1995 compared with $3,618 million at the end of 1994 and $2,603
million at the end of 1993. The credit subsidiaries' ratio of total interest-
bearing debt to total stockholder's equity was 6.1 to 1 at the end of 1995
compared with 5.3 to 1 at the end of 1994 and 3.8 to 1 at the end of 1993.
   During 1995, the John Deere Capital Corporation issued $150 million of
floating rate notes due in 1998 and retired $150 million of 5% debentures, $150
million of 11-5/8% debentures and $100 million of 6% debentures all due in 1995.
During the same period, the Capital Corporation also issued $625 million and
retired $226 million of medium-term notes.

CONSOLIDATED
The company maintains unsecured lines of credit with various banks in North
America and overseas. The discussion of "Short-Term Borrowings" on page 39
provides further information on these lines of credit.
   During 1995, the total increase in cash and cash equivalents on a
consolidated basis was $118 million. This represents $427 million provided by
the Equipment Operations and $151 million provided by Financial Services,
reduced by $460 million of Equipment Operations' cash deposited with the
Financial Services operations.
   The company is naturally exposed to various interest rate and foreign
currency risks. As a result, the company enters into derivative transactions to
hedge these exposures that arise in the normal course of business, and not for
the purpose of creating speculative positions or trading. In common with other
large credit companies, the company's credit subsidiaries actively
manage the relationship of the types and amounts of their funding sources to
their receivable and lease portfolio in an effort to diminish risk due to
interest rate fluctuations, while responding to favorable financing
opportunities. Accordingly, from time to time, these subsidiaries enter into
interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to hedge their interest rate
exposure in amounts corresponding to a portion of their borrowings. The company
also has foreign currency exposures at some of its
foreign and domestic operations related to buying, selling and financing in
currencies other than the local currencies. The company has entered into
agreements related to the management of these currency transaction risks. The
credit and market risks under these interest rate and foreign currency
agreements are not considered to be significant. Additional detailed information
is included in the "Financial Instruments" note on pages 42 and 43.
   Stockholders' equity was $3,085 million at October 31, 1995 compared with
$2,558 million and $2,085 million at October 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
The increase in 1995 was caused primarily by net income of $706 million, an
increase in common stock of $237 million including a one-time stock-split
adjustment of $175 million, and a $6 million change in the cumulative
translation adjustment, partially offset by cash dividends declared of $195
million, a $175 million adjustment to retained earnings for the stock split and
an increase of $52 million in the minimum pension liability adjustment.






NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Following are significant accounting policies in addition to those
included in other notes to the consolidated financial statements.
   The consolidated financial statements represent the consolidation of all
companies in which Deere & Company has a majority ownership. Deere & Company
records its investment in each unconsolidated affiliated company (20 to 50
percent ownership) at its related equity in the net assets of such affiliate.
Other investments (less than 20 percent ownership) are recorded at cost.
Unconsolidated affiliates at October 31, 1995 consisted primarily of
equipment affiliates in Brazil, Mexico and the United States. Consolidated
retained earnings at October 31, 1995 include undistributed earnings of the
unconsolidated affiliates of $65 million. Dividends from unconsolidated
affiliates were $2 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993.
   The company's consolidated financial statements and some information in the
notes and related commentary are presented in a format which includes data
grouped as follows:
EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS -- These data include the company's agricultural equipment,
industrial equipment and lawn and grounds care equipment operations with
Financial Services reflected on the equity basis. Data relating to the above
equipment operations, including the consolidated group data in the income
statement, are also referred to as "Equipment Operations" in this report.
FINANCIAL SERVICES -- These data include the company's credit, insurance and
health care operations.
CONSOLIDATED -- These data represent the consolidation of the Equipment
Operations and Financial Services in conformity with Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 94. References to "Deere & Company" or "the
company" refer to the entire enterprise.
   Sales of equipment and service parts are generally recorded by the company
when they are shipped to independent dealers. Provisions for sales incentives
and product warranty costs are recognized at the time of sale or at the
inception of the incentive programs.
   Retail notes receivable include unearned finance income in the face amount of
the notes, which is amortized into income over the lives of the notes on the
effective-yield basis. Unearned finance income on variable-rate notes is
adjusted monthly based on fluctuations in the base rate of a specified bank.
Financing leases receivable include unearned lease income, which is equal to the
excess of the gross lease receivable plus the estimated residual value over the
cost of the equipment, and is recognized as revenue over the lease terms on the
effective-yield basis. Rental payments applicable to equipment on operating
leases are recorded as income on a straight-line method over the lease terms.
Assets on operating leases are recorded at cost and depreciated on a straight-
line method over the terms of the leases. Interest charged to revolving charge
account customers and on wholesale receivables is based on the balances
outstanding. Other receivables from limited-purpose business trusts are recorded
at net present value and relate to deposits made pursuant to recourse provisions
and other payments to be received under asset backed securities sales
agreements. The receivables are amortized to their value at maturity using the
interest method. Securitization and servicing fee income includes both the
amortization of the above receivables and reimbursed administrative expenses
received from the trusts.

   Insurance and health care premiums are generally recognized as earned over
the terms of the related policies. Insurance and health care claims and
reserves include liabilities for unpaid claims and future policy benefits.
Policy acquisition costs, such as commissions, premium taxes and certain
other underwriting expenses, are deferred and amortized over the terms of the
related policies. The liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment
expenses is based on estimated costs of settling the claims using past
experience adjusted for current trends. The receivable for amounts
recoverable from reinsurers is estimated based on the corresponding claim
liability associated with the reinsured policies.
   On November 15, 1995, a special meeting of stockholders was held authorizing
a three-for-one stock split effective November 17, 1995. All references in the
consolidated financial statements referring to shares, share prices, per share
amounts and stock plans have been adjusted retroactively for the three-for-one
stock split. Additional information is presented in the "Capital Stock" note on
page 41.
   In 1995, the company's insurance subsidiaries agreed to sell their 3.1
million shares (43.8 percent) of Re Capital Corporation to Zurich Reinsurance
Centre Holdings, Inc. for $57 million. In 1995, the insurance subsidiaries
also agreed to sell their wholly-owned subsidiary, John Deere Life Insurance
Company, to Life Reassurance Corporation of America for $33 million. These
sales did not have a significant effect on the company's consolidated
financial position or net income for 1995.
   In 1995, the company adopted FASB Statement No. 115, Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. The Statement had an immaterial
effect on stockholders' equity and no impact on the consolidated income
statement. Additional information is presented in the "Marketable Securities"
note on pages 36 and 37. In 1995, the company also adopted FASB Statement No.
119, Disclosure about Derivative Financial Instruments and Fair Value of
Financial Instruments. Additional information is presented in the "Financial
Instruments" note on pages 42 and 43.
   In October 1995, the FASB issued Statement No. 123, Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation, which the company must adopt by fiscal year 1997.
This Statement defines a new "fair value" method of accounting for
stock-based compensation expense, and requires certain additional disclosures
for these plans. The Statement also allows the retention of the previous
"intrinsic value" method of accounting for expense recognition under
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees. The company intends to retain the intrinsic value method and,
therefore, the new standard will have no effect on the company's net income
or financial position.
   In 1993, the company adopted FASB Statement No. 106, Employers' Accounting
for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. The company elected to
recognize the pretax transition obligation of $1,712 million ($1,095 million or
$4.72 per share net of deferred income taxes) as a one-time charge to earnings
in 1993. In 1993, the company also adopted FASB Statement No. 112, Employers'
Accounting for Postemployment Benefits. The cumulative pretax charge resulting
from this change in accounting totaled $16 million ($10 million or $.04 per
share net of deferred income taxes).
   Certain amounts for prior years have been reclassified to conform with 1995
financial statement presentations.




- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INDUSTRY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA DATA FOR THE
YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1995, 1994 AND 1993
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In prior years, the company's business segment disclosures combined the
insurance and health care operations. As a result of the development and
expansion of the health care operations, insurance and health care have been
divided into separate segments with prior periods reclassified to conform to the
current presentation. The company's operations are now categorized into six
business segments described as follows.
   The company's worldwide agricultural equipment segment manufactures and
distributes a full range of equipment used in commercial farming - including
tractors; tillage, soil preparation, planting and harvesting machinery;
sprayers; crop handling equipment and precision farming devices.
   The company's worldwide industrial equipment segment manufactures and
distributes a broad range of machines used in construction, earthmoving and
forestry - including backhoe loaders; crawler dozers and loaders; four-wheel-
drive loaders; scrapers; motor graders; excavators; and log skidders. This
segment also includes the manufacture and distribution of
engines and drivetrain components for the original equipment manufacturer (OEM)
market.
   The company's worldwide lawn and grounds care equipment segment manufactures
and distributes equipment for commercial and residential uses - including small
tractors for lawn, garden and utility purposes; riding and walk-behind mowers;
golf course equipment; utility transport vehicles; snowblowers; hand-held
products such as chain saws, string trimmers and leaf blowers; and other outdoor
power products.
   The products produced by the equipment segments are marketed primarily
through independent retail dealer networks and other retail outlets.
   The company's credit segment, which operates in the United States and Canada,
primarily finances and services: retail notes related to sales by John Deere
dealers of new and used equipment; retail notes related to sales by non-Deere
dealers of recreational vehicle and marine products; leases of John Deere
equipment to retail customers; unsecured revolving charge accounts acquired from
merchants; and wholesale notes from certain dealers of the foregoing equipment.
   The company's insurance segment issues policies in the United States and
Canada primarily for: general and specialized lines of property and casualty
insurance to the general public, group accident and health insurance for
employees of participating John Deere dealers and disability insurance for
employees of the company.
   The company's health care segment provides health management programs and
related administrative services in the United States to corporate customers
as well as employees of the company.
   Because of integrated manufacturing operations and common administrative
and marketing support, a substantial number of allocations must be made to
determine industry segment and geographic area data. Intersegment sales and
revenues represent sales of components, insurance premiums, health care
administrative services and finance charges. Interarea sales represent sales
of complete machines, service parts and components to units in other
geographic areas. Intersegment sales and revenues and interarea sales are
generally priced at market prices. Overseas operations are defined to include
all activities of divisions, subsidiaries and affiliated companies conducted
outside the United States and Canada.
   Information relating to operations by industry segment in millions of dollars
follows. Comments relating to these data are included in Management's Discussion
and Analysis. In addition to the following segment unaffiliated sales and
revenues, intersegment sales and revenues in 1995, 1994, and 1993 were as
follows: agricultural equipment net sales of $117 million, $119 million and $123
million; industrial equipment net sales of $91 million, $104 million and $85
million; credit revenues of $1 million, $1 million and $1 million; insurance
revenues of $20 million, $19 million and $26 million; and health care revenues
of $28 million, $21 million and $21 million, respectively.



*    In 1993, the operating profit of the agricultural equipment business
     segment includes restructuring costs of $107 million.
**   Operating profit of the credit business segment includes the effect of
     interest expense, which is the largest element of its operating costs.
     Operating profit of the insurance and health care business segments include
     investment income.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(continued)





   The company views and has historically disclosed its operations as consisting
of two geographic areas, the United States and Canada, and overseas, shown below
in millions of dollars. The percentages shown in the captions for net sales and
revenues, operating profit (loss) and identifiable assets indicate the
approximate proportion of each amount that relates to either the United States
only or to the company's Europe, Africa and Middle East division, the only
overseas area deemed to be significant for disclosure purposes. The percentages
are based upon a three-year average for 1995, 1994 and 1993. In addition to the
following geographic unaffiliated sales, interarea sales in 1995, 1994 and 1993
were as follows: Unites States and Canada equipment net sales of $763 million,
$640 million and $558 million, and overseas net sales of $395 million, $360
million and $322 million, respectively.



*    In 1993, the operating loss of the overseas equipment operations includes
     restructuring costs of $107 million.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(continued)


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total exports from the United States were $1,314 million  in 1995, $1,144
million in 1994 and $961 million in 1993. Exports from the Europe, Africa and
Middle East division were $510 million in 1995, $495 million in 1994 and $423
million  in 1993. Most of these exports were to the United States  and Canada.


REINSURANCE
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The company's insurance subsidiaries utilize reinsurance to limit their losses
and reduce their exposure to large claims. Although reinsurance contracts permit
recovery of certain claims from reinsurers, the insurance subsidiaries are not
relieved of their primary obligations to the policyholders. The financial
condition of the reinsurers is evaluated to minimize any exposure to losses from
insolvencies.




   Insurance and health care premiums earned consisted of the following in
millions of dollars:


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   The difference between premiums earned and written is not material.
Reinsurance recoveries on ceded reinsurance contracts during 1995 and 1994
totaled $36 million and $80 million, respectively, and are deducted from
"Insurance and Health Care Claims and Benefits" expense. At October 31, 1995 and
1994, reinsurance receivables of $81 million and $75 million and  prepaid
insurance premiums of $18 million and $15 million, respectively, were associated
with a single reinsurer.


RESTRUCTURING COSTS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
During the second quarter of 1993, the company initiated plans to downsize and
rationalize its European operations. This resulted in a restructuring charge of
$80 million after income taxes or $.34 Per share ($107 million before income
taxes). The charge mainly represented the cost of employment reductions. As of
October 31, 1995, the expected employment reductions and the disbursement of the
$107 million accrual were both approximately 80 percent complete. The remaining
accrual is expected to be utilized in 1996.


PENSION BENEFITS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The company has several pension plans covering substantially all of its United
States employees and employees in certain foreign countries. The United States
plans and significant foreign plans in Canada, Germany and France are defined
benefit plans in which the benefits are based primarily on years of service and
employee compensation near retirement. It is the company's policy to fund its
United States plans according to the 1974 Employee Retirement Income Security
Act (ERISA) and income tax regulations. In Canada, the company's funding is in
accordance with local laws and income tax regulations, while the pension plans
in Germany and France are unfunded. Plan assets in the United States and Canada
consist primarily of common stocks, common trust funds, government securities
and corporate debt securities. Pension cost for United States plans is based on
the 1983 Group Annuity Mortality Table.
   The expense of all pension plans was $120 million in 1995, $130 million in
1994 and $151 million in 1993. In 1995, pension expense decreased $25 million
from utilization of a higher discount rate and $21 million from the total
increased funding and investment experience, which were partially offset by $17
million of lump sum payments, $11 million from other actuarial experience and $8
million from a change in the retirement assumption. In 1994, pension expense
decreased by $46 million from the total increased funding and investment
experience and $26 million from a change in assumed rates of compensation
increases, which were partially offset by $35 million from the utilization of a
lower discount rate and $16 million from other actuarial experience.
   The components of net periodic pension cost and the  significant assumptions
for the United States plans consisted of  the following in millions of dollars
and in percents:


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

   A reconciliation of the funded status of the United States plans at
October 31 in millions of dollars follows:
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------







   The components of net periodic pension cost and the significant assumptions
for the foreign plans consisted of the following in millions of dollars and in
percents:


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   A reconciliation of the funded status of the foreign plans at october 31 in
millions of dollars follows:
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The company generally provides defined benefit health care and life insurance
plans for retired employees in the United States and Canada.  Provisions of the
benefit plans for hourly employees are, in large part, subject to collective
bargaining.  The plans for salaried employees include certain cost-sharing
provisions.  It is the company's policy to fund a portion of its obligations for
the United States postretirement health care benefit plans under provisions of
Internal Revenue Code Section 401(h). Plan assets consist primarily of common
stocks, common trust funds, government securities and corporate debt securities.
   The components of net periodic postretirement benefits cost and the
significant assumptions for the United States and Canadian plans consisted of
the following in millions of dollars and in percents:


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   A reconciliation of the funded status of the united states and canadian plans
in millions of dollars follows:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   The annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered health care
benefits (the health care cost trend rate) used to determine 1995 cost was
assumed to be 9.1 Percent for 1996 decreasing gradually to 4.5 Percent by the
year 2001. The rate used to determine 1994 cost was assumed to be 8.2 Percent
for 1995 decreasing gradually to 4.5 Percent by the year 2001. The rate used to
determine 1993 cost was assumed to be 1.3 Percent for 1994 increasing to 9.0
Percent in 1995 and decreasing gradually to 4.3 Percent by the year 2001. The
1994 rate used in 1993 was lower than normal due to the effects of plan changes.
An increase of one percentage point in the assumed health care cost trend rate
would increase the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of october
31, 1995 by $187 million and the aggregate of the service and interest cost
components of net periodic postretirement benefits cost for the year then ended
by $23 million.




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INCOME TAXES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The provision (credit) for income taxes by taxing jurisdiction and by
significant component consisted of the following in
millions of dollars:




   Based upon location of the company's operations, the consolidated income
(loss) before income taxes in the United States in 1995, 1994 and 1993 was $881
million, $781 million and $353 million, respectively, and in foreign countries
was $212 million, $140 million and $(80) million, respectively. Certain overseas
operations are branches of Deere & Company and are, therefore, subject to United
States as well as foreign income tax regulations. The pretax income (loss) by
location and the preceding analysis of the income tax provision (credit) by
taxing jurisdiction are, therefore, not directly related.
   The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 was signed into law during
1993. In accordance with FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes,
the United States deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of the
enactment date were revalued during 1993 using the new tax rate of 35 percent.
This resulted in a credit of $17 million or $.07 Per share to the provision for
income taxes.

   A comparison of the statutory and effective income tax provision and reasons
for related differences in millions of dollars follow:



   Deferred income taxes arise because there are certain items that are treated
differently for financial accounting than for income tax reporting purposes. An
analysis of the deferred income tax assets and liabilities at October 31 in
millions of dollars follows:



     At October 31, 1995, accumulated earnings in certain overseas subsidiaries
and affiliates totaled $530 million for which no provision for United States
income taxes or foreign withholding taxes has been made, because it is expected
that such earnings will be reinvested overseas indefinitely. Determination
of the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability on these unremitted
earnings is not practical.
     Deere & Company files a consolidated federal income tax return in the
United States, which includes the wholly-owned Financial Services subsidiaries.
These subsidiaries account for income taxes generally as if they filed separate
income tax returns.
     At October 31, 1995, certain foreign tax loss and tax credit carryforwards
were available. The expiration dates and amounts in millions of dollars are as
follows: 1996 - $2, 1997 - $5, 1998 - $9, 1999 - $7, 2000 - $4 and unlimited -
$2.


MARKETABLE SECURITIES
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Marketable securities are held by the insurance and health care
subsidiaries. The company adopted FASB Statement No. 115, Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, in the first quarter of 1995. Held-
to-maturity debt securities are carried at amortized cost. Available-for-sale
debt securities and equity securities are carried at fair value with
unrealized gains and losses shown as a separate component of stockholders'
equity. Previously, the company valued all its debt securities on an amortized
cost basis and its equity securities on a cost basis. Realized gains or losses
from the sales of marketable securities are based on the specific identification
method.


   The amortized cost and fair value of marketable securities
in millions of dollars follow:



   The contractual maturities of debt securities at October 31, 1995 in millions
of dollars follow:




   Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because some
borrowers have the right to call or prepay obligations. Proceeds from the sales
of available-for-sale securities were $79 million in 1995, and gross realized
gains and losses on those sales were $9 million and $2 million, respectively.
The increase in the net unrealized holding gain on available-for-sale securities
was $5 million ($3 million after income taxes) during 1995. In 1995, the John
Deere Life Insurance Company was sold, including its held-to-maturity marketable
securities of $229 million and available-for-sale securities of $100 million.
   During November 1995, in concurrence with the adoption of "A Guide to
Implementation of Statement 115 on Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt
and Equity Securities - Questions and Answers," the company transferred all its
held-to-maturity debt securities to the available-for-sale category. The
amortized cost of these securities at the time of transfer was $484 million and
the unrealized gain was $29 million ($19 million after income taxes). Although
the company's intention to hold a majority of its debt securities to maturity
has not changed, the transfer was made to increase flexibility in responding to
future changes.


DEALER ACCOUNTS AND NOTES RECEIVABLE
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dealer accounts and notes receivable at October 31 consisted of
the following in millions of dollars:



     At October 31, 1995 and 1994, dealer notes included above were $575 million
and $490 million, respectively.
     Dealer accounts and notes receivable arise primarily from sales to dealers
of John Deere agricultural, industrial and lawn and grounds care equipment. The
company retains as collateral a security interest in the equipment associated
with these receivables. Generally, terms to dealers require payments as the
equipment which secures the indebtedness is sold to retail customers. Interest
is charged on balances outstanding after certain interest-free periods, which
range from six to nine months for agricultural tractors, one to five months for
industrial equipment, and from five to 24 months for most other equipment.
Dealer accounts and notes receivable have significant concentrations of credit
risk in the agricultural, industrial and lawn and grounds care business sectors
as shown in the previous table. On a geographic basis, there is not a
disproportionate concentration of credit risk in any area.

CREDIT RECEIVABLES
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Credit receivables at October 31 consisted of the following in
millions of dollars:





     At October 31, 1995, $118 million of the credit receivables was financed by
the Equipment Operations and $5,227 million by the credit subsidiaries.
     Credit receivables have significant concentrations of credit risk in the
agricultural, industrial, lawn and grounds care, and recreational product
business sectors as shown in the previous table. On a geographic basis, there is
not a disproportionate concentration of credit risk in any area. The company
retains as collateral a security interest in the equipment associated with
retail notes and leases.
     Credit receivable installments, including unearned finance income, at
october 31 are scheduled as follows in millions of dollars:



     The maximum maturities for retail notes are generally seven years for
agricultural equipment, five years for industrial equipment, six years for lawn
and grounds care equipment and 15 years for recreational products. The maximum
term for financing leases is six years, while the maximum maturity for wholesale
notes is generally 12 months.
     The company's United States and Canadian credit subsidiaries received
proceeds of $837 million in 1995, $560 million in 1994 and $1,143 million in
1993 from the sale of retail notes to limited-purpose business trusts, which
utilized the notes as collateral for the issuance of asset backed securities to
the public. Certain other foreign subsidiaries also sold retail notes to other
financial institutions, receiving proceeds of $.5 Million in 1995, $2 million in
1994 and $5 million in 1993. At October 31, 1995 and 1994, the unpaid balances
of retail notes previously sold were $1,279 million and $1,176 million,
respectively. The company's maximum exposure under all retail note recourse
provisions at October 31, 1995 and 1994 was $188 million and $142 million,
respectively. The retail notes sold are collateralized by security interests in
the related machinery sold to customers. There is no anticipated credit risk
related to nonperformance by the counterparties. At October 31, 1995 and 1994,
worldwide credit receivables administered, which include credit receivables
previously sold but still administered, totaled $6,624 million and $5,678
million, respectively.
     Total credit receivable amounts 60 days or more past due were $16 million
at October 31, 1995 compared with $14 million at October 31, 1994. These past-
due amounts represented .30 Percent of the credit receivables financed at
October 31, 1995 and .31 Percent at October 31, 1994. The allowance for doubtful
credit receivables represented 1.61 Percent and 1.87 Percent of credit
receivables outstanding at october 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively. In addition,
at October 31, 1995 and 1994, the company's credit subsidiaries had $144 million
and $127 million, respectively, of deposits withheld from dealers and merchants
available for potential credit losses. An analysis of the allowance for doubtful
credit receivables follows in millions of dollars:



OTHER RECEIVABLES
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other receivables at October 31 consisted of the following in
millions of dollars:


   Other receivables are primarily held by the Financial Services subsidiaries.
The credit subsidiaries have sold retail notes to limited-purpose business
trusts, which utilized the notes as collateral for the issuance of asset backed
securities to the public. The balance of the related receivables is equal to the
unamortized present value of deposits made with the trusts pursuant to recourse
provisions, and other payments to be received under the sales agreements.


EQUIPMENT ON OPERATING LEASES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating leases arise from the lease of John Deere equipment to retail
customers in the United States and Canada. Initial lease terms range from 12 to
72 months. The net value of John Deere equipment on operating leases was $259
million and $219 million at October 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively. Of these
leases, at October 31, 1995, $119 million was financed by the equipment
operations and $140 million by John Deere credit company. The accumulated
depreciation on this equipment was $71 million and $56 million at october 31,
1995 and 1994, respectively. The corresponding depreciation expense was $35
million in 1995, $31 million in 1994 and $29 million in 1993.
     Future payments to be received on operating leases totaled $143 million at
October 31, 1995 and are scheduled as follows:
1996 - $55, 1997 - $40, 1998 - $28, 1999 - $16 and 2000 - $4.


INVENTORIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Substantially all inventories owned by Deere & Company and its United States
equipment subsidiaries are valued at cost on the "last-in, first-out" (LIFO)
method. Remaining inventories are generally valued at the lower of cost, on the
"first-in, first-out" (FIFO) basis, or market. The value of gross inventories on
the LIFO basis represented 79 percent and 82 percent of worldwide gross
inventories at fifo value on october 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
     Under the LIFO inventory method, cost of goods sold ordinarily reflects
current production costs, thus providing a matching of current costs and current
revenues in the income statement. However, when LIFO-valued inventories decline,
as they did in 1993, lower costs that prevailed in prior years are matched
against current year revenues, resulting in higher reported net income. Benefits
from the reduction of LIFO inventories totaled $51 million ($33 million or $.14
Per share after income taxes) in 1993.



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Raw material, work-in-process and finished goods inventories at October 31,
1995 totaled $721 million on a LIFO-value basis compared with $698 million one
year ago. If all inventories had been valued on a FIFO basis, estimated
inventories by major classification at October 31 in millions of dollars would
have been as follows:



PROPERTY AND DEPRECIATION
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A summary of consolidated property and equipment at October 31 in millions of
dollars follows:



     Leased property under capital leases amounting to $7 million and $11
million at October 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively, is included primarily in
machinery and equipment and all other.
     Property and equipment additions and depreciation are reported on page 33.
Property and equipment expenditures for new and revised products, increased
capacity and the replacement or major renewal of significant items of property
and equipment are capitalized. Expenditures for maintenance, repairs and minor
renewals are generally charged to expense as incurred. Most of
the company's property and equipment is depreciated using
the straight-line method for financial accounting purposes. Depreciation for
United States federal income tax purposes is computed using accelerated
depreciation methods.
     It is not expected that the cost of compliance with foreseeable
environmental requirements will have a material effect on the company's
financial position or operating results.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Consolidated net intangible assets totaled $305 million and $284
million at October 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively. The Equipment Operations'
balance of $295 million at October 31, 1995 consisted primarily of $176 million
related to the minimum pension liability required by FASB Statement No. 87, and
unamortized goodwill which resulted from the purchase cost of assets acquired
exceeding their fair value. The intangible pension asset increased by $18
million during 1995.
     Intangible assets, excluding the intangible pension asset,
are being amortized over 25 years or less, and the accumulated amortization was
$30 million and $59 million at October 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
Accumulated amortization decreased due to the sale of the John Deere Life
Insurance Company.  The intangible pension asset is remeasured and adjusted
annually. The unamortized goodwill is reviewed periodically for potential
impairment.

SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Short-term borrowings at October 31 consisted of the following in millions of
dollars:


   The weighted average interest rates on consolidated short-term borrowings,
excluding current maturities of long-term borrowings, at October 31, 1995 and
1994 were 5.9 percent and 5.0 percent, respectively. All of the financial
services' short-term borrowings represent obligations of the credit
subsidiaries.
   Unsecured lines of credit available from United States and foreign banks were
$4,108 million at October 31, 1995. Some of these credit lines are available to
both the equipment operations and certain credit subsidiaries. At October 31,
1995, $1,632 million of the worldwide lines of credit were unused. For the
purpose of computing the unused credit lines, total short-term borrowings,
excluding the current portion of long-term borrowings, were considered to
constitute utilization.
   Included in the above lines of credit is a long-term committed credit
agreement expiring on April 4, 2000 for $3,500 million. This agreement is
mutually extendable and the annual facility fee is .095 Percent.
   The credit agreement has various requirements of John Deere Capital
Corporation, including the maintenance of its consolidated ratio of earnings
before fixed charges to fixed charges at not less than 1.05 to 1 for each fiscal
quarter. In addition, the Capital Corporation's ratio of senior debt to total
stockholder's equity plus subordinated debt may not be more than 8 to 1 at the
end of any fiscal quarter. Deere & Company has expressed an intention of
conducting business with the Capital Corporation on such terms that its ratio of
earnings before fixed charges to fixed charges will not be less than 1.05 to 1
for each fiscal quarter. These arrangements are not intended to make Deere &
Company responsible for the payment of obligations of this credit subsidiary.
The credit agreement also contains a provision requiring Deere & Company to
maintain consolidated tangible net worth of $500 million according to United
States generally accepted accounting principles as of October 31, 1994. Under
this provision, the company's total retained earnings balance was free of
restriction at October 31, 1995.





- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Accounts payable and accrued expenses at October 31 consisted
of the following in millions of dollars:


LONG-TERM BORROWINGS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Long-term borrowings at October 31 consisted of the following in millions of
dollars:


   All of the financial services' long-term borrowings represent obligations of
John Deere Capital Corporation.
   The approximate amounts of the Equipment Operations' long-term borrowings
maturing and sinking fund payments required in each of the next five years in
millions of dollars are as follows: 1996 - $319, 1997 - $79, 1998 - $49, 1999 -
$210 and 2000 - $15. The approximate amounts of the Capital Corporation's long-
term borrowings maturing and sinking fund payments required in each of the next
five years in millions of dollars are as follows: 1996 - $344, 1997 - $489, 1998
- - $393, 1999 - $248 and 2000 - $290.

LEASES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
At October 31, 1995, future minimum lease payments under capital leases totaled
$1 million in 1996. Total rental expense for operating leases during 1995 was
$50 million compared with $49 million in 1994 and $48 million in 1993. At
October 31, 1995, future minimum lease payments under operating leases amounted
to $76 million as follows: 1996 - $28, 1997 - $22, 1998 - $15, 1999 - $5, 2000 -
$2, later years - $4.

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
On October 31, 1995, the company's maximum exposure under all credit receivable
recourse provisions was $188 million for retail notes sold to limited-purpose
business trusts or financial institutions by both the financial services
subsidiaries and the equipment operations. In addition, certain foreign
subsidiaries have pledged assets with a balance sheet value of $46 million as
collateral for bank advances of $1 million. Also, at October 31, 1995, the
company had commitments of approximately $55 million for construction and
acquisition of property and equipment.
   The company is subject to various unresolved legal actions which arise in the
normal course of its business, the most prevalent of which relate to product
liability and retail credit matters. Although it is not possible to predict with
certainty the outcome




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
of these unresolved legal actions or the range of possible loss, the company
believes these unresolved legal actions will not have a material effect on its
financial position or results of operations.

CAPITAL STOCK
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
On November 15, 1995, the company declared a three-for-one stock split effected
in the form of a 200 percent stock dividend to stockholders of record on
November 17, 1995. This stock split has been recorded as of October 31, 1995 by
a transfer of $175 million from retained earnings to common stock, representing
a $1 par value for each additional share issued. The number of common shares the
company is authorized to issue was also increased from 200 million to 600
million and the number of authorized preferred shares, none of which has been
issued, was increased from three million to nine million.
   Changes in the common stock account in 1993, 1994 and 1995 were as follows:

*Adjusted for three-for-one stock split.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   In September 1993, the company issued 24,150,000 shares of common stock on a
post-split basis in a public offering. The net proceeds of $535 million were
used for working capital and other general corporate purposes, including the
reduction of indebtedness of the equipment operations and the credit
subsidiaries.
   The calculation of net income per share is based on the average number of
shares outstanding during the year. The calculation of net income per share,
assuming full dilution, recognizes the dilutive effect of the assumed exercise
of stock appreciation rights and stock options, and conversion of convertible
debentures. The calculation also reflects adjustment for interest expense
relating to the convertible debentures, net of applicable income taxes.
   The major changes on a post-split basis during 1995 affecting common stock in
treasury included the acquisition of 216,000 shares of treasury stock at a total
cost of $5.7 million. In addition, 305,127 shares of treasury stock at original
cost of $4.7 million were issued under the restricted stock plan and 14,289
shares at an original cost of $.2 million for other transactions.

RESTRICTED STOCK
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Restricted shares of the company's stock are issued to key employees and
nonemployee directors under restricted stock plans approved by stockholders.
Under the plans for employees, the company establishes the performance goals and
periods of restriction for each award. The restrictions for the nonemployee
directors lapse when a director retires from the board. Under these plans,
5,340,000 shares on a post-split basis may be granted as restricted stock.
   The market value of the restricted stock at the time of grant is recorded as
unamortized restricted stock compensation in a separate component of
stockholders' equity and adjusted to current market value for performance based
plans. This compensation is amortized to expense over the periods of
restriction. At October 31, 1995, 3,827,295 shares on a post-split basis
remained available for award under all plans.
   Changes in the unamortized restricted stock compensation account in 1993,
1994 and 1995 were as follows:

*Adjusted for three-for-one stock split.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
STOCK OPTIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Options for the purchase of the company's common stock are issued to key
employees under stock option plans approved by stockholders. Options outstanding
at October 31, 1995 generally become exercisable one year after the date of
grant and are exercisable up to 10 years after the date of grant.
   The stock option plan includes authority to grant stock appreciation rights,
either concurrently with the grant of options or subsequently, and to accept
stock of the company in payment for shares under the options. At October 31,
1995, 9,095,190 shares on a post-split basis remained available for the granting
of options.




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   During the last three fiscal years, changes in shares under option were as
follows:

*Adjusted for three-for-one stock split.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   For options outstanding at October 31, 1995, the average exercise price was
$19.40 per share and expiration dates ranged from December 1995 to December
2004. Of the outstanding options, 265,659 on a post-split basis may be exercised
in the form of stock appreciation rights.

EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE AND SAVINGS PLANS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The company maintains the following significant plans for eligible
employees:
  John Deere Savings and Investment Plan, for salaried employees
  John Deere Stock Purchase Plan, for salaried employees
  John Deere Tax Deferred Savings Plan, for hourly and incentive
     paid employees
   Company contributions under these plans were $30 million in 1995, $12 million
in 1994 and $9 million in 1993.

RETAINED EARNINGS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AN ANALYSIS OF THE COMPANY'S RETAINED EARNINGS FOLLOWS IN MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CUMULATIVE TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENT
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
An analysis of the company's cumulative translation adjustment follows in
millions of dollars:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The fair values of financial instruments which do not approximate the carrying
values in the financial statements at October 31 in millions of dollars follow:


FAIR VALUE ESTIMATES
Fair values of marketable securities were estimated using quoted market prices.
   Fair values of the long-term credit receivables with fixed rates were based
on the discounted values of their related cash flows at current market interest
rates. The fair values of the remaining credit receivables approximated the
carrying amounts. The fair values of receivables related to asset backed
securities were based on the discounted values of their related cash flows.
   Fair values of long-term borrowings with fixed rates were based on the
discounted values of their related cash flows at current market interest rates.
Fair values of the John Deere Capital Corporation's long-term borrowings that
have been swapped to current variable interest rates approximated their carrying
amounts. However, the fair values of the long-term borrowings and the related
interest rate and foreign currency swaps are shown separately in the previous
table. Fair values of these swaps were based on quotes from dealers.
   Fair values and carrying values of the company's other interest rate swaps
and caps associated with short-term borrowings, foreign exchange forward
contracts and options were not material.

DERIVATIVES
The company enters into derivative transactions only to hedge exposures arising
in the normal course of business, and not for the purpose of creating
speculative positions or trading. The following notional or contract amounts do
not represent amounts exchanged by the parties and, therefore, are not
representative of the company's risk. The net amounts exchanged are calculated
on the basis of the notional amounts and other terms of the derivatives such as
interest rates and exchange rates, and represent only a small portion of the
notional amounts. The credit and market risk under these agreements is not
considered to be significant since the counterparties have high credit ratings
and the fair values and carrying values are not material.

INTEREST RATE SWAPS AND CAPS
The company's credit subsidiaries have entered into interest rate swap and
interest rate cap agreements related to their borrowings in order to more
closely match the type of interest rates of the borrowings to those of the
assets being funded. The differential to be paid or received on all swap and cap
agreements is accrued as interest rates change and is recognized over the lives
of the agreements in interest expense. Premiums are amortized to interest
expense over the lives of the agreements.




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   At October 31, 1995 and 1994, the total notional principal amounts of
interest rate swap agreements hedging short-term borrowings were $137 million
and $637 million, having rates of 6.5 To 7.0 percent and 4.5 To 10.0 percent,
terminating in up to four months and 16 months, respectively. The total notional
principal amount of interest rate cap agreements hedging short-term borrowings
at October 31, 1994 was $33 million, having capped rates of 6.3 to 8.3 percent,
terminating in up to nine months. There were no interest rate cap agreements at
October 31, 1995.
   The Capital Corporation has entered into interest rate swap agreements with
independent parties that change the effective rate of interest on certain long-
term borrowings. The "long-term borrowings" table on page 40 reflects the
effective year-end variable interest rates relating to these swap agreements.
The notional principal amounts and maturity dates of these swap agreements are
the same as the principal amounts and maturities of the related borrowings. In
addition, the capital corporation has interest rate swap agreements
corresponding to a portion of their fixed-rate long-term borrowings. At October
31, 1995 and 1994, the total notional principal amounts of these interest rate
swap agreements were $116 million and $302 million, having variable interest
rates of 6.1 percent to 6.5 percent and 5.3 to 5.7 percent, terminating in up to
16 months and 28 months, respectively.
   The Capital Corporation also has interest rate swap agreements associated
with medium-term notes. The "long-term borrowings" table on page 40 reflects the
interest rates relating to these swap agreements. At October 31, 1995 and 1994,
the total notional principal amounts of these swap agreements were $260 million
and $40 million, terminating in up to 83 months and 45 months, respectively.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE FORWARD CONTRACTS, SWAPS AND OPTIONS
The company has entered into foreign exchange forward contracts, swaps and
options in order to hedge the currency exposure of certain assets, liabilities
and expected inventory purchases. Depending on the item being hedged, the
foreign exchange forward contract and swap gains or losses are accrued as
foreign exchange rates change or deferred until expiration of the contract, and
the contract premiums are either amortized or deferred over the terms of the
contracts. The option premiums and any gains are deferred and recorded as part
of the cost of future inventory purchases. At October 31, 1995 and 1994, the
company had foreign exchange forward contracts maturing in up to seven months
and six months for $349 million and $331 million, respectively, and a foreign
currency swap agreement maturing in up to 39 months and 51 months, respectively,
for $97 million. At October 31, 1995 and 1994, the company had options maturing
in up to 24 months and 12 months for $190 million and $23 million, respectively.
The total deferred gains or losses on these foreign exchange hedges were not
significant at October 31, 1995 and 1994.

CASH FLOW INFORMATION
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For purposes of the statement of consolidated cash flows, the company considers
investments with original maturities of three months or less to be cash
equivalents. Substantially all of the company's short-term borrowings mature
within three months or less.
   Cash payments for interest and income taxes consisted of the following in
millions of dollars:



SUPPLEMENTAL 1995 AND 1994 QUARTERLY INFORMATION
(UNAUDITED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Quarterly information with respect to net sales and revenues and earnings is
shown in the following schedule. Such information is shown in millions of
dollars except for per share amounts.

*Adjusted for three-for-one stock split.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Common stock per share sales prices from New York Stock Exchange Composite
transactions quotations follow:


*Adjusted for three-for-one stock split.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   At October 31, 1995, there were 24,918 holders of record of the company's $1
par value common stock and 24 holders of record of the company's 5-1/2%
convertible subordinated debentures due 2001.

DIVIDEND
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
A quarterly cash dividend of $.20 per share on a post-split basis was declared
at the Board of Directors' meeting held on December 6, 1995, payable on
February 1, 1996.




                   (THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.)

















[DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP LETTERHEAD]


INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

Deere & Company:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Deere & Company
and subsidiaries as of October 31, 1995 and 1994 and the related statements of
consolidated income and of consolidated cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended October 31, 1995.  Our audits also included the financial
statement schedule listed in the Index under Part IV, Item 14(a)(2).  These
financial statements and the financial statement schedule are the responsibility
of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Deere & Company and subsidiaries at
October 31, 1995 and 1994 and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 1995 in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  Also, in our opinion,
such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

As discussed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, effective
November 1, 1992 the Company changed its method of accounting for postretirement
benefits other than pensions.


/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Chicago, Illinois

December 6, 1995






                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                              DEERE & COMPANY

                              By: /s/ Hans W. Becherer
                                  --------------------
                                      Hans W. Becherer
                                      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Date:     15 January 1996

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Signature                Title                                   Date
- ---------                -----                                   ----

/S/ Hans W. Becherer          Chairman, Director and        )
- ----------------------        Chief Executive Officer       )
Hans W. Becherer                                            )
                                                            )
/S/ John R. Block             Director                      )
- ----------------------
John R. Block                                               )
                                                            )
/S/ Pierre E. Leroy           Senior Vice President,        )
- ----------------------        Principal Financial Officer   )
P. E. Leroy                   and Principal Accounting      )
                              Officer                       )
                                                            )
                                                            )
/S/ Leonard A. Hadley         Director                      )
- ----------------------                                      )
Leonard A. Hadley                                           )
                                                            )
/s/ Regina Herzlinger         Director                      )    15 January 1996
- ----------------------                                      )
Regina Herzlinger                                           )
                                                            )
/S/ Samuel C. Johnson         Director                      )
- ----------------------                                      )
Samuel C. Johnson                                           )
                                                            )
/S/ Arthur L. Kelly           Director                      )
- ----------------------                                      )
Arthur L. Kelly                                             )
                                                            )
/S/ A. Santamarina V          Director                      )
- ----------------------                                      )
A. Santamarina V                                            )





Signature                Title                                    Date

- ---------                -----                                    ----
/s/  William A. Schreyer      Director                      ) 15 January 1996
- ----------------------                                      )
William A. Schreyer                                         )
                                                            )
/s/ D. H. Stowe, Jr.          Director                      )
- ----------------------                                      )
D. H. Stowe, Jr.                                            )
                                                            )
/S/ John R. Walter            Director                      )
- ----------------------                                      )
John R. Walter                                              )
                                                            )
/S/ Dr. Arnold R. Weber       Director                      )
- ----------------------                                      )
Dr. Arnold R. Weber                                         )













                 DEERE & COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES

                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

               For the Years Ended October 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993
                       (In thousands of dollars)





                                                                    SCHEDULE II






                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibit                                                                     Page
- -------                                                                     ----
3.1  Certificate of incorporation, as amended                                 53

3.2  Certificate of Designation Preferences and Rights of Series A
     Participating Preferred Stock (Exhibit 3.2 to Form 10-Q of registrant
     for the period ended April 30, 1993*)

3.3  By-laws, as amended (Exhibit 3 to Form 10-Q of registrant for the
     period ended April 30, 1995*)

4.1  Indenture dated February 15, 1991 between registrant and Citibank,
     N.A., as Trustee.
     (Exhibit 4.1 to Form 10-Q of registrant for the quarter ended April 30,
     1993*)

4.2  Credit agreements among registrant, John Deere Capital Corporation,
     various financial institutions, and Chemical Bank, The Chase Manhattan
     Bank (National Association), Bank of Americas National Trust and
     Savings Association, Deutsche Bank AG, and The Toronto Dominion Bank,
     as Managing Agents, dated as of April 5, 1995 (Exhibit 4.1(a) and
     4.1(b) to 1993 Form 10-Q of registrant for the period ended April 30,
     1995*)

4.3  Credit agreements among John Deere Limited, John Deere Finance
     Limited, various financial institutions and The Toronto-Dominion Bank
     as agent, dated as of April 5, 1995 (Exhibit 4.2(a) and 4.2(b) to Form
     10-Q of registrant for the quarter ended April 30, 1995*)

4.4  Form common stock certificates (Exhibit 4.4 to Form 10-Q of registrant
     for the quarter ended April 30, 1993*)

4.5  Rights Agreement dated as of December 9, 1987 as amended between
     registrant and Morgan Shareholder Services Trust Company (Exhibit 4.5
     to Form 10-Q of registrant for the quarter ended April 30, 1993*)

4.6  First Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of February 28, 1990
     between registrant and First Chicago Trust Co. of New York (Exhibit
     4.6 to Form 10-Q of registrant for the quarter ended April 30, 1993*)

4.7  Second Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of March 1, 1991
     between registrant and First Chicago Trust Co. of New York (Exhibit
     4.7 to Form 10-Q of registrant for the quarter ended April 30, 1993*)





Exhibit                                                                     Page
- -------                                                                     ----
     Certain instruments relating to long-term debt constituting less than
     10% of the registrant's total assets, are not filed as exhibits
     herewith pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K.  The
     registrant will file copies of such instruments upon request of the
     Commission.

9.   Not applicable

10.1 Agreement dated May 11, 1993 between registrant and John Deere Capital
     Corporation concerning agricultural retail notes (Exhibit 10.1 to Form
     10-Q of registrant for the quarter ended April 30, 1993*)

10.2 Agreement dated May 11, 1993 between registrant and John Deere Capital
     Corporation relating to lawn and grounds care retail notes (Exhibit
     10.2 to Form 10-Q of registrant for the quarter ended April 30, 1993*)

10.3 Agreement dated May 11, 1993 between John Deere Industrial Equipment
     Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of registrant and John Deere
     Capital Corporation concerning industrial retail notes (Exhibit 10.3
     to Form 10-Q of registrant for the quarter ended April 30, 1993*)

10.4 Agreement dated January 26, 1983 between registrant and John Deere
     Capital Corporation relating to agreements on retail notes with United
     States sales branches (Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-Q of registrant for the
     quarter ended April 30, 1993*)

10.5 John Deere Supplemental Pension Benefit Plan, as amended May 26, 1993.
     (Exhibit 10.5 to Form 10-Q of registrant for the quarter ended April
     30, 1993*)**

10.6 1986 John Deere Stock Option Plan (Exhibit 10.7 to Form 10-Q of
     registrant for the quarter ended April 30, 1993*)**

10.7 1991 John Deere Stock Option Plan (Exhibit 10.8 to Form 10-Q of
     registrant for the quarter ended April 30, 1993*)**

10.8 Deere & Company Voluntary Deferred Compensation Plan (Exhibit 10.9 to
     Form 10-Q of registrant for the quarter ended April 30, 1993*)**

10.9 John Deere Restricted Stock Plan (Exhibit 10.10 to Form 10-Q of
     registrant for the quarter ended April 30, 1993*)**





Exhibit                                                                     Page
- -------                                                                     ----
10.10     1993 Nonemployee Director Stock Ownership Plan (Exhibit to
          Notice and Proxy Statement of registrant for the annual
          shareholder meeting on February 24, 1993*)**

10.11     John Deere Performance Bonus Plan (Exhibit A to Notice and
          Proxy Statement of registrant for the annual shareholder
          meeting on February 22, 1995*)**

10.12     John Deere Equity Incentive Plan (Exhibit B to Notice and
          Proxy Statement of registrant for the annual shareholder
          meeting on February 22, 1995*)**

11.       Computation of net income per share                                 65

12.       Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges                   66

13.       Not applicable

16.       Not applicable

18.       Not applicable

21.       Subsidiaries                                                        67

22.       Not applicable

23.       Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP                                    68

24.       Not applicable

27.       Financial Data Schedule                                             69

28.       Not applicable

99.1      Press Release dated December 9, 1987 announcing adoption of
          Shareholder Rights Plan (Exhibit 99.1 to Form 10-Q of registrant for
          the quarter ended April 30, 1993*)

99.2      Form of Letter to Shareholders dated December 10, 1987 describing
          Shareholder Rights Plan (Exhibit 99.2 to Form 10-Q of registrant for
          the quarter ended April 30, 1993*)

*         Incorporated by reference.  Copies of these exhibits are available
          from the Company upon request.

**        Compensatory plan or arrangement filed as an exhibit pursuant to
          Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.





