
10-K405
FORM 10-K405






                          SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                                WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K 405 
                    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                        OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                      FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1997

                            Commission file number 1-4121
                                   DEERE & COMPANY
                (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


           DELAWARE                                         36-2382580
   (State of incorporation)                        (IRS Employer Identification
                                                               No.)
ONE JOHN DEERE PLACE, MOLINE,        61265                (309) 765-8000
          ILLINOIS                 (Zip Code)           (Telephone Number)
    (Address of principal
      executive offices)



                           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT
                            TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT


 TITLE OF EACH CLASS                        NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH
                                            REGISTERED
 Common stock, $1 par value                 New York Stock Exchange
                                            Chicago Stock Exchange
                                            Frankfurt (Germany) Stock Exchange
 5-1/2% Convertible Subordinated
    Debentures Due 2001                     New York Stock Exchange
 8.95% Debentures Due 2019                  New York Stock Exchange
 8-1/2% Debentures Due 2022                 New York Stock Exchange



         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes    X         No            
    -------        ------

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to 
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information 
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any 
amendment to this Form 10-K.     [   ]

The aggregate quoted market price of voting stock of registrant held by 
nonaffiliates at December 31, 1997 was $14,500,896,140. At December 31, 1997, 
249,668,012 shares of common stock, $1 par value, of the registrant were 
outstanding. DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE. Portions of the proxy 
statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on February 25, 
1998 are incorporated by reference in Part III.



PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS.

PRODUCTS

Deere & Company (Company) and its subsidiaries (collectively called John 
Deere) have operations which are categorized into six business segments. 

     The worldwide AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT segment manufactures and 
     distributes a full line of farm equipment -- including tractors; combine 
     and cotton harvesters; tillage, seeding and soil preparation machinery; 
     sprayers; hay and forage equipment; materials handling equipment; and 
     integrated precision farming technology. 

     The worldwide CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT segment, formerly the worldwide 
     industrial equipment segment, manufactures and distributes a broad range 
     of machines used in construction, earthmoving and forestry -- including 
     backhoe loaders; crawler dozers and loaders; four-wheel-drive loaders; 
     excavators; scrapers; motor graders; log skidders; and forestry 
     harvesters. This segment also includes the manufacture and distribution 
     of engines and drivetrain components for the original equipment 
     manufacturer (OEM) market. 

     The worldwide COMMERCIAL AND CONSUMER EQUIPMENT segment manufactures and 
     distributes equipment for commercial and residential uses -- including 
     small tractors for lawn, garden, commercial and utility purposes; riding 
     and walk-behind mowers; golf course equipment; snowblowers; hand-held 
     products such as chain saws, string trimmers and leaf blowers; 
     skid-steer loaders; utility vehicles; and other outdoor power products. 

     The products produced by the equipment segments are marketed primarily 
     through independent retail dealer networks and major retail outlets.

     The CREDIT segment, which mainly operates in the United States and 
     Canada, primarily finances sales and leases by John Deere dealers of new 
     and used equipment and sales by non-Deere dealers of recreational 
     products. In addition, it provides wholesale financing to dealers of the 
     foregoing equipment and finances retail revolving charge accounts.

     The INSURANCE segment issues policies in the United States primarily for 
     general and specialized lines of commercial property and casualty 
     insurance; group accident and health insurance for employees of 
     participating John Deere dealers and disability insurance for employees 
     of John Deere. 

     The HEALTH CARE segment provides health management programs and related 
     administrative services in the United States to John Deere and 
     commercial clients.





John Deere's worldwide agricultural, construction and commercial and consumer 
equipment operations and subsidiaries are sometimes referred to as the 
"Equipment Operations." The credit, insurance and health care subsidiaries 
are sometimes referred to as "Financial Services."

The Company believes that its worldwide sales of agricultural equipment 
during recent years have been greater than those of any other business in its 
industry. It also believes that John Deere is an important provider of most 
of the types of construction equipment that it markets, and the leader in 
some size ranges. The Company also believes that it is the largest 
manufacturer of lawn and garden tractors and provides the broadest line of 
grounds care equipment in North America. The John Deere enterprise has 
manufactured agricultural machinery since 1837. The present Company was 
incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1958.

MARKET CONDITIONS AND OUTLOOK

Worldwide demand for John Deere agricultural equipment remained at strong 
levels in 1997 as a result of favorable fundamentals in the farm economy. 
Increased acres planted and favorable weather conditions in major producing 
areas of North America resulted in historically high levels of production. 
However, strong domestic and export demand for grains and oilseeds are 
expected to hold carryover stocks relatively low. As a result, soybean prices 
have remained at favorable levels. Overseas demand for John Deere 
agricultural equipment also remained strong, reflecting good demand from the 
republics of the former Soviet Union and favorable market conditions in Latin 
America. Despite recent economic instability in the world's financial 
markets, current overall fundamentals are expected to remain favorable for 
farm equipment sales in 1998.

Construction equipment demand rose in 1997 due to low interest rates, 
moderate economic growth and low inflation, all of which should continue in 
1998. These factors promoted high levels of consumer confidence and housing 
activity this past year. Housing starts for next year are expected to 
approximate this year's level and expenditures on highways and streets are 
anticipated to grow in 1998 when a new federal highway bill is passed. These 
favorable economic conditions should promote good construction equipment 
demand next year.

Sales of John Deere commercial and consumer equipment increased this year 
from the weather depressed levels of last year. With low unemployment rates, 
growing incomes, low interest rates, moderate economic growth and new product 
introductions, demand is anticipated to remain at favorable levels in 1998.

Results for credit operations are expected to improve as a result of the 
expected strong demand for the Company's products and favorable economic 
conditions. The insurance operations expect the competitive environment in 
commercial lines to intensify and operating returns to be lower in 1998. 
Although the health care operations should continue to face margin pressures 
and a very competitive environment, substantially improved results are 
expected for next year.

Based on these market conditions, John Deere's worldwide physical volume of 
sales is currently projected to increase by approximately 6 percent in 1998 
compared to 1997. First quarter physical volumes are projected to be 15 
percent higher than comparable levels in the first quarter of 1997.




Overall, the fundamentals of the Company's businesses remain favorable. 
Industry demand for the Company's products remains strong and operating 
margins are benefiting from continuous improvement initiatives. The Company's 
investment in the development of new products and markets should further its 
worldwide leadership position. Based on these factors and the Company's 
exceptional employees and dealer organization, another strong operating 
performance is expected next year.

1997 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS COMPARED WITH 1996

Deere & Company achieved record worldwide net income in 1997, totaling $960 
million, or $3.78 per share, compared with last year's net income of $817 
million, or $3.14 per share. The higher profit resulted from strong demand 
for the Company's products. Operating margins remained at strong levels as a 
result of the Company's continuous improvement and quality initiatives. 

Worldwide net sales and revenues increased 14 percent to $12,791 million in 
1997 compared with $11,229 million in 1996. Net sales of the Equipment 
Operations increased 15 percent in 1997 to $11,082 million from $9,640 
million last year. International demand remained at strong levels, with 
export sales from the United States totaling $2,013 million for 1997 compared 
with $1,584 million last year. Overseas sales for the year also increased, 
rising by 11 percent compared with a year ago. Overall, the Company's 
worldwide physical volume of sales (excluding the sales of the newly 
consolidated Mexican subsidiaries) increased 15 percent for the year, 
reflecting the strong worldwide demand for the Company's products.

Finance and interest income increased 14 percent to $867 million in 1997 
compared with $763 million last year, while insurance and health care 
premiums increased two percent to $668 million in the current year compared 
with $658 million in 1996.

The Company's worldwide Equipment Operations, which exclude income from the 
credit, insurance and health care operations and unconsolidated affiliates, 
had record income of $817 million in 1997 compared with $610 million in 1996. 
The worldwide ratio of cost of goods sold to net sales was 76.7 percent in 
1997 compared with 77.7 percent last year. The Equipment Operations' ratio of 
year-end assets to net sales decreased from 71 percent in 1996 to 70 percent 
in 1997.

Net income of the Company's Financial Services operations in 1997 was $138 
million compared with $197 million in 1996. Additional information is 
presented in the discussion of credit, insurance and health care operations 
on pages 27 through 29.

EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS

AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT

Sales of agricultural equipment, particularly in the United States and Canada,
are affected by total farm cash receipts, which reflect levels of farm commodity
prices, acreage planted, crop yields and government payments. Sales are also
influenced by general economic conditions, farm land prices,




farmers' debt levels, interest rates, agricultural trends and the levels of 
costs associated with farming. Weather and climatic conditions can also 
affect buying decisions of equipment purchasers. 

Innovations to machinery and technology also influence buying. Reduced 
tillage practices have been adopted by many farmers to control soil erosion 
and lower production costs. John Deere has responded to this shift by 
delivering leading edge planters, drills and tillage equipment. Additionally, 
the Company has developed a precision farming approach using advanced 
technology and satellite positioning that should enable farmers to better 
control input costs and yields and to improve environmental management.

Large, cost-efficient, highly-mechanized agricultural operations account for 
an important share of total United States farm output. The large-size 
agricultural equipment used on such farms has been particularly important to 
John Deere. A large proportion of the Equipment Operations' total 
agricultural equipment sales in the United States is comprised of tractors 
over 100 horsepower, self-propelled combines and self-propelled cotton 
pickers.

Seasonal patterns in retail demand for agricultural equipment result in 
substantial variations in the volume and mix of products sold to retail 
customers during various times of the year. Seasonal demand must be estimated 
in advance, and equipment must be manufactured in anticipation of such demand 
in order to achieve efficient utilization of manpower and facilities 
throughout the year. For certain equipment, the Company offers early order 
discounts to retail customers. Production schedules are based, in part, on 
these early order programs. The Equipment Operations incur substantial 
seasonal indebtedness with related interest expense to finance production and 
inventory of equipment, and to finance sales to dealers in advance of 
seasonal demand. The Equipment Operations often encourage early retail sales 
decisions for both new and used equipment, by waiving retail finance charges 
or offering low-rate financing, during off-season periods and in early order 
promotions. 

An important part of the competition within the agricultural equipment 
industry during the past decade has come from a diverse variety of short-line 
and specialty manufacturers with differing manufacturing and marketing 
methods. Because of industry conditions, especially acquisitions of 
short-line and specialty manufacturers by large integrated competitors, the 
competitive environment is undergoing significant change.

In addition to the agricultural equipment manufactured by the Equipment 
Operations, a number of agricultural products are purchased from other 
manufacturers for resale by John Deere outside the United States and Canada, 
including three models of tractors sourced from a Czech manufacturer, six 
sourced from an affiliated manufacturer in Brazil, four sourced from a French 
manufacturer with John Deere engines and three models sourced from Italy.

CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT

The construction equipment industry is broadly defined as including 
construction, earthmoving and forestry equipment, as well as some materials 
handling equipment and a variety of machines for specialized construction 
applications, including uses in the mining industry. The Equipment Operations 
provide types and sizes of equipment that compete for approximately 
two-thirds of the





estimated total United States market for all types and sizes of construction 
equipment (other than the market for cranes and specialized mining 
equipment). Retail sales of John Deere construction equipment are influenced 
by prevailing levels of residential, industrial and public construction and 
the condition of the forest products industry. Sales are also influenced by 
general economic conditions and the level of interest rates. 

John Deere construction equipment falls into three broad categories: utility 
tractors and smaller earthmoving equipment, medium capacity construction and 
earthmoving equipment, and forestry machines. The Equipment Operations' 
construction equipment business began in the late 1940s with wheel and 
crawler tractors of a size and horsepower range similar to agricultural 
tractors, utilizing common components. Through the years, the Equipment 
Operations substantially increased production capacity for construction 
equipment, adding to the line larger machines such as crawler loaders and 
dozers, log skidders, motor graders, hydraulic excavators and 
four-wheel-drive loaders. These products incorporate technology and many 
major components similar to those used in agricultural equipment, including 
diesel engines, transmissions and sophisticated hydraulics and electronics. 
In addition to the construction equipment manufactured by the Equipment 
Operations, certain products are purchased from other manufacturers for 
resale by John Deere.

The Company and Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Inc. of Japan ("Hitachi") 
have a joint venture for the manufacture of hydraulic excavators in the 
United States and for the distribution of excavators in North, Central and 
South America. The Company also has supply agreements with Hitachi under 
which a broad range of construction products manufactured by John Deere in 
the United States, including four-wheel-drive loaders and small crawler 
dozers, are distributed by Hitachi in Japan and other Far East markets.

The division has also taken a number of initiatives in the rental equipment 
market for construction machinery including specially designed rental 
programs for Deere dealers, expanded cooperation with major national 
equipment rental companies, such as Hertz, and direct participation in the 
rental market. In 1996, the Company acquired a minority ownership interest in 
Sunstate Equipment Corp., a regional rental company based in Phoenix, Arizona.

The Equipment Operations also manufacture and distribute diesel engines and 
drivetrain components both for use in John Deere products and for sale to 
other original equipment manufacturers. 

COMMERCIAL AND CONSUMER EQUIPMENT 

John Deere commercial and consumer equipment includes rear-engine riding 
mowers, front-engine lawn tractors, lawn and garden tractors, compact utility 
tractors, utility tractors, skid steer loaders, front mowers, small utility 
vehicles, hand-held products such as chain saws, string trimmers and leaf 
blowers, and a broad line of associated implements for mowing, tilling, snow 
and debris handling, aerating, and many other residential, commercial, golf 
and sports turf care applications. The product line also includes walk-behind 
mowers, snow throwers and other outdoor power products. Retail sales of 
commercial and consumer equipment products are influenced by weather 
conditions, consumer spending patterns and general economic conditions.





The division sells entry-level lawn tractors and walk-behind mowers under the 
name "Sabre by John Deere" in North America and under the name "Europro" in 
Europe. The division also sells consumer products under the Homelite and 
Green Machine brand names and sells walk-behind mowers in Europe under the 
SABO brand name and commercial mowing equipment under the Roberine brand name.

In addition to the equipment manufactured by the commercial and consumer 
division, certain products are purchased from other manufacturers for resale 
by John Deere.

ENGINEERING AND RESEARCH

John Deere makes large expenditures for engineering and research to improve 
the quality and performance of its products, and to develop new products. 
Such expenditures were $412 million, or 3.7 percent of net sales of equipment 
in 1997, and $370 million, or 3.8 percent in 1996.

MANUFACTURING

MANUFACTURING PLANTS. In the United States and Canada, the Equipment 
Operations own and operate 19 factory locations, which contain approximately 
30.0 million square feet of floor space. Six of the factories are devoted 
primarily to the manufacture of agricultural equipment, two to construction 
equipment, one to engines, one to hydraulics and power train components, 
eight to commercial and consumer equipment, and one to power train components 
manufactured mostly for OEM markets. The Equipment Operations own and operate 
tractor factories in Germany and Mexico; agricultural equipment factories in 
France, Germany, Mexico and South Africa; engine factories in France, Mexico 
and Argentina; a component factory in Spain; an axle facility in Mexico; and 
two commercial and consumer facilities in Germany and the Netherlands. These 
overseas facilities contain approximately 7.9 million square feet of floor 
space. The Equipment Operations also have financial interests in other 
manufacturing organizations, which include agricultural equipment 
manufacturers in Brazil, China, and the United States and a joint venture 
which builds construction excavators in the United States.

John Deere's facilities are well maintained, in good operating condition and 
are suitable for their present purposes. These facilities, together with 
planned capital expenditures, are expected to meet John Deere's manufacturing 
needs in the foreseeable future.

The Equipment Operations manufacture many of the components included in their 
products. The principal raw materials required for the manufacture of 
products are purchased from numerous suppliers. Although the Equipment 
Operations depend upon outside sources of supply for a substantial number of 
components, manufacturing operations are extensively integrated. Similar or 
common manufacturing facilities and techniques are employed in the production 
of components for construction, agricultural and commercial and consumer 
equipment. 

The physical volume of sales in 1997 (excluding the sales of the 
newly-consolidated Mexican subsidiaries) was 15 percent higher than in 1996. 
Although demand for certain key products is nearing production capacity, in 
general, capacity is adequate to satisfy anticipated retail demand.




The Equipment Operations' manufacturing strategy involves the implementation 
of appropriate levels of technology and automation, so that manufacturing 
processes can remain viable at varying production levels and can be flexible 
enough to accommodate many of the product design changes required to meet 
market requirements.

In order to utilize manufacturing facilities and technology more effectively, 
the Equipment Operations continue to pursue improvements in manufacturing 
processes. Manufacturing activities judged not competitively advantageous for 
the Equipment Operations on a long-term basis are being shifted to outside 
suppliers, while many of those manufacturing activities that do offer 
long-term competitive advantages are being restructured. Improvements include 
the creation of flow-through manufacturing cells which reduce costs and 
inventories, increase quality and require less space, and the establishment 
of flexible assembly lines which can handle a wider product mix and deliver 
products at the times when dealers and customers demand them. Additionally, 
considerable effort is being directed to manufacturing cost reduction through 
product design, the introduction of advanced manufacturing technology and 
improvements in compensation incentives related to productivity and 
organizational structure. The Equipment Operations are also pursuing the sale 
to other companies of selected parts and components which can be manufactured 
and supplied to third parties on a competitive basis.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES. The Equipment Operations' capital expenditures were 
$479 million in 1997 compared with $258 million in 1996 and $245 million in 
1995. Provisions for depreciation applicable to the Equipment Operations' 
property, plant and equipment during these years were $253 million, $253 
million and $243 million, respectively. The Equipment Operations' capital 
expenditures for 1998 are currently estimated to approximate $430 million. 
The 1998 expenditures will be associated with new product and operations 
improvement programs and the manufacture and marketing of products in new 
markets such as Mexico, India, China, Brazil and the former Soviet Union. 
Future levels of capital expenditures will depend on business conditions.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

John Deere owns a significant number of patents, licenses and trademarks 
which have been obtained over a period of years. The Company believes that, 
in the aggregate, the rights under these patents, licenses and trademarks are 
generally important to its operations, but does not consider that any patent, 
license, trademark or group of them (other than its house trademarks) is of 
material importance in relation to John Deere's business.

MARKETING

In the United States and Canada, the Equipment Operations, excluding the 
Homelite and Green Machine product lines, distribute equipment and service 
parts through six agricultural equipment sales branches, one construction 
equipment sales and administration office and one commercial and consumer 
equipment sales and administration office (collectively called sales 
branches). In addition, the Equipment Operations operate a centralized parts 
distribution warehouse in coordination with several regional parts depots in 
the United States and Canada and have an agreement with a third party to 
operate a high-volume parts warehouse in Indiana.





The sales branches in the United States and Canada market John Deere products 
at approximately 3,400 dealer locations, all of which are independently owned 
except for one retail store owned and operated by the Company. Over 1,700 
sell agricultural equipment, while over 400 sell construction equipment. 
Smaller construction equipment is sold by nearly all of the construction 
equipment dealers and larger construction equipment, forestry equipment and a 
line of light construction equipment are sold by most of these dealers. 
Commercial and consumer equipment is sold by most John Deere agricultural 
equipment dealers, a few construction equipment dealers, and about 1,300 
commercial and consumer equipment dealers, many of whom also handle 
competitive brands and dissimilar lines of products. In addition, the Sabre, 
Homelite and Green Machine product lines are sold through independent dealers 
and various general and mass merchandisers. 

Outside North America, John Deere agricultural equipment is sold to 
distributors and dealers for resale in over 110 countries by sales branches 
located in five European countries, South Africa, Mexico, Argentina and 
Australia, by export sales branches in Europe and the United States, and by 
an associated company in Brazil. Commercial and consumer equipment sales 
overseas occur primarily in Europe and Australia. Outside North America, 
construction equipment is sold primarily by an export sales branch located in 
the United States. 

WHOLESALE FINANCING

The Equipment Operations provide wholesale financing to dealers in the United 
States for extended periods, to enable dealers to carry representative 
inventories of equipment and to encourage the purchase of goods by dealers in 
advance of seasonal retail demand. Down payments are not required, and 
interest is not charged for a substantial part of the period for which the 
inventories are financed. A security interest is retained in dealers' 
inventories, and periodic physical checks are made of dealers' inventories. 
Generally, terms to dealers require payments as the equipment which secures 
the indebtedness is sold to retail customers. Variable market rates of 
interest are charged on balances outstanding after certain interest-free 
periods, which currently are one to twelve months for agricultural tractors, 
one to five months for construction equipment, and two to 24 months for most 
other equipment. Financing is also provided to dealers on used equipment 
accepted in trade, on repossessed equipment, and on approved equipment from 
other manufacturers. A security interest is obtained in such equipment. 
Dealer defaults in recent years have not been significant. 

In Canada, John Deere products (other than service parts and commercial and 
consumer equipment) in the possession of dealers are inventories of the 
Equipment Operations that are consigned to the dealers. Dealers are required 
to make deposits on consigned equipment remaining unsold after specified 
periods.

Sales to overseas dealers are made by the Equipment Operations' overseas and 
export sales branches and are, for the most part, financed by John Deere in a 
manner similar to that provided for sales to dealers in the United States and 
Canada, although maturities tend to be shorter overseas and a security 
interest is not always retained in the equipment sold.

Receivables from dealers, which largely represent dealer inventories, were 
$3.3 billion at October 31, 1997 compared with $3.2 billion at October 31, 
1996 and $3.3 billion at October 31, 1995. At those dates, the ratios of 
worldwide net dealer receivables to fiscal year net sales, were 30 percent, 





33 percent and 37 percent, respectively. The highest month-end balance of 
such receivables during each of the past two fiscal years was $3.6 billion at 
April 30, 1997 and $3.8 billion at April 30, 1996. Wholesale financing is 
also provided by the Company's credit segment. See "FINANCIAL 
SERVICES--Credit Operations" below.

FINANCIAL SERVICES

CREDIT OPERATIONS

UNITED STATES, CANADA, MEXICO, AUSTRALIA, GERMANY AND THE UNITED KINGDOM. In 
the United States and Canada, the Company's credit subsidiaries provide and 
administer financing for retail purchases of new and used John Deere 
agricultural, construction and commercial and consumer equipment. The 
Company's credit subsidiaries include John Deere Capital Corporation (Capital 
Corporation) and its subsidiaries (Deere Credit, Inc., Farm Plan Corporation, 
Deere Credit Services, Inc., John Deere Receivables, Inc., John Deere Funding 
Corporation, Arrendadora John Deere, S.A. de C.V., and John Deere Credit 
Limited-Australia), and John Deere Credit Inc. (collectively referred to as 
the Credit Companies). Deere & Company and John Deere Construction Equipment 
Company are referred to as the "sales companies." The Capital Corporation 
purchases retail installment sales and loan contracts (retail notes) from the 
sales companies. These retail notes are acquired by the sales companies 
through John Deere retail dealers in the United States and Mexico. John Deere 
Credit Inc. purchases and finances retail notes through John Deere's 
equipment sales branches in Canada. The terms of retail notes and the basis 
on which the Credit Companies acquire retail notes from the sales companies 
are governed by agreements with the sales companies. Certain subsidiaries of 
the Capital Corporation lease John Deere agricultural, construction and 
commercial and consumer equipment to retail customers in the United States 
and Mexico.

The credit subsidiaries also purchase and finance retail notes unrelated to 
John Deere, representing primarily recreational product notes acquired from 
independent dealers of recreational vehicles and from marine product mortgage 
service companies. The credit subsidiaries also finance and service unsecured 
revolving charge accounts through merchants in the agricultural and lawn and 
grounds care retail markets and, additionally, provide wholesale financing 
for wholesale inventories of recreational vehicles, manufactured housing 
units, yachts, John Deere engine inventories and John Deere agricultural and 
John Deere construction equipment owned by dealers of those products. The 
credit subsidiaries intend to continue to seek additional volumes and types 
of non-Deere financing with the objective of broadening their base of 
business.

Retail notes acquired by the sales companies have been immediately sold to 
the Credit Companies. The Equipment Operations have been the Credit 
Companies' major source of business, but in some cases, retail purchasers of 
John Deere products finance their purchases outside the John Deere 
organization.

The Credit Companies' terms for financing equipment retail sales (other than 
smaller items purchased through unsecured revolving charge accounts) provide 
for retention of a security interest in the equipment financed. The Credit 
Companies' guidelines for minimum down payments, which vary with the types of 
equipment and repayment provisions, are generally not less than 20 percent on 
agricultural and construction equipment, 10 percent on lawn and grounds care 
equipment used





for personal use, 10 percent for recreational vehicles and 20 percent for 
yachts. Finance charges are sometimes waived for specified periods or reduced 
on certain John Deere products sold or leased in advance of the season of use 
or in other sales promotions. The Credit Companies generally receive 
compensation from the Equipment Operations equal to a competitive interest 
rate for periods during which finance charges are waived or reduced on the 
retail notes or leases. The cost is accounted for as a deduction in arriving 
at net sales by the Equipment Operations.

Retail leases are offered to equipment users in the United States and Mexico. 
A small number of leases are executed between Deere Credit, Inc. and units of 
local government. Leases are usually written for periods of one to six years, 
and in some cases contain an option permitting the customer to purchase the 
equipment at the end of the lease term. Retail leases are also offered in a 
generally similar manner to customers in Canada through John Deere Credit 
Inc. and the Company's Canadian subsidiary, John Deere Limited.

The Company has an agreement with the Capital Corporation to make income 
maintenance payments to the Capital Corporation such that its ratio of 
earnings before fixed charges to fixed charges is not less than 1.05 to 1 for 
each fiscal quarter. For 1997 and 1996, the Capital Corporation's ratios were 
1.64 to 1 and 1.75 to 1, respectively. Accordingly, no payments were made in 
1997. The Company has also committed to own at least 51 percent of the voting 
shares of capital stock of the Capital Corporation and to maintain the 
Capital Corporation's consolidated tangible net worth at not less than $50 
million. These arrangements are not intended to make the Company responsible 
for the payment of any indebtedness, obligation or liability of the Capital 
Corporation or any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries. Additional 
information on the Credit Companies appears under the caption "Credit 
Operations" on pages 27 and 28.

OVERSEAS. John Deere Credit Limited, a joint venture, offers equipment 
financing products within the United Kingdom. John Deere Credit-Germany, a 
partnership, offers equipment financing within Germany. In addition, in 
October 1997, the Capital Corporation formed a subsidiary in Australia, John 
Deere Credit Limited, which will offer equipment financing products within 
Australia beginning in fiscal year 1998. Retail sales financing outside of 
the United States and Canada is affected by a diversity of customs and 
regulations.

INSURANCE

The Company's insurance subsidiaries consist of John Deere Insurance Group, 
Inc. and its subsidiaries. The insurance group's business focus is on 
marketing commercial property/casualty insurance services and coverages to 
selected market segments. Marketing efforts are directed through separate 
business units that specialize in a particular market segment. The Dealer 
Operations business unit insures dealership organizations in the United 
States, with primary focus on agricultural equipment, construction equipment 
and automobile dealerships. The Transportation business unit insures trucking 
operations, with primary focus on long-haul trucking firms. The Specialty 
Managers business unit provides insurance coverages for niche markets through 
contracted underwriting managers. Other specialty insurance business marketed 
through the different business units includes programs which provide 
insurance on equipment utilized in forestry, construction and agricultural 
operations, group accident and health insurance for





employees of participating John Deere dealers and a small amount of long-term 
disability insurance for John Deere employees.

For additional financial information on insurance operations, see the 
material under the caption "Insurance Operations" on page 28.

HEALTH CARE

In 1985, the Company formed John Deere Health Care, Inc. to commercialize the 
Company's expertise in the field of health care, which had been developed 
from efforts to control its own health care costs. John Deere Health Care 
currently provides health management programs and related administrative 
services, either directly, through its practice management division, or 
through its health maintenance organization subsidiaries, Heritage National 
Healthplan, Inc., John Deere Family Healthplan, Inc. and John Deere 
Healthplan of Georgia, Inc. for companies located in Illinois, Iowa, 
Wisconsin, Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia. At October 31, 1997, 
approximately 432,000 individuals were enrolled in these programs, of which 
approximately 68,400 were John Deere employees, retirees and their 
dependents. 

For additional financial information on health care operations, see the 
material under the caption "Health Care Operations" on pages 28 and 29.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

The Company has been designated a potentially responsible party (PRP), in 
conjunction with other parties, in certain government actions associated with 
hazardous waste sites. As a PRP, the Company has been and will be required to 
pay a portion of the costs of evaluation and cleanup of these sites. The 
Company is also a defendant in private party cost recovery cases. Management 
does not expect that these matters will have a material adverse effect on the 
consolidated financial position or results of operations of the Company.

EMPLOYEES

At October 31, 1997, John Deere had approximately 34,400 full-time employees, 
including approximately 24,900 employees in the United States and Canada. 
From time to time, John Deere also retains consultants, independent 
contractors, and temporary and part-time workers. Unions are certified as 
bargaining agents for approximately 45 percent of John Deere's United States 
employees. Most of the Company's United States production and maintenance 
workers are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the United Auto 
Workers (UAW), with an expiration date of September 30, 2003. 

The majority of employees at John Deere facilities overseas are also 
represented by unions.




EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Following are the names and ages of the executive officers of the Company, 
their positions with the Company and summaries of their backgrounds and 
business experience. All executive officers are elected or appointed by the 
Board of Directors and hold office until the annual meeting of the Board of 
Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in each year.





ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES.

See "Manufacturing" in Item 1.

The Equipment Operations also own and operate buildings housing seven sales 
branches, one centralized parts depot, five regional parts depots and several 
transfer houses and warehouses throughout the United States and Canada. These 
facilities contain approximately 5.0 million square feet of floor space. The 
Equipment Operations also own and operate buildings housing three sales 
branches, one centralized parts depot and three regional parts depots in 
Europe. These facilities contain approximately 850,000 square feet of floor 
space.

Deere & Company administrative offices, offices for insurance, research 
facilities and certain facilities for health care activities, all of which 
are owned by John Deere, together contain about 2.0 million square feet of 
floor space and miscellaneous other facilities total 1.4 million square feet. 
John Deere also leases space in various locations totaling about 2.1 million 
square feet.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

The Company is subject to various unresolved legal actions which arise in the 
normal course of its business, the most prevalent of which relate to product 
liability, retail credit matters, and patent and trademark matters. Although 
it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these




unresolved legal actions or the range of possible loss, the Company believes 
these unresolved legal actions will not have a material effect on its 
financial position or results of operations.

ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

None.


PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER 
          MATTERS.

The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the 
Chicago Stock Exchange and the Frankfurt (Germany) Stock Exchange. See the 
information concerning quoted prices of the Company's common stock and the 
number of stockholders in the second table and the third paragraph, and the 
data on dividends declared and paid per share in the first table, under the 
caption "Supplemental Quarterly Information and Dividend (Unaudited)" on page 
43.

During the fourth quarter, the Company issued 299 shares of restricted stock 
as compensation to the Company's non-employee directors. These shares were 
not registered under the Securities Act of 1933 pursuant to an exemption from 
registration.

ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

Financial Summary







ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

See the information under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis" 
on pages 24 through 30.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

See the information under "Management's Discussion and Analysis" on page 30, 
the "Financial Instruments" note on page 42 and the supplementary data under 
"Financial Instrument Risk Information" on page 43.

ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

See the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and supplementary 
data on pages 18 through 43.

ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.


PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

The information regarding directors in the proxy statement dated January 16, 
1998 (the "proxy statement"), under the captions "Election of Directors" and 
"Directors Continuing in Office", is incorporated herein by reference. 
Information regarding executive officers is presented in Item 1 of this 
report under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant". Information 
required under Item 405 of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference 
from the proxy statement under the caption "Section 16(a) Beneficial 
Ownership Reporting Compliance."

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

The information in the proxy statement under the captions "Compensation of 
Executive Officers" and "Compensation of Directors" is incorporated herein by 
reference. 





ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

(a)  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS.

     The information on the security ownership of a certain beneficial owner in
     the proxy statement under the caption "Principal Holders of Voting
     Securities" is incorporated herein by reference.

(b)  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF MANAGEMENT.

     The information on shares of common stock of the Company beneficially owned
     by, and under option to (i) each director and (ii) the directors and
     officers as a group, contained in the proxy statement under the captions
     "Election of Directors", "Directors Continuing in Office", "Summary
     Compensation Table" and "Aggregated Option/SAR Exercises in Last Fiscal
     Year and Fiscal Year-End Option/SAR Values" is incorporated herein by
     reference.

(c)  CHANGE IN CONTROL.

     None.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

None.


PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
                                                                          PAGE
(a) (1)   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     Statement of Consolidated Income for the years ended
     October 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                                       18

     Consolidated Balance Sheet, October 31, 1997 and 1996                 20

     Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows for the years ended
     October 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                                       22

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                            31

(a) (2)   SCHEDULE TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended
     October 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                                       48





(a) (3)   EXHIBITS

     SEE THE "INDEX TO EXHIBITS" ON PAGES 49 AND 50 OF THIS REPORT.

     Certain instruments relating to long-term borrowings, constituting less
     than 10 percent of registrant's total assets, are not filed as exhibits
     herewith pursuant to Item 601(b)4(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K. Registrant
     agrees to file copies of such instruments upon request of the Commission.

(b)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K. 

     Current report on Form 8-K dated August 12, 1997 (Item 7).

     FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES OMITTED

     The following schedules for the Company and consolidated subsidiaries are
     omitted because of the absence of the conditions under which they are
     required: I, III, IV and V.








                       (THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.)





DEERE & COMPANY
STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED INCOME


The "Consolidated" (Deere & Company and Consolidated Subsidiaries) data in 
this statement conform with the requirements of FASB Statement No. 94.  In 
the supplemental consolidating data in this statement, "Equipment Operations" 
(Deere & Company with Financial Services on the Equity Basis) reflect the 
basis of consolidation described on page 31 of the notes to the consolidated 
financial statements. The consolidated group data in the "Equipment 
Operations" income statement reflect the results of the agricultural 
equipment, construction equipment and commercial and consumer equipment 
operations. The supplemental "Financial Services" consolidating data in this 
statement include Deere & Company's credit, insurance and health care 
subsidiaries. Transactions between the "Equipment Operations" and "Financial 
Services" have been eliminated to arrive at the "Consolidated" data.

The information on pages 24 through 43 is an integral part of this statement.




DEERE & COMPANY
STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED INCOME


The "Consolidated" (Deere & Company and Consolidated Subsidiaries) data in 
this statement conform with the requirements of FASB Statement No. 94.  In 
the supplemental consolidating data in this statement, "Equipment Operations" 
(Deere & Company with Financial Services on the Equity Basis) reflect the 
basis of consolidation described on page 31 of the notes to the consolidated 
financial statements. The consolidated group data in the "Equipment 
Operations" income statement reflect the results of the agricultural 
equipment, construction equipment and commercial and consumer equipment 
operations. The supplemental "Financial Services" consolidating data in this 
statement include Deere & Company's credit, insurance and health care 
subsidiaries. Transactions between the "Equipment Operations" and "Financial 
Services" have been eliminated to arrive at the "Consolidated" data.

The information on pages 24 through 43 is an integral part of this statement.


DEERE & COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET





- ---------------------
The "Consolidated" (Deere & Company and Consolidated Subsidiaries) data in 
this statement conform with the requirements of FASB Statement No. 94. In the 
supplemental consolidating data in this statement, "Equipment Operations" 
(Deere & Company with Financial Services on the Equity Basis) reflect the 
basis of consolidation described on page 31 of the notes to the consolidated 
financial statements. The supplemental "Financial Services" consolidating 
data in this statement include Deere & Company's credit, insurance and health 
care subsidiaries. Transactions between the "Equipment Operations" and 
"Financial Services" have been eliminated to arrive at the "Consolidated" 
data.

The information on pages 24 through 43 is an integral part of this statement.



DEERE & COMPANY
STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS

- ---------------
The "Consolidated" (Deere & Company and Consolidated Subsidiaries) data in this
statement conform with the requirements of FASB Statement No. 94. In the
supplemental consolidating data in this statement, "Equipment Operations" (Deere
& Company with Financial Services on the Equity Basis) reflect the basis of
consolidation described on page 31 of the notes to the consolidated financial
statements. The supplemental "Financial Services" consolidating data in this
statement include Deere & Company's credit, insurance and health care
subsidiaries. Transactions between the "Equipment Operations" and "Financial
Services" have been eliminated to arrive at the "Consolidated" data.

The information on pages 24 through 43 is an integral part of this statement.


DEERE & COMPANY
STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS


- ---------------
The "Consolidated" (Deere & Company and Consolidated Subsidiaries) data in this
statement conform with the requirements of FASB Statement No. 94. In the
supplemental consolidating data in this statement, "Equipment Operations" (Deere
& Company with Financial Services on the Equity Basis) reflect the basis of
consolidation described on page 31 of the notes to the consolidated financial
statements. The supplemental "Financial Services" consolidating data in this
statement include Deere & Company's credit, insurance and health care
subsidiaries. Transactions between the "Equipment Operations" and "Financial
Services" have been eliminated to arrive at the "Consolidated" data.

The information on pages 24 through 43 is an integral part of this statement.




M A N A G E M E N T ' S   D I S C U S S I O N   A N D   A N A L Y S I S


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED
OCTOBER 31, 1997, 1996 AND 1995 (UNAUDITED)
- ------------------------------------------
Deere & Company and its subsidiaries manufacture, distribute and finance a full
line of agricultural equipment; a broad range of equipment for construction,
forestry and public works; and a variety of commercial and consumer equipment.
The company also provides credit, insurance and health care products for
businesses and the general public. Additional information on these business
segments is presented beginning on page 32.

1997 COMPARED WITH 1996 (UNAUDITED)
- ----------------------------------
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS

Deere & Company achieved record worldwide net income in 1997, totaling $960
million, or $3.78 per share, compared with last year's income of $817 million,
or $3.14 per share. The higher profit resulted from strong worldwide demand for
the company's products. Operating margins remained at strong levels as a result
of the company's continuous improvement and quality initiatives.

     Worldwide net sales and revenues increased 14 percent to $12,791 million 
in 1997 compared with $11,229 million in 1996.  Net sales of the Equipment 
Operations increased 15 percent in 1997 to $11,082 million from $9,640 
million last year. International demand remained at strong levels, with 
export sales from the United States totaling $2,013 million for 1997 compared 
with $1,584 million last year. Overseas sales for the year also increased, 
rising by 11 percent compared with a year ago. Overall, the company's 
worldwide physical volume of sales (excluding the sales of the newly 
consolidated Mexican subsidiaries) increased 15 percent for the year, 
reflecting the strong worldwide demand for the company's products.

     Finance and interest income increased 14 percent to $867 million in 1997 
compared with $763 million last year, while insurance and health care 
premiums increased 2 percent to $668 million in the current year compared 
with $658 million in 1996.

     The company's worldwide Equipment Operations, which exclude income from 
the credit, insurance and health care operations and unconsolidated 
affiliates, had record income of $817 million in 1997 compared with $610 
million in 1996. The agricultural equipment and construction equipment 
operations both contributed to the improved results in 1997, as explained 
below. The worldwide ratio of cost of goods sold to net sales was 76.7 
percent in 1997 compared with 77.7 percent last year.  The Equipment 
Operations' ratio of year-end assets to net sales decreased from 71 percent 
in 1996 to 70 percent in 1997.

     Net income of the company's Financial Services operations was $138 
million compared with $197 million in 1996.  Additional information is 
presented in the discussion of credit, insurance and health care operations 
on pages 27 through 29.

BUSINESS SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA RESULTS

The following discussion of operating results by industry segment and geographic
area relates to information beginning on page 32.  Operating profit is income
before interest expense, foreign exchange gains and losses, income taxes and
certain corporate expenses. However, operating profit of the credit segment
includes the effect of interest expense.

                          1997 NET SALES AND REVENUES
                             BY BUSINESS SEGMENT
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Agricultural
Equipment 56%                                                    Health Care 3%


Construction
Equipment 18%                                                      Insurance 3%


Commercial and Consumer
Equipment 14%                                                         Credit 6%

                        WORLDWIDE AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Operating
Net Sales       95    96    97               Profit        95      96      97
(in billions)                                (in millions)
              $5.3   $6.1  $7.0                            $643   $821   $1,072

     Operating profit of the worldwide agricultural equipment segment increased
significantly to $1,072 million in 1997 compared with $821 million in 1996, as a
result of an increase in sales and production volumes and improved efficiencies,
partially offset by higher selling, administrative and general expenses.
Agricultural equipment sales increased 16 percent in 1997 compared with 1996.


                        WORLDWIDE CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Operating
Net Sales       95    96    97               Profit        95      96      97
(in billions)                                (in millions)
              $1.9   $1.9  $2.3                            $198   $186    $216




The worldwide construction equipment operations generated an operating profit of
$216 million this year compared with $186 million in 1996. The increased
operating profit in 1997 reflected higher sales and production volumes and
improved efficiencies, partially offset by growth expenditures and start-up
expenses primarily at the new engine facility in Torreon, Mexico. In 1997,
construction equipment sales increased 18 percent compared with last year.  

                  WORLDWIDE COMMERCIAL AND CONSUMER EQUIPMENT
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Operating
Net Sales      95     96    97               Profit        95      96     97
(in billions)                                (in millions)
              $1.7   $1.6  $1.8                            $165   $118   $114

The worldwide commercial and consumer equipment operations had an operating
profit of $114 million in 1997 compared with $118 million in 1996. The benefits
from increased sales were offset by write-offs associated with the hand-held
product line, start-up costs at new facilities and growth expenditures. 
Commercial and consumer equipment sales increased 9 percent in 1997 compared
with 1996.

                               FINANCIAL SERVICES
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Operating
Revenues        95    96    97               Profit        95      96     97
(in billions)                                (in millions)
              $1.3   $1.4  $1.6                            $261   $303   $214

The combined operating profit of the credit, insurance and health care business
segments was $214 million in 1997 compared with $303 million in 1996 as
discussed on pages 27 through 29.

                 UNITED STATES AND CANADA EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Operating
Net Sales       95    96    97               Profit        95      96      97
(in billions)                                (in millions)
              $6.6   $6.9  $8.0                            $839   $867   $1,101

On a geographic basis, the United States and Canadian equipment operations had
an operating profit of $1,101 million in 1997 compared with $867 million last
year as a result of higher sales and production volumes and improved
efficiencies, which were partially offset by growth expenditures and write-offs
associated with the hand-held product line. Sales increased 16 percent in 1997
and the physical volume of sales increased 15 percent compared with last year.

                         OVERSEAS EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Operating
Net Sales       95    96    97               Profit        95      96     97
(in billions)                                (in millions)
              $2.2   $2.7  $3.1                            $167   $258   $301

The overseas equipment operations generated a higher operating profit of $301
million in 1997 compared with $258 million last year, primarily due to the
higher volumes of sales and production, which were partially offset by start-up
expenses primarily at the Torreon engine facility. Overseas sales increased 11
percent and the physical volume of sales (excluding the newly consolidated
Mexican subsidiaries) increased 15 percent in 1997 compared with 1996.

MARKET CONDITIONS AND OUTLOOK
Worldwide demand for John Deere agricultural equipment remained at strong levels
this year as a result of favorable fundamentals in the farm economy. Increased
acres planted and favorable weather conditions in major producing areas of
North America resulted in historically high levels of production.  However,
strong domestic and export demand for grains and oilseeds are expected to hold
carryover stocks relatively low. As a result, grain and soybean prices have
remained at favorable levels.  Overseas demand for John Deere agricultural
equipment also remained strong, reflecting good demand from the republics of
the former Soviet Union and favorable market conditions in Latin America.
Despite recent economic instability in the world's financial markets, current
overall fundamentals are expected to remain favorable for farm equipment sales
in 1998.

     Construction equipment demand rose in 1997 due to low interest rates, 
moderate economic growth and low inflation, all of which should continue in 
1998. These factors promoted high levels of consumer confidence and housing 
activity this past year.  Housing starts for next year are expected to 
approximate this year's level and expenditures on highways and streets are 
anticipated to grow in 1998 when a new federal highway bill is passed. These 
favorable economic conditions should promote good construction equipment 
demand next year.



Sales of John Deere commercial and consumer equipment increased this year 
from the weather depressed levels of last year. With low unemployment rates, 
growing incomes, low interest rates, moderate economic growth and new product 
introductions, demand is anticipated to remain at favorable levels in 1998. 

The credit operations are expected to improve as a result of the strong 
demand for the company's products and favorable economic conditions. The 
insurance operations are expected to maintain reasonable operating returns 
despite the continued competitive environment in commercial lines. Although 
the health care operations should continue to face margin pressures and a 
very competitive environment, substantially improved results are expected for 
next year.

Based on these market conditions, the company's worldwide physical volume of 
sales is currently projected to increase by approximately 6 percent in 1998 
compared to 1997. First quarter physical volumes are projected to be 15 
percent higher than comparable levels in the first quarter of 1997.

Overall, the fundamentals of the company's businesses remain favorable. 
Industry demand for the company's products remains strong and operating 
margins are benefiting from continuous improvement initiatives. The company's 
investment in the development of new products and markets should further its 
worldwide leadership position. Based on these factors and the company's 
exceptional employees and dealer organization, another strong operating 
performance is expected next year.

SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT

SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 
1995:

Statements under the "Market Conditions and Outlook" heading above and 
the "Supplemental Information (Unaudited)" on page 43 that relate to future 
operating periods are subject to important risks and uncertainties that could 
cause actual results to differ materially. The company's businesses include 
Equipment Operations (agricultural, construction and commercial and 
consumer) and Financial Services (credit, insurance and health care). 
Forward-looking statements relating to these businesses involve certain 
factors that are subject to change, including: the many interrelated factors 
that affect farmers' confidence, including worldwide demand for agricultural 
products, world grain stocks, commodities prices, weather, animal diseases, 
crop pests, harvest yields, real estate values and government farm programs; 
general economic conditions and housing starts; legislation, primarily 
legislation relating to agriculture, the environment, commerce and government 
spending on infrastructure; actions of competitors in the various industries 
in which the company competes; production difficulties, including capacity 
and supply constraints; dealer practices; labor relations; interest and 
currency exchange rates; accounting standards; and other risks and 
uncertainties. The company's outlook is based upon assumptions relating to 
the factors described in the preceding sentence. The importance of these 
assumptions differs from one business segment to another. For example, 
general economic conditions and housing starts affect retail sales of 
construction equipment and commercial and consumer equipment more than they 
affect retail sales of agricultural equipment. With respect to agricultural 
equipment, world weather conditions, such as El Nino, may affect crop 
production.

The interest rate environment impacts all segments of the company's business 
by affecting the company's own borrowing costs, its lending spreads and the 
cost to the company's customers of company products. Instability in the 
world's financial markets could also impact the global economy, credit 
availability and world trade. Additional factors and assumptions affecting 
current expectations for the company's health care operations include 
competitive conditions in the industry, the company's ability to respond to 
changes in government regulations, the company's ability to control costs 
and the company's strategies concerning growth, among other factors. Further 
information concerning the company and its businesses, including factors that 
potentially could materially affect the company's financial results, is 
included in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

1996 COMPARED WITH 1995 (UNAUDITED)
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS

Deere & Company achieved record worldwide net income in 1996, totaling $817 
million, or $3.14 per share, compared with income of $706 million, or $2.71 
per share, in 1995. The earnings increase was primarily due to higher 
worldwide agricultural equipment production and sales levels, coupled with 
strong operating margins reflecting the company's continuous improvement and 
growth initiatives. Company results also continued to benefit from the 
improved performance of its Financial Services subsidiaries.

Worldwide net sales and revenues increased 9 percent to $11,229 million in 
1996 compared with $10,291 million in 1995. Net sales of the Equipment 
Operations increased 9 percent in 1996 to $9,640 million from $8,830 million 
in 1995. Export sales from the United States continued to grow, totaling 
$1,584 million for 1996 compared with $1,314 million in 1995, an increase of 
over 20 percent. Overseas sales for 1996 remained very strong, rising by 26 
percent compared with 1995 and exceeding $2.5 billion for the first time in 
the company's history. Overall, the company's worldwide physical volume of 
sales increased 7 percent for 1996, reflecting the increased worldwide demand 
for the company's products.

Finance and interest income increased 16 percent to $763 million in 1996 
compared with $660 million in 1995, while insurance and health care premiums 
increased 5 percent to $658 million in 1996 compared with $628 million in 
1995.

The company's worldwide Equipment Operations, which exclude income from the 
credit, insurance and health care operations and unconsolidated affiliates, 
had record income of $610 million in 1996 compared with $529 million in 1995. 
The improved operating results in 1996 were a result of the worldwide 
agricultural equipment operations, as explained below. The worldwide ratio of 
cost of goods sold to net sales was 77.7 percent in 1996 compared with 78.6 
percent in 1995. The Equipment Operations' ratio of year-end assets to net 
sales also improved, decreasing from 76 percent in 1995 to 71 percent in 1996.

Net income of the company's Financial Services operations improved in 1996 
totaling $197 million compared with $167 million in 1995. Additional 
information is presented in the discussion of credit, insurance and health 
care operations on pages 27 through 29.



BUSINESS SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA RESULTS

The following discussion of operating results by industry segment and 
geographic area relates to information beginning on page 32.

Operating profit of the worldwide agricultural equipment segment increased 
significantly to $821 million in 1996 compared with $643 million in 1995, as 
a result of an increase in sales and production volumes, substantially 
improved overseas results and lower relative sales incentive costs, partially 
offset by expenses for development of new markets and products. Agricultural 
equipment sales increased 16 percent in 1996 compared with 1995.

The worldwide construction equipment operations generated an operating profit 
of $186 million in 1996 compared with $198 million in 1995. The lower 
operating profit in 1996 resulted mainly from increased development expenses 
associated with improving the fuel efficiency and emissions performance of 
new engines. In 1996, construction equipment sales increased 2 percent 
compared with 1995.

The worldwide commercial and consumer equipment operations had an operating 
profit of $118 million in 1996 compared with $165 million in 1995. Operating 
profit decreased in 1996 due primarily to lower sales volume and increased 
promotional and growth expenditures associated with the division's new market 
initiatives. Commercial and consumer equipment sales decreased 3 percent in 
1996 compared with 1995.

The combined operating profit of the credit, insurance and health care 
business segments was $303 million in 1996 compared with $261 million in 1995 
as discussed on pages 27 through 29.

On a geographic basis, the United States and Canadian equipment operations 
had an operating profit of $867 million in 1996 compared with $839 million in 
1995 as a result of higher production and sales volumes, which were partially 
offset by increased engine development expenses and higher promotional and 
growth expenditures. Sales increased 4 percent in 1996 and the physical 
volume of sales increased 1 percent compared with 1995.

The overseas equipment operations generated a significantly higher operating 
profit of $258 million in 1996 compared with $167 million in 1995, primarily 
due to the higher volumes of production and sales, continued cost 
improvements and operating efficiencies. Overseas sales increased 26 percent 
and the physical volume of sales increased 24 percent in 1996 compared with 
1995. Included in overseas sales in 1996 were $95 million of combine sales to 
Ukraine.

CREDIT OPERATIONS
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deere & Company's credit subsidiaries consist primarily of John Deere Credit 
Company and its subsidiaries in the United States and John Deere Credit Inc. 
in Canada. The credit operations primarily finance sales and leases by John 
Deere dealers of new and used equipment, and sales by non-Deere dealers of 
recreational products. In addition, these operations provide wholesale 
financing to dealers of the foregoing equipment and finance retail revolving 
charge accounts.

Condensed combined financial information of the credit operations in millions 
of dollars follows:
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 OCTOBER 31
FINANCIAL POSITION                                            1997         1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and cash equivalents ...................             $  205        $  171
                                                           ------        ------
Financing receivables and leases:
  Equipment retail notes.....................               3,834         3,696
  Recreational product retail notes..........               1,015           883
  Revolving charge accounts..................                 630           576
  Wholesale notes ...........................                 653           565
  Financing leases...........................                 283           182
  Equipment on operating leases..............                 581           277
                                                           ------        ------
    Total financing receivables and leases...               6,996         6,179
  Less allowance for credit losses ..........                  94            93
                                                           ------        ------
    Total - net .............................               6,902         6,086
                                                           ------        ------
Other receivables ...........................                 170           200
                                                           ------        ------
Net property and other assets ...............                  88            85
                                                           ------        ------
    Total assets ............................              $7,365        $6,542
                                                           ======        ======
Short-term borrowings .......................              $3,603        $2,921
Payables to Deere & Company..................                 363           623
Deposits withheld from dealers and merchants                  164           155
Other liabilities ...........................                 238           198
Long-term borrowings.........................               2,083         1,799
Stockholder's equity ........................                 914           846
                                                           ------        ------
    Total liabilities and stockholder's equity             $7,365        $6,542
                                                           ======        ======
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS                                      1997    1996    1995
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Revenues.....................................             $ 820   $ 723    $612
                                                          -----   -----  ------
Expenses:
 Interest....................................               346     301    271
 Selling, administrative and general ........               129     113     94
 Provision for credit losses.................                38      43     36
 Depreciation ...............................                74      37     22
                                                          -----   -----  ------
    Total ...................................               587     494    423
                                                          -----   -----  ------
Income of consolidated group
  before income taxes .......................               233     229    189
Provision for income taxes ..................                85      82     68
                                                          -----   -----  ------
Income of consolidated group ................               148     147    121
Equity in loss of unconsolidated affiliate...                (1)
                                                          -----   -----  ------
Net income...................................             $ 147   $ 147  $ 121
                                                          =====   =====  =====
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges...........              1.67    1.75   1.69
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Total acquisition volumes of financing receivables and leases by the credit 
subsidiaries increased 18 percent during 1997 compared with 1996. The higher 
acquisitions this year resulted from an increased volume of retail notes, 
revolving charge accounts, wholesale notes and leases.

During 1997, the volumes of retail notes acquired by the credit subsidiaries 
totaled $3,836 million, an 11 percent increase compared with $3,451 million 
in 1996. Volumes of recreational product retail notes accounted for 11 
percent of total note volumes in 1997 and 8 percent in 1996. Volumes of John 
Deere equipment notes were 11 percent higher in the current year due 
primarily to increased retail sales of John Deere equipment.



The credit operations also sold retail notes which partially offset the 
increase in acquisition volumes, receiving proceeds of $968 million during 
1997 compared with $960 million last year. At October 31, 1997 and 1996, net 
financing receivables and leases administered, which include receivables 
previously sold but still administered, were $8,416 million and $7,487 
million, respectively. The discussion of "Financing Receivables" on pages 37 
and 38 presents additional information.

Net income of the credit operations was $147 million in 1997 and 1996 
compared with $121 million in 1995. Net income in 1997 was approximately 
equal to 1996 due primarily to higher earnings from a larger average 
receivable and lease portfolio financed and higher gains from the sales of 
retail notes, which were offset by lower securitization and servicing fee 
income, narrower financing spreads and higher expenditures associated with 
several growth initiatives. Total revenues of the credit operations increased 
13 percent in 1997, reflecting the larger average portfolio financed compared 
with 1996. The average balance of credit receivables and leases financed was 
17 percent higher in 1997 compared with 1996. Higher average borrowings in 
1997 resulted in a 15 percent increase in interest expense compared with 1996.

Net income in 1996 was higher than in 1995 due primarily to higher earnings 
from a larger average receivable and lease portfolio financed and increased 
income from the securitization and sale of retail notes. Total revenues of 
the credit operations increased 18 percent in 1996, reflecting the larger 
average portfolio financed compared with 1995. The average balance of credit 
receivables and leases financed was 19 percent higher in 1996 compared with 
1995. Higher average borrowings in 1996 resulted in an 11 percent increase in 
interest expense compared with 1995.

INSURANCE OPERATIONS
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deere & Company's insurance subsidiaries consist of John Deere Insurance 
Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries in the United States, which mainly provide 
general and specialized commercial property and casualty coverages.

Condensed combined financial information of the insurance operations in 
millions of dollars follows:
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              OCTOBER 31
FINANCIAL POSITION                                          1997      1996
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and cash equivalents ......................            $ 45    $   30
Marketable securities...........................             695       741
Other assets....................................             254       297
                                                           -----    ------
  Total assets..................................           $ 994    $1,068
                                                           =====    ======
Claims and reserves ............................           $ 348    $  395
Unearned premiums ..............................             124       133
Other liabilities...............................             145       166
Stockholder's equity............................             377       374
                                                           -----    ------
  Total liabilities and stockholder's equity....           $ 994    $1,068
                                                           =====    ======
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
(continued)

                                                          YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS                                       1997   1996   1995
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Premiums* .............................................    $311    $345    $369
Investment income .....................................      54      54      84
Other..................................................               2
                                                           -----    ---    ----
  Total revenues ......................................     365     401     453
                                                           -----    ---    ----
Expenses:
 Claims and benefits...................................     223     255     297
 Selling, administrative and general...................     101     100     102
 Other.................................................                       8
                                                           -----    ---    ----
  Total................................................     324     355     407
                                                           -----    ---    ----
Income of consolidated group before 
 income taxes .........................................      41      46     46
Provision for income taxes.............................      11      13     18
                                                           -----    ---    ----
Income of consolidated group ..........................      30      33     28
                                                           -----    ---    ----
Equity in income of unconsolidated affiliate...........                      1
                                                           -----    ---    ----
Net income.............................................    $ 30    $ 33   $ 29
                                                           =====    ===   ====

*Includes revenues of $9 million in 1997, $4 million in 1996 and $20 million in
1995 related to coverages provided to Deere & Company and its subsidiaries.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net income of the insurance operations totaled $30 million in 1997 compared 
with $33 million in 1996 and $29 million in 1995. The decrease in 1997 net 
income compared with 1996 was due to lower underwriting results and a small 
gain from the sale of the personal lines business last year. Premiums 
decreased 10 percent in 1997, while total claims, benefits, and selling, 
administrative and general expenses decreased 9 percent from 1996.

The increase in 1996 net income compared with 1995 was due to improved 
underwriting results and a lower effective tax rate, which were offset by 
lower investment income. Additionally, results in 1995 were affected by a 
loss on the sale of the John Deere Life Insurance Company. Primarily as a 
result of this sale, premiums decreased 6 percent in 1996, while total 
claims, benefits, and selling, administrative and general expenses decreased 
11 percent from 1995.

HEALTH CARE OPERATIONS 
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
John Deere Health Care, Inc., directly or through its health maintenance 
organizations and Deere & Company's insurance subsidiaries, provides 
administrative services and managed health care programs in the United States 
for Deere & Company and commercial clients.



Condensed combined financial information of the health care operations in 
millions of dollars follows:
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            OCTOBER 31
FINANCIAL POSITION                                         1997     1996
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and cash equivalents ......................           $ 18     $ 10
Marketable securities...........................            125      128
Other assets....................................             90       98
                                                           -----    -----
  Total assets .................................           $233     $236
                                                           =====    =====
Claims and reserves ............................           $ 68     $ 44
Unearned premiums ..............................             16       12
Other liabilities...............................             82       76
Stockholder's equity............................             67      104
                                                           -----    -----
  Total liabilities and stockholder's equity....           $233     $236
                                                           =====    =====
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS                                      1997     1996  1995
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Premiums and administrative services* ..........            $387    $346  $306
Investment income ..............................              13      12    13
                                                           -----     ---   ----
  Total revenues ...............................             400     358   319
                                                           -----     ---   ----
Expenses:
  Claims and benefits...........................             337     249   220
  Selling, administrative and general...........             122      81    74
                                                           -----     ---   ----
    Total.......................................             459     330   294
                                                           -----     ---   ----
Income (loss) of consolidated group before
 income taxes ..................................             (59)     28    25
Provision (credit) for income taxes ............             (20)     11     9
                                                           -----     ---   ----
Net income (loss) ..............................            $(39)   $ 17  $ 16
                                                           ======   ====  ====
Managed care membership (thousands).............             432     389   311
                                                           ======   ====  ====

*Includes revenues of $20 million in 1997, $29 million in 1996 and $28 
million in 1995 related to premiums and administrative services provided to 
Deere & Company and its subsidiaries. 
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
The health care operations incurred a net loss of $39 million in 1997 
compared to net income of $17 million in 1996 and $16 million in 1995. The 
loss in 1997 reflected reduced margins caused by unusually competitive 
industry conditions, higher claims costs, strengthening of health care claims 
reserves and higher selling, administrative and general expenses. 
Additionally, charges for projected losses on certain insured contracts were 
recorded this year. Premium revenues increased 12 percent, while claims, 
benefits and selling, administrative and general expenses increased 39 
percent from 1996.

Net income in 1996 increased due to favorable settlements on cost-based 
contracts and increased managed care membership, partially offset by higher 
general expenses related to growth. Premium revenues increased 13 percent, 
while claims, benefits and selling, administrative and general expenses 
increased 12 percent from 1995.

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY (UNAUDITED) 
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
The discussion of capital resources and liquidity has been organized to 
review separately, where appropriate, the company's Equipment Operations, 
Financial Services operations and the consolidated totals.

EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS

The company's equipment businesses are capital intensive and are subject to 
large seasonal variations in financing requirements for receivables from 
dealers and inventories. Accordingly, to the extent necessary, funds provided 
by operations are supplemented from external borrowing sources.




                                $1,213
                              |------|
                              |      |                  $1,006
                              |      |                 |----- |  
                              |      |                 |      |  
                              |      |                 |      |  
             $715             |      |                 |      |  
            |--- |            |      |                 |      |   $474 
            |    |            |      |                 |      |  |--- |  $419
            |    |            |      |          $275   |      |  |    | |--- |
            |    |   $245     |      |  $257   |---- | |      |  |    | |    |
            |    | | --- |    |      | | --- | |     | |      |  |    | |    |
            |    | |     | $6 |      | |     | |     | |      |  |    | |    |
            |    | |     |    |      | |     | |     | |      |  |    | |    |
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EQUIPMENT            95                  96                       97
OPERATIONS
(in millions)

/ /Cash Provided by Operations
/ /Purchases of Property and Equipment
/ /Repurchases of Common Stock 


The positive cash flows provided by operating activities in 1997 were 
primarily the result of the record net income, partially offset by an 
increase in trade receivables and company-owned inventories. The aggregate 
amount of these operating cash flows of $1,006 million and cash and cash 
equivalents at the beginning of the year were used primarily to fund 
purchases of property and equipment of $474 million, repurchases of common 
stock of $419 million, the payment of dividends to stockholders of $204 
million and a decrease in borrowings of $131 million.

Over the last three years, operating activities have provided an aggregate of 
$2,934 million in cash, including dividends received from the Financial 
Services subsidiaries of $377 million. In addition, receivables from 
Financial Services subsidiaries decreased $151 million. The aggregate amount 
of these cash flows was used mainly to fund purchases of property and 
equipment of $976 million, repurchases of common stock of $700 million, 
stockholders' dividends of $604 million, a decrease in borrowings of $357 
million and acquisitions of businesses for $143 million. Cash and cash 
equivalents also increased $307 million.

Net trade accounts and notes receivable result mainly from sales to dealers 
of equipment that is being carried in their inventories. Although trade 
receivables increased by $181 million during 1997, the ratios of worldwide 
net trade accounts and notes receivable at October 31 to fiscal year net 
sales were 30 percent in 1997 compared with 33 percent in 1996 and 37 percent 
in 1995. North American agricultural equipment trade receivables increased 
approximately $125 million and commercial and consumer receivables increased 
$35 million, while construction receivables decreased approximately $45 
million. Total overseas dealer receivables were approximately $65 million 
higher than one year ago.

The collection period for trade receivables averages less than 12 months. The 
percentage of receivables outstanding for



a period exceeding 12 months was 5 percent at October 31, 1997 compared with 
8 percent at October 31, 1996 and 1995.

Company-owned inventories increased by $244 million in 1997. Since most of 
these inventories are valued on the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method, lower 
prevailing costs from prior years are assigned to beginning inventories, 
which magnifies inventory increases that are valued at higher current costs. 
Inventories valued on an approximate current cost basis increased by only 12 
percent during 1997 compared to an increase in net sales of 15 percent during 
the same period.

Prepaid pension costs increased by $562 million in 1997. In prior years, the 
company recorded an additional minimum pension liability and a decrease in 
equity as required by FASB Statement No. 87 for an underfunded pension plan. 
However, in 1997, this entry was not required due to the improved funded 
status of this plan. Therefore, the prior year additional minimum liability 
was reversed resulting in a $489 million increase in prepaid pension costs in 
1997.

Total interest-bearing debt of the Equipment Operations was $711 million at 
the end of 1997 compared with $849 million at the end of 1996 and $1,099 
million at the end of 1995. The ratio of total debt to total capital (total 
interest-bearing debt and stockholders' equity) at the end of 1997, 1996 and 
1995 was 14.6 percent, 19.3 percent and 26.3 percent, respectively.

During 1997, Deere & Company retired $60 million of adjustable rate senior 
notes due in 2002 and $68 million of medium-term notes.

FINANCIAL SERVICES

The Financial Services credit subsidiaries rely on their ability to raise 
substantial amounts of funds to finance their receivable and lease 
portfolios. Their primary sources of funds for this purpose are a combination 
of borrowings and equity capital. Additionally, the credit subsidiaries 
periodically sell substantial amounts of retail notes. The insurance and 
health care subsidiaries generate their funds through internal operations and 
intercompany loans.

Cash flows from the company's Financial Services operating activities were 
$288 million in 1997. Cash provided by financing activities totaled $630 
million in 1997, representing mainly an increase in total borrowings of $738 
million, which was partially offset by $137 million of dividends paid to the 
Equipment Operations. The aggregate cash provided by operating and financing 
activities was used primarily to increase receivables. Cash used for 
investing activities totaled $861 million in 1997, primarily due to 
acquisitions of receivables and leases exceeding collections by $1,876 
million, which was partially offset by proceeds of $968 million received from 
the sale of receivables. Cash and cash equivalents also increased $57 million.

Over the past three years, the Financial Services operating activities have 
provided $784 million in cash. In addition, the sale of receivables and an 
increase in borrowings have provided $2,765 million and $2,287 million, 
respectively. These amounts have been used mainly to fund receivable and 
lease acquisitions, which exceeded collections by $5,386 million, and $377 
million of dividend payments to the Equipment Operations. Cash and cash 
equivalents also increased $127 million.

Marketable securities consist primarily of debt securities held by the 
insurance and health care operations in support of their obligations to 
policyholders. The $50 million decrease in 1997 compared with 1996 resulted 
from sales of securities by the insurance operations primarily for dividend 
payments to the parent.

Financing receivables increased by $512 million in 1997 compared with 1996. 
The discussion of "Credit Operations" on pages 27 and 28, and the "Financing 
Receivables" note on pages 37 and 38 provide further information.

Total outside interest-bearing debt of the credit subsidiaries was $5,686 
million at the end of 1997 compared with $4,720 million at the end of 1996 
and $4,217 million at the end of 1995. The credit subsidiaries' ratio of 
total interest-bearing debt to total stockholder's equity was 6.6 to 1 at the 
end of 1997 compared with 6.3 to1 at the end of 1996 and 6.1 to 1 at the end 
of 1995.

During 1997, John Deere Capital Corporation issued $200 million of 6% notes 
and $200 million of 6.30% notes both due in 1999, and retired $100 million of 
7.20% notes due in 1997. In 1997, the Capital Corporation also issued $750 
million and retired $589 million of medium-term notes.

CONSOLIDATED

The company maintains unsecured lines of credit with various banks in North 
America and overseas. The discussion of "Short-Term Borrowings" on page 39 
provides further information.

The company is naturally exposed to various interest rate and foreign 
currency risks. As a result, the company enters into derivative transactions 
to hedge certain of these exposures that arise in the normal course of 
business, and not for the purpose of creating speculative positions or 
trading. Similar to other large credit companies, the company's credit 
subsidiaries actively manage the relationship of the types and amounts of 
their funding sources to their receivable and lease portfolio in an effort to 
diminish risk due to interest rate fluctuations, while responding to 
favorable financing opportunities. Accordingly, from time to time, these 
subsidiaries enter into interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements 
to hedge their interest rate exposure in amounts corresponding to a portion 
of their borrowings. The company also has foreign currency exposures at some 
of its foreign and domestic operations related to buying, selling and 
financing in currencies other than the local currencies. The company has 
entered into agreements related to the management of these currency 
transaction risks. The credit and market risks under these interest rate and 
foreign currency agreements are not considered to be significant. Additional 
detailed information is included in the "Financial Instruments" note on page 
42 and the "Supplemental Information (Unaudited)" on page 43.

Stockholders' equity was $4,147 million at October 31, 1997 compared with 
$3,557 million and $3,085 million at October 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively. 
The increase in 1997 was caused primarily by net income of $960 million and a 
change of $221 million in the minimum pension liability adjustment due to the 
improved funded status of a pension plan, partially offset by an increase in 
common stock in treasury of $347 million related to the company's stock 
repurchase and employee benefit programs and cash dividends declared of $202 
million.

The company has developed plans for the completion of systems changes related 
to the year 2000. The cost is not expected to have a material effect on the 
company's financial position or results of operations.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Following are significant accounting policies in addition to those included 
in other notes to the consolidated financial statements.

The consolidated financial statements represent the consolidation of all 
companies in which Deere & Company has a majority ownership. Deere & Company 
records its investment in each unconsolidated affiliated company (20 to 50 
percent ownership) at its related equity in the net assets of such affiliate. 
Other investments (less than 20 percent ownership) are recorded at cost. 
Consolidated retained earnings at October 31, 1997 include undistributed 
earnings of the unconsolidated affiliates of $38 million. Dividends from 
unconsolidated affiliates were $4 million in 1997, $8 million in 1996 and $2 
million in 1995.

The company's consolidated financial statements and some information in the 
notes and related commentary are presented in a format which includes data 
grouped as follows: EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS -- These data include the company's 
agricultural equipment, construction equipment and commercial and consumer 
equipment operations with Financial Services reflected on the equity basis. 
Data relating to the above equipment operations, including the consolidated 
group data in the income statement, are also referred to as "Equipment 
Operations" in this report.

FINANCIAL SERVICES -- These data include the company's credit, insurance and 
health care subsidiaries.

CONSOLIDATED -- These data represent the consolidation of the Equipment 
Operations and Financial Services in conformity with Financial Accounting 
Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 94. References to "Deere & Company" or 
"the company" refer to the entire enterprise.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts and related disclosures. Actual results 
could differ from those estimates.

Sales of equipment and service parts are generally recorded by the company 
when they are shipped to independent dealers. Provisions for sales incentives 
and product warranty costs are recognized at the time of sale or at the 
inception of the incentive programs and are based on certain estimates the 
company believes are appropriate.

In 1997, the company adopted FASB Statement No. 121, Accounting for the 
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of. 
This Statement had no material effect on the company's financial position or 
results of operations. In 1997, the company adopted FASB Statement No. 123, 
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. This Statement defines a new "fair 
value" method of accounting for stock-based compensation expense and also 
allows the retention of the previous "intrinsic value" method. The company 
retained the intrinsic value method and, therefore, the new standard had no 
effect on the company's financial position or results of operations. See the 
"Stock Option and Restricted Stock Awards" note on page 41. In 1997, the 
company adopted FASB Statement No. 125, Accounting for Transfers and 
Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities. This 
Statement had no material effect on the company's financial position or 
results of operations.

In 1997, the FASB issued Statement No. 128, Earnings per Share, which the 
company will adopt in fiscal year 1998. This Statement will have no material 
effect on the company's primary or diluted net income per share. In 1997, the 
FASB also issued Statements No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income, and No. 
131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, 
which must be adopted by fiscal year 1999. These Statements will have no 
effect on the company's financial position or results of operations.

In 1997, the Securities and Exchange Commission amended its rules to require 
certain disclosures concerning derivatives and other financial instruments. 
This information is included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis" on 
page 30, the "Financial Instruments" note on page 42 and the "Supplemental 
Information (Unaudited)" on page 43.

In May 1997, the company acquired the assets of Maschinenfabrik Kemper GmbH 
for $36 million. Kemper, which is based in Stadtlohn, Germany, is a leading 
European producer of specialized corn headers for self-propelled forage 
harvesters. In May 1997, the company agreed to invest $13 million over the 
next few years to reach a 60 percent ownership interest in a combine factory 
in China ($2 million was invested in August 1997). Subsequent to year end, 
the company agreed to invest $39 million for a 49 percent interest in Cameco 
Industries, Inc., primarily a manufacturer of sugarcane harvesters and 
forestry equipment located in Thibodaux, Louisiana. The company has also 
agreed to purchase the remaining 51 percent interest for $40 million within 
12 months of the first investment.

In December 1997, the company announced the extension of its stock repurchase 
program. At the company's discretion, repurchases of an additional $1 billion 
of Deere & Company common stock will be made from time to time in the open 
market and through privately negotiated transactions.

Certain amounts for prior years have been reclassified to conform with 1997 
financial statement presentations.


- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INDUSTRY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA DATA FOR THE
YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1997, 1996 AND 1995
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The company's operations are categorized into six business segments described 
as follows.

The company's worldwide agricultural equipment segment manufactures and 
distributes a full line of farm equipment - including tractors; combine and 
cotton harvesters; tillage, seeding and soil preparation machinery; sprayers; 
hay and forage equipment; materials handling equipment; and integrated 
precision farming technology.

The company's worldwide construction equipment segment, formerly the 
industrial equipment segment, manufactures and distributes a broad range of 
machines used in construction, earthmoving and forestry - including backhoe 
loaders; crawler dozers and loaders; four-wheel-drive loaders; excavators; 
scrapers; motor graders; log skidders and forestry harvesters. This segment 
also includes the manufacture and distribution of engines and drivetrain 
components for the original equipment manufacturer (OEM) market.

The company's worldwide commercial and consumer equipment segment 
manufactures and distributes equipment for commercial and residential uses - 
including small tractors for lawn, garden, commercial and utility purposes; 
riding and walk-behind mowers; golf course equipment; snowblowers; hand-held 
products such as chain saws, string trimmers and leaf blowers; skid-steer 
loaders; utility vehicles; and other outdoor power products.

The products produced by the equipment segments are marketed primarily 
through independent retail dealer networks and major retail outlets.

The company's credit segment, which mainly operates in the United States and 
Canada, primarily finances sales and leases by John Deere dealers of new and 
used equipment and sales by non-Deere dealers of recreational products. In 
addition, it provides wholesale financing to dealers of the foregoing 
equipment and finances retail revolving charge accounts.

The company's insurance segment issues policies in the United States 
primarily for: general and specialized lines of commercial property and 
casualty insurance, group accident and health insurance for employees of 
participating John Deere dealers and disability insurance for employees of 
the company.

The company's health care segment provides health management programs and 
related administrative services in the United States to the company and 
commercial clients.

Because of integrated manufacturing operations and common administrative and 
marketing support, a substantial number of allocations must be made to 
determine industry segment and geographic area data. Intersegment sales and 
revenues represent sales of components, insurance premiums, health care 
administrative services and finance charges. Interarea sales represent sales 
of complete machines, service parts and components to units in other 
geographic areas. Intersegment sales and revenues and interarea sales are 
generally priced at market prices. Overseas operations are defined to include 
all activities of divisions, subsidiaries and affiliated companies conducted 
outside the United States and Canada.

Information relating to operations by industry segment in millions of dollars 
follows with related comments included in Management's Discussion and 
Analysis. In addition to the following unaffiliated sales and revenues by 
segment, intersegment sales and revenues in 1997, 1996, and 1995 were as 
follows: agricultural equipment net sales of $126 million, $119 million and 
$117 million; construction equipment net sales of $33 million, $31 million 
and $26 million; credit revenues of $2 million, $3 million and $1 million; 
insurance revenues of $9 million, $4 million and $20 million; and health care 
revenues of $20 million, $29 million and $28 million, respectively.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INDUSTRY SEGMENTS                                   1997       1996      1995
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NET SALES AND REVENUES
Unaffiliated customers:
 Agricultural equipment net sales.............   $ 7,048    $ 6,097    $ 5,277
 Construction equipment net sales ............     2,262      1,919      1,875
 Commercial and consumer equipment
   net sales .................................     1,772      1,624      1,678
 Credit revenues..............................       818        720        611
 Insurance revenues...........................       356        397        433
 Health care revenues.........................       380        329        291
                                                 -------    -------    -------
    Total ....................................    12,636     11,086     10,165
Other revenues ...............................       155        143        126
                                                 -------    -------    -------
NET SALES AND REVENUES .......................  $ 12,791    $11,229    $10,291
                                                ========    =======    =======
OPERATING PROFIT
Agricultural equipment .......................   $ 1,072    $   821    $   643
Construction equipment........................       216        186        198
Commercial and consumer equipment ............       114        118        165
Credit*.......................................       232        229        189
Insurance*....................................        41         46         47
Health care*..................................       (59)        28         25
                                                 -------    -------    -------
    Total operating profit ...................     1,616      1,428      1,267
                                                 -------    -------    -------
OTHER INCOME AND (EXPENSE)
Interest income ..............................         4          7          4
Interest expense..............................       (79)      (104)      (124)
Foreign exchange gain (loss)..................         7         (2)        (9)
Corporate expenses-net........................       (37)       (32)       (34)
Income taxes..................................      (551)      (480)      (398)
                                                 -------    -------    -------
    Total.....................................      (656)      (611)      (561)
                                                 -------    -------    -------
NET INCOME ...................................     $ 960      $ 817      $ 706
                                                ========    =======    =======

*Operating profit of the credit business segment includes the effect of interest
expense, which is the largest element of its operating costs. Operating profit
of the insurance and health care business segments includes investment income.
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS
Agricultural equipment ......................      $ 4,194   $ 3,851   $ 3,661
Construction equipment.......................        1,160     1,072     1,218
Commercial and consumer equipment ...........        1,232     1,129     1,141
Credit ......................................        7,365     6,542     5,796
Insurance....................................          994     1,068     1,127
Health care .................................          233       236       237
Corporate....................................        1,142       755       667
                                                   -------   -------    -------
    Total ...................................      $16,320   $14,653   $13,847
                                                  ========   =======   =======
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(continued)





- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INDUSTRY SEGMENTS                                           1997  1996    1995
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CAPITAL ADDITIONS
Agricultural equipment................................    $ 241  $ 157   $ 150
Construction equipment................................      123     49      47
Commercial and consumer equipment ....................      115     52      48
Credit................................................        6      4       2
Insurance.............................................        1      2       2
Health care ..........................................        6     13      14
                                                          -----  -----   -----
  Total...............................................    $ 492  $ 277   $ 263
                                                          =====  =====   =====
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DEPRECIATION EXPENSE
Agricultural equipment................................    $ 166  $ 172   $ 168
Construction equipment................................       45     41      38
Commercial and consumer equipment ....................       42     39      36
Credit................................................        4      3       2
Insurance.............................................        1      1       2
Health care ..........................................        7      5       3
Corporate.............................................               1       1
                                                          -----  -----   -----
  Total...............................................    $ 265  $ 262   $ 250
                                                          =====  =====   =====
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The company views and has historically disclosed its operations as consisting 
of two geographic areas, the United States and Canada, and overseas, shown 
below in millions of dollars. The percentages shown in the captions for net 
sales and revenues, operating profit and identifiable assets indicate the 
approximate proportion of each amount that relates to either the United 
States only or to the company's Europe, Africa and Middle East division, the 
only overseas area deemed to be significant for disclosure purposes. The 
percentages are based upon a three-year average for 1997, 1996 and 1995. In 
addition to the following geographic unaffiliated sales, interarea sales in 
1997, 1996 and 1995 were as follows: United States and Canada equipment net 
sales of $1,235 million, $981 million and $763 million, and overseas net 
sales of $520 million, $415 million and $395 million, respectively.
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GEOGRAPHIC AREAS                                       1997    1996    1995
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NET SALES AND REVENUES
Unaffiliated customers:
 United States and Canada:
  Equipment operations net sales (90%)...........    $ 8,018  $ 6,886  $ 6,648
  Financial Services revenues (95%) .............      1,554    1,446    1,335
                                                     -------  -------  -------
    Total .......................................      9,572    8,332    7,983
Overseas net sales (72%).........................      3,064    2,754    2,182
                                                     -------  -------  -------
    Total .......................................     12,636   11,086   10,165
Other revenues ..................................        155      143      126
                                                     -------  -------  -------
NET SALES AND REVENUES...........................    $12,791  $11,229  $10,291
                                                     =======  =======  =======
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OPERATING PROFIT
 United States and Canada:
  Equipment operations (94%) .....................    $ 1,101    $ 867  $   839
  Financial Services (92%) .......................        214      303      261
                                                      -------  -------  -------
    Total .......................................      1,315    1,170    1,100
 Overseas equipment operations (77%) ............        301      258      167
                                                     -------  -------  -------
    Total operating profit.......................    $ 1,616  $ 1,428  $ 1,267
                                                     =======  =======  =======
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(continued)

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GEOGRAPHIC AREAS                                      1997      1996     1995
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS
United States and Canada:
 Equipment operations (90%)....................      $ 4,969  $ 4,689   $ 4,607
 Financial Services (92%)......................        8,592    7,846     7,160
                                                      -------  -------  -------
    Total......................................       13,561   12,535    11,767
Overseas equipment operations (67%)............        1,617    1,363     1,413
Corporate......................................        1,142      755       667
                                                      -------  -------  -------
    Total......................................      $16,320  $14,653   $13,847
                                                      =======  =======  =======
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CAPITAL ADDITIONS
United States and Canada:
 Equipment operations..........................        $ 331  $   204   $   197
 Financial Services............................           13       19        18
                                                     -------  -------   -------
   Total.......................................          344      223       215
Overseas equipment operations..................          148       54        48
                                                     -------  -------   -------
   Total.......................................        $ 492    $ 277   $   263
                                                      =======  =======  =======
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DEPRECIATION EXPENSE
United States and Canada:
 Equipment operations..........................        $ 192    $ 183   $   177
 Financial Services............................           12        9         7
                                                     -------  -------   -------
    Total........                                        204      192       184
Overseas equipment operations..................           61       69        65
Corporate......................................                     1         1
                                                     -------  -------   -------
    Total......................................        $ 265    $ 262   $   250
                                                      =======  =======  =======
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES
United States and Canada:
 Equipment operations..........................       22,400   22,600    23,600
 Financial Services............................        2,600    2,600     2,400
                                                     -------  -------   -------
    Total......................................       25,000   25,200    26,000
Overseas equipment operations .................        9,400    8,700     7,400
                                                     -------  -------   -------
    Total......................................       34,400   33,900    33,400
                                                      =======  =======  =======
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Total exports from the United States were $2,013 million in 1997, $1,584 
million in 1996 and $1,314 million in 1995. Exports from the Europe, Africa 
and Middle East division were $563 million in 1997, $522 million in 1996 and 
$510 million in 1995. Most of these exports were to the United States and 
Canada.

REINSURANCE 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The company's insurance subsidiaries utilize reinsurance to limit their losses 
and reduce their exposure to large claims. Although reinsurance contracts 
permit recovery of certain claims from reinsurers, the insurance subsidiaries 
are not relieved of their primary obligations to the policyholders. The 
financial condition of the reinsurers is evaluated to minimize any exposure 
to losses from insolvencies.





     Insurance and health care premiums earned consisted of the following in 
millions of dollars:

                                                         1997     1996    1995
                                                         ----     ----    ----
Premiums earned:
  Direct from policyholders............................  $711     $706    $686
  Reinsurance assumed..................................     5       19      44
  Reinsurance ceded ...................................   (19)     (34)    (55)
                                                         ----     ----    ----
    Financial Services premiums........................   697      691     675
Intercompany premiums..................................   (29)     (33)    (47)
                                                         ----     ----    ----
PREMIUMS...............................................  $668     $658    $628
                                                         ====     ====    ====

     The difference between premiums earned and written is not material. 
Reinsurance recoveries on ceded reinsurance contracts during 1997, 1996 and 
1995 totaled $13 million, $6 million and $36 million, respectively, and are 
deducted from "Insurance and Health Care Claims and Benefits" expense. At 
October 31, 1997 and 1996, reinsurance receivables of $38 million and $66 
million and prepaid insurance premiums of $10 million and $21 million, 
respectively, were associated with a single reinsurer.

PENSION BENEFITS

The company has several pension plans covering substantially all of its 
United States employees and employees in certain foreign countries. The 
United States plans and significant foreign plans in Canada, Germany and 
France are defined benefit plans in which the benefits are based primarily on 
years of service and employee compensation. It is the company's policy to 
fund its United States plans according to the 1974 Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act (ERISA) and income tax regulations. In Canada, the company's 
funding is in accordance with local laws and income tax regulations, while 
the pension plans in Germany and France are unfunded. Plan assets in the 
United States and Canada consist primarily of common stocks, common trust 
funds, government securities and corporate debt securities. Pension cost for 
United States plans is based on the 1983 Group Annuity Mortality Table.

     The components of net periodic pension cost and the significant 
assumptions for the United States plans consisted of the following in 
millions of dollars and in percents:

                                                         1997     1996    1995
                                                         ----     ----    ----
Service cost ..........................................  $ 88     $ 86    $ 73
Interest cost .........................................   339      322     308
Return on assets:
  Actual gain..........................................  (749)    (733)   (659)
  Deferred gain .......................................   350      363     322
Net amortization.......................................    75       58      49
                                                         ----     ----    ----
NET COST ..............................................  $103     $ 96    $ 93
                                                         ====     ====    ====
Discount rates for obligations.........................   7.5%     7.5%    7.5%
Discount rates for expenses............................   7.5%     7.5%    8.0%
Assumed rates of compensation increases................   5.0%     5.0%    5.0%
Expected long-term rate of return .....................   9.7%     9.7%    9.7%

     A reconciliation of the funded status of the United States plans at 
October 31 in millions of dollars follows:


     The components of net periodic pension cost and the significant 
assumptions for the foreign plans consisted of the following in millions of 
dollars and in percents:

                                                  1997       1996      1995
                                                  ----       ----      ----
Service cost....................................  $  9       $  9      $  9
Interest cost ..................................    27         28        27
Return on assets:
  Actual gain ..................................   (35)       (18)      (12)
  Deferred gain.................................    23          7         1
Net amortization................................     7          7         2
                                                  ----       ----      ----
NET COST........................................  $ 31       $ 33      $ 27
                                                  ----       ----      ----
Discount rates for obligations .................  6.5-8.3%  7.0-8.3%   7.0-8.3%
Discount rates for expenses ....................  7.0-8.3%  7.0-8.3%   7.0-8.3%
Assumed rates of compensation increases.........  2.5-5.8%  4.0-7.0%   4.0-7.0%
Expected long-term rate of return...............      8.3%      8.3%       8.3%




     A reconciliation of the funded status of the foreign plans at October 31 
in millions of dollars follows:



POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS

The company generally provides defined benefit health care and life insurance 
plans for retired employees in the United States and Canada. Provisions of 
the benefit plans for hourly employees are, in large part, subject to 
collective bargaining. The plans for salaried employees include certain 
cost-sharing provisions. It is the company's policy to fund a portion of its 
obligations for the United States postretirement health care benefit plans 
under provisions of Internal Revenue Code Section 401(h). Plan assets consist 
primarily of common stocks, common trust funds, government securities and 
corporate debt securities.

The components of net periodic postretirement benefits cost and the 
significant assumptions for the United States and Canadian plans consisted of 
the following in millions of dollars and in percents:

                                                  1997       1996      1995
                                                  ----       ----      ----
HEALTH CARE
Service cost ...................................  $ 69       $ 61      $ 55
Interest cost...................................   148        135       122
Return on assets:
  Actual gain .................................    (45)       (37)      (30)
  Deferred gain................................     18         17        15
Net amortization...............................    (10)       (23)      (40)
                                                  ----       ----      ----
  Net cost ....................................    180        153       122
                                                  ----       ----      ----
LIFE INSURANCE
Service cost ..................................      3          3         3
Interest cost..................................     18         17        16
Net amortization...............................      1          1
                                                  ----       ----      ----
  Net cost ....................................     22         21        19
                                                  ----       ----      ----
TOTAL NET COST ................................   $202       $174      $141
                                                  ====       ====      ====
(continued)

                                                  1997       1996      1995
                                                  ----       ----      ----
Discount rate for obligations..................   7.75%      7.75%     7.75%
Discount rates for expense ....................   7.75%      7.75%     8.25%
Expected long-term rate of return .............    9.7%       9.7%      9.7%

     A reconciliation of the funded status of the United States and Canadian 
plans at October 3l in millions of dollars follows:

                                                 1997               1996
                                            -----------------  -----------------
                                            Health    Life     Health    Life
                                             Care   Insurance   Care   Insurance
                                            ------  ---------  ------  ---------
ACCUMULATED POSTRETIREMENT
  BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS
  Retirees................................. $(1,407)  $(157)  $(1,279)  $(147)
  Fully eligible active plan participants..    (254)    (37)     (226)    (34)
  Other active plan participants ..........    (399)    (54)     (365)    (54)
                                            -------   -----   -------   -----
  Total....................................  (2,060)   (248)   (1,870)   (235)
Plan assets at fair value..................     316               271
                                            -------   -----   -------   -----
Accumulated postretirement benefit
  obligation in excess of plan assets......  (1,744)   (248)   (1,599)   (235)
Unrecognized net loss .....................     181      34       108      33
Prior service credit not yet recognized
  in net periodic postretirement
  benefits cost............................     (19)              (30)     (1)
                                            -------   -----   -------   -----
POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT LIABILITY
  RECOGNIZED IN THE CONSOLIDATED
  BALANCE SHEET ........................... $(1,582)  $(214)  $(1,521)  $(203)
                                            =======   =====   =======   =====

     The annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered health 
care benefits (the health care cost trend rate) used to determine 1997 cost 
was assumed to be 9.0 percent for 1998, decreasing gradually to 4.5 percent 
by the year 2003. The rate used to determine 1996 cost was assumed to be 9.2 
percent for 1997, decreasing gradually to 4.5 percent by the year 2003. The 
rate used to determine 1995 cost was assumed to be 9.1 percent for 1996, 
decreasing gradually to 4.5 percent by the year 2001. An increase of one 
percentage point in the assumed health care cost trend rate would increase 
the accumulated postretirement benefit obligations at October 31, 1997 by 
$240 million and the net periodic postretirement benefits cost for the year 
then ended by $30 million.

INCOME TAXES

The provision for income taxes by taxing jurisdiction and by significant 
component consisted of the following in millions of dollars:

                                                  1997       1996      1995
                                                  ----       ----      ----
Current:
  United States:
    Federal ..................................... $434       $406      $253
    State........................................   37         42        17
  Foreign........................................   88         98        55
                                                  ----       ----      ----
      Total current..............................  559        546       325
                                                  ----       ----      ----
Deferred:
  United States:
    Federal .....................................  (22)       (51)       70
    State........................................              (7)        4
  Foreign........................................   14         (8)       (1)
                                                  ----       ----      ----
    Total deferred...............................   (8)       (66)       73
                                                  ----       ----      ----
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES ...................... $551       $480      $398
                                                  ====       ====      ====



     Based upon location of the company's operations, the consolidated income 
before income taxes in the United States in 1997, 1996 and 1995 was $1,057 
million, $929 million and $881 million, respectively, and in foreign 
countries was $450 million, $358 million and $212 million, respectively. 
Certain foreign operations are branches of Deere & Company and are, 
therefore, subject to United States as well as foreign income tax 
regulations. The pretax income by location and the preceding analysis of the 
income tax provision by taxing jurisdiction are, therefore, not directly 
related.

     A comparison of the statutory and effective income tax provision and 
reasons for related differences in millions of dollars follows:

                                                        1997    1996   1995
                                                        ----    ----   ----
UNITED STATES FEDERAL INCOME TAX PROVISION
AT A STATUTORY RATE OF 35 PERCENT.....................  $527    $450   $382
INCREASE (DECREASE) RESULTING FROM:
State and local income taxes, net of
  federal income tax benefit..........................    25      23     14
Taxes on foreign income which differ from
  the United States statutory rate ...................    12      24      11
Realization of benefits of tax loss
  and tax credit carryforwards........................    (7)     (9)     (1)
Tax exempt income.....................................    (4)     (4)     (5)
Other adjustments - net ..............................    (2)     (4)     (3)
                                                        ----    ----    ----
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES ...........................  $551    $480    $398
                                                        ====    ====    ====

     Deferred income taxes arise because there are certain items that are 
treated differently for financial accounting than for income tax reporting 
purposes. An analysis of the deferred income tax assets and liabilities at 
October 31 in millions of dollars follows:


     At October 31, 1997, accumulated earnings in certain overseas 
subsidiaries totaled $564 million for which no provision for United States 
income taxes or foreign withholding taxes has been made, because it is 
expected that such earnings will be reinvested overseas indefinitely. 
Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability on these 
unremitted earnings is not practical.

     Deere & Company files a consolidated federal income tax return in the 
United States, which includes the wholly-owned Financial Services 
subsidiaries. These subsidiaries account for income taxes generally as if 
they filed separate income tax returns.

     At October 31, 1997, certain foreign tax loss and tax credit 
carryforwards were available. The expiration dates and amounts in millions of 
dollars are as follows: 2001 - $4 and unlimited - $8.

MARKETABLE SECURITIES

Marketable securities are held by the insurance and health care subsidiaries. 
All marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale under FASB 
Statement No. 115, with unrealized gains and losses shown as a component of 
stockholders' equity. Realized gains or losses from the sales of marketable 
securities are based on the specific identification method.

     The amortized cost and fair value of marketable securities in millions 
of dollars follow:

                                 Amortized      Gross       Gross
                                   Cost      Unrealized   Unrealized   Fair
                                  or Cost       Gains       Losses     Value
                                 ---------   ----------   ----------   -----
OCTOBER 31, 1997
Equity securities...............  $   3        $  2                    $   5
U.S. government and agencies ...    160           5                      165
States and municipalities ......    160          11                      171
Corporate ......................    237           9          $ 1         245
Mortgage-backed securities......    224           8                      232
Other ..........................      2                                    2
                                  -----        ----          ---       -----
MARKETABLE SECURITIES...........  $ 786        $ 35          $ 1       $ 820
                                  =====        ====          ===       =====
OCTOBER 31, 1996
Equity securities...............  $   5        $  2                    $   7
U.S. government and agencies....    225           5          $ 1         229
States and municipalities ......    163           9            1         171
Corporate ......................    265           6            1         270
Mortgage-backed securities......    188           5            3         190
Other ..........................      2                                    2
                                  -----        ----          ---       -----
MARKETABLE SECURITIES...........  $ 848        $ 27          $ 6       $ 869
                                  =====        ====          ===       =====

     The contractual maturities of debt securities at October 31, 1997 in 
millions of dollars follow:

                                                   Amortized       Fair
                                                      Cost         Value
                                                   ---------       -----
Due in one year or less .........................     $ 40          $ 40
Due after one through five years ................      239           243
Due after five through 10 years .................      156           165
Due after 10 years...............................      346           365
                                                      ----          ----
DEBT SECURITIES..................................     $781          $813
                                                      ====          ====

     Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because some 
borrowers have the right to call or prepay obligations. Proceeds from the 
sales of available-for-sale securities were $114 million in 1997, $11 million 
in 1996 and $79 million in 1995. Gross realized gains and losses on those 
sales were not significant. The increase in the net unrealized holding gain 
after income taxes was $8 million, $11 million and $3 million during 1997, 
1996 and 1995, respectively.



TRADE ACCOUNTS AND NOTES RECEIVABLE

Trade accounts and notes receivable at October 31 consisted of the following 
in millions of dollars:

                                                   1997         1996
                                                   ----         ----
Trade accounts and notes:
  Agricultural ................................   $2,137       $2,009
  Construction ................................      388          422
  Commercial and consumer......................      624          593
                                                  ------       ------
  Total........................................    3,149        3,024
Other receivables .............................      220          164
                                                  ------       ------
  Total........................................    3,369        3,188
Less allowance for doubtful receivables........       35           35
                                                  ------       ------
TRADE ACCOUNTS AND NOTES RECEIVABLE-NET ........  $3,334       $3,153
                                                  ======       ======

     At October 31, 1997 and 1996, dealer notes included above were $788 
million and $638 million, respectively.

     Trade accounts and notes receivable arise from sales to dealers of John 
Deere agricultural, construction and commercial and consumer equipment. The 
company generally retains as collateral a security interest in the equipment 
associated with these receivables. Generally, terms to dealers require 
payments as the equipment which secures the indebtedness is sold to retail 
customers. Interest is charged on balances outstanding after certain 
interest-free periods, which range from one to 12 months for agricultural 
tractors, one to five months for construction equipment, and from two to 24 
months for most other equipment. Trade accounts and notes receivable have 
significant concentrations of credit risk in the agricultural, construction 
and commercial and consumer business sectors as shown in the previous table. 
On a geographic basis, there is not a disproportionate concentration of 
credit risk in any area.

FINANCING RECEIVABLES

Financing receivables at October 31 consisted of the following in millions of 
dollars:

                                                   1997         1996
                                                   ----         ----
Retail notes:
  Equipment:
    Agricultural................................. $3,412       $3,273
    Construction.................................    877          903
    Commercial and consumer .....................    282          245
  Recreational products .........................  1,606        1,394
                                                  ------       ------
    Total........................................  6,177        5,815
Revolving charge accounts .......................    630          577
Financing leases.................................    331          223
Wholesale notes..................................    653          566
                                                  ------       ------
  Total credit receivables.......................  7,791        7,181
                                                  ======       ======

Less:
  Unearned finance income:
    Equipment notes .............................    654          634
    Recreational product notes ..................    590          511
    Financing leases.............................     48           31
                                                  ------       ------
      Total .....................................  1,292        1,176
                                                  ------       ------
  Allowance for doubtful receivables.............     94           93
                                                  ------       ------
FINANCING RECEIVABLES - NET ..................... $6,405       $5,912
                                                  ======       ======

     Financing receivables have significant concentrations of credit risk in 
the agricultural, construction, commercial and consumer, and recreational 
product business sectors as shown in the previous table. On a geographic 
basis, there is not a disproportionate concentration of credit risk in any 
area. The company retains as collateral a security interest in the equipment 
associated with retail notes, wholesale notes and financing leases.

     Financing receivable installments, including unearned finance income, at 
October 31 are scheduled as follows in millions of dollars:

                                                   1997         1996
                                                   ----         ----
Due in months:
    0 - 12......................................  $2,765       $2,569
   13 - 24 .....................................   1,685        1,530
   25 - 36......................................   1,186        1,113
   37 - 48......................................     782          767
   49 - 60......................................     471          463
   Thereafter...................................     902          739
                                                  ------       ------
TOTAL...........................................  $7,791       $7,181
                                                  ======       ======

    The maximum terms for retail notes are generally eight years for 
agricultural equipment, five years for construction equipment, six years for 
commercial and consumer equipment and 20 years for recreational products. The 
maximum term for financing leases is six years, while the maximum term for 
wholesale notes is generally 12 months.

     The company's United States and Canadian credit subsidiaries received 
proceeds of $968 million in 1997, $960 million in 1996 and $837 million in 
1995 from the sale of retail notes. Certain other foreign subsidiaries had 
insignificant sales of retail notes. At October 31, 1997 and 1996, the unpaid 
balances of retail notes previously sold were $1,514 million and $1,391 
million, respectively. The company's maximum exposure under all retail note 
recourse provisions at October 31, 1997 and 1996 was $177 million and $196 
million, respectively. There is no anticipated credit risk related to 
nonperformance by the counterparties. The retail notes sold are 
collateralized by security interests in the related equipment sold to 
customers. At October 31, 1997 and 1996, worldwide financing receivables 
administered, which include financing receivables previously sold but still 
administered, totaled $7,919 million and $7,303 million, respectively.

     Total financing receivable amounts 60 days or more past due were $24 
million at October 31, 1997 compared with $22 million at October 31, 1996. 
These past-due amounts represented .38 percent of the receivables financed at 
October 31, 1997 and .36 percent at October 31, 1996. The allowance for 
doubtful financing receivables represented 1.44 percent and 1.56 percent of 
financing receivables outstanding at October 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively. 
In addition, at October 31, 1997 and 1996, the company's credit subsidiaries 
had $164 million and $155 million, respectively, of deposits withheld from 
dealers



and merchants available for potential credit losses. An analysis of the 
allowance for doubtful credit receivables follows in millions of dollars:

- ------------------------------------------------------------
                                             1997 1996 1995 
- ------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, beginning of the year ............. $ 93 $ 88 $ 86
Provision charged to operations.............   38   43   36
Amounts written off.........................  (31) (32) (25)
Transfers related to retail note sales .....   (6)  (6)  (9)
                                             ---- ---- ----
BALANCE, END OF THE YEAR ................... $ 94 $ 93 $ 88
                                             ==== ==== ====
- -----------------------------------------------------------

OTHER RECEIVABLES

Other receivables at October 31 consisted of the following in millions of 
dollars:
- -------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    1997 1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------
Insurance and health care premiums receivable...... $ 90 $127
Reinsurance receivables ...........................   91  119
Receivables relating to asset backed 
 securitizations...................................  165  196
Other..............................................   67  108
                                                    ---- ----
OTHER RECEIVABLES ................................. $413 $550
                                                    ==== ====
- -------------------------------------------------------------

Other receivables are primarily held by the Financial Services subsidiaries. 
The credit subsidiaries' receivables related to asset backed securitizations 
are equal to the present value of payments to be received for retained 
interests and deposits made with other entities for recourse provisions under 
the retail note sales agreements.

EQUIPMENT ON OPERATING LEASES

Operating leases arise from the leasing of John Deere equipment to retail 
customers in the United States and Canada. Initial lease terms range from 12 
to 72 months. The net value of equipment on operating leases was $775 million 
and $430 million at October 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Of these leases, 
at October 31, 1997, $194 million was financed by the Equipment Operations 
and $581 million by the credit subsidiaries. The equipment is depreciated on 
a straight-line basis over the terms of the leases. The accumulated 
depreciation on this equipment was $140 million and $86 million at October 
31, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The corresponding depreciation expense was 
$95 million in 1997, $53 million in 1996 and $35 million in 1995. 

Future payments to be received on operating leases totaled $398 million at 
October 31, 1997 and are scheduled as follows: 1998 - $159, 1999 - $124, 2000 
- - $70, 2001 - $36 and 2002 - $9.

INVENTORIES

Substantially all inventories owned by Deere & Company and its United States 
equipment subsidiaries are valued at cost, on the "last-in, first-out" (LIFO) 
basis. Remaining inventories are generally valued at the lower of cost, on 
the "first-in, first-out" (FIFO) basis, or market. The value of gross 
inventories on the LIFO basis represented 85 percent and 83 percent of 
worldwide gross inventories at FIFO value on October 31, 1997 and 1996, 
respectively. If all inventories had been valued on a FIFO basis, estimated 
inventories by major classification at October 31 in millions of dollars 
would have been as follows:
- --------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    1997  1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Raw materials and supplies.......................  $ 228 $ 228
Work-in-process..................................    427   397
Finished machines and parts .....................  1,430 1,232
                                                  ------ -----
  Total FIFO value ..............................  2,085 1,857
Adjustment to LIFO basis ........................  1,012 1,028 
                                                  ------ -----
INVENTORIES...................................... $1,073 $ 829
                                                  ====== =====
- ---------------------------------------------------------------

PROPERTY AND DEPRECIATION
A summary of property and equipment at October 31 in millions
of dollars follows:
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    1997   1996
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Land ............................................   $ 54 $   46
Buildings and building equipment.................    958    914
Machinery and equipment .........................  2,099  2,157
Dies, patterns, tools, etc ......................    555    561
All other........................................    557    518
Construction in progress.........................    157    109
                                                  ------ ------
  Total at cost..................................  4,380  4,305
Less accumulated depreciation....................  2,856  2,953
                                                  ------ ------
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT - NET .................... $1,524 $1,352
                                                  ====== ======
- ---------------------------------------------------------------

Leased property under capital leases amounting to $3 million
and $4 million at October 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively, is
included primarily in machinery and equipment.

Property and equipment additions and depreciation are reported on page 33. 
Property and equipment expenditures for new and revised products, increased 
capacity and the replacement or major renewal of significant items of 
property and equipment are capitalized. Expenditures for maintenance, repairs 
and minor renewals are generally charged to expense as incurred. Most of the 
company's property and equipment is depreciated using the straight-line 
method for financial accounting purposes. Depreciation for United States 
federal income tax purposes is computed using accelerated depreciation 
methods.

It is not expected that the cost of compliance with foreseeable environmental 
requirements will have a material effect on the company's financial position 
or results of operations.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Net intangible assets totaled $158 million and $286 million at October 31, 
1997 and 1996, respectively. The Equipment Operations' balance of $148 
million at October 31, 1997 consisted primarily of unamortized goodwill, 
which resulted from the purchase cost of assets acquired exceeding their fair 
value, and an intangible asset of $24 million related to the additional 
minimum pension liability required by FASB Statement No. 87. The intangible 
pension asset decreased by $119 million during 1997 due to a reduction in the 
minimum pension liability.

Intangible assets, excluding the intangible pension asset, are
being amortized over 25 years or less, and the accumulated
amortization was $58 million and $39 million at October 31, 1997
and 1996, respectively. The intangible pension asset is remeasured
and adjusted annually. The unamortized goodwill is reviewed
periodically for potential impairment.




SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

Short-term borrowings at October 31 consisted of the following in millions of 
dollars:

- -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                                      1997   1996
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS
Commercial paper................................... $   98 $  106
Notes payable to banks .. 35 38
Long-term borrowings due within one year...........     38     79
                                                    ------ ------
  Total ...........................................    171    223
                                                    ------ ------

FINANCIAL SERVICES
Commercial paper...................................  2,559  2,030
Notes payable to banks ............................      2     27
Long-term borrowings due within one year...........  1,043    864
                                                    ------ ------
  Total .......................................... . 3,604  2,921
                                                    ------ ------
SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS.............................. $3,775 $3,144
                                                    ====== ======
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

The weighted average interest rates on total short-term borrowings, excluding 
current maturities of long-term borrowings, at October 31, 1997 and 1996 were 
5.2 percent and 5.1 percent, respectively. All of the Financial Services' 
short-term borrowings represent obligations of the credit subsidiaries.

Unsecured lines of credit available from United States and foreign banks were 
$4,412 million at October 31, 1997. Some of these credit lines are available 
to both the Equipment Operations and certain credit subsidiaries. At October 
31, 1997, $1,699 million of the worldwide lines of credit were unused. For 
the purpose of computing the unused credit lines, total short-term 
borrowings, excluding the current maturities of long-term borrowings, were 
considered to constitute utilization.

Included in the above lines of credit is a long-term committed credit 
agreement expiring on February 25, 2002 for $3,500 million. The agreement is 
mutually extendable and the annual facility fee is not significant. The 
credit agreement has various requirements of John Deere Capital Corporation, 
including the maintenance of its consolidated ratio of earnings to fixed 
charges at not less than 1.05 to 1 for each fiscal quarter and the ratio of 
senior debt to total stockholder's equity plus subordinated debt at not more 
than 8 to 1 at the end of any fiscal quarter. Deere & Company has a separate 
contractual agreement to conduct business with the Capital Corporation on 
such terms that the Capital Corporation will continue to satisfy the ratio 
requirement for earnings to fixed charges, the Capital Corporation's tangible 
net worth will be maintained at not less than $50 million and Deere & Company 
will own at least 51 percent of Capital Corporation's voting capital stock. 
These arrangements are not intended to make Deere & Company responsible for 
the payment of obligations of this credit subsidiary. The credit agreement 
also contains a provision requiring Deere & Company to maintain consolidated 
tangible net worth of $500 million according to United States generally 
accepted accounting principles in effect at October 31, 1994. Under this 
provision, the company's total retained earnings balance was free of 
restriction at October 31, 1997.

ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES

Accounts payable and accrued expenses at October 31 consisted of the 
following in millions of dollars:
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        1997   1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS
Accounts payable:
  Trade .............................................  $ 967  $ 882
  Dividends payable..................................     50     52
  Other..............................................     37     37
Accrued expenses:
  Employee benefits .................................    160    151
  Dealer commissions ................................    201    178
  Other..............................................    719    675
                                                      ------ ------
    Total............................................  2,134  1,975
                                                      ------ ------
FINANCIAL SERVICES
Accounts payable:
  Deposits withheld from dealers and merchants.......    164    155
  Other..............................................    140    132
Accrued expenses:
  Unearned premiums .................................    141    145
  Unpaid loss adjustment expenses....................     92     88
  Interest payable ..................................     49     44
  Other..............................................    120    137
                                                      ------ ------
    Total............................................    706    701
                                                      ------ ------
Accounts payable and accrued expenses................ $2,840 $2,676
                                                      ====== ======
- -------------------------------------------------------------------

LONG-TERM BORROWINGS

Long-term borrowings at October 31 consisted of the following in millions of 
dollars:

- -------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        1997   1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS
Notes and debentures:
 Medium-term notes due 2000 - 2006:
  Average interest rate of 8.9% as of year end
   1997 and 1996 ....................................  $ 134  $ 171
Adjustable rate senior notes due 2002:
  Interest rate of 7.8% as of year end 1996 .........            50
8.95% debentures due 2019............................    200    200
8-1/2% debentures due 2022...........................    200    200
Other................................................      6      5
                                                      ------ ------
        Total........................................  $ 540  $ 626
                                                      ====== ======
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
(continued)



- -------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       1997    1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
FINANCIAL SERVICES
Notes and debentures:
 Medium-term notes due 1998 - 2007:
  Average interest rate of 6.7% as of year end
  1997 and 1996..................................... $1,286 $1,402
Floating rate notes due 1998 (federal funds rate):
  Swapped to an alternative variable interest rate
  of 5.6% as of year end 1996.......................           150
5% Swiss franc bonds due 1999: Swapped to U.S.
 dollars and a variable interest rate of 6.1% as of
 year end 1997 and 6.0% as of year end 1996 ........     97     97
6% Notes due 1999 ..................................    200
6.30% Notes due 1999 ...............................    200  
                                                     ------ ------
    Total notes and debentures......................  1,783  1,649
                                                     ------ ------
Subordinated debt:
  9-5/8% subordinated notes due 1998: Swapped
    to variable interest rate of 6.1% as of year
    end 1997 and 6.0% as of year end 1996...........    150    150
8-5/8% subordinated debentures due 2019* ...........    150  
                                                     ------ ------
      Total subordinated debt ......................    300    150
                                                     ------ ------
        Total ......................................  2,083  1,799
                                                     ------ ------
LONG-TERM BORROWINGS................................ $2,623 $2,425    
                                                     ====== ======

*Reclassified to short-term borrowings in 1996 because the obligation was 
callable by the creditors in 1997. Swapped to variable interest rate of 5.3% 
as of year end 1996.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------

All of the Financial Services' long-term borrowings represent obligations of 
John Deere Capital Corporation.

The approximate amounts of the Equipment Operations' long-term borrowings 
maturing and sinking fund payments required in each of the next five years in 
millions of dollars are as follows: 1998 - $38, 1999 - $200, 2000 - $5, 2001 
- - $68 and 2002 - $23. The approximate amounts of the Capital Corporation's 
long-term borrowings maturing and sinking fund payments required in each of 
the next five years in millions of dollars are as follows: 1998 - $1,043, 
1999 - $1,048, 2000 - $365, 2001 - $140 and 2002 - $280.

LEASES

At October 31, 1997, future minimum lease payments under capital leases 
totaled $1 million. Total rental expense for operating leases during 1997 was 
$61 million compared with $56 million in 1996 and $50 million in 1995. At 
October 31, 1997, future minimum lease payments under operating leases 
amounted to $112 million as follows: 1998 - $38, 1999 - $25, 2000 - $14, 2001 
- - $9, 2002 - $6 and later years - $20.

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

On October 31, 1997, the company's maximum exposure under all credit 
receivable recourse provisions was $177 million for retail notes sold by both 
the Financial Services subsidiaries and the Equipment Operations. Also, at 
October 31, 1997, the company had commitments of approximately $102 million 
for construction and acquisition of property and equipment.

The company is subject to various unresolved legal actions which arise in the 
normal course of its business, the most prevalent of which relate to product 
liability, retail credit matters, and patent and trademark matters. Although 
it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these unresolved 
legal actions or the range of possible loss, the company believes these 
unresolved legal actions will not have a material effect on its financial 
position or results of operations.

CAPITAL STOCK

Changes in the common stock account in 1995, 1996 and 1997 were as follows:
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Number of             Amount
                                         Shares Issued        (in millions)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at October 31, 1994 ............   259,915,584            $1,491
Transfer from retained earnings for
  three-for-one stock split (see below).                             175
Stock options exercised with newly 
  issued shares.........................     2,604,114                44
Debenture conversions ..................         4,386
Other...................................                              19
                                           -----------            ------
Balance at October 31, 1995.............   262,524,084             1,729
Stock options exercised with newly 
  issued shares.........................     1,305,541                26
Debenture conversions ..................         3,474
Other...................................                              15
                                           -----------            ------
Balance at October 31, 1996.............   263,833,099             1,770
Debenture conversions ..................        16,204
Other...................................                               9
                                           -----------            ------
BALANCE AT OCTOBER 31, 1997 ............   263,849,303            $1,779
                                           ===========            ======
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
On November 15, 1995, the company declared a three-for-one stock split 
effected in the form of a 200 percent stock dividend to stockholders of 
record on November 17, 1995. This stock split was recorded as of October 31, 
1995 by a transfer of $175 million from retained earnings to common stock, 
representing a $1 par value for each additional share issued. All prior 
references to shares and per share amounts have been restated. The number of 
common shares the company is authorized to issue was also increased from 200 
million to 600 million and the number of authorized preferred shares, none of 
which has been issued, was increased from three million to nine million.

As of October 31, 1997, the company had completed the repurchase of $500 
million of Deere & Company common stock under the program announced on 
February 28, 1996. However, in December 1997, the company announced it would 
repurchase up to $1 billion of additional common stock from time to time. The 
major changes during 1997 affecting common stock in treasury included the 
repurchase of 6,330,731 shares of common stock at a cost of $300 million 
related to the repurchase program and 2,415,704 shares at a cost of $119 
million for ongoing stock option and restricted stock plans. In addition, 
1,757,278 shares of treasury stock at original cost of $72 million were 
issued under these plans.




The calculation of net income per share is based on the average number of 
shares outstanding during the year. The calculation of net income per share, 
assuming full dilution, recognizes the dilutive effect of the assumed 
exercise of stock appreciation rights and stock options, contingent shares 
and conversion of convertible debentures. The calculation also reflects 
adjustment for interest expense relating to the convertible debentures, net 
of applicable income taxes.

STOCK OPTION AND RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS

The company issues stock options and restricted stock to key employees under 
plans approved by stockholders. Restricted stock is also issued to 
nonemployee directors. Options are generally awarded with the exercise price 
equal to the market price and become exercisable in one year. Certain other 
options are awarded with the exercise prices greater than the market price 
and become exercisable in four to nine and one-half years, depending on the 
achievement of company performance goals. All options expire 10 years after 
the date of grant. The periods of restriction for restricted stock issued to 
employees range from four to eight years depending on the achievement of 
company performance goals. If the company exceeds these goals, additional 
shares could be granted at the end of the restricted periods. The 
restrictions for nonemployee directors end when a director retires from the 
Board. At October 31, 1997, the shares remaining available for the granting 
of options and restricted stock were 14.8 million and 3.5 million, 
respectively.

In 1997, the company adopted the disclosure provisions of FASB Statement No. 
123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. The company retained the 
"intrinsic value" method of accounting for its plans in accordance with APB 
Opinion No. 25, and, therefore, recognized no compensation expense for stock 
options. For disclosure purposes only, the Black-Scholes option pricing model 
was used to calculate the "fair values" of stock options. Based on this 
model, the weighted-average fair values of stock options awarded during 1997 
and 1996 were $13.70 and $9.40 per option, respectively.

Pro forma net income and earnings per share, as if the fair value method in 
FASB Statement No. 123 had been used to account for stock-based compensation, 
and the assumptions used are as follow:

- -------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  1997    1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income (in millions)
  As reported................................   $  960   $ 817
  Pro forma .................................   $  948   $ 808
Net income per share
  As reported................................   $ 3.78   $ 3.14
  Pro forma .................................   $ 3.74   $ 3.10
Black-Scholes assumptions*
  Risk-free interest rate ...................      6.2%     5.6%
  Dividend yield.............................      1.9%     2.3%
  Stock volatility ..........................     30.0%    25.2%
  Expected option life ...................... 5.3 years 5.9 years
*Weighted-averages
- -------------------------------------------------------------------

The pro forma stock-based compensation expense included in net income above 
may not be representative of future years since only awards of stock options 
and restricted stock after November 1, 1995 have been included in accordance 
with FASB Statement No. 123.

During the last three fiscal years, changes in shares under option in 
millions were as follows:
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   1997             1996            1995
                              ---------------  --------------- ---------------
                                     Exercise         Exercise        Exercise
                              Shares  Price*   Shares  Price*  Shares  Price*
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Outstanding at
  beginning of year........    6.3    26.54      6.9   22.33     5.4   17.47
Granted ...................    1.5    42.69      1.8   34.90     4.2   25.13
Exercised .................   (1.5)   24.23     (2.0)  19.98    (2.6)  16.93
Expired or forfeited ......    (.1)   28.70      (.4)  25.10     (.1)  20.59
                              -----             -----           -----
Outstanding at
  end of year..............     6.2   30.90       6.3  26.54      6.9  22.33
Exercisable at
  end of year..............     3.1   24.70       3.1  19.35      2.6  17.79
*Weighted-averages

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Options outstanding and exercisable in millions at October 31, 1997 were as 
follows:
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             Options Outstanding        Options Exercisable
                          ---------------------------  --------------------
                                  Remaining
Range of                         Contractual  Exercise            Exercise
Exercise Prices           Shares Life (yrs)*   Price*   Shares     Price*
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
$12.25 - $15.60 ......      .6      4.3        14.01      .6        14.01
$20.02 - $23.56 ......     1.4      6.6        21.73     1.4        21.73
$28.39 - $34.13 ......     2.6      7.5        32.48     1.1        34.10
$40.60 - $47.36 ......     1.6      9.0        42.81
                          ----                          ----
Total.................     6.2                           3.1
*Weighted-averages
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In 1997 and 1996, the company granted 292,681 and 95,016 shares of restricted 
stock with weighted-average fair values of $43.14 and $41.17 per share, 
respectively. The total compensation expense for restricted stock and 
additional shares, which is being amortized over the restricted periods, was 
$15 million in 1997 and $9 million in 1996.

EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE AND SAVINGS PLANS

The company maintains the following significant plans for eligible employees:

  John Deere Savings and Investment Plan, for salaried employees
  John Deere Stock Purchase Plan, for salaried employees
  John Deere Tax Deferred Savings Plan, for hourly and incentive
    paid employees

Company contributions under these plans were $41 million in 1997, $35 million 
in 1996 and $30 million in 1995.

RETAINED EARNINGS

An analysis of the company's retained earnings follows in millions of dollars:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        1997   1996   1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, beginning of the year ..................... $ 2,300 $1,690 $1,354
Net income .........................................     960    817    706
Dividends declared .................................    (202)  (207)  (195)
Transfer to capital stock for
  three-for-one stock split ........................                  (175)
Other ..............................................     (10)
                                                     -------  ------ -----
BALANCE, END OF THE YEAR............................ $ 3,048  $2,300 $1,690
                                                     =======  ====== ======
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------






CUMULATIVE TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENT

An analysis of the company's cumulative translation adjustment follows in 
millions of dollars:

                                                          1997    1996    1995
                                                          ----    ----    ----
Balance, beginning of the year........................... $(14)   $(12)   $(18)
Translation adjustments for the year.....................  (37)      1       6
Income taxes applicable to translation adjustments.......   (6)     (3)
                                                          ----    ----    ----
BALANCE, END OF THE YEAR ................................ $(57)   $(14)   $(12)
                                                          ----    ----    ----
                                                          ----    ----    ----

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The fair values of financial instruments which do not approximate the 
carrying values in the financial statements at October 31 in millions of 
dollars follow:



FAIR VALUE ESTIMATES

Fair values of the long-term financing receivables with fixed rates were 
based on the discounted values of their related cash flows at current market 
interest rates. The fair values of the remaining financing receivables 
approximated the carrying amounts.

Fair values of long-term borrowings with fixed rates were based on the 
discounted values of their related cash flows at current market interest 
rates. Certain long-term borrowings of the John Deere Capital Corporation 
have been swapped to current variable interest rates and United States 
dollars. Fair values of these swaps were based on quotes from dealers.

Fair values and carrying values of the company's other interest rate swaps 
and caps associated with short-term borrowings, foreign exchange forward 
contracts and options were not material.

DERIVATIVES

The company enters into derivative transactions only to hedge exposures 
arising in the normal course of business, and not for the purpose of creating 
speculative positions or trading. The following notional or contract amounts 
do not represent amounts exchanged by the parties and, therefore, are not 
representative of the company's risk. The net amounts exchanged are 
calculated on the basis of the notional amounts and other terms of the 
derivatives such as interest rates and exchange rates, and represent only a 
small portion of the notional amounts. The credit and market risks under 
these agreements are not considered to be significant since the 
counterparties have high credit ratings and the fair values and carrying 
values are not material.

INTEREST RATE SWAPS AND CAPS

The company's credit subsidiaries enter into interest rate swap and interest 
rate cap agreements related to their borrowings in order to more closely 
match the type of interest rates of the borrowings to those of the assets 
being funded. The differential to be paid or received on all swap and cap 
agreements is accrued as interest rates change and is recognized over the 
lives of the agreements in interest expense. Premiums are amortized to 
interest expense over the lives of the agreements.

At October 31, 1997 and 1996, the total notional principal amounts of 
interest rate swap agreements related to short-term borrowings were $795 
million and $346 million, having rates of 3.4 to 6.3 percent and 5.2 to 7.4 
percent, terminating in up to 36 months and 12 months, respectively. There 
were no interest rate cap agreements at October 31, 1997 or 1996.

The Capital Corporation has entered into interest rate swap agreements with 
independent parties that change the effective rate of interest on certain 
long-term borrowings. The "Long-Term Borrowings" table on pages 39 and 40 
reflects the effective year-end variable interest rates relating to these 
swap agreements. The notional principal amounts and maturity dates of these 
swap agreements are the same as the principal amounts and maturities of the 
related borrowings. The Capital Corporation also has interest rate swap 
agreements associated with medium-term notes. The "Long-Term Borrowings" 
table reflects the interest rates relating to these swap agreements. At 
October 31, 1997 and 1996, the total notional principal amounts of these swap 
agreements were $380 million and $520 million, terminating in up to 116 
months and 113 months, respectively.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE FORWARD CONTRACTS, SWAPS AND OPTIONS

The company has entered into foreign exchange forward contracts, swaps and 
purchased options in order to hedge the currency exposure of certain 
receivables, liabilities and expected inventory purchases. The foreign 
exchange forward contract and swap gains or losses are accrued as foreign 
exchange rates change for hedges of receivables and liabilities or deferred 
until expiration of the contract for hedges of future commitments. The 
contract premiums are either amortized or deferred over the terms of the 
contracts depending on the items being hedged. The contract gains or losses 
and premiums are recognized in other operating expenses. The foreign exchange 
purchased option premiums and any gains are deferred and recognized in cost 
of sales as part of the cost of future inventory purchases. At October 31, 
1997 and 1996, the company had foreign exchange forward contracts maturing in 
up to 12 months and 11 months for $415 million and $390 million, 
respectively, and a foreign currency swap agreement maturing in up to 15 
months and 27 months, respectively, for $97 million. At October 31, 1997 and 
1996, the company had purchased options maturing in up to 23 months and 21 
months for $280 million and $164 million, respectively. The total deferred 
gains or losses on these foreign exchange hedges were not material at October 
31, 1997 and 1996.

CASH FLOW INFORMATION

For purposes of the statement of consolidated cash flows, the company 
considers investments with original maturities of three months or less to be 
cash equivalents. Substantially all of the company's short-term borrowings 
mature within three months or less.




Cash payments for interest and income taxes consisted of the following in 
millions of dollars:

                                                1997       1996      1995
                                                ----       ----      ----
Interest:
   Equipment Operations.......................  $ 83       $120      $129
   Financial Services ........................   366        298       262
   Intercompany eliminations .................    (5)        (6)       (6)
                                                ----       ----      ----
CONSOLIDATED .................................  $444       $412      $385
                                                ----       ----      ----
                                                ----       ----      ----
Income taxes:
   Equipment Operations.......................  $522       $513      $297
   Financial Services ........................   112        104        99
   Intercompany eliminations .................   (97)       (92)      (88)
                                                ----       ----      ----
CONSOLIDATED .................................  $537       $525      $308
                                                ----       ----      ----
                                                ----       ----      ----

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

Quarterly information with respect to net sales and revenues and earnings is 
shown in the following schedule. Such information is shown in millions of 
dollars except for per share amounts.

                                           First    Second    Third    Fourth
                                          Quarter  Quarter   Quarter   Quarter
                                          -------  -------   -------   -------
Net sales and revenues ..................  $2,396   $3,521    $3,430    $3,444
Income before income taxes...............     285      508       400       314
Net income ..............................     177      319       253       211
Net income per share.....................     .69     1.25      1.00       .84
Dividends declared per share ............     .20      .20       .20       .20
Dividends paid per share.................     .20      .20       .20       .20

Net sales and revenues ..................  $2,318   $3,089    $2,905    $2,917
Income before income taxes...............     258      425       317       287
Net income ..............................     166      273       204       174
Net income per share.....................     .63     1.04       .79       .68
Dividends declared per share ............     .20      .20       .20       .20
Dividends paid per share.................     .20      .20       .20       .20

Common stock per share sales prices from New York Stock Exchange composite 
transactions quotations follow:

                                           First    Second    Third    Fourth
                                          Quarter  Quarter   Quarter   Quarter
                                          -------  -------   -------   -------
1997 MARKET PRICE
High ....................................  $47.13   $46.75    $60.50    $59.00
Low......................................  $39.13   $40.88    $44.38    $48.75

1996 MARKET PRICE
High ....................................  $37.13   $45.00    $43.38    $44.88
Low......................................  $28.33   $35.63    $34.50    $34.75

At October 31, 1997, there were 31,748 holders of record of the company's $1 
par value common stock and 15 holders of record of the company's 5-1/2 % 
convertible subordinated debentures due 2001.

DIVIDEND

A quarterly cash dividend of $.22 per share was declared at the Board of 
Directors' meeting held on December 3, 1997, payable on February 2, 1998. 
This represents an increase of 10 percent.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT RISK INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS

The following is a sensitivity analysis for the company's derivatives and 
other financial instruments which have interest rate risk. These instruments 
are held for other than trading purposes. The gains or losses in the table 
below represent the changes in the financial instrument's fair values which 
would be caused by increasing the interest rates by 10 percent of the current 
market rates at October 31, 1997. The fair values were determined based on 
the discounted values of their related cash flows. The gains or losses in 
fair values at October 31, 1997 would have been as follows in millions of 
dollars:

                                              Fair Value
                                             Gains (Losses)
                                             ---------------
Marketable securities.......................      $(14)
Financing receivables.......................       (39)
Long-term borrowings and related swaps:
    Equipment Operations borrowings ........        30
    Financial Services borrowings ..........        27
        Interest rate and
        foreign currency swaps..............        (7)
                                                  -----
        Total...............................      $ (3)
                                                  -----
                                                  -----

TABULAR INFORMATION

The following foreign exchange forward contracts were held by the company to 
hedge certain currency exposures. All contracts have maturity dates in fiscal 
year 1998. The notional amounts and fair values at October 31, 1997 in 
millions of dollars follow:

                                                Average
                                              Contractual     Notional    Fair
                                                 Rate*         Amount     Value
                                              -----------     --------   ------
Buy US$ / Sell Canadian dollar.............      1.3758         $ 144     $ 2.9
Buy Deutsche Mark / Sell US$ ..............      1.7337           113       1.8
Buy British Pound / Sell US$...............       .5991            47        .1
Buy Australian dollar / Sell US$...........      1.4266            22
Buy French Franc / Sell US$ ...............      5.9095            20        .5
Buy Spanish Peseta / Sell US$..............      148.53            19        .4
Other contracts............................                        50       2.0
                                                                -----      ----
     Total ................................                     $ 415     $ 7.7
                                                                -----      ----
                                                                -----      ----

*Currency per United States dollar (US$)

At October 31, 1997, the company had $280 million of foreign exchange 
purchased options with a deferred premium of $3 million. The premium is the 
maximum potential loss on these options, which are held as hedges of expected 
inventory purchases. See pages 30 and 42 for further discussion of financial 
instruments including derivatives.





                       (THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.)





INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

Deere & Company:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Deere & 
Company and subsidiaries as of October 31, 1997 and 1996 and the related 
statements of consolidated income and of consolidated cash flows for each of 
the three years in the period ended October 31, 1997.  Our audits also 
included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index under Part IV, 
Item 14(a)(2).  These financial statements and the financial statement 
schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our 
responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements and 
financial statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free 
of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, 
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and 
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall 
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all 
material respects, the financial position of Deere & Company and subsidiaries 
at October 31, 1997 and 1996 and the results of their operations and their 
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 1997 
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  Also, in our 
opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to 
the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly 
in all material respects the information set forth therein.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Chicago, Illinois

November 25, 1997







                                     SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

     Each person signing below also hereby appoints Hans W. Becherer, Robert 
W. Lane and John K. Lawson, and each of them singly, his or her lawful 
attorney-in-fact with full power to execute and file any and all amendments 
to this report together with exhibits thereto and generally to do all such 
things as such attorney-in-fact may deem appropriate to enable Deere & 
Company to comply with the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
and all requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission.

                                       DEERE & COMPANY

                                       By:  /s/ Hans W. Becherer
                                            --------------------
                                                Hans W. Becherer
                                                Chairman and Chief Executive



Date:     22 January 1998


     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed 
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 



         Signature                     Title                Date


 /s/ Hans W. Becherer       Chairman, Director and        )
     ----------------                                     )
     Hans W. Becherer       Chief Executive Officer       )
                                                          )
 /s/ John R. Block          Director                      )  22 January 1998
     -------------                                        )
     John R. Block                                        )
                                                          )
 /s/ Leonard A. Hadley      Director                      )
     -----------------                                    )
     Leonard A. Hadley                                    )
                                                          )
 /s/ Regina E. Herzlinger   Director                      )
     --------------------                                 )
     Regina E. Herzlinger                                 )
                                                          )





         Signature                     Title                Date



 /s/ Samuel C. Johnson      Director                      )
     -----------------                                    )
     Samuel C. Johnson                                    )
                                                          )
 /s/ Arthur L. Kelly        Director                      )
     ---------------                                      )
     Arthur L. Kelly                                      )
                                                          )
 /s/ Robert W. Lane         Senior Vice President,        )    22 January 1998
     --------------                                       )
     Robert W. Lane         Principal Financial Officer   )
                            Principal Accounting Officer  )
                                                          )
 /s/ Antonio Madero B.      Director                      )
     ----------------                                     )
     Antonio Madero B.                                    )
                                                          )
 /s/ Agustin Santamarina    Director                      )
     -------------------                                  )
     Agustin Santamarina                                  )
                                                          )
 /s/ William A. Schreyer    Director                      )
     -------------------                                  )
     William A. Schreyer                                  )
                                                          )
 /s/ John R. Stafford       Director                      )
     ----------------                                     )
     John R. Stafford                                     )
                                                          )
 /s/ David H. Stowe, Jr.    Director                      )
     ------------------                                   )
     David H. Stowe, Jr.                                  )
                                                          )
 /s/ John R. Walter         Director                      )
     --------------                                       )
     John R. Walter                                       )
                                                          )
 /s/ Arnold R. Weber        Director                      )
     ---------------                                      )
     Arnold R. Weber                                      )




        DEERE & COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES               SCHEDULE II

            VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

    For the Years Ended October 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
              (In thousands of dollars)







                                 INDEX TO EXHIBITS
                                          
 2.       Not applicable

 3.1      Certificate of incorporation, as amended (Exhibit 3.1 to Form 10-K of
          registrant for the year ended October 31, 1995*)

 3.2      Certificate of Designation Preferences and Rights of Series A
          Participating Preferred Stock (Exhibit 3.2 to Form 10-Q of registrant
          for the period ended April 30, 1993*)

 3.3      By-laws, as amended

 4.1      Indenture dated February 15, 1991 between registrant and Citibank,
          N.A., as Trustee (Exhibit 4.1 to Form 10-Q of registrant for the
          quarter ended April 30, 1993*)

 4.2      Credit agreements among registrant, John Deere Capital Corporation,
          various financial institutions, and Chemical Bank, The Chase Manhattan
          Bank (National Association), Bank of Americas National Trust and
          Savings Association, Deutsche Bank AG, and The Toronto Dominion Bank,
          as Managing Agents, dated as of April 5, 1995 (Exhibit 4.1(a) and
          4.1(b) to 1993 Form 10-Q of registrant for the period ended April 30,
          1995*)

 4.3      Credit agreements among John Deere Limited, John Deere Finance
          Limited, various financial institutions and The Toronto-Dominion Bank
          as agent, dated as of April 5, 1995 (Exhibit 4.2(a) and 4.2(b) to Form
          10-Q of registrant for the quarter ended April 30, 1995*)

 4.4      Form common stock certificates (Exhibit 4.4 to Form 10-Q of registrant
          for the quarter ended April 30, 1993*)

 4.5      Rights Agreement dated as of December 3, 1997 between registrant and
          The Bank of New York (Exhibit 1 to the registration statement on Form
          8-A of registrant filed December 10, 1997*)Certain instruments
          relating to long-term debt constituting less than 10% of the
          registrant's total assets, are not filed as exhibits herewith pursuant
          to Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K. The registrant will file
          copies of such instruments upon request of the Commission.  9.   Not
          applicable

 10.1     Agreement dated May 11, 1993 between registrant and John Deere Capital
          Corporation concerning agricultural retail notes (Exhibit 10.1 to Form
          10-Q of registrant for the quarter ended April 30, 1993*)

 10.2     Agreement dated May 11, 1993 between registrant and John Deere Capital
          Corporation relating to commercial and consumer retail notes (Exhibit
          10.2 to Form 10-Q of registrant for the quarter ended April 30, 1993*)

 10.3     Agreement dated May 11, 1993 between John Deere Industrial Equipment
          Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of registrant and John Deere
          Capital Corporation concerning construction retail notes (Exhibit 10.3
          to Form 10-Q of registrant for the quarter ended April 30, 1993*)

 10.4     Agreement dated January 26, 1983 between registrant and John Deere
          Capital Corporation relating to agreements on retail notes with United
          States sales branches (Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-Q of registrant for the
          quarter ended April 30, 1993*)

 10.5     Agreement dated July 14, 1997 between the John Deere Construction
          Equipment Company and John Deere Capital Corporation concerning
          construction retail notes (Exhibit 10.8 to John Deere Capital
          Corporation Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 1997 Securities
          and Exchange Commission file number 1-6458*)





 10.6     John Deere Supplemental Pension Benefit Plan, as amended December 4,
          1996 (Exhibit 10.5 to Form 10-K of registrant for the year ended
          October 31, 1996*)**

 10.7     1986 John Deere Stock Option Plan (Exhibit 10.7 to Form 10-Q of
          registrant for the quarter ended April 30, 1993*)**

 10.8     1991 John Deere Stock Option Plan (Appendix to Notice and Proxy
          Statement of registrant for the annual shareholder meeting on February
          28, 1996*)**

 10.9     Deere & Company Voluntary Deferred Compensation Plan (Exhibit 10.9 to
          Form 10-Q of registrant for the quarter ended April 30, 1993*)**

 10.10    John Deere Restricted Stock Plan (Appendix to Notice and Proxy
          Statement of registrant for the annual shareholder meeting on February
          28, 1996*)**

 10.11    1993 Nonemployee Director Stock Ownership Plan (Exhibit to Notice and
          Proxy Statement of registrant for the annual shareholder meeting on
          February 24, 1993*)**

 10.12    John Deere Performance Bonus Plan (Exhibit A to Notice and Proxy
          Statement of registrant for the annual shareholder meeting on February
          22, 1995*)**

 10.13    John Deere Equity Incentive Plan (Exhibit B to Notice and Proxy
          Statement of registrant for the annual shareholder meeting on February
          22, 1995*)**

 10.14    Deere & Company Nonemployee Director Deferred Compensation Plan
          (Exhibit 10.13 to Form 10-K of registrant for the year ended October
          31, 1996*)**

 10.15    John Deere Defined Contribution Restoration Plan

 10.16    Agreement dated October 15, 1996 between registrant and John Deere
          Capital Corporation relating to fixed charges ratio, ownership and
          minimum net worth of John Deere Capital Corporation. (Exhibit 10.7 to
          John Deere Capital Corporation Form 10-K for the year ended October
          31, 1996 Securities and Exchange Commission file number 1-6458*)

 11.      Computation of net income per share

 12.      Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges

 13.      Not applicable

 16.      Not applicable

 18.      Not applicable

 21.      Subsidiaries

 22.      Not applicable

 23.      Consent of Deloitte & Touche llp

 24.      Not applicable

 27.      Financial Data Schedule       

_____________________________

 *        Incorporated by reference. Copies of these exhibits are available from
          the Company upon request.
 **       Compensatory plan or arrangement filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item
          14(c) of Form 10-K.




