
10-K405
FORM 10-K, COVER, FOLIO 2-19



                                 DRAFT 3/13/98
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
                                 ANNUAL REPORT
 
                    pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the
                        Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
 
                                     1-2360
                            (COMMISSION FILE NUMBER)
                            ------------------------
 
                  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
 
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 

 
                                  914-499-1900
 
                        (Registrant's telephone number)
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past
90 days.  Yes X  No
 
    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. /X/
 
    The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant at March 9, 1998, was $92.0 billion.
 
    Documents incorporated by reference:
 
        Portions of IBM's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
    December 31, 1997, into Parts I and II of Form 10-K.
 
        Portions of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement dated March 13, 1998, into
    Part III of Form 10-K.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS:
 
    IBM develops, manufactures and sells advanced information processing
products, including computers and microelectronic technology, software,
networking systems and information technology-related services. The company
offers value through its North America, Europe/Middle East/Africa, Asia Pacific,
Latin America, Global Services and Worldwide Client Server business units, by
providing comprehensive and competitive product choices.
 
    The value of unfilled orders is not a meaningful indicator of future
revenues due to the significant proportion of revenue from services, the volume
of products delivered from shelf inventories, and the shortening of product
delivery schedules. Therefore, the company believes that backlog information is
not material to an understanding of its business.
 
    IBM owns or is licensed under a number of patents relating to its products.
Licenses under patents owned by IBM have been and are being granted to others
under reasonable terms and conditions. IBM believes its business as a whole is
not materially dependent upon any particular patent or license, or any
particular group of patents or licenses.
 
    The following information is included in IBM's 1997 Annual Report to
Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference:
 
    Segment information and revenue by classes of similar products or
    services--Page 75.
 
    Financial information by geographic areas--Pages 76 and 77.
 
    Amount spent during each of the last three years on research and development
    activities--Page 64.
 
    Financial information regarding environmental activities--Page 61.
 
    The number of persons employed by the registrant--Page 48.
 
    The management discussion overview--Page 40.
 
    Forward Looking and Cautionary Statements:
 
    Certain statements contained in this Annual Report may constitute "forward
looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 ("Reform Act"). The company may also make forward looking
statements in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
in materials delivered to stockholders and in press releases. In addition, the
company's representatives may from time to time make oral forward looking
statements. Forward looking statements provide current expectations of future
events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not
directly relate to any historical or current fact. Words such as "anticipates,"
"believes," "expects," "estimates," "intends," "plans," "projects," and similar
expressions, may identify such forward looking statements. In accordance with
the Reform Act, set forth below are cautionary statements that accompany those
forward looking statements. Readers should carefully review these cautionary
statements as they identify certain important factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those in the forward looking statements and
from historical trends. The following cautionary statements are not exclusive
and are not in addition to other factors discussed elsewhere in the company's
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in materials
incorporated therein by reference.
 
    New Products and the Pace of Technological Change:
 
    The company's results of operations depend upon the continued successful
development and marketing of new and innovative products and services. The
development of new products and services requires significant capital
investments by the company's various businesses and the success of these
products and services depends on their acceptance by customers and business
partners. Further, the company's businesses are characterized by rapid
technological changes and corresponding shifts in customer demand, resulting in
unpredictable product transitions and shortened life cycles. There can be no
assurance that the company will successfully introduce new products and
services, that these products and services will be
 

accepted by customers, or that the company's businesses will recoup or realize a
return on their capital investments. In addition, from time to time the company
may experience difficulties or delays in the development, production or
marketing of new products and services.
 
    Competition:
 
    The company operates in businesses that are subject to intense competitive
pressures that could affect prices or demand for the company's products and
services, resulting in reduced profit margins and/or loss of market opportunity.
Unlike many of its competitors, the company has a portfolio of businesses and
must allocate resources across these businesses while competing with companies
that specialize in one or more of these product lines. As a result, the company
may not fund or invest in certain of its businesses to the same degree that its
competitors do and these companies may be devoting more of their resources to a
specific business than the businesses of the company against which they compete.
 
    Intellectual Property Rights:
 
    The company's proprietary intellectual property rights are important to its
success and it protects these rights in a variety of ways. These protections may
not prevent competitors from independently developing products and services
similar to or duplicative of the company's nor can there be any assurance that
these protections will adequately deter misappropriation or improper use of the
company's technology. The company also relies on intellectual property that it
licenses from others and there can be no assurances that it will be able to
obtain the licenses it needs in the future.
 
    Quarterly Fluctuations in Revenues and Volatility of Stock Prices:
 
    The company's revenues are affected by such factors as the introduction of
new products, the length of the sales cycles and the seasonality of technology
purchases. As a result, the company's results are difficult to predict and these
factors have historically resulted in first quarter revenues lower than revenues
for the immediately preceding fourth quarter. In addition, the company's stock
price is affected by a number of factors, including quarterly variations in
results, the competitive landscape, general economic and market conditions and
estimates and projections by the investment community. As a result, like other
technology companies, the company's stock price is subject to significant
volatility.
 
    Dependence on Key Personnel:
 
    Much of the future success of the company depends on the continued service
and availability of skilled personnel, including technical, marketing and staff
positions. Experienced personnel in the information technology industry are in
high demand and competition for their talents is intense. There can be no
assurance that the company will be able to successfully retain and attract the
key personnel it needs.
 
    Currency and Customer Financing Risks:
 
    The company derives a significant percentage of its non-U.S. revenues from
its affiliates operating in local currency environments and its results are
affected by changes in the relative values of non-U.S. currencies and the U.S.
dollar. For example, the continued strength of the U.S. dollar in 1997 had an
adverse impact on the company's non-U.S. results. Further, inherent in the
company's customer financing business are risks related to the concentration of
credit risk and the creditworthiness of the customer, interest rate and currency
fluctuations on the associated debt and liabilities and the determination of
residual values. The company employs a number of strategies to manage these
risks, including the use of derivative financial instruments. Derivatives
involve the risk of non-performance by the counterparty. In addition, there can
be no assurance that the company's efforts to manage these risks will be
successful.
 
    Dependence on Suppliers:
 
    Certain of the company's businesses rely on components or supplies from
either a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers and the company's
demand for certain components and supplies will change
 

from time to time. There can be no assurance that sources for these components
or supplies will be available in a timely or cost effective manner.
 
    Distribution Channels:
 
    The company offers its products directly and through a variety of third
party distributors and resellers. Changes in the financial or business condition
of these distributors and resellers could subject the company to losses and
affect its ability to bring its products to market.
 
    Acquisitions and Alliances:
 
    The company has made and expects to continue to make acquisitions or enter
into alliances from time to time. Acquisitions and alliances present significant
challenges and risks relating to the integration of the business into the
company, and there can be no assurances that the company will manage
acquisitions and alliances successfully.
 
    Legal, Political and Economic Changes:
 
    The company operates in more than 150 countries worldwide and derives more
than half of its revenues from sales outside the United States. Changes in the
laws or policies of the countries in which the company operates could affect the
company's business in that country and the company's results of operations. The
company's results of operations could also be affected by economic conditions
and changes in those countries and by macroeconomic changes, including
recessions and inflation. For example, weakness in some Asian markets has had an
adverse impact on the company's business in 1997.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES:
 
    At December 31, 1997, IBM's manufacturing and development facilities in the
United States had aggregate floor space of 43.4 million square feet, of which
35.9 million was owned and 7.5 million was leased. Of these amounts, 3.7 million
square feet was vacant and 2.1 million square feet was being leased to non-IBM
businesses. Similar facilities in 19 other countries totaled 17.5 million square
feet, of which 13.7 million was owned and 3.8 million was leased. Of these
amounts, .6 million square feet was vacant and .5 million square feet was being
leased to non-IBM businesses.
 
    Although improved production techniques, productivity gains, and
restructuring actions have resulted in reduced manufacturing floor space,
continuous upgrading of facilities is essential to maintain technological
leadership, improve productivity, and meet customer demand. For additional
information on expenditures for plant, rental machines and other property, refer
to "Investments" on page 45 of IBM's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders which is
incorporated herein by reference.
 

    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT (AT MARCH 27, 1998):
 

 
- ------------------------
 
(1) Member of the Board of Directors.
 
    All officers are elected by the Board of Directors and serve until the next
election of officers in conjunction with the annual meeting of the stockholders
as provided in the By-laws. Each officer named above, with the exception of J.
Thomas Bouchard, Louis V. Gerstner, Jr., J. Bruce Harreld, Lawrence R. Ricciardi
and Jeffery D. Serkes, has been an executive of IBM or its subsidiaries during
the past five years.
 
    Mr. Bouchard was senior vice president, human resources, of U.S. West, Inc.,
a telecommunications company, from 1989 until joining IBM in 1994. Prior to
1989, he spent 15 years with United Technologies Corporation in a variety of
executive positions, including senior vice president of human resources.
 
    Mr. Gerstner was the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of
RJR Nabisco Holdings Corporation, an international consumer products company
from 1989 until joining IBM in 1993. From 1985 to 1989, he was president of
American Express Company, and from 1983 to 1989, he was chairman and chief
executive officer of American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.
 
    Mr. Harreld was president of Boston Chicken, Inc., a company which operates
and franchises foodservice stores, from 1993 until joining IBM in 1995. Prior to
that he was senior vice president, marketing and information services, at Kraft
General Foods, Inc. where he also served as the company's chief information
officer from 1989 to 1992.
 
    Mr. Ricciardi was president of RJR Nabisco, Inc., an international consumer
products company, from 1993 until joining IBM in 1995. From 1989 to 1993, he
also served as executive vice president and general counsel at RJR Nabisco, Inc.
Prior to 1989, he was executive vice president and general counsel of American
Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.
 
    Mr. Serkes was vice president and deputy treasurer at RJR Nabisco, Inc., an
international consumer products company, from 1993 until joining IBM in 1994.
From 1987 to 1993, he also served as vice president and assistant treasurer,
corporate finance; director, capital markets; and manager, foreign exchange at
RJR Nabisco, Inc.
 

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS:
 
    Refer to note M "Contingencies" on page 61 of IBM's 1997 Annual Report to
Stockholders which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS:
 
    Not applicable.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
  MATTERS:
 
    Refer to pages 78 and 79 of IBM's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders which
are incorporated herein by reference solely as they relate to this item.
 
    IBM common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, Chicago Stock
Exchange and Pacific Stock Exchange. There were 622,092 common stockholders of
record at March 9, 1998.
 
    Effective November 1, 1997, the company created an employee benefits trust
to which the company contributed 10 million treasury shares of its common stock
in a private placement under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended. Refer to Note V "Employee Benefits Trust" on page 71 of IBM's Annual
Report to Stockholders which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA:
 
    Refer to page 78 of IBM's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders which is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
  OF OPERATIONS:
 
    Refer to pages 40 through 49 of IBM's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders
which are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK:
 
    Refer to the section titled "Market Risk" on page 46 of IBM's 1997 Annual
Report to Stockholders which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA:
 
    Refer to pages 38 and 39, and 50 through 77 of IBM's 1997 Annual Report to
Stockholders which are incorporated herein by reference. Also refer to the
Financial Statement Schedule on page S-1 of this Form.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE:
 
    Not applicable.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT:
 
    Refer to pages 5 through 7 of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement dated March
13, 1998, which are incorporated herein by reference. Also refer to Item 2
entitled "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I of this Form.
 

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION:
 
    Refer to pages 14 through 24 of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement dated March
13, 1998, which are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT:
 
    (a) Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners:
 
        Not applicable.
 
    (b) Security Ownership of Management:
 
        Refer to the section entitled "Common Stock and Total Stock-Based
        Holdings of Management" appearing on pages 12 and 13 of IBM's definitive
        Proxy Statement dated March 13, 1998, which are incorporated herein by
        reference.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS:
 
    Refer to the section entitled "Other Relationships" appearing on page 10 of
IBM's definitive Proxy Statement dated March 13, 1998, which is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K:
 
    (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:
 
        1. Financial statements from IBM's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders
           which are incorporated herein by reference:
 
           Report of Independent Accountants (page 39).
 
           Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the years ended December 31,
           1997, 1996 and 1995 (page 50).
 
           Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 1997 and
       1996 (page 51).
 
           Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31,
           1997, 1996 and 1995 (page 52).
 
           Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity at December 31, 1997,
           1996 and 1995 (page 53).
 
           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (pages 54 through 77).
 
        2. Financial statement schedules required to be filed by Item 8 of this
    Form:
 

 
           All other schedules are omitted as the required matter is not
           present, the amounts are not significant or the information is shown
           in the financial statements or the notes thereto.
 

        3. Exhibits:
 
           Included in this Form 10-K:
 
               I-- Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and
                  Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock
                  Dividends.
 
              II-- Parents and Subsidiaries.
 
             III-- Consent of Independent Accountants.
 
             IV-- Additional Exhibits
 
                 (a) Supplemental Consolidated Statement of Earnings--1997 and
                     1996.
 
              V-- The By-laws of IBM as amended through January 27, 1998.
 
             VI-- Second Amendment to Employment Agreement for L.V. Gerstner,
                 Jr., dated as of November 17, 1997.
 
             VII-- IBM's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders, certain sections of
                  which have been incorporated herein by reference.
 
            VIII-- Powers of Attorney.
 
             IX-- Financial Data Schedule.
 
           Not included in this Form 10-K:
 
                -- The Certificate of Incorporation of IBM is Exhibit VI to Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, and is hereby
                  incorporated by reference.
 
                -- The IBM 1997 Long-Term Performance plan, a compensatory plan,
                  is contained in Registration Statement No. 333-31305 on Form
                  S-8, filed on July 15, 1997, and is hereby incorporated by
                  reference.
 
                -- The 1994 Long-Term Performance Plan, a management
                  compensatory plan, is contained in Registration Statement No.
                  33-53777 on Form S-8, filed on May 24, 1994, and is hereby
                  incorporated by reference.
 
                -- Board of Directors compensatory plans, as described under
                  "Directors' Compensation" on pages 10 and 11 of IBM's
                  definitive Proxy Statement dated March 13, 1998, which is
                  incorporated herein by reference.
 
                -- IBM Board of Directors Deferred Compensation and Equity Award
                  Plan is Exhibit X to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                  1996, and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
                -- The employment agreement for L.V. Gerstner, Jr. is Exhibit 19
                  to Form 10-Q dated March 31, 1993, and is hereby incorporated
                  by reference.
 
                -- Amendment to Employment Agreement for L.V. Gerstner, Jr.
                  dated as of January 1, 1996 is Exhibit XI to Form 10-K for the
                  year ended December 31, 1996, and is hereby incorporated by
                  reference.
 
                -- The instruments defining the rights of the holders of the
                  7.25% Notes due 2002 are Exhibits 4(a) through 4(l) to
                  Registration Statement No. 33-33590 on Form S-3, filed on
                  February 22, 1990, and are hereby incorporated by reference.
 
                -- The instruments defining the rights of the holders of the
                  6.375% Notes due 2000 and the 7.50% Debentures due 2013 are
                  Exhibits 4(a) through 4(l) to Registration Statement No.
                  33-49475(1) on Form S-3, filed May 24, 1993, and are hereby
                  incorporated by reference.
 

                -- The instruments defining the rights of holders of the 8.375%
                  Debentures due 2019 are Exhibits 4(a)(b)(c) and (d) to
                  Registration Statement 33-31732 on Form S-3, filed on October
                  24, 1989, and are hereby incorporated by reference.
 
                -- The instruments defining the rights of holders of the 7.00%
                  Debentures due 2025 and the 7.00% Debentures due 2045 are
                  Exhibit 2 and 3 to Form 8-K, filed on October 30, 1995, and
                  are hereby incorporated by reference.
 
                -- The instrument defining the rights of holders of the 7.125%
                  Debentures due 2096 is Exhibit 2 to Form 8-K/A, filed on
                  December 6, 1996, and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
                -- The instruments defining the rights of the holders of the
                  6.45% Notes due 2007 and the 6.22% Debentures due 2027 are
                  Exhibits 2 and 3 to Form 8-K, filed on August 1, 1997, and is
                  hereby incorporated by reference.
 
                -- The instrument defining the rights of the holders of the
                  6.50% Debentures due 2028 is Exhibit 2 to Form 8-K, filed on
                  January 8, 1998, and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
                -- The IBM Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan is Exhibit IX
                  to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, and is
                  hereby incorporated by reference.
 
                -- The IBM Extended Tax Deferred Savings Plan is Exhibit X to
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, and is hereby
                  incorporated by reference.
 
                -- IBM's definitive Proxy Statement dated March 13, 1998,
                  certain sections of which have been incorporated herein by
                  reference.
 
        (b) Reports on Form 8-K:
 
           A Form 8-K dated October 20, 1997, was filed with respect to the
       company's financial results for the periods ended September 30, 1997, and
       included unaudited consolidated financial state-ments for the period
       ended September 30, 1997.
 
           A Form 8-K dated December 15, 1997, was filed to incorporate by
       reference into Registration Statement No. 333-40669 on Form S-3,
       effective December 12, 1997, the Agency Agreement dated December 12,
       1997, among International Business Machines Corporation, Credit Suisse
       First Boston Corporation, Goldman, Sachs & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
       Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, and
       Salomon Brothers Inc. No financial statements were filed with the Form
       8-K.
 

                                   SIGNATURES
 
    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
                                (Registrant)
 
                                By:          /s/ LOUIS V. GERSTNER, JR.
                                     ------------------------------------------
                                              (Louis V. Gerstner, Jr.
                                         CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                                            AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER)
 
Date: March 27, 1998
 
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 
          SIGNATURE                        TITLE                    DATE
- ------------------------------  ---------------------------  -------------------
 
  /s/ LAWRENCE R. RICCIARDI     Senior Vice President,
- ------------------------------    General Counsel and Chief    March 27, 1998
   (Lawrence R. Ricciardi)        Financial Officer
 
      /s/ JOHN R. JOYCE         Vice President and
- ------------------------------    Controller                   March 27, 1998
       (John R. Joyce)
 

 

                      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON
                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 
To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of
International Business Machines Corporation
 
    Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our
report dated January 19, 1998, appearing on page 39 of the 1997 Annual Report to
Stockholders of International Business Machines Corporation, (which report and
consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the Financial Statement Schedule
listed in Item 14(a)2 of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this Financial
Statement Schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information
set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated
financial statements.
 
/s/ PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP
PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP
1177 Avenue of the Americas
New York, N.Y. 10036
January 19, 1998
 

                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 
                  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
                            AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
 
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
                        FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31:
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 

 
- ------------------------
 
(A) Includes additions charged to costs and expenses less accounts written off
    and translation adjustments.
 
Note--
 
    The receivables upon which the above allowances are based are highly
diversified by geography, industry and individual customer. The allowances for
receivable losses for the year ended 1997 approximate less than three and
one-quarter percent of the company's current receivables and less than one and
one-half percent the company's non-current receivables. The allowances for
receivable losses for the year ended 1996 approximate less than three and
one-half percent of the company's current receivables and less than one and
one-half percent of the company's non-current receivables. The allowances for
receivable losses for the year ended 1995 approximate less than three and
one-half percent of the company's current receivables and one and one-half
percent of the company's non-current receivables.
 
                                      S-1

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 




