
10-K405
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
                                   FORM 10-K
                                 ANNUAL REPORT
                    PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (D) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
                                     1-2360
                            (Commission File Number)

                  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 

              NEW YORK                                   13-0871985
      (State of incorporation)              (IRS employer identification number)
          ARMONK, NEW YORK                                 10504
 (Address of principal executive offices)                (Zip Code)

                                     914-765-1900
                              (Registrant's telephone number)

                 SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X  No
 
    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  X
 
    The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant at March 11, 1996 was approximately $63.8 billion.
 
    Documents incorporated by reference:
 
       Portions of IBM's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
       December 31, 1995 into Parts I and II of Form 10-K.
 
       Portions of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement dated March 18, 1996 into
       Part III of Form 10-K.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS:
 
    IBM is in the business of providing customer solutions through the use of
advanced information technologies. The company operates primarily in the single
industry segment that creates value by offering a variety of solutions that
include, either singularly or in some combination, services, software, systems,
financing and technologies. The company provides these solutions to its
customers worldwide through sales and professional services units in North
America, Europe/Middle East/Africa, Asia Pacific, and Latin America.
 
    The value of unfilled orders is not a meaningful indicator of future
revenues due to the significant proportion of revenue from services, the volume
of products delivered from shelf inventories, and the shortening of product
delivery schedules. Therefore, the company believes that backlog information is
not material to an understanding of its business.
 
    IBM owns or is licensed under a number of patents relating to its products.
Licenses under patents owned by IBM have been and are being granted to others
under reasonable terms and conditions. IBM believes its business as a whole is
not materially dependent upon any particular patent or license, or any
particular group of patents or licenses.
 
    The following information is included in IBM's 1995 Annual Report to
Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference:
 
       1. Segment information and revenue by classes of similar products or
          services--Pages 75 and 76.
 
       2. Financial information by geographic areas--Pages 77 and 78.
 
       3. Amount spent during each of the last three years on research and
          development activities--Page 61.
 
       4. Financial information regarding environmental activities--Pages 62 and
          63.
 
       5. The number of persons employed by the registrant--Page 49.
 
       6. The management discussion overview--Page 36.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES:
 
    At December 31, 1995, IBM's manufacturing and development facilities in the
United States had aggregate floor space of 52.4 million square feet, of which
42.8 million was owned and 9.6 million was leased. Of these amounts, 9.7 million
square feet was vacant and 1.5 million square feet was being leased to non-IBM
businesses. Similar facilities in 17 other countries totaled 16.0 million square
feet, of which 12.8 million was owned and 3.2 million was leased. Of these
amounts, .8 million square feet was vacant and .5 million square feet was being
leased to non-IBM businesses.
 
    Although improved production techniques, productivity gains, and
restructuring actions have resulted in reduced manufacturing floor space,
continuous upgrading of facilities is essential to maintain technological
leadership, improve productivity, and meet customer demand. For additional
information on expenditures for plant, rental machines, and other property,
refer to "Investments" on page 44 of IBM's 1995 Annual Report to Stockholders
which is incorporated herein by reference.
 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT (AT MARCH 26, 1996):
 

 
- ------------
(1) Member of the Board of Directors.
 
    All officers are elected by the Board of Directors and serve until the next
election of officers in conjunction with the annual meeting of the stockholders
as provided in the By-laws. Each officer named above, with the exception of
James M. Alic, J. Thomas Bouchard, Louis V. Gerstner, Jr., J. Bruce Harreld,
Lawrence R. Ricciardi, Jeffrey D. Serkes, and G. Richard Thoman, has been an
executive of IBM or its subsidiaries during the past five years.
 
    Mr. Alic was with Reed Elsevier, a publishing and information business, as
chairman of Reed Exhibition Companies, Worldwide, from 1994 until joining IBM in
1995. From 1991 to 1994, he was president of Reed Exhibition Companies, North
America. Prior to that he held a number of line management and executive staff
positions at RCA Corporation.
 
    Mr. Bouchard was senior vice president, human resources, of U.S. West, Inc.,
a telecommunications company, from 1989 until joining IBM in 1994. Prior to
1989, he spent 15 years with United Technologies Corporation in a variety of
executive positions, including senior vice president of human resources.
 
    Mr. Gerstner was the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of
RJR Nabisco Holdings Corporation, an international consumer products company,
from 1989 until joining IBM in 1993. From 1985 to 1989, he was president of
American Express Company, and from 1983 to 1989, he was chairman and chief
executive officer of American Express Travel Related Services Co., Inc.
 
    Mr. Harreld was president of Boston Chicken, Inc., a company which operates
and franchises foodservice stores, from 1993 until joining IBM in 1995. Prior to
that he was senior vice president, marketing and information services, at Kraft
General Foods, Inc. where he also served as the company's chief information
officer from 1989 to 1992.
 
    Mr. Ricciardi was president of RJR Nabisco, Inc., an international consumer
products company, from 1993 until joining IBM in 1995. From 1989 to 1993, he
also served as executive vice
 

president and general counsel at RJR Nabisco, Inc.. Prior to 1989, he was
executive vice president and general counsel of American Express Travel Related
Services Co., Inc.
 
    Mr. Serkes was vice president and deputy treasurer at RJR Nabisco, Inc., an
international consumer products company, from 1993 until joining IBM in 1994.
From 1987 to 1993, he also served as vice president and assistant treasurer,
corporate finance; director, capital markets; and manager, foreign exchange at
RJR Nabisco, Inc.
 
    Mr. Thoman was the president of Nabisco International, Inc., a food company,
from 1992 until joining IBM in 1993. From 1985 to 1989, he was president of
American Express Travel Related Services International, and co-chief executive
officer of American Express Travel Related Services Co., Inc., and chief
executive officer of American Express International from 1989 to 1992.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS:
 
    Refer to note N "Contingencies" on page 63 of IBM's 1995 Annual Report to
Stockholders which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS:
 
    Not applicable.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS:
 
    Refer to page 79 and the inside back cover of IBM's 1995 Annual Report to
Stockholders which are incorporated herein by reference solely as they relate to
this item.
 
    IBM common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, Chicago Stock
Exchange and Pacific Stock Exchange. There were 652,923 common stockholders of
record at March 11, 1996.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA:
 
    Refer to page 79 of IBM's 1995 Annual Report to Stockholders which is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS:
 
    Refer to pages 36 through 49 of IBM's 1995 Annual Report to Stockholders
which are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA:
 
    Refer to pages 34 and 35 and 50 through 78 of IBM's 1995 Annual Report to
Stockholders which are incorporated herein by reference. Also refer to the
Financial Statement Schedule on page S-1 of this Form.
 

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE:
 
    Not applicable.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT:
 
    Refer to pages 5 through 7 of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement dated March
18, 1996 which are incorporated herein by reference solely as they relate to
this item.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION:
 
    Refer to pages 13 through 23 of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement dated March
18, 1996, which are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT:
 
    (A) SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS:
 
        Not applicable.
 
    (B) SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF MANAGEMENT:
 
        Refer to the section entitled "Common Stock and Total Stock-based
        Holdings" appearing on pages 11 and 12 of IBM's definitive Proxy
        Statement dated March 18, 1996, which is incorporated herein by
        reference solely as it relates to this item.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS:
 
    Refer to page 10 "Other Relationships" of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement
dated March 18, 1996, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K:
 
    (A) THE FOLLOWING DOCUMENTS ARE FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT:
 
       1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FROM IBM'S 1995 ANNUAL REPORT TO STOCKHOLDERS
          WHICH ARE INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE:
 
          Report of Independent Accountants (page 35).
 
          Consolidated Statement of Operations for the years ended December 31,
          1995, 1994 and 1993 (page 50).
 
          Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 1995 and
          1994 (page 51).
 
          Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31,
          1995, 1994 and 1993 (page 52).
 
          Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity at December 31, 1995,
          1994 and 1993 (page 53).
 
          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (pages 54 through 78).
 

       2. FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY ITEM 8 OF THIS
          FORM:
 
        SCHEDULE
PAGE     NUMBER
- ----    --------
 
 8                 Report of Independent Accountants on Financial Statement
                   Schedule.
 
 S-1       II--    Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
 
       All other schedules are omitted as the required matter is not present,
       the amounts are not significant or the information is shown in the
       financial statements or the notes thereto.
 
       3. EXHIBITS:
 
        INCLUDED IN THIS FORM 10-K:
 
            I--    Computation of Fully Diluted Earnings Per Share.
           II--    Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and
                   Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock
                   Dividends.
          III--    Parents and Subsidiaries.
           IV--    Consent of Independent Accountants.
            V--    Additional Exhibits
                   (a) Supplemental Consolidated Statement of Operations--1995
                   and 1994.
           VI--    The By-laws of IBM as amended through January 30, 1996.
          VII--    IBM's 1995 Annual Report to Stockholders, certain sections
                   of which have been incorporated herein by reference.
         VIII--    Powers of Attorney.
           IX--    Financial Data Schedule.
            X--    IBM Board of Directors Deferred Compensation and Equity
                   Award Plan.
           XI--    Amendment to Employment Agreement for L.V. Gerstner, Jr.
                   dated as of January 1, 1996.
 
        NOT INCLUDED IN THIS FORM 10-K:
 
       -- The Certificate of Incorporation of IBM is Exhibit VI to Form 10-K for
          the year ended December 31, 1993, and is hereby incorporated by
          reference.
 
       -- The IBM 1994 Long-Term Performance Plan, a management compensatory
          plan, is contained in Registration Statement No. 33-53777 on Form S-8,
          filed on May 24, 1994, and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
       -- Board of Directors compensatory plans, as described under "Directors'
          Compensation" on pages 10 and 11 of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement
          dated March 18, 1996, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
       -- The employment agreement for L.V. Gerstner, Jr. is Exhibit 19 to Form
          10-Q dated March 31, 1993, and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
       -- The instruments defining the rights of the holders of the 6 3/8% Notes
          due 1997 and the 7 1/4% Notes due 2002 are Exhibits 4(a) through 4(l)
          to Registration Statement No. 33-33590 on Form S-3, filed on February
          22, 1990, and are hereby incorporated by reference.
 
       -- The instruments defining the rights of the holders of the 6 3/8% Notes
          due 2000 and the 7 1/2% Debentures due 2013 are Exhibits 4(a) through
          4(l) to Registration Statement No. 33-49475(1) on Form S-3, filed May
          24, 1993, and are hereby incorporated by reference.
 

       -- The instruments defining the rights of holders of the 8 3/8%
          Debentures due 2019 are Exhibits 4(a)(b)(c) and (d) to Registration
          Statement 33-31732 on Form S-3, filed on October 24, 1989, and are
          hereby incorporated by reference.
 
       -- The instruments defining the rights of holders of the 7% Debentures
          due 2025 and the 7% Debentures due 2045 are Exhibit 2 and 3 to Form
          8-K, filed on October 30, 1995, and are hereby incorporated by
          reference.
 
       -- The IBM Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan is Exhibit IX to Form
          10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, and is hereby incorporated
          by reference.
 
       -- The IBM Extended Tax Deferred Savings Plan is Exhibit X to Form 10-K
          for the year ended December 31, 1994, and is hereby incorporated by
          reference.
 
       -- IBM's definitive Proxy Statement dated March 18, 1996, certain
          sections of which have been incorporated herein by reference.
 
    (b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K:
 
      A Form 8-K dated October 30, 1995, was filed to incorporate by reference
      into Registration Statement No. 33-50537 on Form S-3, effective October
      26, 1993, the Underwriting Agreement dated October 25, 1995, among
      International Business Machines Corporation, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner
      & Smith Incorporated, CS First Boston Corporation, Goldman, Sachs & Co.,
      J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and Salomon
      Brothers Inc. In addition, the Form of the $600 million 7% Debenture due
      2025 and the Form of the $150 million 7% Debenture due 2045 were
      incorporated by reference into Registration Statement No. 33-50537 on Form
      S-3, effective October 26, 1993 and were part of this Form 8-K. No
      financial statements were filed with the Form 8-K.
 

                                   SIGNATURES
 
    PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                     INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
                                                  (Registrant)
          
                  
                                     By       /s/ LOUIS V. GERSTNER, JR.
                                        ...................................
                                             (LOUIS V. GERSTNER, JR.
                                        CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                                           AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER)
 
Date:  March 26, 1996
 
    PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.
 



 

                      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON
                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 
To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
 
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our report
dated January 19, 1996 (which refers to the change in the method of accounting
for postemployment benefits in 1993), appearing on page 35 of the 1995 Annual
Report to Stockholders of International Business Machines Corporation, (which
report and consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the Financial
Statement Schedule listed in Item 14(a)2 of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this
Financial Statement Schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements.
 


/s/ PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP
- ------------------------
PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP


1177 Avenue of the Americas
New York, N.Y. 10036
January 19, 1996
 

                                                                   SCHEDULE II
 
                                  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
                                            AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

                                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                         FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31:
                                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 

 
- ---------
 
(A) Includes additions charged to costs and expenses less accounts written off
    and translation adjustments.
 
Note--
    The receivables upon which the above allowances are based are highly
diversified by geography, industry, and individual customer. With the growth of
the company's working capital financing business in 1995 and 1994, the
concentration of such financings for certain large dealers and remarketers of
information industry products has become more significant. The allowances for
receivable losses for the year ended 1995, approximate less than three and
one-half percent of the company's current receivables and one and one-half
percent of the company's non-current receivables. The allowances for the year
ended 1994, approximate less than three and one-quarter percent of the company's
current receivables and less than one and one-half percent of the company's non-
current receivables. The allowances for the year ended 1993, approximate less
than three and one-half percent of the company's current receivables and less
than two percent of the company's non-current receivables.
 
                                      S-1

                                         EXHIBIT INDEX
 









