
10-K
IBM CORPORATION



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                         ------------------------------
                                   FORM 10-K
                                 ANNUAL REPORT
                    PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (D) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993
                                     1-2360
                            (Commission File Number)
                  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
                NEW YORK                                13-0871985
        (STATE OF INCORPORATION)           (IRS EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER)

            ARMONK, NEW YORK                               10504
(ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)                (ZIP CODE)

                                  914-765-1900
                        (Registrant's telephone number)

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                             VOTING SHARES OUTSTANDING    NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
    TITLE OF EACH CLASS        AT FEBRUARY 10, 1994        ON WHICH REGISTERED
- ---------------------------  -------------------------  ------------------------
Capital stock, par value            582,112,340         New York Stock Exchange
  $1.25 per share                                       Midwest Stock Exchange
                                                        Pacific Stock Exchange
Depositary shares each                                  New York Stock Exchange
 representing one-fourth
 of a share of 7 1/2%
 Preferred stock, par
 value $ .01 per share
6 3/8% Notes due 1997                                   New York Stock Exchange
9% Notes due 1998                                       New York Stock Exchange
6 3/8% Notes due 2000                                   New York Stock Exchange
7 1/4% Notes due 2002                                   New York Stock Exchange
7 1/2% Debentures due 2013                              New York Stock Exchange
8 3/8% Debentures due 2019                              New York Stock Exchange

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X  No

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. / /

     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant at February 10, 1994 was $30.8 billion.

     Documents incorporated by reference:
 
        Portions of IBM's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
        December 31, 1993 into Parts I and II of Form 10-K.
 
        Portions of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement dated March 14, 1994 into
        Part III of Form 10-K.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS:
     IBM develops, manufactures and sells advanced information processing
products, including computers and microelectronic technology, software,
networking systems and information technology-related services. IBM offers value
worldwide through its United States, Canada, Europe/Middle East/Africa, Latin
America, and Asia/Pacific business units, by providing comprehensive and
competitive product choices.
 
     The value of unfilled orders is not a meaningful indicator of future
revenues due to the significant proportion of revenue from services, the volume
of products delivered from shelf inventories, and the shortening of product
delivery schedules. Therefore, the Company believes that backlog information is
not material to an understanding of its business.
 
     IBM owns or is licensed under a number of patents relating to its products.
Licenses under patents owned by IBM have been and are being granted to others.
IBM believes its business as a whole is not materially dependent upon any
particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses.
 
     The following information is included in IBM's 1993 Annual Report to
Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference:
 
        1. Segment information and revenue by classes of similar products or
           services--Pages 59 and 60
 
        2. Financial information by geographic areas--Pages 61 and 62
 
        3. Amount spent during each of the last three years on research and
           development activities--Page 45
 
        4. The number of persons employed by the registrant--Page 31

        5. Management discussion overview --Pages 20 and 21

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES:
     At December 31, 1993, IBM's manufacturing and development facilities in the
United States had aggregate floor space of 57.4 million square feet, of which
46.6 million was owned and 10.8 million was leased. Of these amounts, 4.3
million square feet was vacant and .7 million square feet was being leased to
non-IBM businesses. Similar facilities in 15 other countries totaled 21.8
million square feet, of which 18.3 million was owned and 3.5 million was leased.
Of these amounts, .6 million square feet was vacant and .3 million square feet
was being leased to non-IBM businesses.
 
     Although improved production techniques, productivity gains, and
restructuring actions have resulted in reduced manufacturing floor space,
continuous upgrading of facilities is essential to maintain technological
leadership, improve productivity, and meet customer demand. For additional
information on expenditures for plant and other property, refer to page 27
(Investments) of IBM's 1993 Annual Report to Stockholders which is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS:
     No material pending legal proceedings.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS:
     Not applicable.
 

                               PART I (CONTINUED)
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT (AT MARCH 28, 1994):
 

 
- ------------
(1) Member of the Board of Directors.
 
     All officers are elected by the Board of Directors and serve until the next
election of officers in conjunction with the annual meeting of the stockholders
as provided in the By-laws. Each officer named above, with the exception of
Gerald M. Czarnecki, Louis V. Gerstner, Jr., Paul J. Rizzo, G. Richard Thoman,
Jerome B. York, and Frederick W. Zuckerman has been an officer or an executive
of IBM or its subsidiaries during the past five years.
 
     Mr. Czarnecki was the chairman of the board and chief executive officer, of
Bank of America-Hawaii from 1992 until joining IBM in 1993. From 1987 to 1992,
he was chairman of the board and chief executive officer of HonFed Bank in
Honolulu, Hawaii.
 
     Mr. Gerstner was the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of
RJR Nabisco Holdings Corporation from 1989 until joining IBM in 1993. From 1985
to 1989, he was chairman and chief executive officer of American Express Travel
Related Services Co., Inc.
 
     Mr. Rizzo was the Dean of the Kenan-Flagler Business School at the
University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill from 1987 to 1992. He then became a
partner in Franklin Street Partners, a Chapel Hill investment firm. He rejoined
IBM in 1993, having previously retired in 1988.
 
     Mr. Thoman was the president of Nabisco International from 1992 until
joining IBM in 1993. From 1985 to 1989, he was president of American Express
Travel Related Services International, and co-CEO of American Express Travel
Related Services Co., and CEO of American Express International from 1989 to
1992.
 
     Mr. York was the executive vice president-finance and chief financial
officer of Chrysler Corporation from 1990 until joining IBM in 1993. From 1979
to 1990, he had also served as vice president and controller at Chrysler, vice
president in charge of the company's Dodge car and truck division, and managing
director of its operations in Mexico.
 
     Mr. Zuckerman was the senior vice president and treasurer of RJR Nabisco
from 1991 until joining IBM in 1993. From 1981 to 1991, he was the corporate
vice president and treasurer of Chrysler Corporation.
 

                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS:
 
     Refer to page 63 and the inside back cover of IBM's 1993 Annual Report to
Stockholders which are incorporated herein by reference solely as they relate to
this item.
 

     There were 738,948 common stockholders of record at February 10, 1994.

 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA:
 
     Refer to page 63 of IBM's 1993 Annual Report to Stockholders which is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS:
 
     Refer to pages 20 through 31 of IBM's 1993 Annual Report to Stockholders
which are incorporated herein by reference.
 
     On March 1, 1994, Loral Corporation completed its acquisition of the
Federal Systems Company for $1.503 billion in cash. The amount of any gain
resulting from this sale may be dependent on future performance of the Advanced
Automation System contract for the Federal Aviation Authority and certain other
open matters.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA:
 
     Refer to pages 18 and 19 and 32 through 62 of IBM's 1993 Annual Report to
Stockholders which are incorporated herein by reference. Also refer to the
Financial Statement Schedules on pages S-1 to S-5 of this Form.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE:
 
     Not applicable.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT:
 

     Refer to pages 2 through 4 and 7 of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement dated
March 14, 1994 which are incorporated herein by reference solely as they relate
to this item. Also refer to the Item entitled "Executive Officers of the
Registrant" in Part I of this Form.

 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION:
 
     Refer to pages 9 through 16 of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement dated March
14, 1994, which are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT:
 
     (A) SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS:
 
         Not applicable.
 
     (B) SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF MANAGEMENT:
 
         Refer to the section entitled "Stock Ownership" appearing on pages 7
         and 8 of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement dated March 14, 1994, which
         is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS:
 
     Refer to page 7 (Other Relationships) of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement
dated March 14, 1994, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 

                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K:
     (A) THE FOLLOWING DOCUMENTS ARE FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT:
 
        1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FROM IBM'S 1993 ANNUAL REPORT TO STOCKHOLDERS
           WHICH ARE INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE:
 
                     Report of Independent Accountants (page 19).
 
       Consolidated Statement of Operations for the years ended December 31,
       1993, 1992 and 1991 (page 32).
 
       Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 1993 and
       1992 (page 33).
 
       Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31,
       1993, 1992 and 1991 (page 34).
 

       Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity at December 31, 1993, 1992
       and 1991 (page 35).

 
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (pages 36 through 62).
 
     2. FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY ITEM 8 OF
       THIS FORM:
 

 
        All other schedules are omitted as the required matter is not present,
        the amounts are not significant or the information is shown in the
        financial statements or the notes thereto.
 
     3. EXHIBITS:
 
     INCLUDED IN THIS FORM 10-K:
 

 

                              PART IV (CONTINUED)
 
          NOT INCLUDED IN THIS FORM 10-K:
 
        -- A copy of the IBM 1989 Long-Term Performance Plan, a management
           compensatory plan, is contained in Registration Statement No.
           33-29022 on Form S-8, filed on May 31, 1989, and is hereby
           incorporated by reference.
 
        -- Board of Directors compensatory plans, as described under Directors'
           Compensation on page 7 of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement dated
           March 14, 1994, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
        -- The instruments defining the rights of the holders of the 6 3/8%
           Notes due 1997 and the 7 1/4% Notes due 2002 are Exhibits 4(a)
           through 4(1) to Registration Statement No. 33-33590 on Form S-3,
           filed on February 22, 1990, and are hereby incorporated by reference.
 
        -- The instruments defining the rights of the holders of the 9% Notes
           due 1998 are Exhibit 4 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
           for the quarter ended June 30, 1985, and Exhibit 4(b) to Registration
           Statement No. 33-6889 on Form S-3, filed on July 1, 1986, and are
           hereby incorporated by reference.
 
        -- The instruments defining the rights of the holders of the 6 3/8%
           Notes due 2000 and the 7 1/2% Debentures due 2013 are Exhibits 4(a)
           through 4(1) to Registration Statement No. 33-49475(1) on Form S-3,
           filed May 24, 1993, and are hereby incorporated by reference.
 
        -- The instruments defining the rights of holders of the 8 3/8%
           Debentures due 2019 are Exhibits 4(a)(b)(c) and (d) to Registration
           Statement 33-31732 on Form S-3, filed on October 24, 1989, and are
           hereby incorporated by reference.
 
        -- IBM's definitive Proxy Statement dated March 14, 1994, certain
           sections of which have been incorporated herein by reference.
 
     (B) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K:
 
        -- No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of 1993.
 

                                   SIGNATURES
 
     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                         INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES
                                         CORPORATION
 
                                                       (Registrant)
 
                                          By:      LOUIS V. GERSTNER, JR.
                                              ..................................
                                                  (LOUIS V. GERSTNER, JR.
                                             CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
                                                AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER)
 
Date:  March 28, 1994
 
     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.
 



 

                      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON
                         FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
To the Board of Directors of
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
 
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our report
dated February 16, 1994 (which refers to the changes in the methods of
accounting for postemployment benefits in 1993, income taxes in 1992, and
nonpension postretirement benefits in 1991) appearing on page 19 of the 1993
Annual Report to Stockholders of International Business Machines Corporation
(which report and consolidated financial statements are incorporated by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the
Financial Statement Schedules listed in Item 14(a)2 of this Form 10-K. In our
opinion, these Financial Statement Schedules present fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the
related consolidated financial statements.
 
PRICE WATERHOUSE
 
1177 Avenue of the Americas
New York, N.Y. 10036
February 16, 1994
 

                                                                      SCHEDULE V
 
                  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
                            AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
                   PLANT, RENTAL MACHINES AND OTHER PROPERTY
                        FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31:
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 

 
     DEPRECIATION: Plant, rental machines and other property are carried at cost
and depreciated over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line
method.
 
     With minor exceptions, the estimated useful lives of depreciable properties
are as follows:
 


Land improvements.......................................          20 years
Buildings and building equipment........................     5 to 50 years
Plant, laboratory and office equipment..................     2 to 16 years
Rental machines.........................................      1 to 7 years

 
                                      S-1

                                                                     SCHEDULE VI
 
                  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
                            AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
     ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION OF PLANT, RENTAL MACHINES AND OTHER PROPERTY
                        FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31:
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 

 
- ------------
 
(A) Includes charge for accelerated depreciation due to restructuring actions
    taken in 1993 of $1,068 million.
 
(B) Includes charge for accelerated depreciation due to restructuring actions
    taken in 1992 of $4,185 million.
 
(C) Includes charge for accelerated depreciation due to restructuring action
    taken in 1991 of $378 million.
 
                                      S-2

                                                                   SCHEDULE VIII
 
                  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
                            AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                        FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31:
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 

 
- ------------
 
(A) Includes additions charged to costs and expenses less accounts written off
    and translation adjustments.
 
Note--
     The receivables upon which the above allowances are based are highly
diversified by geography, industry, and individual customer. The allowances for
receivable losses for the year ended 1993, approximate less than three and
one-half percent of the company's current receivables and less than two percent
of the company's non-current receivables. The allowances for the year ended
1992, approproximate less than three percent of the company's current
receivables and less than two percent of the company's non-current receivables.
The allowances for the year ended 1991, approximate less than two percent in
both categories of receivables.
 
                                      S-3

                                                                     SCHEDULE IX
 
                  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
                            AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
                             SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
                        FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31:
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 

 
- ------------
 
Note--
 
     The balance at end of period excludes the current portion of long-term debt
of $4,006 million, $3,256 million, and $4,363 million for the years 1993, 1992,
and 1991, respectively.
 
     Effective 1993, short-term loan amounts in subsidiaries where the economic
environment is highly inflationary, were primarily denominated in U.S. dollars.
In prior years, these loans were denominated in local currencies, and the high
interest rates in those operations were largely offset by the effects of
inflation on funds borrowed. If the inflationary effects of these loans were
excluded, the weighted average interest rate at year-end would have been 7.5%
and 8.7% for the years 1992 and 1991, respectively, and the weighted average
interest rate during the year would have been 7.8% and 9.0% for 1992 and 1991,
respectively.
 
     The average amount outstanding during the year and the weighted average
interest rate during the year were calculated by averaging the quarterly
balances and rates.
 
                                      S-4

                                                                      SCHEDULE X
 
                  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
                            AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
                   SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
                        FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31:
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 

 
- ------------
(A)  Includes amounts charged to all accounts, including inventories and
     fixed assets.


                                      S-5

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 


