
10-K
a2039641z10-k.txt
10-K



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

                                 ANNUAL REPORT
                    PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (D) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000

                                     1-2360
                            (Commission file number)

                  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



                                  914-499-1900
                        (Registrant's telephone number)

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:



    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes /X/  No / /

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  / /

    The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant at March 1, 2001 was $186.7 billion.

Documents incorporated by reference:

    Portions of IBM's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 2000 into Parts I, II and IV of Form 10-K.

    Portions of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement dated March 12, 2001 into
Part III of Form 10-K.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS:

    International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) was incorporated in the
State of New York on June 15, 1911, as the Computing-Tabulating-Recording Co.
(C-T-R), a consolidation of the Computing Scale Co. of America, the Tabulating
Machine Co., and The International Time Recording Co. of New York. In 1924,
C-T-R adopted the name International Business Machines Corporation.

    IBM uses advanced information technology to provide customer solutions. The
company operates primarily in a single industry using several segments that
create value by offering a variety of solutions that include, either singularly
or in some combination, technologies, systems, products, services, software and
financing.

    Organizationally, the company's major operations comprise three hardware
product segments--Technology, Personal Systems and Enterprise Systems; a Global
Services segment; a Software segment; a Global Financing segment and an
Enterprise Investments segment. The segments are determined based on several
factors, including customer base, homogeneity of products, technology and
delivery channels.

    IBM offers its products through its global sales and distribution
organizations. The sales and distribution organizations have both a geographic
focus (in the Americas, Europe/Middle East/Africa, and Asia Pacific) and a
specialized and global industry focus. In addition, these organizations include
a global sales and distribution effort devoted exclusively to small and medium
businesses. IBM also offers its products and services through a variety of
third-party business partners, including distributors and resellers, as well as
through its on-line channels.

    While the company's various proprietary intellectual property rights are
important to its success, IBM believes its business as a whole is not materially
dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of
patents or licenses. IBM owns or is licensed under a number of patents, which
vary in duration, relating to its products. Licenses under patents owned by IBM
have been and are being granted to others under reasonable terms and conditions.
These protections may not prevent competitors from independently developing
products and services similar to or duplicative of the company's nor can there
be any assurance that these protections will adequately deter misappropriation
or improper use of the company's technology. Also, there can be no assurances
that IBM will be able to obtain from third parties the licenses it needs in the
future.

    IBM's businesses employ a wide variety of components, supplies and raw
materials from a substantial number of suppliers around the world. Certain of
the company's businesses rely on a single or limited number of suppliers,
although the company makes every effort to assure that alternative sources are
available if the need arises. The failure of the company's suppliers to deliver
components, supplies and raw materials in sufficient quantities and in a timely
manner could adversely affect the company's business. The company's Technology
segment results were affected by supply constraints of wafers and ceramic
substrates in the second half of 2000. In both cases, strong demand for these
items from internal users and external original equipment manufacturer (OEM)
customers exceeded the company's ability to supply these components. The company
improved its ability to manage this challenge toward the end of the year through
short-term and strategic actions.

    IBM's revenues are affected by such factors as the introduction of new
products, the length of the sales cycles and the seasonality of technology
purchases. As a result, the company's results are difficult to predict. These
factors historically have resulted in lower revenue in the first quarter than in
the immediately preceding fourth quarter.

    The value of unfilled orders is not a meaningful indicator of future
revenues from the company's product offerings due to the significant proportion
of revenue from services, the volume of products


delivered from shelf inventories, and the shortening of product delivery
schedules. With respect to the company's Global Services segment, in 2000 the
company signed contracts totaling $55 billion, which contributed to a services
backlog at December 31, 2000 of $85 billion, compared with $60 billion at the
end of 1999.

    The company operates in businesses that are subject to intense competitive
pressures. The company's businesses face a significant number of competitors,
ranging from Fortune 50 companies to an increasing number of relatively small,
rapidly growing and highly specialized organizations. The company believes that
its combination of technology, performance, quality, reliability, price and the
breadth of its products and service offerings are important competitive factors.

    Intense competitive pressures could affect prices or demand for the
company's products and services, resulting in reduced profit margins and/or loss
of market opportunity. Unlike many of its competitors, the company has a
portfolio of businesses and must allocate resources across these businesses
while competing with companies that specialize in one or more of these product
lines. As a result, the company may not fund or invest in certain of its
businesses to the same degree that its competitors do and these competitors may
have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them than
the company businesses against which they compete.

    The company operates in more than 150 countries worldwide and derives more
than half of its revenues from sales outside the United States. Changes in the
laws or policies of the countries in which the company operates could affect the
company's business in those countries and the company's results of operations.
The company's results of operations also could be affected by economic and
political changes in those countries and by macroeconomic changes, including
recessions and inflation. For example, weakness in the Asian and Latin American
economies had an adverse effect on the company's business in 1998.

    The following information is included in IBM's 2000 Annual Report to
Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference:

    Segment information and revenue by classes of similar products or
services--Pages 89 through 93.

    Financial information by geographic areas--Page 93.

    Amount spent during each of the last three years on research and development
activities--Page 82.

    Financial information regarding environmental activities--Page 78.

    The number of persons employed by the registrant--Page 63.

    The management discussion overview--Page 52.

    Forward-looking and Cautionary Statements: Certain statements contained in
this Annual Report may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Reform Act").
The company may also make forward-looking statements in other reports filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, in materials delivered to stockholders
and in press releases. In addition, the company's representatives may from time
to time make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements provide
current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include
any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact.
Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "estimates," "intends,"
"plans," "projects," and similar expressions, may identify such forward-looking
statements. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any
forward-looking statements. In accordance with the Reform Act, set forth below
are cautionary statements that accompany those forward-looking statements.
Readers should carefully review these cautionary statements as they identify
certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
from those in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends. The
following cautionary statements are not exclusive and are in addition to other
factors discussed


elsewhere in this Annual Report, in the company's filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission or in materials incorporated therein by reference.

    New Products and the Pace of Technological Change: The company's results of
operations depend on the continued successful development and marketing of new
and innovative products and services. The development of new products and
services requires significant capital investments by the company's various
businesses and the success of these products and services depends on their
acceptance by customers and business partners. Further, the company's businesses
are characterized by rapid technological changes and corresponding shifts in
customer demand, resulting in unpredictable product transitions and shortened
life cycles and increasing emphasis on being first to market with new products
and services.

    There can be no assurance that the company will successfully introduce new
products and services, that these products and services will be accepted by
customers, or that the company's businesses will recoup or realize a return on
their capital investments. In addition, from time to time the company may
experience difficulties or delays in the development, production or marketing of
new products and services.

    Volatility of Stock Prices: The company's stock price is affected by a
number of factors, including quarterly variations in results, the competitive
landscape, general economic and market conditions and estimates and projections
by the investment community. As a result, like other technology companies, the
company's stock price is subject to significant volatility.

    Dependence on and Compensation of Key Personnel: Much of the future success
of the company depends on the continued service and availability of skilled
personnel, including technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced
personnel in the information technology industry are in high demand and
competition for their talents is intense. There can be no assurance that the
company will be able to successfully retain and attract the key personnel it
needs. Many of the company's key personnel receive a total compensation package
that includes stock options and other equity awards. New regulations, volatility
in the stock market and other factors could diminish the value of the company's
equity awards, putting the company at a competitive disadvantage or forcing the
company to use more cash compensation.

    Currency and Customer Financing Risks: The company derives a significant
percentage of its non-U.S. revenues from its affiliates operating in local
currency environments and its results are affected by changes in the relative
values of non-U.S. currencies and the U.S. dollar. Further, inherent in the
company's customer financing business are risks related to the concentration of
credit risk and the creditworthiness of the customer, interest rate and currency
fluctuations on the associated debt and liabilities and the determination of
residual values. The company employs a number of strategies to manage these
risks, including the use of derivative financial instruments. Derivatives
involve the risk of non-performance by the counterparty. In addition, there can
be no assurance that the company's efforts to manage these risks will be
successful.

    Distribution Channels: The company offers its products directly and through
a variety of third- party business partners, including distributors and
resellers. Changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors
and resellers could subject the company to losses and affect its ability to
bring its products to market.

    Acquisitions and Alliances: The company has made and expects to continue to
make acquisitions or enter into alliances from time to time. Acquisitions and
alliances present significant challenges and risks relating to the integration
of the business into the company, and there can be no assurances that the
company will manage acquisitions and alliances successfully.


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES:

    At December 31, 2000, IBM's manufacturing and development facilities in the
United States had aggregate floor space of 40.3 million square feet, of which
31.5 million was owned and 8.8 million was leased. Of these amounts,
1.5 million square feet was vacant and 2.2 million square feet was being leased
to non-IBM businesses. Similar facilities in 15 other countries totaled
15.0 million square feet, of which 10.9 million was owned and 4.1 million was
leased. Of these amounts, 0.3 million square feet was vacant and 0.6 million
square feet was being leased to non-IBM businesses.

    Although improved production techniques, productivity gains and
infrastructure reduction actions have resulted in reduced manufacturing floor
space, continuous upgrading of facilities is essential to maintain technological
leadership, improve productivity, and meet customer demand. For additional
information on expenditures for plant, rental machines and other property, refer
to "Investments" on page 60 of IBM's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders which is
incorporated herein by reference.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT (AT MARCH 12, 2001):



- ------------------------

(1) Member of the Board of Directors.

    All executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors and serve until
the next election of officers in conjunction with the annual meeting of the
stockholders as provided in the By-laws. Each executive officer named above,
with the exception of J. Randall MacDonald and Robert F. Woods, has been an
executive of IBM or its subsidiaries during the past five years.


    Mr. MacDonald was with GTE (now Verizon Communications), a
telecommunications company, as executive vice president of human resources and
administration until joining IBM in 2000. He was with GTE for 17 years holding
positions of increasing responsibility. Before joining GTE, Mr. MacDonald held
human resources positions at Ingersoll-Rand Corporation and Sterling Drug, Inc.

    Mr. Woods was with E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, a global science
company focused on chemical and material and biological sciences, as Vice
President and Managing Director--DuPont Asia Pacific Ltd. from 1994 until
joining IBM in 1995. From 1992 to 1994, he was Director--Industrial Films--U.S.
and prior to that from 1989 to 1992 he was Vice President-Finance, DuPont
Mexico. From 1979 to 1989 he held a number of financial positions with DuPont.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS:

    Refer to note N "Contingencies" on page 79 of IBM's 2000 Annual Report to
Stockholders which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS:

    Not applicable.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
  MATTERS:

    Refer to pages 94 and 95 of IBM's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders which
are incorporated herein by reference solely as they relate to this item.

    IBM common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, Chicago Stock
Exchange and Pacific Stock Exchange. There were 673,270 common stockholders of
record at March 1, 2001.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA:

    Refer to page 94 of IBM's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders which is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
  OF OPERATIONS:

    Refer to pages 52 through 63 of IBM's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders
which are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKS:

    Refer to the section titled "Market Risk" on pages 61 and 62 of IBM'S 2000
Annual Report to Stockholders which is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA:

    Refer to pages 50 and 51 and 64 through 93 of IBM's 2000 Annual Report to
Stockholders which are incorporated herein by reference. Also refer to the
Financial Statement Schedule on page S-1 of this Form.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE:

    Not applicable.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT:

    Refer to pages 5 through 8 of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement dated
March 12, 2001, which are incorporated herein by reference. Also refer to Item 2
entitled "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I of this Form.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION:

    Refer to pages 13 through 21 of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement dated
March 12, 2001, which are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT:

    (a) Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners:

        Not applicable.

    (b) Security Ownership of Management:

        Refer to the section entitled "Ownership of Securities--Common Stock and
        Total Stock-Based Holdings" appearing on pages 11 and 12 of IBM's
        definitive Proxy Statement dated March 12, 2001, which are incorporated
        herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS:

    Refer to the section entitled "Other Relationships" appearing on page 10 of
IBM's definitive Proxy Statement dated March 12, 2001, which is incorporated
herein by reference.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K:

    (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:

       1.  Financial statements from IBM's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders
           which are incorporated herein by reference:

           Report of Independent Accountants (page 51).

           Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the years ended December 31,
           2000, 1999 and 1998 (page 64).

           Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2000 and
           1999 (page 65).

           Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity at December 31, 2000,
           1999 and 1998 (pages 66 and 67).

           Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended
           December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 (page 68).

           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (pages 69 through 93).

       2.  Financial statement schedules required to be filed by Item 8 of this
           Form:



    All other schedules are omitted as the required matter is not present, the
amounts are not significant or the information is shown in the consolidated
financial statements or the notes thereto.


3.  Exhibits:

    Included in this Form 10-K:



    Not included in this Form 10-K:






    (b) Reports on Form 8-K:

        The company filed Form 8-K on October 17, 2000, with respect to the
    company's financial results for the periods ended September 30, 2000 and
    included unaudited Consolidated Statement of Earnings, Consolidated
    Statement of Financial Position and Segment Data for the periods ended
    September 30, 2000. In addition, IBM's Chief Financial Officer, John R.
    Joyce's third-quarter earnings presentation to securities analysts on
    Tuesday, October 17, 2000 was filed as Attachment II of the Form 8-K.


                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.



    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.






                      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON
                         FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of
International Business Machines Corporation

    Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our
report dated January 17, 2001, appearing on page 51 of the 2000 Annual Report to
Stockholders of International Business Machines Corporation, (which report and
consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the Financial Statement Schedule
listed in Item 14(a)2 of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, the Financial Statement
Schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial
statements.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
New York, New York
January 17, 2001


                                                                     SCHEDULE II

      INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
                 VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                        FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31:
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)



- ------------------------

(A) Primarily comprises currency translation adjustments.

                                      S-1

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX











