
10-K405
FORM 10-K



 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
                            ------------------------
(MARK ONE)
[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934
 
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998
 
                                       OR
 
[ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934
 
                         FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM

                     ---------------   TO  --------------- .
 
                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 0-19311
 
                        IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 

 
               11011 TORREYANA ROAD, SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA 92121
              (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES) (ZIP CODE)
 
                                 (619) 550-8500
              (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE)
        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT: NONE
 
SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: COMMON STOCK, $.001
                                   PAR VALUE
                                (TITLE OF CLASS)
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ]
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  [X]
 
     As of January 29, 1999, the aggregate market value of the voting stock held
by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $967,711,000. (Based upon
the "closing" price as reported by The Nasdaq Stock Market on January 29, 1999).
This number is provided only for the purposes of this report and does not
represent an admission by either the Registrant or any such person as to the
status of such person.
 
     As of January 29, 1999, the Registrant had 20,198,378 shares of its common
stock, $.001 par value, issued and outstanding.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
     Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on May 20, 1999 are incorporated by reference into Part
III.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                        IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION
                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998
 
                                

 
                                        i

 
                                  RISK FACTORS
 
     This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of
risks and uncertainties. You should be aware that such statements are
projections or estimates as to future events, which may or may not occur.
 
     In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, you should
carefully consider the following risk factors. If any of these risks actually
occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be
materially adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described below are
not the only ones facing our company, and additional risks and uncertainties may
also impair our business operations.
 
OUR REVENUES RELY SIGNIFICANTLY ON RITUXAN(R) SALES
 
     Our revenues currently depend largely upon continued U.S. sales of a single
commercialized product, Rituxan. We cannot be certain that Rituxan will continue
to be accepted in the United States or in any foreign markets. A number of
factors may affect the rate and level of market acceptance of Rituxan,
including:
 
     - the perception by physicians and other members of the health care
       community of its safety and efficacy or that of competing products, if
       any;
 
     - the effectiveness of our and Genentech Inc.'s ("Genentech") sales and
       marketing efforts in the United States and the effectiveness of F.
       Hoffmann-La Roche, Inc.'s ("Roche") sales and marketing efforts in
       Europe;
 
     - unfavorable publicity concerning Rituxan or comparable drugs;
 
     - its price relative to other drugs or competing treatments;
 
     - the availability of third party reimbursement; and
 
     - regulatory developments related to the manufacture or continued use of
       Rituxan.
 
     We incurred annual operating losses from our inception in 1985 through
fiscal 1997. Given our current reliance upon Rituxan as the principal source of
our revenue, any material adverse developments with respect to the
commercialization of Rituxan may cause us to incur losses in the future.
 
OUR OPERATING RESULTS ARE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT FLUCTUATIONS
 
     Our quarterly revenues, expenses and operating results have fluctuated in
the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Fluctuation
may result from a variety of factors, including:
 
     - our achievement of product development objectives and milestones;
 
     - demand and pricing for our commercialized products, such as Rituxan;
 
     - our ability to utilize excess manufacturing capacity by obtaining
       contract manufacturing relationships;
 
     - timing and nature of contract manufacturing and contract research and
       development payments and receipts;
 
     - hospital and pharmacy buying decisions;
 
     - clinical trial enrollment and expenses;
 
     - physician acceptance of our products;
 
     - government or private healthcare reimbursement policies;
 
     - our manufacturing performance and capacity and that of our partners;
 
     - rate and success of product approvals;
 
     - collaboration obligations and copromotion payments we make or receive;
 

 
     - foreign currency exchange rates; and
 
     - overall economic conditions.
 
     Our operating results during any one quarter do not necessarily suggest
those of future quarters. These results fluctuate periodically because our
revenues are driven by certain events such as achievement of product development
milestone events and the applicable profit sharing allocation between us and
Genentech, based upon our copromotion arrangement.
 
VOLATILITY OF OUR STOCK PRICE
 
     The market prices for our common stock and for securities of other
companies engaged primarily in biotechnology and pharmaceutical development,
manufacture and distribution are highly volatile. For example, the market price
of our common stock fluctuated between $17 1/4 per share and $50 1/2 per share
during the twelve months ended January 29, 1999. The market price of our common
stock will likely continue to fluctuate due to a variety of factors, including:
 
     - material public announcements;
 
     - the announcement and timing of new product introductions by us or others;
 
     - technical innovations or product development by us or our competitors;
 
     - regulatory approvals or regulatory issues;
 
     - developments relating to patents, proprietary rights and orphan drug
       status;
 
     - actual or potential clinical results with respect to our products under
       development or those of our competitors;
 
     - political developments or proposed legislation in the pharmaceutical or
       healthcare industry;
 
     - hedge and/or arbitrage activities by holders of our 20-year zero coupon
       subordinated convertible notes ("Notes");
 
     - period to period fluctuations in our financial results; and
 
     - market trends relating to our industry.
 
WE FACE UNCERTAIN RESULTS OF CLINICAL TRIALS OF OUR POTENTIAL PRODUCTS
 
     Our future success depends in large part upon the results of clinical
trials designed to assess the safety and efficacy of our potential products. The
completion rate of these clinical trials depends significantly upon the rate of
patient enrollment. Factors that affect patient enrollment include:
 
     - size of patient population for the targeted disease;
 
     - eligibility criteria;
 
     - proximity of eligible patients to clinical sites;
 
     - clinical trial protocols; and
 
     - the existence of competing protocols (including competitive financial
       incentives for patients and clinicians) and existing approved drugs
       (including Rituxan).
 
     Our inability to enroll patients on a timely basis could result in
increased expenses and product development delays, which could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
Even if a trial is fully enrolled, significant uncertainties remain as to
whether it will prove successful.
 
     The U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") regulates clinical trials.
Failure to comply with extensive FDA regulations may result in delay, suspension
or cancellation of a trial and/or the FDA's refusal
 

 
to accept test results. The FDA may also suspend our clinical trials at any time
if it concludes that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable risks.
Consequently, we cannot ensure that Phase I, Phase II or Phas III testing will
be completed timely or successfully, if at all, with respect to any of our
potential products. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that patients enrolled in
our clinical trials will respond to our product candidates, that any product
candidate will be safe and effective or that data derived from the trials will
be suitable for submission to the FDA or satisfactorily support a biologics
licensing application ("BLA") or a new drug application ("NDA").
 
WE MAY BE UNABLE TO DEVELOP AND COMMERCIALIZE NEW PRODUCTS
 
     Our future results of operations will depend to a large extent upon our
ability to successfully commercialize new products in a timely manner. As a
result, we must continue to develop, test and manufacture new products and then
must meet regulatory standards and obtain regulatory approvals. Our products
currently in development may not receive the regulatory approvals necessary for
marketing in a timely manner, if at all. Additionally, the development and
commercialization process is time-consuming and costly, and we cannot be certain
that any of our products, if and when developed and approved, will be
successfully commercialized. Delays or unanticipated costs in any part of the
process, our inability to obtain regulatory approval for our products or to
maintain manufacturing facilities in compliance with all applicable regulatory
requirements could adversely affect our results of operations.
 
WE RELY HEAVILY ON CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS
 
     We rely heavily upon third party manufacturers to manufacture significant
portions of our products and product candidates. Our own manufacturing capacity
is limited and we are capable of producing only a limited quantity of bulk
Rituxan and other product candidates. Our manufacturing experience to date has
been limited to the production of preclinical and clinical quantities of product
candidates and to approximately two years of commercial production of bulk
Rituxan. We have no fill/finish experience or capacity and we do not have
experience in the field of chemical manufacturing for small molecule drugs and
therefore, we rely entirely upon third parties for the manufacture of these
drugs. Consequently, we cannot ensure that either our manufacturing facilities
or our ability to sustain ongoing production of our products will be able to
meet our expectations. Nor can we be certain that we will be able to enter into
satisfactory agreements with third party manufacturers. Our failure to enter
into agreements with such manufacturers on reasonable terms, if at all, or poor
manufacturing performance on our part or that of our third party manufacturers
could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition
and results of operations.
 
     We are in the process of completing a modification to our collaborative
agreement with Genentech that will allow us to terminate early our obligations
to supply to Genentech bulk Rituxan manufactured at our facility. Rather than
supplying bulk Rituxan to Genentech through November 1999, we now anticipate
transferring all manufacturing responsibilities for bulk Rituxan to Genentech at
the end of the third quarter of 1999. We currently manufacture bulk Rituxan at a
cost in excess of a fixed price, thereby decreasing our margins on revenue
received under the copromotion arrangement, and we expect this condition to
continue until such time as we transfer all of the manufacturing of bulk Rituxan
to Genentech. We rely upon Genentech to provide a majority of Rituxan
manufacturing in order to meet worldwide requirements and to complete all
fill/finish requirements and we will rely on Genentech for all Rituxan
manufacturing after the transfer is completed. We cannot ensure that Genentech
will manufacture and fill/finish Rituxan in sufficient quantities and on a
timely and cost-effective basis or that Genentech will obtain and maintain all
required manufacturing approvals. Genentech's failure to manufacture and
fill/finish Rituxan or obtain and maintain required manufacturing approvals
could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and
financial condition.
 
     We also rely upon SmithKline Beecham, p.l.c. ("SB") to fulfill all our
manufacturing requirements for IDEC-151. Our IDEC-Y2B8 product has multiple
components that require successful coordination among several third party
contract manufacturers. We are currently negotiating with commercial contractors
to meet our long-term manufacturing demands for yttrium and fill/finish of
IDEC-Y2B8 bulk product. Upon the completion in 1999 of our obligation to
manufacture bulk Rituxan, we will undertake conversion of our
 

 
manufacturing facility to a multi-product facility, where we will initially
manufacture IDEC-Y2B8 and anti-gp39 antibodies. We cannot be certain that this
conversion will be successful, that it will receive all necessary regulatory
approvals, or that, even if it is successful and such approvals are received, it
will be completed within our budgeted time and expense estimations. Our failure
to successfully convert the manufacturing facility in a timely manner could have
an adverse effect on our product development efforts and our ability to timely
file our product license applications and could cause us to incur significant
unabsorbed overhead costs. To the extent we cannot produce our own biologics, we
will need to rely on third party manufacturers, and we believe that there are
only a limited number of manufacturers capable of manufacturing biologics as
contract suppliers.
 
     Because of our lack of experience in and facilities for small molecule
chemical manufacturing, we will need to establish a long-term manufacturing
arrangement for 9-aminocamptothecin ("9-AC") with a third party contract
manufacturer. We cannot be certain that we will reach agreement on reasonable
terms, if at all, with those manufacturers or that the integration of our
contract manufacturers can be successfully coordinated.
 
WE RELY HEAVILY ON CERTAIN SUPPLIERS
 
     Some materials used in our products and potential products, including
Rituxan and IDEC-Y2B8, are currently available only from sole or limited number
of suppliers. In addition, the suppliers of some materials for our products must
be approved by the FDA and/or by other governmental agencies. Although we have
initiated a program for identifying alternative suppliers for certain materials,
any interruption or delay in our supply of materials or delays in the applicable
governmental approval of new suppliers or any loss of a sole source supplier
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations.
 
OUR INDUSTRY IS INTENSELY COMPETITIVE
 
     The biotechnology industry is intensely competitive. We compete with
biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that have been established longer
than we have, have a greater number of products on the market, have greater
financial and other resources and have other technological or competitive
advantages. We also compete in the development of technologies and processes and
in acquiring personnel and technology from academic institutions, government
agencies, and other private and public research organizations. Consequently, we
cannot be certain that we will be able to produce or acquire rights to new
products with commercial potential. In addition, we cannot be certain that one
or more of our competitors will not receive patent protection that dominates,
blocks or adversely affects our product development or business; will benefit
from significantly greater sales and marketing capabilities; or will not develop
products that are accepted more widely than ours. We are aware that a competitor
is in late stage clinical trials with a radiolabeled murine antibody for the
treatment of low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphomas ("NHL").
 
WE HAVE LIMITED SALES AND MARKETING EXPERIENCE
 
     We have limited experience with commercial sales and marketing, based
entirely upon our launch and subsequent sales of Rituxan. Outside the United
States, our strategy is to pursue and to rely solely upon collaborations with
established pharmaceutical companies for marketing, distribution and sale of our
products. We have no plans to directly market outside the United States. Since
we currently rely upon copromotion partners in the United States and rely
exclusively on third parties outside the United States, we cannot be certain
that our products will be marketed and distributed in accordance with our
expectations or that our market research or sales forecasts will be accurate. We
also cannot be certain that we will ever be able to develop our own sales and
marketing capabilities to an extent that we would not need to rely on third
party efforts, or that we will be able to maintain satisfactory arrangements
with the third parties on whom we rely.
 

 
WE MAY BE UNABLE TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT OR ENFORCE OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
RIGHTS OR SECURE RIGHTS TO THIRD PARTY PATENTS
 
     Our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other protection for our
products will affect their success. We are assigned or have rights to or have
exclusive access to a number of U.S. and foreign patents, patents pending and
patent applications. However, we cannot be certain that such patent applications
will be approved, or that any of our patent rights will be upheld in a court of
law if challenged. We also cannot be certain that our patent rights will provide
competitive advantages for our products or will not be challenged, infringed
upon or circumvented by our competitors.
 
     Because of the large number of patent filings in the biopharmaceutical
field, our competitors may have filed applications or been issued patents and
may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights relating to products or
processes competitive with or similar to ours. We cannot be certain that U.S. or
foreign patents do not exist or will not issue that would materially and
adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products and product
candidates.
 
     In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how
that we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our
partners, employees and consultants. It is possible that such parties will
breach our agreements or that courts may not enforce the agreements, leaving us
without adequate remedies. We also cannot be certain that our trade secrets will
not become known or be independently developed or patented by our competitors.
 
     We are aware of several third party patents and patent applications (to the
extent they issue as patents) that, if successfully asserted against us, may
materially affect our ability to make, use, offer to sell, sell and import our
products. These third party patents and, patent applications may include,
without limitation:
 
     - U.S. patent applications and foreign counterparts filed by Bristol-Myers
       Company that disclose antibodies to a B7 antigen;
 
     - a U.S. patent assigned to Columbia University, which the Company believes
       has been exclusively licensed to Biogen, related to monoclonal antibodies
       to the 5C8 antigen found on T cells. The Company believes the 5C8 antigen
       and gp39, the target for the Company's anti-gp39 antibodies and its
       collaboration with Eisai Co., Ltd. ("Eisai"), are the same protein
       expressed on the surface of T cells;
 
     - a number of issued U.S. and foreign patents that relate to various
       aspects of radioimmunotherapy of cancer and to methods of treating
       patients with anti-CD4 antibodies; and
 
     - three U.S. patents, assigned to Burroughs Wellcome, relating to
       therapeutic uses of CHO glycosylated antibodies.
 
     The owners, or licensees of the owners, of these patents and patent
applications (to the extent they issue as patents) may assert that one or more
of our products infringe one or more claims of such patents. Such owners or
licensees of foreign counterparts to these patents and any other foreign patents
may assert that one or more of our products infringe one or more claims of such
patents. Specifically, if legal action is commenced against us to enforce any of
these patents and patent applications (to the extent they issue as patents) and
the plaintiff in such action prevails, we could be prevented from practicing the
subject matter claimed in such patents or patent applications.
 
     If our intellectual property rights are challenged, we may be required or
may desire to obtain licenses to patents and other intellectual property held by
third parties to develop, manufacture and market our products. However, we
cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain these licenses on commercially
reasonable terms, if at all, or that any licensed patents or intellectual
property will be valid or enforceable. In addition, the scope of intellectual
property protection is subject to scrutiny and change by courts and other
governmental bodies. Litigation and other proceedings concerning patents and
proprietary technologies can be protracted, expensive and distracting to
management and companies may sue competitors as a way of delaying the
introduction of competitors' products. Any litigation, including any
interference proceeding to determine priority of inventions and oppositions to
patents in foreign countries, may be costly and time-consuming and could have a
material
 

 
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
See "Item 1. Business -- Patents and Proprietary Technology."
 
WE MAY BE UNABLE TO MAINTAIN THIRD PARTY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT RELATIONSHIPS
 
     Funding of research and development efforts depend largely upon various
arrangements with strategic partners and others who provide us with funding and
who perform research and development with respect to our products. Such
strategic partners may generally terminate their arrangement with us at any
time. These parties may develop products that compete with ours, and we cannot
be certain that they will perform their contractual obligations or that any
revenues will be derived from such arrangements. If one or more of our strategic
partners fail to achieve certain product development objectives, such failure
could have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund related programs and
develop products.
 
FAILURE TO OBTAIN PRODUCT APPROVALS OR COMPLY WITH GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS COULD
ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS
 
     As pharmaceutical manufacturers, our partners and we are subject to
extensive, complex, costly and evolving governmental rules, regulations and
restrictions administered by the FDA, by other federal and state agencies, and
by governmental authorities in other countries. In the United States, our
products cannot be marketed until after they are approved by the FDA. Obtaining
an FDA approval involves the submission, among other information, of the results
of preclinical and clinical studies on the product, and requires substantial
time, effort and financial resources. Rituxan is our only product that has
received FDA approval, and we cannot be certain that any of our product
candidates will be approved either in the United States or in other countries in
a timely fashion, if at all. Both before and after approval, we are subject to
numerous other FDA requirements, and to government inspection at all times. Our
failure to meet or comply with any rules, regulations or restrictions of the FDA
or other agencies could result in fines, unanticipated expenditures, product
delays, non-approval or recall, interruption of production and even criminal
prosecution. Although we have instituted internal compliance programs, we cannot
be certain that such programs will meet regulatory agency standards or that any
lack of compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition or results of operations.
 
OUR BUSINESS EXPOSES US TO PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS
 
     Our design, development and manufacture of products involves an inherent
risk of exposure to product liability claims and related adverse publicity.
Insurance coverage is expensive and difficult to obtain, and we may be unable to
obtain coverage in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Although we
currently maintain product liability insurance for our products in the amounts
we believe to be commercially reasonable, we cannot be certain that the coverage
limits of our insurance policies or those of our strategic partners will be
adequate. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance at an acceptable cost
or if a claim is brought against us, whether fully covered by insurance or not,
our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially
adversely affected.
 
FAILURE TO ADEQUATELY ADDRESS THE YEAR 2000 ISSUE COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR
BUSINESS
 
     We have assessed and continue to assess the potential impact of the
situation commonly referred to as the Year 2000 Issue. The Year 2000 Issue
concerns the inability of many information systems and computer software
products to properly recognize and process date sensitive information related to
the year 2000 and beyond. As a result information systems and computer software
used by many companies may need to be modified and upgraded.
 
     We have several information improvement initiatives underway and have
appointed a program manager for our Year 2000 program. We have completed an
initial inventory and review of all system hardware, operating systems
(including manufacturing and laboratory control systems) and application
software in order to identify potential Year 2000 problems and we have developed
plans for and have begun implementing upgrades and testing in many systems. Our
plan includes sending inquiries to our major third party suppliers
 

 
and partners seeking comfort that they are Year 2000 compliant. We do not know
the financial impact of making the required system and software modifications,
but we currently expect the cost to be less than $2.0 million. However, we
cannot be certain that the actual cost of correcting the Year 2000 Issue will
not exceed this estimate. Our business, financial condition and results of
operations could be materially adversely affected if third party suppliers,
manufacturers, service providers and other entities do not adequately address
their Year 2000 Issues or if we at the company fail to successfully complete our
initiatives.
 
     We are currently relying upon Genentech to provide for all Year
2000-related contingency plans relating to the manufacture and sale of Rituxan;
however, we have not received such contingency plan from Genentech. Genentech
anticipates that contingency planning will begin in the first quarter of 1999.
Any failure by Genentech to address issues which would result in their inability
to timely produce Rituxan would have a material adverse impact on our business.
Additionally, we currently have no contingency plans to deal with any Rituxan or
non-Rituxan related failures resulting from the Year 2000 issue. We expect to
develop contingency plans during the second quarter of 1999.
 
WE MAY BE UNABLE TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL OR TO REPURCHASE THE ZERO COUPON
SUBORDINATED CONVERTIBLE NOTES
 
     We expend and will likely continue to expend substantial funds to complete
the research, development, manufacturing and marketing of our potential future
products. Consequently, we may seek to raise capital through collaborative
arrangements, strategic alliances, and/or equity and debt financings or from
other sources. We may be unable to raise additional capital on commercially
acceptable terms, if at all, and if we raise capital through equity financing
then existing stockholders may have their ownership interests diluted. If we are
unable to generate adequate funds from operations or from additional sources,
then our business, results of operations and financial condition may be
materially and adversely affected.
 
     If we undergo certain events constituting a change of control prior to
February 16, 2004, we will be obligated to repurchase all outstanding Notes at
the option of the holder. However, it is possible that we will not have
sufficient funds at that time, will not be able to raise sufficient funds, or
that restrictions in our indebtedness will not allow such repurchases. In
addition, certain major corporate events that would increase our indebtedness,
such as leveraged recapitalizations, would not constitute a change of control
under the Indenture.
 
FUTURE TRANSACTIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS OR THE MARKET PRICE OF
SECURITIES
 
     We regularly review potential transactions related to technologies,
products or product rights and businesses complementary to our business. Such
transactions could include mergers, acquisitions, strategic alliances,
off-balance sheet financings, licensing agreements or copromotion agreements. We
may choose to enter into one or more of such transactions at any time, which may
cause substantial fluctuations to the market price of securities that we have
issued. Moreover, depending upon the nature of any transaction, we may
experience a charge to earnings, which could also have a material adverse impact
upon the market price of securities that we have issued.
 
WE RELY UPON CERTAIN KEY PERSONNEL
 
     Our success will depend, to a great extent, upon the experience, abilities
and continued services of our executive officers and key scientific personnel.
We do not carry key-man life insurance on any of our officers or personnel. If
we lose the services of any of these officers or key scientific personnel, we
could suffer a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations. Our success also will depend upon our ability to attract
and retain other highly qualified scientific, managerial, sales and
manufacturing personnel and our ability to develop and maintain relationships
with qualified clinical researchers. Competition for such personnel and
relationships is intense and we compete with numerous pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies as well as with universities and non-profit research
organizations. We cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to attract
and retain qualified personnel or develop and maintain relationships with
clinical researchers.
 

 
WE ARE SUBJECT TO UNCERTAINTIES REGARDING HEALTH CARE REIMBURSEMENT AND REFORM
 
     Our ability to commercialize products depends in part on the extent to
which patients are reimbursed by governmental agencies, private health insurers
and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations ("HMOs"), for
the cost of such products and related treatments. Our business, results of
operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if
health care payers and providers implement cost-containment measures and
governmental agencies implement healthcare reform.
 
OUR BUSINESS INVOLVES ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS
 
     Our business and the business of several of our strategic partners,
including Genentech, involves the controlled use of hazardous materials,
chemicals, biologics and radioactive compounds. Biologics manufacture is
extremely susceptible to product loss due to microbial or viral contamination,
material equipment failure, or vendor or operator error. Although we believe
that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials complies
with state and federal standards, there will always be the risk of accidental
contamination or injury. In addition, certain microbial or viral contamination
may cause the closure of the respective manufacturing facility for an extended
period of time. By law, radioactive materials may only be disposed of at state
approved facilities. We currently store our radioactive materials on-site
because the approval of a disposal site in California for all California-based
companies has been delayed indefinitely. If and when a disposal site is
approved, we may incur substantial costs related to the disposal of such
material. If liable for an accident, or if we suffer an extended facility
shutdown, we could incur significant costs, damages and penalties that could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations.
 
THE ZERO COUPON SUBORDINATED CONVERTIBLE NOTES LEVERAGED US CONSIDERABLY
 
     As a result of issuing the Notes in February 1999, we raised approximately
$113.1 million in cash by incurring indebtedness of $345.0 million at maturity.
As a result of this indebtedness, our principal and interest obligations will
increase substantially. The degree to which we are leveraged could materially
adversely affect our ability to obtain future financing and could make us more
vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. Our ability to meet
our debt obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which will
be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations,
many of which are beyond our control. The holders of the Notes may require us to
purchase the Notes on February 16, 2004, 2009 or 2014 at a price equal to the
issue price plus accrued original issue discount to the date of purchase. We
have the option to repay the Notes plus accrued original issue discount in cash,
our common stock or a combination thereof.
 
     In addition, in the event of our insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation,
reorganization, dissolution or winding up or upon our default in payment with
respect to any indebtedness or an event of default with respect to such
indebtedness resulting in the acceleration thereof, our assets will be available
to pay the amounts due on the Notes only after all our senior indebtedness has
been paid in full. Moreover, holders of common stock would only receive the
assets remaining after payment of all indebtedness and preferred stock, if any.
 
WE HAVE ADOPTED SEVERAL ANTITAKEOVER MEASURES AND THE ZERO COUPON SUBORDINATED
CONVERTIBLE NOTES MAY HAVE FURTHER ANTITAKEOVER EFFECT
 
     We have taken a number of actions that could have the effect of
discouraging a takeover attempt that might be beneficial to stockholders who
wish to receive a premium for their shares from a potential bidder. For example,
we reincorporated into Delaware, which subjects us to Section 203 of the
Delaware General Corporation Law, providing that the Company may not enter into
a "business combination" with an "interested stockholder" for a period of three
years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested
stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the manner
prescribed in the code section. In addition, we have adopted a Stockholder
Rights Plan that would cause substantial dilution to a person who attempts to
acquire our company on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. In
addition, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue, without vote or
action of stockholders, up to 8,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the
price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares. Any such preferred
 

 
stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of
redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior
to the rights of holders of common stock. The Board of Directors has no present
intention of issuing any additional shares of preferred stock (approximately
227,514 shares of non-voting convertible preferred stock were outstanding as of
December 31, 1998), but reserves the right to do so in the future. In addition,
our copromotion arrangement with Genentech provides Genentech with the option to
buy the rights to Rituxan in the event that we undergo a change of control,
which may limit our attractiveness to potential acquirors.
 
     We are required by the terms of the Notes, as of 35 business days after a
change in control occurring on or before February 16, 2004, to purchase any Note
at the option of its holder and at a price equal to the issue price plus accrued
original issue discount to the date of repurchase. This feature of the Notes may
have an antitakeover effect.
 
WE HAVE NOT PAID AND DO NOT PLAN TO PAY DIVIDENDS
 
     We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We
currently plan to retain any earnings for use in our business and therefore do
not anticipate paying any dividends in the future.
 

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
OVERVIEW
 
     IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation ("IDEC Pharmaceuticals" or the "Company")
is a biopharmaceutical company engaged primarily in the research, development
and commercialization of targeted therapies for the treatment of cancer and
autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. Our first commercial product, Rituxan, and
our most advanced product candidate, IDEC-Y2B8, are for use in the treatment of
certain B-cell NHLs. B-cell NHLs currently afflict approximately 260,000
patients in the United States. We are also developing products for the treatment
of certain solid tumor cancers and various autoimmune diseases (such as lupus
and psoriasis). Solid tumor cancers are diagnosed in approximately 1,100,000 new
patients each year, and lupus and psoriasis together currently afflict
approximately 5,600,000 patients in the United States.
 
     In November 1997, Rituxan became the first monoclonal antibody approved by
the FDA for a cancer therapy indication. Since that time, Rituxan, marketed
pursuant to a copromotion arrangement between us and Genentech, achieved U.S.
net sales of approximately $157.2 million through December 31, 1998, making it
the best-selling (based on first-year dollar volume sales) cancer drug ever
approved for marketing in the United States. In June 1998, Roche received
approval to begin marketing Rituxan (under the trade name MabThera) in the
fifteen European Union countries. To date, Roche has launched MabThera in nine
of these countries, and we receive a royalty on sales of MabThera. Pricing
approval is still pending in some European Union countries.
 
     Delivered intravenously as a treatment for B-cell NHL, Rituxan offers a
favorable side effect profile. Treatment with Rituxan is given as four weekly
intravenous infusions over a twenty-two day period as compared to chemotherapy,
which is typically given in repeated cycles for up to four to eight months.
Thus, Rituxan offers the possibility of increased quality of life during the
treatment of cancer, while maintaining a response rate that compares favorably
with conventional treatments. In its pivotal Phase III clinical trial involving
166 evaluable patients, Rituxan, administered as a single agent achieved a
partial (at least 50% tumor shrinkage) or complete response to therapy in
forty-eight percent (48%) of patients on an intent to treat basis (80 of 166
patients). Eighty-seven percent of evaluable patients demonstrated at least a
quantifiable shrinkage in tumor size. For the 80 patients achieving a partial or
complete response, the median time of regrowth of the tumor was 11.6 months from
the onset of response, and the Company believes 19 of such 80 patients are
experiencing ongoing remissions. Because of its favorable safety profile, the
Company believes that Rituxan is a strong candidate for combination therapy, and
the Company is currently researching its possible uses in this role.
 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION
 
     In order to better analyze the Company's business and its prospects, it is
helpful to understand the field in which the Company operates, including the
general manner in which the Company's products and product candidates interact
with people's bodies and, in particular, with the diseases that its products and
product candidates are designed to target. Each of the following subsections
provides background information which is important to gaining an understanding
of the Company's products and product candidates:
 
          - Antibodies and the Immune System. The immune system is composed of
     specialized cells, including B cells and T cells, that function in the
     recognition, destruction and elimination of disease causing foreign
     substances and of virally infected or malignant cells. The role of these
     specialized cells is determined by receptors on the cell surface which
     govern the interaction of the cell with foreign substances and with the
     rest of the immune system. For example, each differentiated B cell of the
     immune system has a different antibody anchored to its surface that serves
     as a receptor to recognize foreign substances. This antibody then triggers
     the production of additional antibodies which, as free-floating molecules,
     bind to and eliminate these foreign substances. Each foreign substance is
     individually
 

 
     identifiable by structures on its surface known as antigens, which serve as
     binding sites for the specific antibodies. T cells play more diverse roles,
     including the identification and destruction of virally infected or
     malignant cells.
 
          A variety of technologies have been developed to produce antibodies as
     therapeutic agents. These include hybridoma technology and molecular
     biology techniques such as gene cloning and expression, which can now be
     applied to the generation, selection and production of hybrid monoclonal
     antibody varieties known as chimeric and humanized antibodies, as well as
     strictly human antibodies. Chimeric antibodies are constructed from
     portions of non-human species (typically mouse) antibodies and human
     antibodies. In these applications, the portion of the antibody responsible
     for antigen binding (the "variable region") is taken from a non-human
     antibody and the remainder of the antibody (the "constant region") is taken
     from a human antibody. Compared to mouse ("murine") monoclonal antibodies,
     chimeric antibodies generally exhibit lower immunogenicity (the tendency to
     trigger an often adverse immune response such as a human anti-mouse
     antibody, or "HAMA" response), are cleared more slowly from the body, and
     function more naturally in the human immune system. Humanized antibodies
     can be constructed by grafting several small pieces of a murine antibody's
     variable region onto a constant region framework provided by a human
     antibody. This process, known as "CDR grafting," reduces the amount of
     foreign materials in the antibody, rendering it closer to a human antibody.
     However, the construction of humanized antibodies by CDR grafting requires
     complex computer modeling, and the properties of the resulting antibody are
     not completely predictable and may, in fact, still trigger a HAMA response.
 
          - B-Cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas. As with other cell types in the
     body, B cells and T cells may become malignant and grow as immune system
     tumors, such as B-cell NHLs. B-cell NHLs are cancers of the immune system
     which currently afflict approximately 260,000 patients in the United
     States. Treatment alternatives for B-cell NHL patients include
     chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and more recently, the Company's Rituxan
     that is indicated for use in relapsed or refractory, low grade or
     follicular, CD20 positive, B-cell NHL. B-cell NHLs are diverse with respect
     to prognosis and treatment, and are generally classified into one of three
     groups (low, intermediate or high grade) based on histology and clinical
     features. These three groups are further subdivided by the International
     Working Formulation ("IWF") into subclasses A through J: low grade (A, B
     and C); intermediate grade (D, E, F and G); and high grade (H, I and J).
     Low grade or follicular B-cell NHL is comprised of IWF subclasses A through
     D. The Company estimates that approximately half of the 260,000 patients
     afflicted with B-cell NHL in the United States have low grade or follicular
     disease. Of such patients afflicted with low grade or follicular B-cell NHL
     in the United States, approximately 20,000 will have been diagnosed during
     the past 12 months. Patients with low grade lymphomas have a fairly long
     life expectancy from the time of diagnosis (median survival 6.6 years),
     despite the fact that low grade NHLs are almost always incurable.
     Intermediate grade and high grade lymphomas are more rapidly growing forms
     of these cancers, which in some cases can be cured with early, aggressive
     chemotherapy. New diagnoses of NHLs have increased approximately 6%
     annually since 1982, with 55,400 new diagnoses in the United States
     estimated for 1998. The increase is due in part to the aging of the
     population and to the increasing prevalence of lymphomas in the AIDS
     patient population. In approximately 90% of the cases in the United States,
     non-Hodgkin's lymphomas are of B-cell origin, the remainder is of T-cell
     origin.
 
          Owing to the fluid nature of the immune system, B-cell lymphomas are
     usually widely disseminated and characterized by multiple tumors at various
     sites throughout the body at first presentation. Treatment courses with
     chemotherapy or radiation therapy often result in a limited number of
     remissions for patients with B-cell lymphomas. The majority of patients in
     remission will relapse and ultimately die either from their cancer or from
     complications of standard therapy. Fewer patients achieve additional
     remissions following relapse and those remissions are generally of shorter
     duration as the tumors become increasingly resistant to subsequent courses
     of chemotherapy. Therapeutic product development efforts for these cancers
     have focused on both improving treatment results and minimizing the
     toxicities associated with standard treatment regimens. Immunotherapies
     with low toxicity and demonstrated efficacy, such as Rituxan, might be
     expected to reduce treatment and hospitalization costs associated with
 

 
     side effects or opportunistic infections, which can result from the use of
     chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
 
          - Solid Tumor Cancers. Solid tumor cancers are comprised primarily of
     non-hematologic malignancies and, according to American Cancer Society
     estimates, approximately 1.1 million new cases were diagnosed in 1998. The
     five most frequently diagnosed solid tumor cancers in the United States
     account for 59% of all cancers (722,300 new cases) and include prostate
     (184,500), breast (180,300), lung (171,500), colorectal (131,600) and
     bladder (54,400). Standard therapies for most solid tumors include surgery,
     radiation, chemotherapy or some combination of the three modalities.
 
          - Autoimmune and Inflammatory Diseases. Systemic lupus erythematosus
     ("SLE") inflammatory bowel disease ("IBD"), asthma, allergic rhinitis,
     rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis ("MS") are autoimmune and
     inflammatory diseases that require ongoing therapy and afflict more than 6
     million patients in the United States. Autoimmune disease occurs when the
     patient's immune system goes awry, initiating a cascade of events which
     results in an attack by the patient's immune system against otherwise
     healthy tissue and often includes inflammation of the involved tissue.
     Autoimmune diseases are typically treated with products such as steroids
     and nonsteroidal, anti-inflammatory agents and with other therapies, all of
     which are limited for several reasons, including their lack of specificity
     and ineffectiveness when used chronically. Furthermore, steroids suppress
     the immune system and make the patient susceptible to infections while
     nonsteroidal, anti-inflammatory agents have limited efficacy and have been
     implicated in the formation of gastro-intestinal ulcerations.
 
          - Regulation of Immune System Cells. Monoclonal antibodies may be used
     to bind to specific subsets of human immune system cells and may act to
     deplete, to suppress or to up-regulate the activity of the targeted cells.
     Indeed, the high specificity of monoclonal antibodies enables them to
     selectively act against different types of B cells or T cells. Depletion of
     diseased immune cells or suppression of disease-causing immune activities
     may be possible by using antibodies that attach to specific antigens on the
     surface of target immune system cells. In particular, the individual B and
     T cells of the immune system express a broad variety of surface antigens
     (cell surface markers). Such antigens not only differentiate one cell type
     from another, but also differentiate individual cells from other cells with
     specificity for different antigens. Monoclonal antibodies may also be used
     to bind to molecules, such as cytokines, in the plasma which serve as
     soluble mediators of immune system cell activity. By neutralizing these
     molecules, monoclonal antibodies may be used to alter immune cell activity
     and/or migration, for example, in inflammatory conditions.
 

 
THE COMPANY'S PRODUCT AND PRODUCT CANDIDATES
 
     Rituxan, our first product approved for marketing in the United States, and
our primary products still under development address immune system disorders,
such as lymphomas, solid tumor cancers, and autoimmune and inflammatory
diseases, such as SLE and psoriasis. In addition, the Company has discovered
certain other product candidates through the application of its technology
platform. The products either commercialized or in preclinical and clinical
development by the Company and its partners include the following.
 

 
- ---------------
(1) As used in this Form 10-K, "Discovery" means that the research phase is
    ongoing and a lead compound has not yet been selected. "Lead compound
    selected" means agents have been identified that meet preselected criteria
    in assays for activity and potency. "Preclinical development" means lead
    compound undergoing testing required prior to submission of IND. "Phase I"
    means initial human studies designed to establish the safety, dose tolerance
    and pharmacokinetics of a compound. "Pilot" means a Phase I/II study is
    currently being designed for this indication, however, prior clinical
    activities have been conducted in other indications" "Phase I/II" means
    initial human studies designed to establish the safety, dose tolerance and
    pharmacokinetics of a compound and which may be designed to show preliminary
    activity of a compound in patients with the targeted disease. "Phase II"
    means human studies designed to establish safety, optimal dosage and
    preliminary activity of a compound. "Phase III" means human studies designed
    to lead to accumulation of data sufficient to support a marketing license
    application such as a BLA or an NDA, including data relating to efficacy.
 
(2) IDEC Pharmaceuticals has retained exclusive marketing rights in the United
    States for IDEC-Y2B8, anti-gp39, IDEC-131, IDEC-114, 9-AC and all anti-MIF
    products.
 
(3) Pricing approval is still pending in certain European countries.
 
(4) Although Phase I trials have been completed, the Company does not intend to
    pursue further development unless and until it enters into a partnering
    arrangement for such development.
 

 
  IMMUNE SYSTEM CANCER PRODUCTS
 
     IDEC Pharmaceuticals' objective with respect to treating B-cell NHLs is to
use its anti-CD20 antibodies to target, bind to and selectively eliminate both
the patient's normal and malignant B cells. The following is a brief description
of each of the Company's products in this area:
 
          - Rituxan. Rituxan is a genetically engineered, chimeric murine/human
     monoclonal antibody designed to harness the patient's own immune mechanisms
     to destroy tumor cells. In November, 1997, Rituxan was approved in the
     United States for treatment of certain B-cell NHLs and the Company and
     Genentech now copromote Rituxan in the United States pursuant to a
     copromotion arrangement. In June 1998 Roche received approval to begin
     marketing Rituxan (under the trade name MabThera) in the fifteen European
     Union countries, and Roche has begun marketing MabThera in nine of these
     countries, with the Company receiving royalties on sales in such countries.
     To date, Rituxan has received marketing approval in 30 countries worldwide.
     Pricing approval, however, is still pending in some countries. Other
     European approvals are still pending.
 
          Laboratory studies performed by the Company have shown that the
     antibody attaches to the CD20 antigen on B cells and activates a group of
     proteins known as "complement," leading to normal and malignant B-cell
     destruction. Additionally, the antibody, when bound to the CD20 antigen,
     recruits macrophages and natural killer cells to attack the B cells.
     Through these and other mechanisms, the antibody utilizes the body's immune
     defenses to lyse (rupture) and deplete B cells. B cells have the capacity
     to regenerate from early precursor cells that do not express the CD20
     antigen. The depletion of normal B cells observed in clinical experience to
     date has been only temporary, with normal B-cell regeneration typically
     occurring within six to nine months. The capacity of a tumor to regrow
     after treatment with Rituxan will depend on the number of malignant B
     cells, or malignant B-cell precursors (if the malignancy first appeared
     within a precursor cell), remaining after treatment.
 
          Rituxan was the first monoclonal antibody approved in the United
     States for a cancer therapy indication. Rituxan is unique in the treatment
     of B-cell NHLs due to its specificity for the antigen CD20, which is
     expressed only on normal and malignant B cells, but not on other tissues of
     the body, and its mechanism of action as compared to conventional lymphoma
     therapies, including experimental radioimmunotherapies. These properties of
     Rituxan allow its use in patients where chemotherapy is either poorly
     tolerated or ineffective in inducing disease remissions. Rituxan is easily
     administered as outpatient therapy by personnel trained in the use of
     chemotherapies. A standard course of Rituxan therapy consists of four
     intravenous infusions given on days 1, 8, 15 and 22, whereas chemotherapy
     is given typically in repeating cycles for up to four to eight months.
 
          Rituxan is indicated for single agent use in relapsed or refractory,
     low grade or follicular, CD20 positive, B-cell NHLs, which comprise nearly
     half of the prevalence of B-cell NHLs in the United States. Ongoing or
     completed Phase II studies suggest that Rituxan may also be useful in
     combination with chemotherapy in low grade or follicular B-cell NHLs, and
     as a single agent, or in combination with various chemotherapies, in the
     treatment of other forms of B-cell NHLs. In relapsed or chemotherapy
     refractory B-cell NHLs, which have to date proven to be incurable, Rituxan
     provides a means to induce remissions of disease in some patients without
     subjecting the patient to the toxicity and duration of therapy that are
     typical of chemotherapy regimens. In certain newly diagnosed B-cell NHLs
     that are curable with early aggressive chemotherapy, the Company believes
     that the addition of Rituxan to combination regimens may improve the
     overall cure rate. Demonstration of improved cure rate (i.e. long-term
     disease remissions) is being sought through ongoing, randomized controlled
     trials. In Phase III clinical trials, Rituxan, given as a single agent to
     patients with relapsed or refractory, low grade or follicular, CD20
     positive, B-cell NHL, achieved partial or complete responses to therapy in
     48% of patients on an intent to treat basis (80 of 166 patients). Of the 80
     responding patients (tumor shrinkage greater than 50% verified over at
     least two independent observations 28 days apart), 10 were complete
     responses (6%), and 70 were partial responses (42%). The median duration of
     response (time from first determination of response to tumor regrowth) in
     the 80 responders was 11.6 months, despite the short duration (22 days) of
     the full course of therapy. The Company believes that 19 of the 80
     responders (approximately 24%) are experiencing ongoing remissions lasting
     from one-and-a-half to three years.
 

 
     Retrospective analysis of patient subgroups in the Phase III Rituxan trial
     showed responses in patients with poor prognostic features, who generally
     respond poorly to chemotherapy regimes, such as age greater than 60,
     extranodal disease, prior relapse from autologous bone marrow transplant,
     or relapse or failure of anthracycline containing regimens.
 
     There are standard response criteria for solid tumor cancers, chronic
lymphocytic leukemia, Hodgkin's disease and acute myelogenous leukemia, but
currently none for B-cell NHL. As a result, clinical response rates in B-cell
NHL may vary depending on which criteria is being applied. For example, one of
the requirements for scoring a complete response in the Rituxan pivotal trial
was that all measurable lesions must have shrunk to less than 1X1cm. Using this
conservative criterion, an 6% complete response rate was reported. However, as
presented at the American Society of Hematology meeting in December 1998,
complete response rates for the Rituxan pivotal trial increased significantly
when analyzed according to alternative minimums for lesion shrinkage, i.e.: 18%
CR and 28% CR when analyzed using 1.5X1.5cm and 2.0X2.0cm, respectively. Until
uniform criteria is adopted for all B-cell NHL trials, complete response rates
will vary widely depending on the measures being utilized.
 
     The following figure shows the percentage change in tumor size in all 166
patients entered into the Phase III trial of Rituxan in relapsed or refractory,
low grade or follicular CD20 positive, B-cell NHL.
 
     MAXIMUM PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN TUMOR SIZE AMONG ALL TREATED PATIENTS(1)
                                      LOGO
 
(1) Tumor shrinkage measured radiographically for the 166 patients by sum of
    products of lesion perpendicular diameters. Data represents the greatest
    shrinkage achieved by each patient during the observation period. Subsequent
    tumor growth may have occurred and data for three patients are unavailable.
 
(2) Includes two patients with increase in lesion size greater than 100%.
 

 
     In December 1998, the Company presented information on the results of a
Phase II Rituxan re-treatment study at the American Society of Hematology
Conference. This Phase II study in patients with low grade or follicular, CD20
positive, B-cell NHL was conducted to determine the safety and efficacy of
Rituxan in patients who had relapsed or were refractory to prior chemotherapy,
but had responded previously to Rituxan. It appears from the initial analyses of
the study that patients who responded to one regimen of Rituxan may be
re-treated with additional courses of Rituxan without impairment of bone marrow
function (myelosuppression) or development of an immune response (antibodies) to
CD20 antibody therapy -- a response called human anti-chimeric antibody (HACA).
Of 60 patients treated, 56 were considered evaluable for efficacy. The overall
response rate was 41%, with 7 out of 56 (12.5%) being complete responders and 16
out of 56 (28.6%) being partial responders. Median time to progression and
duration of response have not been reached after more than 10 months of
follow-up. While the overall safety profile seen with re-treatment was similar
to what was reported for the initial treatment with Rituxan (primarily
infusion-related events that usually occurred within a few hours of the first
infusion) other events that occurred less frequently included: leukopenia,
nausea, transient bronchospasm, and mild hypotension. These results will be
submitted to the FDA in the second quarter of 1999 in support of expanding the
information on re-treatment included in the package insert provided to
clinicians using Rituxan in the treatment of patients B-cell NHL.
 
     A recent clinical study published in Journal of Clinical Oncology in
January 1999, assessed the safety and effectiveness of Rituxan used in
combination with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone
(collectively known as "CHOP") chemotherapy in low-grade or follicular B-cell
NHL. The 40 patients entered into the study achieved a 95% response rate after
treatment. Of the 40 patients, 22 patients had complete responses (55%), 16
patients had partial responses and two patients were registered but not treated.
In this study, medians for duration of response and time to progression had not
been reached after a median observation time of 29+ months. Twenty-eight of the
38 assessable patients (74%) continued in remission during this median follow-up
period. Attending physicians attributed 75% of toxicity associated with this
combined treatment to the CHOP chemotherapy. The most frequently experienced
adverse events were neutropenia, alopecia, nauseas and fever. Rituxan was
associated with fever and chills.
 
     This CHOP/Rituxan Phase II study and a similar Phase II study conducted by
Genentech in intermediate and high grade B-cell NHL served as the basis for the
commencement of a large, randomized controlled cooperative Phase III study by
the NCI, the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group, the Cancer and Leukemia Group
B, and the Southwest Oncology Group. This study will examine whether the
addition of Rituxan to the CHOP regime will improve cure rates (long term
remission) in elderly (age greater than 60 years) intermediate and high grade
B-cell NHL patients.
 
     The most common adverse events associated with Rituxan, based on the
Company's clinical trial experience, are infusion-related, consisting mainly of
mild to moderate flu-like symptoms (e.g., fever, chills, rigors) that occur in
the majority of patients during the first infusion. Other events which occur
with less frequency include nausea, rashes, fatigue and headaches. More serious
events include hypotension, wheezing, sensation of tongue or throat swelling and
recurrence of cardiac events in patients with a history of angina or arrhythmia.
These symptoms were usually limited in duration to the period of infusion and
decrease with subsequent infusions. These adverse events are generally more mild
and of a shorter duration than the adverse events associated with chemotherapy.
 
     In the fourth quarter of 1998, Genentech, Roche and IDEC Pharmaceuticals
notified doctors of the occurrence in certain patients of severe
infusion-related adverse events that resulted in eight fatalities out of
approximately 14,000 patients treated worldwide since Rituxan was launched.
 
     In an effort to identify expanded applications for Rituxan, the Company, in
conjunction with Genentech and Roche, has authorized over 120 Rituxan
post-marketing study concepts to date, at least two of which will be large Phase
III studies. Several of these trials will explore the use of Rituxan in a
variety of investigational B-cell NHL clinical settings including: (i)
combination therapy with widely used chemotherapy regimens for both low grade
and intermediate/high grade disease; (ii) single agent therapy in newly
diagnosed, previously untreated low grade disease; (iii) integration into
autologous bone marrow transplant regimens both as an in-vivo purging agent
prior to bone marrow harvest and post-transplant as consolidation therapy; and
 

 
(iv) treatment of AIDS-related B-cell NHLs. Additionally, clinical trials have
been initiated in other B-cell malignancies and pre-malignant conditions such as
CLL, multiple myeloma and lymphoproliferative disorders associated with solid
organ transplant therapies.
 
     - IDEC-Y2B8. Due to the sensitivity of B-cell tumors to radiation,
radiation therapy has historically played, and continues to play, an important
role in the management of B-cell lymphomas. Radiation therapy currently consists
of external beam radiation focused on certain areas of the body with tumor
burden. IDEC Pharmaceuticals is developing an antibody product that is intended
to deliver targeted immunotherapy by means of injectable radiation to target
sites expressing the CD20 antigen, such as lymphatic B-cell tumors. In clinical
testing, the isotope indium-111 may be used to image the patient's tumor and to
ensure that normal organs are not exposed to undue radiation from the
subsequently administered therapeutic product, which uses the isotope
yttrium-90. The low-energy gamma particle emitted by indium is detectable
outside the body, thereby allowing the physician to determine the localization
of the antibody in the tumor. The companion yttrium-90 isotope provides targeted
radiation therapy by emitting a high-energy beta particle that is absorbed by
surrounding tissue, leading to tumor destruction. The Company's objective with
IDEC-Y2B8 is to provide safer, more effective radiation therapy than is possible
with external beam radiation or with other isotopes and to provide this
radiation therapy in an outpatient setting.
 
     Other radioisotopes, such as iodine-131, emit both beta and gamma radiation
and at certain therapeutic doses require that the patient be hospitalized and
isolated in a lead-shielded room for several days. In contrast, the beta
particle emitted by yttrium-90 is absorbed by tissue immediately adjacent to the
antibody and is concentrated at the antibody target. The Company believes that
this short penetrating radiation will permit the use of the product in
outpatient therapy, and has conducted its clinical trials in the outpatient
setting.
 
     The Company completed a dose-escalating Phase I clinical trial with
IDEC-Y2B8 in 15 patients in early 1995. In August 1996, the Company initiated a
clinical trial that incorporates both IDEC-Y2B8 and Rituxan, and preliminary
results of this trial were reported at the December 1997 meeting of the American
Society of Hematology ("ASH"), and updated at the October 1998 annual meeting of
the American Society for Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology ("ASTRO"). In this
open label, Phase I/II clinical trial, 48 patients with advanced, relapsed
B-cell NHL received pretreatment with Rituxan to maximize tumor localization and
activity of subsequently administered IDEC-Y2B8. Patients received 250mg/m(2) of
Rituxan plus an imaging dose of the product bound to indium-111. During the
following week, patient tumors were imaged using the low-energy gamma radiation
emitted by the indium isotope. On day eight, patients received a second infusion
of Rituxan at 250mg/m(2) followed by a therapeutic dose of IDEC-Y2B8 at 0.2, 0.3
or 0.4 mCi/kg of body weight.
 
     Patients with low grade or follicular B-cell NHL showed an overall response
rate (complete and partial responses) of 82% (28/34) across all dose groups,
with a response rate of 81% (17/21) for patients with low grade or follicular
B-cell NHL who received the standard 0.4mCi/kg dose of IDEC-Y2B8. Of the 28
responders with low grade B-cell NHL, 14 are still in ongoing remission. After a
median of 7.2 months of follow-up, the Kaplan-Meier estimate of median time to
progression in the 28 responders is 12.4 months. These patients continue to be
followed.
 
     Of the patients with low grade or follicular B-cell NHL, 27% (9/34) had
complete responses and 56% (19/34) had partial responses. Different criteria are
in use today to define complete responses in B-cell NHL. In the IDEC-Y2B8 trial,
complete responses required reduction in size of diseased lymph nodes to not
more than 1cmX1cm -- the same, rigorous standard used for the approval of
Rituxan. Patients with intermediate grade B-cell NHL treated on the Phase I/II
trial exhibited an overall response rate of 43% (6/14), with a complete response
rate of 29% (4/14) and a partial response rate of 14% (2/14).
 
     Adverse events associated with the treatment regimen were primarily
transient and reversible hematologic toxicities (i.e., blood-cell count
reductions). The median time to reversal of blood-cell count reductions was 14
days. Investigators reported no major organ dysfunctions. In all patients,
normal organs including the red marrow received radiation doses well below the
safety limits proscribed in the clinical protocol. Human anti-mouse or
anti-chimeric antibody (HAMA/HACA) reactions were observed in only 2% (1/51) of
patients and were not a therapy-limiting factor.
 

 
     The Company has initiated two pivotal trials with IDEC-Y2B8. The first
trial will enroll and treat approximately 150 relapsed or refractory, low grade
or follicular B-cell NHL patients who have not previously been treated with
Rituxan. This is a two-arm, randomized, controlled trial using the standard
regimen of Rituxan alone versus Rituxan followed by IDEC-Y2B8. The primary
endpoint of this trial is overall response rate, with the objective of showing a
statistically significant advantage in efficacy for IDEC-Y2B8 over Rituxan
alone. Patient accrual is anticipated to be completed by the end of third
quarter of 1999. The second trial is in relapsed or refractory, low grade or
follicular B-cell NHL patients who have already been treated with Rituxan but
did not achieve a significant response to Rituxan in terms of overall tumor
shrinkage or duration of remission. Again, overall response rate is the primary
endpoint. 60 patients will be entered in this trial and accrual is anticipated
to be completed by the middle of 1999.
 
     The Company expects that Rituxan and IDEC-Y2B8 will provide complementary
products for the management of B-cell NHLs. Because most B-cell NHLs are treated
today in community-based group practices, Rituxan fits nicely into the community
practice, as no special equipment or extensive training is required for its
administration or for management of treatment related side effects. Rituxan has
shown activity even in patients refractory to chemotherapy and is indicated for
this use, so that it may provide a viable option for the community-based
oncologist prior to referral of the patient to the major medical center for
treatment with more aggressive therapies, potentially including IDEC-Y2B8. By
contrast, all radioimmunotherapies will be administered by the nuclear medicine
specialists or radiation oncologists at the major medical or cancer centers that
are equipped for the handling, administration and disposal of radioisotopes.
Also, the nuclear medicine department, but not the community-based practice, has
the specialized equipment and governmental licenses that are required for use of
radioisotopes. Thus the Company believes that referral patterns will develop for
treatment of B-cell NHL patients with radioimmunotherapies at major medical
centers after the community-based oncologist has exhausted all other options,
such as Rituxan or chemotherapy, for the management of his or her patients. This
trend will be further reinforced by the observation made by the Company, and by
others working in the field, of the substantial clinical activity of
radioimmunotherapies in patients with late-stage disease that has become
refractory to chemotherapies. Thus, IDEC Pharmaceuticals is committed to the
development and commercialization of IDEC-Y2B8 as a complementary product to
Rituxan that might be used throughout the course of a patient's disease
providing an alternative, for both the patient and the healthcare professional,
to conventional chemotherapies.
 
     - 9-Aminocamptothecin. In July 1997, IDEC Pharmaceuticals completed its
acquisition of worldwide rights to 9-AC from Pharmacia & Upjohn S.p.A.
("Pharmacia & Upjohn"). This drug was acquired as part of a consent decree
issued by the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") regarding the merger of Pharmacia
AB with The Upjohn Company. IDEC Pharmaceuticals now holds exclusive rights to
all licenses and technology related to 9-AC and is proceeding with clinical
development of the compound. In preclinical and Phase I/II clinical studies
conducted by Pharmacia & Upjohn and the National Cancer Institute ("NCI"), 9-AC
has shown broad-spectrum activity against a variety of solid tumors. A
semi-synthetic analogue of the plant-derived molecule camptothecin, 9-AC belongs
to a class of drugs known as camptothecins that interferes with DNA replication
by inhibiting a critical nuclear enzyme, topoisomerase I. In October 1997, the
Company announced that it had begun treating patients as part of a Phase I/II
clinical trial of 9-AC. The trial is aimed at verifying the maximum tolerated
dose of 9-AC, determined by other investigators in earlier trials, and at
seeking an initial indication to pursue for marketing approval. The
investigational study population includes patients with any one of eight solid
tumor types: non-small cell lung, colorectal, pancreatic, gastric, bladder,
prostate, head and neck, or kidney. The Company intends to involve additional
centers in the Phase II portion of the trial. If the investigators see at least
one response in any tumor type, additional patients with that cancer will be
studied in Phase IIB of the trial to determine an estimate of the response rate
for that disease. If the investigators identify a meaningful response rate for
one or more tumor types, the Company will attempt to secure a partner with whom
to take an indication into a registration or pivotal study.
 
  AUTOIMMUNE AND INFLAMMATORY PRODUCTS
 
     IDEC Pharmaceuticals is developing a proprietary new class of antibodies,
termed PRIMATIZED(R) antibodies, that are of part human, part macaque monkey,
origin. These antibodies are structurally similar to,
 

 
and potentially indistinguishable by a patient's immune system from, human
antibodies. PRIMATIZED antibodies may provide therapeutic intervention for
diseases or conditions not amenable to chronic treatment with mouse-derived
antibodies. The Company's objective with its PRIMATIZED antibodies is to provide
therapies that can be used to control autoimmune diseases characterized by
overactive immune functions. The Company has entered into research and
development collaborations with SB, Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation
("Mitsubishi"), Seikagaku Corporation ("Seikagaku") and Eisai, all of which
utilize the Company's PRIMATIZED technology and which target distinct, cell
surface antigens. See "-- Strategic Alliances."
 
          - PRIMATIZED IDEC-151. In March 1998, the Company and SB announced
     that they had selected IDEC-151 (designated SB-217969 by SB for its
     clinical development) as their lead PRIMATIZED anti-CD4 antibody for the
     treatment of rheumatoid arthritis ("RA"). In a Phase I portion of a Phase
     I/II study of 32 patients with moderate to severe RA, the results of which
     were announced in late November 1997, IDEC-151 displayed no CD4 depletion
     and no infusion-related adverse events. Based upon the clinical profile of
     IDEC-151 shown in the Phase II portion of this study, as well as the
     current competitive landscape for new products in RA, SB has decided to
     discontinue the development of IDEC-151 for RA at this time and instead to
     continue development of IDEC-151 in another autoimmune disease, psoriasis.
     Trials in this indication will be conducted by SB and are in the planning
     stages.
 
          - Humanized Anti-gp39 (IDEC-131) and PRIMATIZED Anti-gp39. In December
     1995, the Company entered into a research and development collaborative
     agreement with Eisai. The collaboration focuses on developing humanized and
     PRIMATIZED antibodies against the gp39 antigen. This antigen, also referred
     to as the CD40 ligand, is an essential immune system trigger for B-cell
     activation and antibody production. Potential target indications include
     transplantation and antibody-mediated autoimmune diseases such as
     idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ("ITP") and SLE. The development of the
     Company's humanized anti-gp39 monoclonal antibody ("IDEC-131") is based on
     technology that the Company licensed from Dartmouth College, where
     researchers have shown that the binding of gp39 to its CD40 receptor on B
     cells is essential for proper immune system function. These researchers
     generated anti-gp39 antibodies that blocked this T-cell and B-cell
     interaction and halted disease progression in a variety of animal models of
     disease characterized by abnormal or unwanted immune response. Moreover,
     when researchers ended the animals' anti-gp39 treatments, the animals'
     antibody-producing capacity returned to normal levels, but their disease
     remained suppressed. Treatment with the anti-gp39 antibodies appeared to
     have reset the animals' immune systems and restored a normal immune
     response. Under the collaborative agreement, the Company and Eisai have
     agreed to develop a humanized anti-gp39 antibody and launch additional
     efforts to develop a second generation, PRIMATIZED anti-gp39 antibody. This
     effort has resulted in the identification of the humanized anti-gp39
     antibody lead candidate, IDEC-131, which underwent preclinical testing,
     process development and manufacturing of clinical trial material in early
     1997. The Company filed an IND for IDEC-131 in November 1997 and began a
     Phase I clinical study in SLE in February 1998.
 
          - PRIMATIZED Anti-B7. In November 1993, the Company entered into a
     research and development collaboration with Mitsubishi that focuses on the
     development of PRIMATIZED antibodies directed at a B7 antigen. This B7
     antigen appears on the surface of antigen-presenting cells and is involved
     in the interaction of these cells with T cells in triggering a cascade of
     immune system responses. Antibodies directed at the B7 antigens may block
     this cascade and, therefore, may be useful in preventing unwanted immune
     responses in certain inflammatory and chronic autoimmune conditions such as
     psoriasis, arthritis and MS. Mitsubishi has actively shared in the
     development process, generating animal models and participating in research
     with the Company. On October 26, 1998, IDEC Pharmaceuticals announced that
     it had begun a Phase I clinical trial with PRIMATIZED anti-B7.1, IDEC-114.
     The study will evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of a
     single dose of the investigational agent in approximately 24 patients with
     psoriasis.
 
          - PRIMATIZED Anti-CD23. In December 1994, the Company entered into a
     collaboration with Seikagaku aimed at the development of PRIMATIZED
     anti-CD23 antibodies for the potential treatment of allergic rhinitis,
     asthma and other allergic conditions. Antibodies against the CD23 receptor
 

 
     on certain white blood cells inhibit the production of immune system
     molecules called immunoglobulin class E, or IgE, which are known to trigger
     allergic conditions. At the same time, anti-CD23 antibodies do not affect
     the production of the immunoglobulins (the patient's own antibodies)
     responsible for granting protective immunity to infectious agents. Thus,
     PRIMATIZED anti-CD23 antibodies may provide a unique new approach to
     treating chronic illnesses such as allergic rhinitis and asthma. This
     effort has resulted in the identification of a PRIMATIZED antibody lead
     candidate which is expected to continue preclinical testing, process
     development and manufacturing of clinical material during 1999, with an
     expected IND filing in late 1999.
 
          - Humanized and PRIMATIZED Anti-MIF. Macrophage migration inhibitory
     factor ("MIF") is the body's natural counter-regulatory cytokine which
     serves to override the anti-inflammatory activities of natural and
     administered steroids. Inhibition of MIF may represent a novel approach to
     the management of a variety of acute and chronic inflammatory diseases,
     including steroid-resistant rheumatoid arthritis and asthma. In September
     1997, IDEC Pharmaceuticals licensed from Cytokine Networks, Inc. ("CNI"), a
     privately-held bio-pharmaceutical company, development rights to CNI's
     anti-MIF antibody technology. Under the terms of the licensing and
     development agreement, the Company became the exclusive licensee of CNI's
     rights to the anti-MIF antibody technology for therapeutic and diagnostic
     applications. In return for these rights, the Company made a $3.0 million
     preferred equity investment in CNI, which will also receive milestone
     payments (up to a maximum of $10.5 million) and royalties on the sales by
     the Company of approved products resulting from the collaboration.
 
TECHNOLOGY
 
     The Company is developing products for the management of immune system
cancers, solid tumors and autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. Our antibody
products bind to specific subsets of human immune system cells, or to soluble
mediators of immune cell activity, and act to deplete or to alter the activity
of these cells. The products are administered intravenously and target cells or
soluble mediators located in easily accessible compartments of the body,
specifically the blood, the lymphatic fluid and the synovial fluid. For
treatment of B-cell NHLs, our products target a cell surface marker known as
CD20 which is present only on B cells but not on B-cell precursors. These
products act to reduce total B-cell levels, including both malignant and normal
B cells. The depletion of normal B cells observed in clinical experience to date
has been only temporary, with regeneration occurring within months from the
unaffected B-cell precursors. The Company believes that its lead product,
Rituxan, and, if successfully developed, our radioimmunotherapeutic agent,
IDEC-Y2B8, may provide therapeutic alternatives to complement the treatment of
certain B-cell NHLs.
 
     Due to their specificity and affinity for cell surface receptors,
monoclonal antibodies are an attractive means by which to treat autoimmune
diseases. Attachment of monoclonal antibodies to specific cell surface receptors
can be used to suppress aberrant and unwanted immune activity. Historically,
however, the use of monoclonal antibodies as an ongoing therapy has been limited
by the body's rejection of the mouse-derived ("murine") components of the
antibodies. Murine monoclonal antibodies, which are structurally different from
human antibodies, tend to trigger adverse immune reactions when used as
therapies. These reactions include a HAMA response in which the patient's immune
system produces antibodies against the therapeutic antibody, thus limiting its
effectiveness.
 
     The Company has developed the following proprietary technology for use with
and in the development of its products:
 
          - PRIMATIZED Antibody Technology. The Company has developed a
     proprietary PRIMATIZED antibody technology designed to avoid HAMA responses
     and other immunogenicity problems by developing monoclonal antibodies from
     primate rather than mouse B cells. These antibodies are characterized by
     their strong similarity to human antibodies and by the absence of mouse
     components. In 1998, the Company received an issued U.S. patent covering
     its PRIMATIZED antibodies. Underlying this proprietary technology is our
     discovery that macaque monkeys produce antibodies that are structurally
     indistinguishable from human antibodies in their variable (antigen-binding)
     regions. Further, the Company found that the macaque monkey can be
     immunized to make antibodies that react with
 

 
     human, but not with macaque, antigens. Genetic engineering techniques are
     then used to isolate the portions of the macaque antibody gene that encode
     the variable region from a macaque B cell. This genetic material is
     combined with constant region genetic material from a human B cell and
     inserted into a host cell line which then expresses the desired antibody
     specific to the given antigen. The result is a part human, part macaque
     PRIMATIZED antibody which appears structurally to be so similar to human
     antibodies that it may be accepted by the patient's immune system as
     "self." This development allows the possibility of therapeutic intervention
     in chronic diseases or other conditions that are not amenable to treatment
     with antibodies containing mouse components. The Company is currently using
     its PRIMATIZED technology for the development of its IDEC-151, IDEC-114 and
     anti-CD23 product candidates.
 
          - PROVAX(TM) Antigen Formulation. The Company has also discovered a
     proprietary antigen formulation, PROVAX, which has shown the ability to
     induce cellular immunity, manifested by cytotoxic T lymphocytes, in animals
     immunized with protein antigens. Cellular immunity is a counterpart to
     antibody-based immunity and is responsible for the direct destruction of
     virally infected and malignant cells. PROVAX is a combination of defined
     chemical entities and may provide a practical means for the development of
     effective immunotherapies that act through the induction of both antibody
     and cell-mediated immunity. The Company believes such immunotherapies may
     be useful for the treatment of certain cancers and viral diseases.
     Preliminary studies also indicate that PROVAX can be safely administered by
     injection to human subjects. We intend to make PROVAX available through
     licenses and collaborations to interested partners for development of
     immunotherapeutic vaccines.
 
          - Proprietary Vector Technologies. The Company has developed methods
     of engineering mammalian cell cultures using proprietary gene expression
     technologies ("vector technologies") that rapidly and reproducibly select
     for stable cells, producing high levels of desired proteins. These
     technologies allow the efficient production of proteins at yields that may
     be significantly higher, and costs that may be significantly lower, than
     current, competing cell culture manufacturing methods. The Company has
     successfully applied one of these technologies to the commercial scale
     production of Rituxan.
 
STRATEGIC ALLIANCES
 
     The Company has entered into one or more strategic partnering arrangements
for many of its product development programs. Through these strategic partners,
the Company is funding a significant portion of its product development costs
and is capitalizing on the production, development, regulatory, marketing and
sales capabilities of its partners. Unless otherwise indicated, the amounts
shown below as potential payments include license fees, research and development
fees and milestone payments. In addition, the Company's strategic partners would
pay royalties on product sales, or in the case of Genentech or SB, would in
addition share copromotion profits in the United States once products are
commercialized. The Company's entitlement to such payments depends on achieving
milestones related to development, clinical trials results and regulatory
approvals and other factors. These arrangements include:
 
          - Genentech, Inc. In March 1995, the Company and Genentech entered
     into a collaborative agreement for the clinical development and
     commercialization of the Company's anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody, Rituxan,
     for the treatment of B-cell NHLs. Concurrent with the collaborative
     agreement, the Company and Genentech also entered into an expression
     technology license agreement for a proprietary gene expression technology
     developed by the Company and a preferred stock purchase agreement providing
     for certain equity investments that have been made in the Company by
     Genentech. In November 1995, the Company, Zenyaku Kogyo Co. Ltd.
     ("Zenyaku") and Genentech entered into a joint development, supply and
     license agreement pursuant to which Zenyaku received exclusive rights to
     develop, market and sell Rituxan in Japan and the Company will receive
     royalties on sales of Rituxan in Japan. In addition, the Company and
     Genentech are copromoting Rituxan in the United States. Genentech retained
     commercialization rights throughout the rest of the world, except in Japan.
     Genentech has granted Roche exclusive marketing rights outside of the
     United States, and Roche has elected to market Rituximab under the trade
     name MabThera. The Company and Roche are currently discussing an
     arrangement for commercialization of Rituxan in Canada. The Company will
     receive royalties on sales outside the United States. The collaborative
     agreement between the Company and
 

 
     Genentech provides two independent mechanisms by which either party may
     purchase or sell its rights in the copromotion territory from or to the
     other party. Upon the occurrence of certain events that constitute a change
     of control of the Company, Genentech may elect to present an offer to the
     Company to purchase the Company's copromotion rights. The Company must then
     accept Genentech's offer or purchase Genentech's copromotion rights for an
     amount scaled (using the profit sharing ratio between the parties) to
     Genentech's offer. Under a second mechanism, after a specified period of
     commercial sales and (i) upon a certain number of years of declining
     copromotion profits or (ii) if Genentech files for U.S. regulatory approval
     on a competitive product during a limited period of time, either party may
     offer to purchase the other party's copromotion rights. The offeree may
     either accept the offer price or purchase the offeror's copromotion rights
     at the offer price scaled to the offeror's share of copromotion profits.
 
          - SmithKline Beecham, p.1.c. In October 1992, the Company and SB
     entered into an exclusive worldwide collaborative research and license
     agreement limited to the development and commercialization of therapeutic
     products based on the Company's PRIMATIZED anti-CD4 antibodies. Under the
     terms of this agreement, the Company may receive payments in excess of
     $60.0 million, subject to the attainment of certain milestones, of which
     $32.6 million has been recognized through December 31, 1998. The Company
     will receive funding for anti-CD4 related research and development
     programs, as well as royalties and a share of copromotion profits in the
     United States and Canada on sales of products which may be commercialized
     as a result of the collaboration. At any time, SB may terminate this
     agreement by giving the Company 30 days' written notice based on a
     reasonable determination that the products do not justify continued
     development or marketing.
 
          - Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation. In November 1993, the Company
     entered into a three-year collaborative agreement and an ongoing license
     agreement with Mitsubishi for the development of a PRIMATIZED anti-B7
     antibody. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company may receive
     payments totaling $12.2 million to fund research of the PRIMATIZED anti-B7
     antibody, subject to the attainment of certain milestones, of which $9.2
     million has been recognized through December 31, 1998. Under the license
     agreement, the Company has granted Mitsubishi an exclusive license in Asia
     to make, use and sell PRIMATIZED anti-B7 antibody products. The Company
     will receive royalties on sales by Mitsubishi of the developed products.
 
          - Seikagaku Corporation. In December 1994, the Company and Seikagaku
     entered into a collaborative development agreement and a license agreement
     aimed at the development and commercialization of therapeutic products
     based on the Company's PRIMATIZED anti-CD23 antibodies. Under the terms of
     these agreements, Seikagaku may provide up to $26.0 million in milestone
     payments and support for research and development, subject to the
     attainment of certain milestones, of which $18.9 million has been
     recognized through December 31, 1998. Under the license agreement,
     Seikagaku has received exclusive rights in Europe and Asia to all products
     emerging from the collaboration. The Company will receive royalties on
     eventual product sales by Seikagaku. At any time, Seikagaku may terminate
     the license agreement by giving the Company 60 days' written notice based
     on a reasonable determination that the products do not justify continued
     development or marketing.
 
          - Eisai Co., Ltd. In December 1995, the Company and Eisai entered into
     a collaborative development agreement and a license agreement aimed at the
     development and commercialization of humanized and PRIMATIZED anti-gp39
     antibodies. Under the terms of these agreements, Eisai may provide up to
     $37.5 million in milestone payments and support for research and
     development, subject to the attainment of certain milestones and
     satisfaction of other criteria to be agreed upon between the parties, of
     which $29.1 million has been recognized through December 31, 1998. Eisai
     will receive exclusive rights in Asia and Europe to develop and market
     resulting products emerging from the collaboration, with the Company
     receiving royalties on eventual product sales by Eisai. At any time, Eisai
     may terminate the development agreement by giving the Company 60 days'
     written notice based on a reasonable determination that the products do not
     justify continued development or marketing.
 

 
          - Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. In March 1996, the Company and
     Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. ("Chugai") entered into a worldwide license
     agreement (co-exclusive with IDEC Pharmaceuticals, Genentech, Kirin Brewery
     Co., Ltd., Pharmaceutical Division ("Kirin") and Boehringer Ingleheim GmbH
     ("BI")) for the Company's proprietary vector technology for high expression
     of recombinant proteins in mammalian cells. As part of the agreement,
     Chugai paid an up-front licensing fee of $4.5 million to the Company and
     will pay royalties on sales of Chugai products manufactured using the
     technology.
 
          - Boehringer Ingleheim GmbH. In December 1996, the Company and BI
     entered into a worldwide license agreement (co-exclusive with IDEC
     Pharmaceuticals, Genentech, Chugai and Kirin) for the Company's proprietary
     vector technology for high expression of recombinant proteins in mammalian
     cells. As part of the agreement, BI paid an up-front licensing fee of $5.1
     million to the Company and will pay royalties on sales of BI products
     manufactured using the technology.
 
          - Kirin Brewery Co., Ltd. Pharmaceutical Division. In December 1997,
     the Company and Kirin entered into a worldwide license agreement
     (co-exclusive with IDEC Pharmaceuticals, Genentech, Chugai and BI) for the
     Company's proprietary vector technology for high expression of recombinant
     proteins in mammalian cells. As part of the agreement, Kirin paid an
     up-front licensing fee of $6.3 million to the Company, which was recognized
     in the first quarter of 1998, and will pay royalties to the Company on
     sales of Kirin products manufactured using the technology.
 
MANUFACTURING STRATEGY
 
     From its inception, the Company has focused on establishing and maintaining
a leadership position in cell culture techniques for antibody manufacturing.
Cell culture provides a method for manufacturing of clinical and commercial
grade protein products by reproducible techniques at various scales, up to many
kilograms of antibody. The Company's manufacturing facility is based on the
suspension culture of mammalian cells in stainless steel vessels. Suspension
culture fermentation provides greater flexibility and more rapid production of
the large amounts of antibodies required for pivotal trials than the bench-scale
systems that were previously utilized by the Company. The Company's
manufacturing facility has been approved by the FDA only for the commercial
manufacture of Rituxan and currently may not be used for the commercial
manufacture of other products. See "-- Government Regulation."
 
     The Company is in the process of completing a modification to its
copromotion arrangement with Genentech that will allow the Company to terminate
early its obligations to supply to Genentech bulk Rituxan manufactured at the
Company's manufacturing facility. Rather than supplying bulk Rituxan to
Genentech through November, 1999, the Company now anticipates transferring all
manufacturing to Genentech at the end of the third quarter of 1999. Genentech
has the current capacity to handle current projected Rituxan requirements. The
Company anticipates using its available capacity for production of commercial
and clinical supplies of its other developmental candidates and third party
contract manufacturing. As such, IDEC Pharmaceuticals will now supply its own
commercial requirements of the antibody for IDEC-Y2B8 upon the receipt of
approval, if any, from the FDA to manufacture and market the antibody. The
Company does not have expertise or facilities for small molecule chemical
manufacturing. If the Company's product candidate, 9-AC, proceeds in
development, the Company, will need to establish a long term manufacturing
arrangement for 9-AC with an appropriate contract manufacturer. The Company's
9-AC clinical materials requirements will be met over the next year by Pharmacia
& Upjohn, as part of the product in-license agreement. Additionally, as the
Company does not have fill/finish expertise, the Company will be dependent on
outside contractors to meet its current and future requirements for fill/finish.
See "Risk Factors -- We Rely Heavily on Contract Manufacturers" and
"-- Government Regulation."
 
     The Company is dependent upon Genentech to fill/finish and meet long-term
manufacturing demands for Rituxan and SB to fulfill all of the manufacturing
requirements for IDEC-151. The Company is considering the addition of another
manufacturing facility to meet its long-term requirements for additional
products under development.
 

 
     The Company has made its vector technology platform available for licensing
to a small number of other biopharmaceutical and pharmaceutical companies. This
technology has been licensed to Genentech, Chugai, BI and Kirin.
 
SALES AND MARKETING STRATEGY
 
     During 1999, the Company will depend on the successful marketing and sales
of Rituxan for much of its anticipated revenue. Rituxan will be marketed and
sold in the United States pursuant to a copromotion agreement with Genentech,
which currently has a sales and marketing staff of approximately 87
professionals that is also promoting one other new biologic application in
oncology. To fulfill its duties under the copromotion agreement, the Company has
recently created a marketing staff and a sales organization of 35 professionals
with experience primarily in the oncology therapeutic category, who are
currently dedicated exclusively to the commercialization of Rituxan. The Company
relies heavily on Genentech to supply related marketing support services
including customer service, order entry, shipping and billing, customer
reimbursement assistance, managed-care sales support, medical information, and
sales training.
 
     Outside of the United States and Canada, the Company has adopted a strategy
to pursue collaborative arrangements with established pharmaceutical companies
for marketing, distribution and sale of its products. See "Risk Factors -- We
Have Limited Sales and Marketing Experience" and "Risk Factors -- We May be
Unable to Adequately Protect or Enforce Our Intellectual Property Rights or
Secure Rights to Third Party Patents."
 
PATENTS AND PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY
 
     The biopharmaceutical field is characterized by a large number of patent
filings. A substantial number of patents have already been issued to other
biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies. Particularly in the monoclonal
antibody and recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid ("DNA") fields, competitors may
have filed applications for or have been issued patents and may obtain
additional patents and proprietary rights relating to products or processes
competitive with or similar to those of the Company. Moreover, United States and
foreign country patent laws are distinct and the interpretations thereunder
unique to each country. Thus, patentability, validity and infringement issues
for the same technology or inventions may be resolved differently in different
jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that patents do not exist in the United
States or in foreign countries or that patents will not be issued that would
have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to market its products.
Accordingly, the Company expects that commercializing its products may require
licensing and/or cross-licensing of patents with other companies or institutions
in the field. There can be no assurance that the licenses, which might be
required for the Company's processes or products, would be available on
commercially acceptable terms, if at all. The ability to license any such
patents and the likelihood of successfully contesting the scope, validity or
enforceability of such patents are uncertain and the costs associated therewith
may be significant. If the Company is required to acquire rights to valid and
enforceable patents but cannot do so at a reasonable cost, the Company's ability
to manufacture or market its products would be materially adversely affected.
 
     IDEC Pharmaceuticals is the assignee of 20 issued patents, five allowed and
22 pending U.S. patent applications and numerous corresponding foreign patent
applications. Certain other patents and/or applications owned by third parties
have been exclusively licensed, as in the case of anti-gp39 core technology
licensed from Dartmouth College, or non-exclusively licensed by IDEC
Pharmaceuticals. The Company has filed trademark applications in the United
States, Canada and in certain international markets for the trademarks
"PRIMATIZED," "PROVAX," "Rituxan" and "IDEC Pharmaceuticals." "IDEC
Pharmaceuticals," "Rituxan" and "PRIMATIZED" have been registered as trademarks
in the United States.
 
     The Company has three issued and three pending U.S. patent applications and
pending foreign counterparts broadly directed to its anti-CD20 antibody
technology, including Rituxan, and the radioimmunoconjugate, IDEC-Y2B8. The
Company's radioimmunoconjugate products include a chelating agent covered by a
U.S. patent that is non-exclusively sublicensed to the Company. The Company has
been granted by the European Patent Office a patent covering Rituxan. Genentech,
IDEC Pharmaceuticals' collaborative partner
 

 
for Rituxan, has secured an exclusive license to a U.S. patent and counterpart
foreign patent applications assigned to Xoma Corporation ("Xoma"), that relate
to chimeric antibodies against the CD20 antigen. Genentech has granted IDEC
Pharmaceuticals a non-exclusive sublicense to make, have made, use and sell
certain products, including Rituxan, under such patents and patent applications.
Genentech and the Company will share any royalties due to Xoma in the
Genentech/IDEC Pharmaceuticals copromotion territory.
 
     The Company has filed for worldwide patent protection on its PRIMATIZED
antibody technology. The Company has received five additional U.S. patents
claiming the PRIMATIZED antibody technology that were issued in 1997 and 1998.
These patents generically and specifically cover the Company's PRIMATIZED
antibody technology.
 
     PROVAX, the Company's antigen formulation, is the subject matter of five
issued U.S. patents, and two pending U.S. application and pending foreign
counterparts. In addition, U.S. and foreign patent applications have been filed
on aspects of the Company's proprietary high-yield gene expression technology,
including the Company's homologous recombination system. The Company has been
granted two U.S. patents and has received one notices of allowance on U.S.
patent applications claiming the high-yield gene expression technology. In
November 1998, the Company received a U.S. patent directed to its homologous
recombination technology.
 
     In 1997 and 1998, the Company's licensor, Dartmouth University, received
three patents with claims that relate the Company's anti-gp39 antibody
(IDEC-131) technology. Other applications relevant to the Company's anti-gp39
antibody program, which are either licensed from Dartmouth University or
assigned to the Company, are pending in the USPTO and foreign patent offices.
 
     The Company is aware of several third party patents and patent applications
(to the extent they issue as patents) that, if successfully asserted against the
Company, may materially affect the Company's ability to make, use, offer to
sell, sell and import its products. These third party patents and, patent
applications may include, without limitation:
 
     - U.S. patent applications and foreign counterparts filed by Bristol-Myers
       Company that disclose antibodies to a B7 antigen;
 
     - a U.S. patent assigned to Columbia University, which the Company believes
       has been exclusively licensed to Biogen, related to monoclonal antibodies
       to the 5C8 antigen found on T cells. The Company believes the 5C8 antigen
       and gp39, the target for the Company's anti-gp39 antibodies and its
       collaboration with Eisai, are the same protein expressed on the surface
       of T cells;
 
     - a number of issued U.S. and foreign patents that relate to various
       aspects of radioimmunotherapy of cancer and to methods of treating
       patients with anti-CD4 antibodies; and
 
     - three U.S. patents, assigned to Burroughs Wellcome, relating to
       therapeutic uses of CHO glycosylated antibodies.
 
     The owners, or licensees of the owners, of these patents and patent
applications (to the extent they issue as patents) may assert that one or more
of the Company's products infringe one or more claims of such patents. Such
owners or licensees of foreign counterparts to these patents and any other
foreign patents may assert that one or more of the Company's products infringe
one or more claims of such patents. Specifically, if legal action is commenced
against the Company to enforce any of these patents and patent applications (to
the extent they issue as patents) and the plaintiff in such action prevails, the
Company could be prevented from practicing the subject matter claimed in such
patents or patent applications. In such event or under other appropriate
circumstances, the Company may attempt to obtain licenses to such patents or
patent applications. However, no assurance can be given that any owner would
license the patents to the Company, at all or on terms that would permit
commercialization of the Company's products using such technology. An inability
to commercialize such products would have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.
 
     If the Company is required to enforce any of its patents, such enforcement
may require the use of substantial financial and human resources of the Company.
The Company may also have to participate in
 

 
interference proceedings, including in connection with such U.S. patent assigned
to Columbia University described above, if declared by the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office ("PTO") to determine priority of invention, which typically
take years to resolve and could also result in substantial costs to the Company.
Moreover, should the Company need to defend against a patent lawsuit or to
circumvent existing patents, substantial delays and expense in product redesign
and development or significant legal expense and uncertainty in asserting
non-infringement, invalidity and/or unenforceability of any patent may also
result. The Company also relies upon unpatented trade secrets, and no assurance
can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent
proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to the Company's
trade secrets or disclose such technology, or that the Company can meaningfully
protect such rights.
 
     IDEC Pharmaceuticals requires its employees, consultants, outside
scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisers to execute
confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting
relationships with the Company. These agreements provide that all confidential
information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the
individual's relationship with IDEC Pharmaceuticals is to be kept confidential
and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. In the case
of employees of the Company, the agreement provides that all inventions
conceived by such employees shall be the exclusive property of the Company.
There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide
meaningful protection or adequate remedies for the Company's trade secrets in
the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information.
 
RAW MATERIALS
 
     Some materials used in the Company's products and potential products,
including Rituxan and IDEC-Y2B8, are currently available only from sole or a
limited number of suppliers. In addition, the suppliers of some materials for
the Company's products must be approved by the FDA and/or by other governmental
agencies. Although the Company has initiated a program for identifying
alternative suppliers for certain materials, any interruption or delay in its
supply of materials or delays in the applicable governmental approval of new
suppliers or any loss of a sole source supplier could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
COMPETITION
 
     The biotechnology industry is intensely competitive. The Company competes
with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that have been established
longer than the Company, have a greater number of products on the market, have
greater financial and other resources and have other technological or
competitive advantages. The Company also competes in the development of
technologies and processes and in acquiring personnel and technology from
academic institutions, government agencies, and other private and public
research organizations. Consequently, the Company cannot be certain that it will
be able to produce or acquire rights to new products with commercial potential.
In addition, the Company cannot be certain that one or more of its competitors
will not receive patent protection that dominates, blocks or adversely affects
the Company's product development or business; will benefit from significantly
greater sales and marketing capabilities; or will not develop products that are
accepted more widely than the Company's. The Company is aware that a competitor
is in late stage clinical trials with a radiolabeled murine antibody for the
treatment of low-grade NHL.
 
REGULATION OF PRODUCTS BY THE FDA
 
     The testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, promotion, export and
marketing, among other things, of the Company's product and proposed products
are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United
States and other countries. In the United States, pharmaceutical products are
regulated by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other
laws, including, in the case of biologics, the Public Health Service Act. At the
present time, with the exception of 9-AC, the Company believes that its products
will be regulated by the FDA as biologics. Biologics require the submission of a
BLA and approval by the FDA prior to being marketed in the United States. 9-AC,
which the Company believes
 

 
will be regulated by the FDA as a drug, will require the submission of an NDA
and approval by the FDA prior to being marketed in the United States. The
regulatory approval process for an NDA is similar to the approval process for a
BLA. Manufacturers of biologics and drugs may also be subject to state
regulation.
 
     The steps required before a product may be approved for marketing in the
United States generally include (i) preclinical laboratory tests and animal
tests, (ii) the submission to the FDA of an IND for human clinical testing,
which must become effective before human clinical trials may commence, (iii)
adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and
efficacy of the product, (iv) the submission to the FDA of a BLA or NDA, (v) FDA
review of the BLA or NDA, and (vi) satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection
of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product is made to
assess compliance with cGMP. The testing and approval process requires
substantial time, effort, and financial resources and there can be no assurance
that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all.
 
     Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of the product, as well as
animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product. The
results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and
analytical data, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which must become
effective before human clinical trials may be commenced. The IND will
automatically become effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA
before that time raises concerns or questions about the conduct of the trials as
outlined in the IND. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve
any outstanding concerns before clinical trials can proceed. There can be no
assurance that submission of an IND will result in FDA authorization to commence
clinical trials.
 
     Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational product
to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of qualified principal
investigators. Further, each clinical study must be reviewed and approved by an
independent Institutional Review Board.
 
     Clinical trials typically are conducted in three sequential phases, but the
phases may overlap. In Phase I, the initial introduction of the drug into human
subjects, the drug is usually tested for safety (adverse effects), dosage
tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion and pharmacodynamics.
Phase II usually involves studies in a limited patient population to (i)
evaluate preliminarily the efficacy of the drug for specific, targeted
indications, (ii) determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage and (iii)
identify possible adverse effects and safety risks. Phase III trials generally
further evaluate clinical efficacy and test further for safety within an
expanded patient population.
 
     In the case of products for severe or life-threatening diseases, the
initial human testing is sometimes done in patients rather than in healthy
volunteers. Since these patients are already afflicted with the target disease,
it is possible that such studies may provide preliminary evidence of efficacy
traditionally obtained in Phase II trials. These trials are frequently referred
to as "Phase I/II" trials. There can be no assurance that Phase I, Phase II or
Phase III testing will be completed successfully within any specific time
period, if at all, with respect to any of the Company's product candidates.
Furthermore, the FDA may suspend clinical trials at any time on various grounds,
including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an
unacceptable health risk.
 
     The results of the preclinical studies and clinical studies, together with
other detailed information, including information on the manufacture and
composition of the product, are submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA or NDA
requesting approval to market the product. Before approving a BLA or NDA, the
FDA will inspect the facilities at which the product is manufactured, and will
not approve the product unless cGMP compliance is satisfactory. The FDA may deny
a BLA or NDA if applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied, require
additional testing or information, and/or require postmarketing testing and
surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of a product. There can be no
assurance that FDA approval of any BLA or NDA submitted by the Company will be
granted on a timely basis or at all. Also, if regulatory approval of a product
is granted, such approval may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which
it may be marketed.
 
     Both before and after approval is obtained, violations of regulatory
requirements, including the preclinical and clinical testing process, the BLA or
NDA review process, or thereafter (including after approval) may result in
various adverse consequences, including the FDA's delay in approving or refusal
to approve a product,
 

 
withdrawal of an approved product from the market, and/or the imposition of
criminal penalties against the manufacturer and/or BLA or NDA holder. For
example, BLA and NDA holders are required to report certain adverse reactions to
the FDA, and to comply with certain requirements concerning advertising and
promotional labeling for their products. Also, quality control and manufacturing
procedures must continue to conform to cGMP regulations after approval, and the
FDA periodically inspects manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with
cGMP. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, monies and effort
in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. In
addition, discovery of problems may result in restrictions on a product,
manufacturer or BLA or NDA holder, including withdrawal of the product from the
market. Also, new government requirements may be established that could delay or
prevent regulatory approval of the Company's products under development.
 
     The Company will also be subject to a variety of foreign regulations
governing clinical trials and sales of its products. Whether or not FDA approval
has been obtained, approval of a product by the comparable regulatory
authorities of foreign countries must be obtained prior to the commencement of
marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from
country to country and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for
FDA approval. At least initially, the Company intends, to the extent possible,
to rely on foreign licensees to obtain regulatory approval for marketing its
products in foreign countries.
 
     Orphan Drug Designation. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant
orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a "rare disease or
condition," which generally is a disease or condition that affects fewer than
200,000 individuals in the United States. Orphan drug designation must be
requested before submitting a BLA or NDA. After the FDA grants orphan drug
designation, the generic identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential
orphan use are publicly disclosed by the FDA. Orphan drug designation does not
convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and
approval process. If a product which has an orphan drug designation subsequently
receives the first FDA approval for the indication for which it has such
designation, the product is entitled to orphan exclusivity, i.e., the FDA may
not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same
indication, except in certain very limited circumstances, for a period of seven
years.
 
     In 1994, the Company obtained orphan drug designation for Rituxan,
IDEC-Y2B8 and IDEC-In2B8 from the FDA to treat certain B-cell NHLs. In
connection with its approval by the FDA, Rituxan has received orphan drug
exclusivity in the United States. However, there can be no assurance that
IDEC-Y2B8 will receive orphan drug exclusivity for the B-cell NHL indication,
and it is possible that competitors of the Company could obtain approval, and
attendant orphan drug exclusivity, for products similar to IDEC-Y2B8 for the
B-cell NHL indication, thus precluding the Company from marketing IDEC-Y2B8 for
that indication in the United States for some time. In addition, even if the
Company does obtain orphan exclusivity for any of its compounds for B-cell NHL,
there can be no assurance that competitors will not receive approval of other,
different drugs or biologics for B-cell NHLs. Although obtaining FDA approval to
market a product with orphan drug exclusivity can be advantageous, there can be
no assurance that the scope of protection or the level of marketing exclusivity
that is currently afforded by orphan drug designation will remain in effect in
the future.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     The Company's research and development group at January 31, 1999, totals
137 employees, of whom 30 have Ph.D. or M.D. degrees. Research and development
expenses were $31.5 million, $32.4 million and $28.1 million in 1998, 1997 and
1996, respectively, of which approximately 53%, 63% and 44%, respectively, was
sponsored by the Company and the remainder of which was funded pursuant to
product development collaborations arrangements. See "Strategic Alliances."
 
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION
 
     The Company's business and the business of several of its strategic
partners, including Genentech, involves the controlled use of hazardous
materials, chemicals, biologics and radioactive compounds. Biologics manufacture
is extremely susceptible to product loss due to microbial or viral
contamination, material
 

 
equipment failure, or vendor or operator error. Although the Company believes
that its safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials complies
with state and federal standards, there will always be the risk of accidental
contamination or injury. In addition, certain microbial or viral contamination
may cause the closure of the respective manufacturing facility for an extended
period of time. By law, radioactive materials may only be disposed of at state
approved facilities. The Company currently stores its radioactive materials on-
site because the approval of a disposal site in California for all
California-based companies has been delayed indefinitely. If and when a disposal
site is approved, the Company may incur substantial expenses related to the
disposal of such material. If liable for an accident, or if the Company suffers
an extended facility shutdown, the Company could incur significant expenses,
damages and penalties that could have a material adverse effect on its business,
financial condition and results of operations.
 
THE COMPANY'S EMPLOYEES
 
     As of January 31, 1999, the Company employed 365 persons of which 121
employees were in manufacturing. In addition, the Company retained approximately
43 independent contractors. None of the Company's employees are represented by a
labor union or bound by a collective bargaining agreement. Management believes
that its overall relations with its employees are good.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
     IDEC Pharmaceuticals currently leases approximately 118,000 square feet of
administrative, laboratory, manufacturing and warehouse space at two locations
in San Diego, California. The Company's principal executive offices, primary
research facilities and manufacturing plant are located at 11011 Torreyana Road
in San Diego, California. This facility is leased pursuant to a 15-year
operating lease which commenced in 1993. The Company has the option to extend
the term of the lease for two additional periods of five years each. In August
1996, the Company entered into a 7-year operating lease for additional
administrative and warehouse space at 3030 Callan Road in San Diego, California.
The Company has the option to extend the term of the Callan Road lease for two
additional years.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     (a) The Company is not a party to any material legal proceedings.
 
     (b) No material legal proceedings were terminated in the fourth quarter of
1998.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's stockholders during
the last quarter of the year ended December 31, 1998.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
(a) Market Information
 
     The Company's common stock trades on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol "IDPH." The following table sets forth the high and low sales price for
the Company's common stock as reported by The Nasdaq Stock Market for the years
ended December 31, 1998 and 1997.
 

 
(b) Holders
 
     As of January 29, 1999 there were approximately 367 stockholders of record
of the Company's common stock.
 
(c) Dividends
 
     The Company has not paid cash dividends since its inception. The Company
currently intends to retain all earnings, if any, for use in the expansion of
its business and therefore does not anticipate paying any dividends in the
foreseeable future.
 
(d) Recent sales of unregistered securities.
 
     In February 1999, the Company raised approximately $113.1 million in cash
from the sale of $345.0 million, aggregate principal at maturity, of its Notes.
The Notes were issued through a private offering exempt from registration under
Section 4(2) of the Act and Rule 144A thereto, to the initial purchaser at a
discount of $10.14 per $1,000 aggregate principal amount at maturity of the
Notes, for resale to certain qualified institutional buyers (as defined in Rule
144A) and institutional "accredited investors" (as defined in Rule
501(a)(1),(2),(3) and (7) under the Act). Each $1,000 Note is convertible at the
holder's option at any time through maturity into 6.734 shares of the Company's
common stock at an initial conversion price of $50.17. The Company may redeem
the Notes for cash at any time on or after February 16, 2004 through maturity.
The holders of the Notes may require the Company to purchase the Notes on
February 16, 2004, 2009, 2014 at a price equal to the issue price plus accrued
original issue discount to the date of purchase with the Company having the
option to repay the Notes plus accrued original issue discount in cash, the
Company's common stock or a combination thereof.
 
     The Company expects that the proceeds from the Notes will be used for
general corporate purposes, including, but not limited to, funding U.S.
licensing applications for IDEC-Y2B8 and if approved, commercialization of
IDEC-Y2B8 in the United States; financial strategic acquisitions of products,
product candidates, technologies or other business; financing the expansion of
its facilities, including but not limited to design and engineering costs for
expansion of the Company's manufacturing facility; potentially funding research
and development activities through off-balance sheet transactions and funding
general working capital requirements.
 

 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     The following tables set forth certain financial data with respect to IDEC
Pharmaceuticals Corporation. The selected financial data should be read in
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto
appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K.
 

 

 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS
 
     The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and related notes of IDEC Pharmaceuticals
appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K.
 
OVERVIEW
 
     IDEC Pharmaceuticals is primarily engaged in the commercialization and
research and development of targeted therapies for the treatment of cancer and
autoimmune diseases. In November 1997, the Company received approval from the
FDA to market the Company's first product, Rituxan, in the United States, and in
 

 
June 1998, Roche, the Company's European marketing partner, was granted
marketing authorization for Rituximab in all European Union countries. Rituxan
is the trade name in the United States for the compound Rituximab. Outside the
United States, Rituximab is marketed as MabThera (Rituximab, Rituxan and
MabThera are collectively referred to herein as Rituxan, except where otherwise
indicated). Rituxan is being copromoted in the United States under a joint
business arrangement with Genentech, with the Company receiving a share of the
pretax copromotion profits. Under the terms of separate agreements with
Genentech, commercialization of Rituxan outside the United States is the
responsibility of Roche, except in Japan where Zenyaku will be responsible for
product development, marketing and sales. The Company receives royalties on
Rituxan sales outside the United States.
 
     Revenues for the Company include revenues from unconsolidated joint
business, contract revenues and license fees. Until the commercialization of
Rituxan, a substantial portion of the Company's revenues had been derived from
contract revenues and license fees. However, since the commercialization of
Rituxan in November 1997, the Company's revenues have depended primarily upon
the sale of Rituxan.
 
     Revenues from unconsolidated joint business include the Company's share of
the pretax copromotion profits generated from its joint business arrangement
with Genentech, revenue from bulk Rituxan sales to Genentech and reimbursement
from Genentech for the Company's sales force and development expenses. Revenues
from unconsolidated joint business also include royalty income on sales of
Rituxan outside the United States. Under the joint business arrangement, all
U.S. sales of Rituxan and associated expenses will be recognized by Genentech,
with the Company recording its share of the pretax copromotion profits on a
quarterly basis, as defined in the Company's collaborative agreement with
Genentech. Pretax copromotion profits under the joint business arrangement are
derived by taking U.S. net sales of Rituxan to third party customers less cost
of sales, third party royalty expenses, distribution, selling and marketing
expenses and joint development expenses by the Company and Genentech. The
Company's profit-sharing formula with Genentech has two tiers; the higher tier
applies once a certain copromotional profit level is met. The profit-sharing
formula resets to the lower tier on an annual basis, at year-end. In 1999, the
Company expects the higher profit level to come into effect in the middle of the
year.
 
     Contract revenues include nonrefundable research and development funding
under collaborative agreements with the Company's various strategic partners and
other funding under contractual arrangements with other parties. Contract
research and development funding generally compensates the Company for
discovery, preclinical and clinical expenses related to the collaborative
development programs for certain products of the Company.
 
     License fees include nonrefundable fees from product development milestone
payments, the sale of license rights to the Company's proprietary gene
expression technology and nonrefundable fees from the sale of product rights
under collaborative development and license agreements with the Company's
strategic partners.
 
     Contract revenues and license fees may vary from period to period and are
in part dependent upon achievement of certain research and development
objectives or the consummation of new corporate alliances. The magnitude and
timing of contract revenues and license fees may influence the achievement and
level of profitability for the Company.
 
     The Company is in the process of completing a modification to its
collaborative agreement with Genentech that will allow the Company to terminate
early its obligations to supply to Genentech bulk Rituxan manufactured at the
Company's manufacturing facility. Rather than supplying bulk Rituxan to
Genentech through November 1999, the Company now anticipates transferring all
manufacturing responsibilities for bulk Rituxan to Genentech at the end of the
third quarter of 1999. The cost of bulk Rituxan sold to Genentech is recorded as
manufacturing costs in the Company's consolidated statements of operations.
Under the Company's collaborative agreement with Genentech, the sales price of
bulk Rituxan sold to Genentech is capped at a price that is currently less than
the Company's cost to manufacture bulk Rituxan. The Company anticipates using
its available capacity for production of commercial inventory of IDEC-Y2B8,
production of clinical material and some third party contract manufacturing.
 

 
     The Company has incurred increasing annual operating expenses and, with the
commercialization of Rituxan, the Company expects such trends to continue. The
Company has incurred annual operating losses since its inception in 1985 and the
sustained profitability of the Company will be dependent upon the continued
commercial success of Rituxan, product investment, investments in product
development and revenues from the achievement of product development objectives
and licensing transactions. As of December 31, 1998, the Company had an
accumulated deficit of $77.9 million.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
     Revenues from Unconsolidated Joint Business: Revenues from unconsolidated
joint business in 1998 totaled $53.8 million compared to $9.3 million in 1997.
Revenues from unconsolidated joint business in 1998 reflect the financial
results for the first full year of commercialization of Rituxan through the
Company's collaboration with Genentech and includes copromotion profits
generated from its joint business arrangement with Genentech, bulk Rituxan sales
to Genentech, reimbursement from Genentech for the Company's Rituxan sales force
and development expenses and royalty income on sales of Rituxan outside the
United States. Under its agreement with Genentech, the Company's share of the
pretax copromotion profits rose to a higher percentage upon achievement of an
annual fixed profit target by the Rituxan joint business arrangement during the
latter part of the third quarter of 1998. Revenues from unconsolidated joint
business in 1997 consist of bulk Rituxan sales to Genentech and reimbursement
from Genentech for the Company's Rituxan sales force and development expenses,
offset by the Company's share of the joint business operating loss. During 1997,
the joint business recorded an operating loss due to significant shared expenses
related to the product launch of Rituxan in the United States in December 1997.
 
     Rituxan net sales to third party customers in the United States by
Genentech for the year ended December 31, 1998 amounted to $152.1 million. The
Company believes pent-up demand for Rituxan was satisfied during the first
quarter of 1998 and that subsequent sales growth was driven by increased
adoption and use of Rituxan. Increased sales revenue also reflects the six
percent increase in the wholesale price of Rituxan which was effected on October
5, 1998. During the fourth quarter of 1998, Genentech completed the transition
from drop-shipment directly to end users to the standard practice of
distribution of Rituxan via drug wholesalers.
 
     Contract Revenues: Contract revenues totaled $14.8 million in 1998 compared
to $11.8 million in 1997 and $15.8 million in 1996. The increase in contract
revenues in 1998 resulted primarily from increased funding under collaborative
agreements with Eisai that was offset in part by decreased research and
development funding from Genentech and Seikagaku. The decrease in contract
revenues in 1997 was primarily due to the completion of funding in 1996 under
the Company's collaborative development agreement with Mitsubishi.
 
     License Fees: License fees totaled $18.3 million in 1998 compared to $23.5
million in 1997 and $14.3 million in 1996. License fees in 1998 consist of a
$10.0 million product development milestone payment from Genentech for European
approval of Rituxan, a $6.3 million license fee from Kirin for the license of
the Company's proprietary gene expression technology and a product development
milestone payment for the Investigational New Drug allowance of IDEC-114, an
investigational PRIMATIZED anti-B7 monoclonal antibody for the treatment of
psoriasis, under the Company's collaboration with Mitsubishi. The increase in
license fees in 1997 is due primarily to a $15.0 million product development
milestone payment received from Genentech upon FDA approval of Rituxan. The
Company continues to pursue other collaborative and license arrangements;
however, no assurance can be given that any such arrangements will be realized.
 
     Manufacturing Costs: Manufacturing costs totaled $19.6 million in 1998
compared to $18.9 million in 1997. Manufacturing costs for 1998 and 1997 relates
to production of bulk Rituxan sold to Genentech. Manufacturing costs are
recognized when bulk Rituxan inventory is accepted by Genentech. The Company is
in the process of completing a modification to its collaborative agreement with
Genentech that will allow the Company to terminate early its obligation to
supply to Genentech bulk Rituxan manufactured at the Company's manufacturing
facility. Rather than supplying bulk Rituxan to Genentech through November 1999,
the Company anticipates transferring all manufacturing responsibilities for bulk
Rituxan to Genentech at the end of the third quarter of 1999. Manufacturing
costs in 1997 includes costs of approximately
 

 
$2.0 million incurred for the start-up of the Company's manufacturing facility.
The Company expects to continue incurring substantial manufacturing costs and
expenses as it anticipates using its available capacity for production of
commercial inventory of IDEC-Y2B8, production of clinical material and some
third party contract manufacturing.
 
     Research and Development: Research and development expenses totaled $31.5
million in 1998 compared to $32.4 million in 1997 and $28.1 million in 1996. The
decrease in research and development expenses in 1998 is due to a $3.0 million
up-front licensing fee to Pharmacia & Upjohn for exclusive rights to 9-AC in
1997 partially offset by higher personnel and clinical trial expenses incurred
during 1998. The increase in research and development expenses in 1997 was
primarily due to the aforementioned licensing fee to Pharmacia & Upjohn, a
license fee payment for anti-MIF antibody technology rights, contract
manufacturing expenses for IDEC-Y2B8 in preparation for a Phase III trial in
1998 and higher facility expenses. Research and development expenses in 1997
were partially offset by the utilization of the Company's manufacturing facility
for bulk production of Rituxan inventory in 1997 compared to research and
development manufacturing production in 1996 of clinical material used for
clinical trials. The Company expects to continue incurring substantial
additional research and development expenses in the future, due to expansion or
addition of research and development programs; technology in-licensing and
regulatory-related expenses; preclinical and clinical testing of the Company's
various products under development; and production scale-up and manufacturing of
products used in clinical trials.
 
     Selling, General and Administrative: Selling, general and administrative
expenses totaled $17.0 million in 1998 compared to $11.3 million in 1997 and
$7.3 million in 1996. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased in
1998 due to increased sales and marketing expenses resulting from the
commercialization of Rituxan. The increase in selling, general and
administrative expenses in 1997 was primarily due to the creation of a sales and
marketing infrastructure, expenses resulting from the commercial launch of
Rituxan and higher personnel expenses to support expanded manufacturing
operations. Selling, general and administrative expenses necessary to support
sales and administration, expanded manufacturing capacity, expanded clinical
trials, research and development and the potential expansion of the sales and
marketing organization are expected to increase in the foreseeable future.
 
     Interest Income/Expense: Net interest income increased to $3.0 million in
1998 from $2.6 million in 1997 and $0.5 million in 1996. The increase in net
interest income in 1998 was due to higher average balances in cash, cash
equivalents and securities available-for-sale and a decrease in interest expense
due to lower balances in notes payable. The increase in net interest income in
1997 was due to higher average balances in cash, cash equivalents and securities
available-for-sale, a decrease in noncash interest charges for common stock
warrants issued in connection with certain debt financings and a decrease in
interest expense due to lower balances in notes payable. Net interest income is
expected to decrease in the future due to the completion of a convertible zero
coupon subordinated notes offering in February 1999. See "Liquidity and Capital
Resources."
 
     Income Tax Provision: The Company's effective tax rate in 1998 was
approximately two percent and was the result of an alternative minimum tax
system that only allows the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards to
offset 90% of taxable income. At December 31, 1998, the Company has a valuation
allowance equal to its deferred tax assets of $47.6 million since the Company
has not established a pattern of profitable operations. Should the Company
continue to have profitable operations in 1999, the Company believes that its
deferred tax assets (comprised primarily of net operating loss carryforwards and
research and experimentation credits) may become recoverable, and therefore, the
Company would record the full tax benefits of its deferred tax assets in 1999.
The Company's net operating loss carryforwards available to offset future
taxable income at December 31, 1998 were approximately $72.0 million for federal
income tax purposes and begin to expire in 1999. The future utilization of net
operating loss carryforwards may be limited under the Internal Revenue Code (the
"IRC") due to IRC defined ownership changes. The income tax provision for the
year ended December 31, 1997 consists of state franchise tax.
 

 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
     The Company has financed its operating and capital expenditures since
inception principally through the sale of equity securities, commercialization
of Rituxan, license fees, contract revenues, lease financing transactions and
interest income. The Company expects to finance its current and planned
operating requirements principally through cash on hand, proceeds from the
convertible zero coupon subordinated notes offering discussed below, funds from
its joint business arrangement with Genentech and with funds from existing
collaborative agreements and contracts which the Company believes will be
sufficient to meet its near-term operating requirements. Existing collaborative
research agreements and contracts, however, could be canceled by the contracting
parties. In addition, the Company may, from time to time seek additional funding
through a combination of new collaborative agreements, strategic alliances and
additional equity and debt financings or from other sources. There can be no
assurance that such additional funds will be obtained through these sources on
acceptable terms, if at all. Should the Company not enter into any such
arrangements, the Company anticipates its cash, cash equivalents and securities
available-for-sale, together with the existing agreements and contracts and cash
generated from its notes offering and joint business arrangement, will be
sufficient to finance the Company's currently anticipated needs for operating
and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. If adequate funds are not
available from the joint business arrangement, operations or additional sources
of financing, the Company's business could be materially and adversely affected.
 
     The Company's working capital and capital requirements will depend upon
numerous factors, including: the progress of the Company's preclinical and
clinical testing; fluctuating or increasing manufacturing requirements and
research and development programs; timing and expense of obtaining regulatory
approvals; levels of resources that the Company devotes to the development of
manufacturing, sales and marketing capabilities; technological advances; status
of competitors; and the ability of the Company to establish collaborative
arrangements with other organizations.
 
     Until required for operations, the Company's policy under established
guidelines is to keep its cash reserves in bank deposits, certificates of
deposit, commercial paper, corporate notes, United States government instruments
and other readily marketable debt instruments, all of which are investment-grade
quality.
 
     At December 31, 1998, the Company had $73.5 million in cash, cash
equivalents and securities available-for-sale compared to $69.7 million at
December 31, 1997. Sources of cash, cash equivalents and securities
available-for-sale during the year ended December 31, 1998, included $5.1
million from operations and $4.3 million from the issuance of common stock
issued under employee stock option and purchase plans. Uses of cash, cash
equivalents and securities available-for-sale during the year ended December 31,
1998, included $1.7 million used to purchase capital equipment and $3.8 million
used to pay notes payable.
 
     In February 1999, the Company raised approximately $113.1 million, net of
underwriting commissions, through the private sale of the Notes. The Notes were
priced with a yield to maturity of 5.5 percent annually. Upon maturity, the
notes will have an aggregate principal face value of $345.0 million. Each $1,000
aggregate principal face value Note is convertible at the holders' option at any
time through maturity into 6.734 shares of the Company's common stock at an
initial conversion price of $50.17. The Company is required under the terms of
the Notes, as of 35 business days after a change in control occurring on or
before February 16, 2004, to purchase any Note at the option of its holder at a
price equal to the issue price plus accrued original issue discount to the date
of repurchase. Additionally, the holders of the Notes may require the Company to
purchase the Notes on February 16, 2004, 2009 or 2014 at a price equal to the
issue price plus accrued original issue discount to the date of purchase with
the Company having the option to repay the Notes plus accrued original issue
discount in cash, the Company's common stock or a combination thereof.
 
     In February 1997, the Company acquired worldwide rights from Pharmacia &
Upjohn to 9-AC, a broad spectrum anti-cancer agent. Under the terms of the 9-AC
asset transfer agreement, the Company may make payments to Pharmacia & Upjohn
totaling up to $16.0 million, subject to the attainment of certain product
development objectives. Depending on the results of the Company's Phase II study
of solid tumors, it may achieve a product development objective in 1999
(commencement of a Phase III trial) that would result in the Company making a
$6.0 million payment to Pharmacia & Upjohn. In the event the Company commences
 

 
Phase III trials, it may seek a strategic partner for development, marketing,
distribution and sale of 9-AC in Europe, however, no assurances can be given
that any such arrangement will result. In September 1997, the Company and CNI
entered into a development and license agreement. Under the terms of the
development and license agreement with CNI, the Company may make payments to CNI
totaling up to $10.5 million, subject to the attainment of certain product
development milestone events, of which $3.0 million has been paid through
December 31, 1998.
 
     Additionally, the Company had future minimum lease payment obligations
under its operating leases of $33.0 million as of December 31, 1998.
 
     In August 1995, the Company completed the receipt of funding under a $10.0
million lease financing agreement to finance both equipment and facility
improvements. In July 1998, the Company made a $1.1 million principal payment as
required under the terms of the financing agreement.
 
NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARD
 
     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities" (Statement No. 133). The statement requires companies to
recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities with the instruments
measured at fair value. The accounting for changes in fair value gains and
losses depends on the intended use of the derivative and its resulting
designation. The statement is effective for the Company on January 1, 2000. The
Company does not believe the adoption of Statement No. 133 will have a material
impact on the consolidated financial statements.
 
YEAR 2000 COMPLIANCE
 
     Many currently installed computer systems and software products are coded
to accept only two digit entries in the date code field. Beginning in the year
2000, these date code fields will need to accept four digit entries to
distinguish 21st century dates from 20th century dates. As a result, computer
systems and/or software used by many companies may need to be upgraded to comply
with such "Year 2000" requirements.
 
     The Company has several information system improvement initiatives underway
and has appointed a program manager for its Year 2000 Program. The Company has
completed an initial inventory and review of all system hardware, operating
systems (including manufacturing and laboratory control systems) and application
software in order to identify potential Year 2000 problems and has developed
plans for and has begun implementing upgrades and testing in many systems. The
Company's plan includes sending inquiries to its major third party suppliers and
partners seeking comfort that they are Year 2000 compliant. The Company does not
yet know the financial impact of making the required system and software
modifications, but the Company currently expects such costs to be less than $2.0
million. The actual financial cost of correcting Year 2000 problems could,
however, exceed this estimate if third party suppliers, manufacturers, service
providers and others do not adequately address their Year 2000 issues or if the
Company fails to successfully complete its initiatives.
 
     The Company is currently relying upon Genentech to provide for all Year
2000-related contingency plans relating to the manufacture and sale of Rituxan;
however, the Company has not received such contingency plans from Genentech.
Genentech anticipates that contingency planning will begin in the first quarter
of 1999. Any failure by Genentech to address issues which would result in their
inability to timely produce Rituxan would have a material adverse impact on the
Company's business. Additionally, the Company currently has no contingency plans
to deal with any Rituxan or non-Rituxan related failures resulting from the Year
2000 issue. The Company expects to develop contingency plans during the second
quarter of 1999.
 
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
     The Company is exposed to a variety of risks, including changes in interest
rates affecting the return on its investments and the cost of its debt.
 

 
     At December 31, 1998, the Company maintained a portion of its cash and cash
equivalents in financial instruments with original maturities of three months or
less. The Company also maintained a short-term investment portfolio containing
financial instruments in which the majority have original maturities of greater
than three months but less than twelve months. These financial instruments,
principally comprised of high quality corporate and foreign debt securities and
U.S. government securities, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline
in value if interest rates increase. Due to the short duration of these
financial instruments, an immediate ten percent increase in interest rates would
not have a material effect on the Company's financial condition or results of
operations. The Company has not used derivative financial instruments in its
investment portfolio.
 
     The Company's long-term debt at December 31, 1998 was comprised of notes
payable and capital lease obligations, secured by equipment, lease deed of trust
and patent and trademark collateral assignments, with a total balance of
$4,005,000. The notes and lease obligations bear interest at a weighed average
interest rate of 10.26%. Due to the relative immateriality of the notes payable
and capital lease obligations, an immediate ten percent change in interest rates
would not have a material effect on the Company's financial condition or results
of operations.
 

 
ITEM 8. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
                IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PAR VALUE DATA)
 
                                     ASSETS
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

 
                IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
 
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 1: ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
     Business: IDEC Pharmaceuticals is primarily engaged in the
commercialization and research and development of targeted therapies for the
treatment of cancer and autoimmune diseases.
 
     Principles of Consolidation: The consolidated financial statements include
the financial statements of IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiary IDEC Seiyaku. All significant intercompany balances and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
     Cash and Cash Equivalents: For the purposes of financial statement
presentation, the Company considers all highly liquid investments in debt
securities with original maturities of three months or less to be cash
equivalents.
 
     Securities Available-for-Sale: Securities available-for-sale are carried at
fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported as
accumulated other comprehensive income -- net unrealized gains on securities
available-for-sale in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The cost of
securities sold is based on the specific identification method.
 
     Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is
determined in a manner which approximates the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method.
Inventories at December 31, 1998 and 1997 consist of the following (table in
thousands):
 

 
     Property and Equipment: Property and equipment are stated at cost.
Depreciation of property and equipment is calculated using the straight-line
method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, generally ranging from
three to seven years. Amortization of leasehold improvements is calculated using
the straight-line method over the shorter of the lease term or the estimated
useful lives of the assets.
 
     Fair Value of Financial Instruments: The carrying amount of cash and cash
equivalents, securities available-for-sale, contract revenue receivables,
accounts payable and accrued expenses are considered to be representative of
their respective fair values because of the short-term nature of those
investments. The fair values of the Company's notes payable approximate carrying
values based upon the current rates and terms offered to the Company for similar
notes. A reasonable estimate of fair values is not practicable for the
receivable, due from related party, at December 31, 1998 and the liability, due
to related party, at December 31, 1997, because of the inherent difficulty of
evaluating the timing of the payments.
 
     Revenues from Unconsolidated Joint Business: Revenues from unconsolidated
joint business consist of the Company's share of the pretax copromotion profits
generated from its joint business arrangement with Genentech, revenue from bulk
Rituxan sales to Genentech, reimbursement from Genentech of the Company's sales
force and development expenses and royalty income from Roche on sales of
Rituximab outside the United States. Rituxan is the trade name in the United
States for the compound Rituximab. Outside the United States, Rituximab is
marketed as MabThera (Rituximab, Rituxan and MabThera are collectively referred
to herein as Rituxan, except where otherwise indicated). Under the joint
business arrangement, all U.S. sales of Rituxan and associated costs and
expenses will be recognized by Genentech, with the Company recording it's share
of the pretax copromotion profits on a quarterly basis, as defined in the
Company's collaborative agreement with Genentech (Note 7). Pretax copromotion
profits under the joint business arrangement are derived by taking the U.S. net
sales of Rituxan to third party customers less cost of sales, third party
royalty expenses, distribution, selling and marketing expenses and joint
development expenses
 

                IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
incurred by the Company and Genentech. Revenue from bulk Rituxan sales is
recognized when bulk Rituxan is accepted by Genentech.
 
     Contract Revenues: Contract revenues consist of nonrefundable research and
development funding under collaborative agreements with the Company's various
strategic partners and other funding under contractual arrangements with other
parties. Contract research and development funding generally compensates the
Company for discovery, preclinical and clinical expenses related to the
collaborative development programs for certain products and product candidates
of the Company and is recognized at the time research and development activities
are performed under the terms of the collaborative agreements. Contract revenues
earned in excess of contract payments received are classified as contract
revenue receivables, and contract research and development funding received in
excess of amounts earned are classified as deferred revenue. Contract revenue
receivables at December 31, 1998 are net of an allowance of $775,000.
 
     License Fees: License fees consist of nonrefundable fees from product
development milestone payments, the sale of license rights to the Company's
proprietary gene expression technology and nonrefundable fees from the sale of
product rights under collaborative development and license agreements with the
Company's strategic partners. Revenues from product development milestone
payments are recognized when the results or events stipulated in the agreement
have been achieved. License fee payments received in excess of amounts earned
are classified as deferred revenue.
 
     Manufacturing Costs: Manufacturing costs consist of manufacturing costs
related to the production of bulk Rituxan sold to Genentech.
 
     Research and Development: All research and development expenses, including
purchased research and development, are expensed in the period incurred.
Clinical grant expenses are fully accrued upon patient enrollment.
 
     Stock-Based Compensation: The Company's stock option and purchase plans are
accounted for under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB Opinion No. 25"), and the Company makes pro
forma footnote disclosures of the Company's operating results as if the Company
had adopted the fair value method under Financial Accounting Standards Board
Statement No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("Statement No.
123").
 
     Income Taxes: Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability
method where deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future
tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement
carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax
basis and net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets
and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to
taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to
be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a
change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the
enactment date.
 
     Earnings (Loss) Per Common Share: Earnings (loss) per common share are
calculated in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
128 "Earnings per Share." Basic earnings (loss) per common share excludes the
dilutive effects of options, warrants and other convertible securities compared
to diluted earnings per share which reflects the potential dilution of options,
warrants and other convertible securities that could share in the earnings of
the Company. Calculations of basic and diluted earnings (loss) per common share
use the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year. Diluted
earnings per common share for the year ended December 31, 1998 includes the
dilutive effect of 3,538,000 shares of common stock from options, warrants and
convertible preferred stock and excludes 1,217,000 shares of common stock from
options because the options' exercise price was greater than the average market
price of the Company's common stock for the year ended December 31, 1998.
Options, warrants and convertible preferred stock totaling 4,181,000 shares and
4,538,000 shares were excluded from the calculations of diluted
 

                IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
loss per common share for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996,
respectively, as their effect was antidilutive.
 
     Use of Estimates: Management of the Company has made a number of estimates
and assumptions relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities and the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during
the reporting periods to prepare these consolidated financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Actual results could
differ from these estimates.
 
     Comprehensive Income: As of January 1, 1998, the Company adopted Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 130 "Reporting Comprehensive Income"
("Statement No. 130"). Statement No. 130 establishes standards for the reporting
and display of comprehensive income and its components. The adoption of
Statement No. 130 did not have a significant impact on the Company's results of
operations or financial position, as comprehensive income (loss) does not
materially differ from net income (loss) applicable to common stock for the
years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.
 
NOTE 2: SECURITIES AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE
 
     Securities available-for-sale at December 31, 1998 and 1997 consist of the
following (tables in thousands):
 

 

 
     The amortized cost and estimated fair value of securities
available-for-sale at December 31, 1998, by contractual maturity are shown below
(table in thousands):
 

 

                IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 3: PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
 
     Property and equipment at December 31, 1998 and 1997 consists of the
following (table in thousands):
 

 
NOTE 4: NOTES PAYABLE
 
     Notes payable at December 31, 1998 and 1997, consist of the following
(table in thousands):
 

 
     Machinery and equipment recorded under capital leases was $1,029,000 and
$1,510,000, net of accumulated depreciation of $1,799,000 and $1,188,000,
respectively, at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.
 
     The aggregate maturities of notes payable for each of the three years
subsequent to December 31, 1998, are as follows: 1999, $1,910,000; 2000,
$1,352,000; and 2001, $743,000.
 
NOTE 5: 401(k) EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLAN
 
     The Company has a qualified 401(k) Employee Savings Plan ("401(k) Plan"),
available to substantially all employees over the age of 21. The Company may
make discretionary contributions to the 401(k) Plan, which fully vest after four
years of service by the employee. Discretionary contributions for the year ended
December 31, 1998 totaled $410,000. There were no discretionary contributions
for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996.
 

                IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 6: RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     In December 1995, the Company and Eisai entered into a collaborative
development agreement and a license agreement aimed at the development and
commercialization of humanized and PRIMATIZED anti-gp39 antibodies. Under the
terms of these agreements, Eisai may provide up to $37,500,000 in product
development milestone payments and support for research and development. Eisai
will receive exclusive rights in Asia and Europe to develop and market resulting
products emerging from the collaboration, with the Company receiving royalties
on eventual product sales by Eisai. Eisai may terminate these agreements based
on a reasonable determination that the products do not justify continued product
development or marketing. Included in contract revenues for 1998, 1997 and 1996
is $9,019,000, $2,750,000 and $5,500,000, respectively, to fund product
development, which approximates the research and development expenses incurred
under the program. Included in license fees for the years ended December 31,
1997 and 1996 is $2,000,000 and $750,000, respectively, earned under these
agreements.
 
     In December 1994, the Company and Seikagaku entered into a collaborative
development agreement and a license agreement aimed at the development and
commercialization of a PRIMATIZED anti-CD23 antibody. Under the terms of these
agreements, Seikagaku may provide up to $26,000,000 in product development
milestone payments and support for research and development. The Company and
Seikagaku will share co-exclusive, worldwide rights to all products emerging
from the collaboration, with the Company receiving royalties on eventual product
sales by Seikagaku. Seikagaku may terminate these agreements based on a
reasonable determination that the products do not justify continued product
development or marketing. Included in contract revenues for 1998, 1997 and 1996
is $2,500,000, $3,500,000 and $3,500,000, respectively, to fund product
development, which approximates the research and development expenses incurred
under the program. Included in license fees for the years ended December 31,
1997 and 1996 is $1,500,000 and $1,000,000, respectively, earned under these
agreements.
 
     In November 1993, the Company entered into a collaborative development
agreement and a license agreement with Mitsubishi, for the development of a
PRIMATIZED anti-B7 antibody. Under the terms of the collaboration, Mitsubishi
may provide up to $12,185,000 in product development milestone payments and
support for research and development. The Company retained certain marketing
rights and will receive royalties on sales of any products commercialized by
Mitsubishi emerging from the collaboration. Mitsubishi may terminate the license
agreement if certain development objectives are not attained. The development
agreement with Mitsubishi expired on December 31, 1996. Included in contract
revenues for 1996 is $2,000,000 to fund product development, which approximates
the research and development expenses incurred under the program. Included in
license fees for the year ended December 31, 1998 is $2,000,000 earned under
these agreements.
 
     In October 1992, the Company and SB entered into a collaborative research
and license agreement aimed at the development and commercialization of
therapeutic products based on the Company's PRIMATIZED anti-CD4 antibodies.
Under the terms of the agreement, the Company will receive aggregate payments
that have the potential of reaching in excess of $60,000,000, subject to the
attainment of certain product development milestone events. The Company will
receive funding for anti-CD4 related research and development programs,
royalties and a share of copromotion profits (in North America) on sales of
products which may be commercialized as a result of the agreements. SB may
terminate these agreements based on a reasonable determination that the products
do not justify continued development or marketing. Included in contract revenues
for 1998, 1997 and 1996 is $1,701,000, $867,000 and $416,000, respectively, to
fund product development, which approximates the research and development
expenses incurred under the program. Included in license fees for the year ended
December 31, 1996 is $4,000,000 earned under the agreement.
 
     The Company performed research under certain other contracts and,
accordingly, realized revenues and recognized expenses in the accompanying
consolidated statements of operations.
 

                IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 7: RELATED PARTY ARRANGEMENTS
 
     In March 1995, the Company and Genentech entered into a collaborative
agreement for the clinical development and commercialization of the Company's
anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody, Rituxan, for the treatment of certain B-cell
non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. Concurrent with the collaborative agreement the Company
and Genentech also entered into an expression technology license agreement for a
proprietary gene expression technology developed by the Company and a preferred
stock purchase agreement providing for certain equity investments in the Company
by Genentech (Note 8). Under the terms of these agreements, the Company has
received payments totaling $58,500,000. Additionally, the Company may be
reimbursed by Genentech for certain other development and regulatory approval
expenses under the terms of the collaborative agreement. Genentech may terminate
this agreement for any reason, which would result in a loss of Genentech's
Rituxan product rights. Included in contract revenues for 1998, 1997 and 1996 is
$201,000, $2,389,000 and $1,500,000, respectively, to fund specific product
development, which approximates the research and development expenses incurred
under the program. Included in license fees for the years ended December 31,
1998, 1997 and 1996, is $10,000,000, $15,000,000 and $4,000,000, respectively,
earned under these agreements.
 
     In addition, the Company and Genentech are copromoting Rituxan in the
United States under a joint business arrangement, with the Company receiving a
share of the pretax copromotion profits. Although the Company has a contractual
obligation to manufacture and supply bulk Rituxan through the end of 1999, the
Company and Genentech are in the process of modifying the collaboration
agreement to transfer all manufacturing activities for Rituxan to Genentech by
the end of the third quarter in 1999. Under the Company's collaborative
agreement with Genentech, the sales price of bulk Rituxan sold to Genentech is
capped at a price that is currently less than the Company's cost to manufacture
bulk Rituxan. Included in inventories at December 31, 1998, is $2,800,000 of
bulk Rituxan inventory that is expected to be sold to Genentech. During 1997,
the joint business recorded an operating loss due to significant shared expenses
related to the product launch of Rituxan in the United States in December 1997.
Revenues from unconsolidated joint business, as described in Note 1, for the
years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997, consist of the following (table in
thousands):
 

 
     Under the terms of separate agreements with Genentech, commercialization of
Rituxan outside the United States will be the responsibility of Roche, except in
Japan where Zenyaku Kogyo Co. Ltd. will be responsible for product development,
marketing and sales. The Company will receive royalties on sales outside the
United States. Additionally, the Company will receive royalties on sales of
Genentech products manufactured using the Company's proprietary gene expression
system.
 
NOTE 8: STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
     Convertible Preferred Stock: In March 1995, the Company issued 1,000,000
shares of its common stock and 69,375 shares of its ten percent Series B
Nonvoting Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series B Preferred Stock")
for the repurchase of all Merrill Lynch/Morgan Stanley, L.P. ("ML/MS") rights in
the Company's lymphoma products. In March 1997, the Series B Preferred Stock and
accrued dividends were converted into 367,000 shares of the Company's common
stock.
 

                IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     Additionally, the Company issued 22,993 shares of its Series A-3 Nonvoting
Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series A-3 Preferred Stock") in March 1996,
100,000 shares of its Series A-6 Nonvoting Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series
A-6 Preferred Stock") in May 1996, 100,000 shares of its Series A-1 Nonvoting
Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series A-1 Preferred Stock") in April 1995, and
37,521 shares of its Series A-2 Nonvoting Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series
A-2 Preferred Stock") in August 1995, to Genentech pursuant to the terms of a
preferred stock purchase agreement. The preferred stock purchase agreement was
entered into concurrently with a collaboration agreement as described in Note 7.
The Series A-1 Preferred Stock, Series A-2 Preferred Stock, Series A-3 Preferred
Stock and Series A-6 Preferred Stock have a liquidation preference per share of
$50, $67, $217 and $75, respectively, net of issuance costs. Each share of
Series A-1 Preferred Stock, Series A-2 Preferred Stock and Series A-3 Preferred
Stock is convertible at any time into ten shares of the Company's common stock
and each share of Series A-6 Preferred Stock is convertible at any time into
approximately 2.16 shares of the Company's common stock. In January 1998 and
December 1997, 18,000 shares and 16,000 shares of Series A-1 Preferred Stock
were converted into 175,000 shares and 155,000 shares, respectively, of the
Company's common stock.
 
     Common Stock: In May 1996, the stockholders approved an increase in the
number of authorized common shares to 50,000,000 shares. In June 1996, the
Company completed a public offering of 2,070,000 shares of its common stock
resulting in net proceeds of $46,277,000.
 
     In September, 1997, the Company sold to a financial institution a call
option, exercisable only at maturity, entitling the financial institution to
purchase from the Company up to 900,000 shares of the Company's common stock.
Also in September, 1997, the Company purchased from the financial institution a
call option, exercisable only at maturity, to purchase from the financial
institution up to 600,000 shares. Both options expired in September 1998 at no
cost to the Company and neither the Company nor the financial institution
exercised their respective option.
 
     Stockholder Rights Agreement: In July 1997, the Company's Board of
Directors declared a dividend of one preferred stock purchase right ("Right")
for each outstanding share of the Company's common stock. Each Right represents
the right to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of series X junior
participating preferred stock at an exercise price of $200, subject to
adjustment, and will be exercisable only if a person or group acquires 15% or
more of the Company's common stock or announces a tender offer for 15% or more
of the Company's common stock. If a person acquires 15% or more of the Company's
common stock all Rightsholders, except the acquiring person, will be entitled to
buy shares of the Company's common stock at a discount. Each series X junior
participating preferred stock will be entitled to an aggregate dividend of 1000
times the dividend declared per common stock. The Board of Directors may
terminate the Stockholder Rights Agreement at any time or redeem the Rights at
$.001 per Right, prior to the time a person acquires more than 15% of the
Company's common stock. The Rights will expire in July 2007.
 
     Stock Option Plans: The Company has two active stock option plans.
 
     The 1988 Employee Stock Option Plan (the "Option Plan") was approved by the
stockholders in 1988 and has been subsequently amended. Under the Option Plan,
options for the purchase of the Company's common stock may be granted to key
employees (including officers), directors and outside consultants. Options may
be designated as incentive stock options or as nonqualified stock options and
generally vest over four years, except under a provision of the Option Plan
which allows accelerated vesting under certain conditions. Options under the
Option Plan, which have a term of up to ten years, are exercisable at a price
per share not less than the fair market value (85 percent of fair market value
for nonqualified options) on the date of grant. The aggregate number of shares
authorized for issuance under the Option Plan as of December 31, 1998 is
6,335,000 shares.
 
     In September 1993, the Company adopted the 1993 Non-Employee Directors
Stock Option Plan (the "Directors Plan"), which was approved by the stockholders
in May 1994 and was subsequently amended. As
 

                IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
of December 31, 1998, a total of 370,000 shares of common stock were reserved
for issuance to individuals who serve as non-employee members of the Board of
Directors. Options under the Directors Plan, which have a term of up to ten
years, are exercisable at a price per share not less than the fair market value
on the date of grant.
 
     A summary of the status of the Company's two active stock option plans as
of December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 and changes during the years ended on those
dates is presented below (table in thousands, except per share amounts):
 

 
     The following table summarizes combined information about the Directors
Plan and the Option Plan options outstanding as of December 31, 1998 (table in
thousands, except year and per share amounts):
 

 
     Employee Stock Purchase Plan: In May 1993, the stockholders adopted the
Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "Purchase Plan"), which was
subsequently amended. As of December 31, 1998 a total of 495,000 shares of
common stock were reserved for issuance. Under the terms of the Purchase Plan,
employees can choose to have up to ten percent of their annual compensation
withheld to purchase shares of common stock. The purchase price of the common
stock is at 85 percent of the lower of the fair market value of the common stock
at the enrollment or purchase date. During 1998, 1997 and 1996, 68,000 shares,
122,000 shares and 160,000 shares, respectively, were issued under the Purchase
Plan.
 
     Pro Forma Information: The Company has retained the approach under APB
Opinion No. 25 and related interpretations in accounting for its stock option
and purchase plans. Accordingly, no compensation expense has been recognized for
its Option Plan, Directors Plan and Purchase Plan. Had compensation expense for
the Company's stock option and purchase plans been determined consistent with
Statement No. 123, earnings per share applicable to common stock would have been
decreased and the Company's loss
 

                IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
per share applicable to common stock would have been increased to the pro forma
amounts indicated below (table in thousands, except per share amounts):
 

 
     Pro forma net income (loss) applicable to common stock reflects only stock
option and purchase rights granted in 1998, 1997 and 1996. Therefore, the full
impact of calculating compensation expense for stock options and stock purchase
rights under Statement No. 123 is not reflected in the pro forma net income
(loss) amounts presented above since compensation expense is reflected over the
stock option vesting and stock purchase subscription periods and compensation
expense for stock options and stock purchase rights granted prior to January 1,
1995 are not considered. The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the
date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following
weighted-average assumptions used for grants in 1998, 1997 and 1996: dividend
yield of zero percent; expected volatility of 53.7 percent; risk-free interest
rate of 4.7 percent; and an expected option life of 6.3 years for 1998; dividend
yield of zero percent; expected volatility of 61.4 percent; risk-free interest
rate of 6.3 percent; and an expected option life of 5.7 years for 1997; and a
dividend yield of zero percent; expected volatility of 66.8 percent; risk-free
interest rate of 6.2 percent; and an expected option life of 5.5 years for 1996.
The per share weighted-average fair value of stock options granted during 1998,
1997 and 1996 at an exercise price equal to the fair market value on the date of
grant was $20.76, $16.09 and $13.25, respectively, on the date of grant using
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The fair value of each purchase right is
estimated on the date of enrollment using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model
with the following weighted average assumptions used in 1998, 1997 and 1996:
dividend yield of zero percent; expected volatility of 53.7 percent; risk-free
interest rate of 4.7 percent; and an expected life between 0.3 year and 1.0 year
for 1998: dividend yield of zero percent; expected volatility of 61.4 percent;
risk-free interest rates between 5.5 percent and 6.0 percent; and an expected
life between 0.3 year and 2.0 years for 1997; and a dividend yield of zero
percent; expected volatility of 66.8 percent; risk-free interest rates between
5.6 percent and 5.9 percent; and an expected life between 0.3 year and 2.0 years
for 1996. The per share weighted-average fair value of stock purchase rights
granted during 1998, 1997 and 1996 was $8.31, $10.50 and $9.05, respectively, on
the subscription date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
 
     Stock Warrants: Under an investment agreement and in part subject to the
Company's accomplishment of certain research and development objectives, SR One
Limited, SB venture capital subsidiary, purchased 200,000 common stock warrants
in each 1993 and 1992. In October 1996, these warrants were exercised for
400,000 shares of the Company's common stock resulting in net proceeds of
$4,755,000.
 
     In December 1994 and August 1995, concurrent with the completion of a debt
financing, the Company issued warrants for the purchase of 294,000 shares and
46,000 shares, respectively, of common stock. In 1998, 1997 and 1996, 30,000
warrants, 114,000 warrants and 196,000 warrants, respectively, were exchanged
for 25,000 shares, 105,000 shares and 169,000 shares, respectively, of the
Company's common stock.
 

                IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 9: INCOME TAXES
 
     The provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 1998
includes the following (table in thousands):
 

 
     A reconciliation between the Company's effective tax rate and the U.S
statutory rate for the year ended December 31, 1998 follows:
 

 
     The following table summarizes the tax effects of temporary differences
that give rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets and
liabilities at December 31, 1998 and 1997 (table in thousands):
 

 
     In 1998 the Company recognized a decrease in the valuation allowance of
$173,000 and in 1997 and 1996, the Company recognized an increase in the
valuation allowance of $9,291,000 and $3,882,000, respectively. At December 31,
1998 and 1997 the Company had a valuation allowance equal to its deferred tax
assets since the Company has not established a pattern of profitable operations.
 
     As of December 31, 1998, the Company had net operating loss and research
and experimentation tax credit carryforwards for Federal income tax purposes of
approximately $72,000,000 and $7,000,000, respectively, which expire beginning
in 1999. Net operating loss carryforwards and research and experimentation tax
credit carryforwards as of December 31, 1998 for state income tax purposes are
approximately $6,000,000 and $3,000,000, respectively, which expire beginning in
2011 and 1999, respectively. The utilization of net
 

                IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
operating losses and tax credits may be subject to an annual limitation under
the Internal Revenue Code, due to a cumulative change in ownership of more than
fifty percent.
 
NOTE 10: COMMITMENTS
 
     Lease Commitments: In July 1992, the Company entered into a 15-year
operating lease for its headquarters, which commenced in 1993. The Company has
the option to extend the term of the lease for two additional periods of five
years each. In August 1996, the Company entered into a 7-year lease for
additional office and warehouse facilities. The Company has the option to extend
the term of this lease for two additional years. In addition to the monthly
lease payments, both lease agreements provide for the Company to pay all
operating expenses associated with the facilities. The lease agreements provide
for scheduled rental increases; accordingly lease expense is recognized on a
straight-line basis over the term of the leases.
 
     Future minimum lease payments under all operating leases as of December 31,
1998, are as follows (table in thousands):
 

 
     Lease expense under all operating leases totaled $3,565,000, $3,677,000 and
$3,011,000 for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
     License Agreements: In September 1997, the Company and CNI entered into a
development and license agreement for the development of inflammatory and
autoimmune disease products based upon CNI's anti-MIF antibody technology.
Concurrent with the development and license agreement the Company and CNI
entered into a stock purchase agreement providing for certain equity investments
in CNI by the Company. Under the terms of these agreements, the Company may make
payments totaling $10,500,000, subject to the attainment of certain product
development milestone events. Additionally, the Company will pay CNI royalties
on sales by the Company of any products emerging from the collaboration. In
1997, the Company made a $3,000,000 preferred equity investment in CNI.
 
     In February 1997, the Company acquired exclusive rights from Pharmacia &
Upjohn to 9-aminocamptothecin ("9-AC"), a broad spectrum, anti-cancer agent for
the treatment of cancer. Under the terms of the asset transfer agreement, the
Company may make payments totaling $16,000,000, subject to the attainment of
certain product development objectives. If the Company achieves certain product
development objectives in 1999 (commencement of a Phase III trial) the Company
would be required to make a $6,000,000 payment to Pharmacia and Upjohn. In the
event the Company commences Phase III trials, it may seek a strategic partner
for development, marketing, distribution and sale of 9-AC in Europe, however, no
assurances can be given that any such arrangements will result. In 1997, the
Company made an up-front licensing payment of $3,000,000.
 
     In connection with its research and development efforts, the Company has
entered into various other license agreements which provide the Company with
rights to develop, produce and market products using certain know-how,
technology and patent rights maintained by the parties. Terms of the various
license agreements require the Company to pay royalties from future sales, if
any, on specified products using the resulting technology. Third party royalty
liabilities resulting from sales of Rituxan are being paid by Genentech and
recorded under the joint business arrangement as described under "Revenues from
Unconsoli-
 

                IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
dated Joint Business" in Notes 1 and 7. As of December 31, 1998, such other
royalties, other than annual minimum royalty payments, have not commenced on the
aforementioned license agreements.
 
NOTE 11: SUBSEQUENT EVENT
 
     In February 1999, the Company raised approximately $113,090,000, net of
underwriting commissions, through the private sale of 20-year convertible zero
coupon subordinated notes ("Notes"). The Notes were priced with a yield to
maturity of 5.5 percent annually. Upon maturity, the notes will have an
aggregate principal face value of $345,000,000. Each $1,000 aggregate principal
face value Note is convertible at the holders' option at any time through
maturity into 6.734 shares of the Company's common stock at an initial
conversion price of $50.17. The Company is required under the terms of the
Notes, as of 35 business days after a change in control occurring on or before
February 16, 2004, to purchase any Note at the option of its holder at a price
equal to the issue price plus accrued original issue discount to the date of
repurchase. Additionally, the holders of the Notes may require the Company to
purchase the Notes on February 16, 2004, 2009 or 2014 at a price equal to the
issue price plus accrued original issue discount to the date of purchase with
the Company having the option to repay the Notes plus accrued original issue
discount in cash, the Company's common stock or a combination thereof.
 

 
                IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY
 
                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation:
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of IDEC
Pharmaceuticals Corporation and subsidiary as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and
the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity, and
cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,
1998. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements based on our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of IDEC
Pharmaceuticals Corporation and subsidiary as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and
the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in
the three-year period ended December 31, 1998, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.
 
                                          KPMG LLP
 
San Diego, California
February 2, 1999, except as to Note 11, which is as of March 1, 1999
 

 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
     None.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     Certain information about the Company's executive officers as of January
31, 1999 is set forth below:
 

 
     DR. RASTETTER was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors of the
Company on May 22, 1996. He has served as President and Chief Executive Officer
of the Company since December 1986 and Chief Financial Officer from 1988 to
1993. Dr. Rastetter has served as a Director of the Company since 1986. From
1984 to 1986, he was Director of Corporate Ventures at Genentech. From 1982 to
1984, Dr. Rastetter served in a scientific capacity at Genentech, directing the
Biocatalysis and Chemical Sciences groups. From 1975 to 1982, he held various
faculty positions at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Dr. Rastetter is
also a director of Spiros Development Corporation II, Inc. Dr. Rastetter
received his Ph.D. in chemistry from Harvard University in 1975.
 
     MR. BURMAN joined the Company in May 1992 as Vice President, Manufacturing
Sciences and has served as Senior Vice President, Manufacturing and Process
Sciences since December 1997. He previously served from 1989 to 1992 as Director
of Manufacturing Technology at Life Sciences International. From 1985 to 1989,
he was t-PA Operations and Technical Services Manager at Genentech, where he was
responsible for the start-up of the t-PA manufacturing facility and
commercial-scale manufacturing operations. From 1967 to 1985, he held a series
of positions at Wellcome Biotech Ltd., culminating in responsibility for
worldwide cell culture manufacturing operations. Mr. Burman holds a B.Sc. with
honors in Applied Biology from the Council for National Academic Awards in the
United Kingdom. He also holds graduate qualifications in Industrial
Microbiology.
 
     DR. GRILLO-LOPEZ joined the Company as Vice President, Medical and
Regulatory Affairs in November 1992 from Du Pont Merck Pharmaceutical Company
("Du Pont Merck"). Dr. Grillo-Lopez was promoted to Senior Vice President,
Medical and Regulatory Affairs in January 1996 and Chief Medical Officer in May
1998. He was employed by Du Pont Merck from 1987 to 1992, where he most recently
was Executive Medical Director for International Clinical Research and
Development and previously held various clinical and medical director positions
at Du Pont Merck. From 1980 to 1987, Dr. Grillo-Lopez was a Vice President in
charge of clinical therapeutics and Director of Clinical Oncology Research at
Warner Lambert Company's Parke Davis Pharmaceutical Research Division. He
trained as a hematologist and oncologist at the University of Puerto Rico School
of Medicine, San Juan, where he received his M.D. and subsequently held faculty
appointments. He has been an adjunct associate professor in the Department of
Medicine (Hematology and Medical Oncology) at the University of Michigan Medical
School, was a founder of the Puerto Rico
 

 
Society of Hematology and the Latin American Society of Hematology, and is a
fellow of the International Society of Hematology and the Royal Society of
Medicine (London).
 
     DR. HANNA joined the Company in February 1990 as Vice President, Research
and Preclinical Development. In August 1993, Dr. Hanna was promoted to Senior
Vice President, Research and Preclinical Development and in May 1998 he was
promoted to Chief Scientific Officer. From 1981 to 1990, Dr. Hanna served as
Associate Director and then Director of the Department of Immunology at SB
focusing on autoimmune and chronic inflammatory diseases. From 1978 to 1981, he
was a research scientist at the NCI-Frederick Cancer Research Center, where he
studied the role of immune system cells in host defenses against cancer. From
1973 to 1978, Dr. Hanna was a lecturer in the Department of Immunology at the
Hebrew University Medical School in Israel, where he received his Ph.D. in
Immunology. Pursuant to the Company's agreement with CNI, Dr. Hanna is a
director of CNI.
 
     MR. ROHN joined the Company in August 1993 as Senior Vice President,
Commercial and Corporate Development. Mr. Rohn was appointed Senior Vice
President, Commercial Operations in April 1996 and was promoted to Chief
Operating Officer in May 1998. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Rohn was
employed by Adria Laboratories ("Adria"), from 1984 until August 1993, most
recently as Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing with responsibilities
for strategic and commercial partnerships as well as all sales and marketing
functions in the United States. Prior to Adria, Mr. Rohn held marketing and
sales management positions at Abbott Laboratories, Warren-Teed Pharmaceuticals,
Miles Laboratories and Mead Johnson Laboratories. Mr. Rohn received a B.A. in
Marketing from Michigan State University.
 
     DR. GEIGERT joined the Company in May 1996 as Vice President, Quality. He
previously served from 1991 to May 1996 as Vice President, Quality Control at
Immunex Corporation, a biotechnology company. From 1973 to 1991, he was employed
by Cetus Corporation where he served most recently as Director of Quality
Control and Product Evaluation. Dr. Geigert holds a B.S. degree in Chemistry
from Washington State University and a Ph.D. in Organic Chemistry/Analytical
Chemistry from Colorado State University.
 
     MS. MATSUI joined the Company in November 1992 as Senior Director, Planning
and Resource Development with primary responsibility for strategic planning and
human resources. In December 1994, Ms. Matsui was promoted to Vice President,
Planning and Resource Development. Ms. Matsui's current responsibilities include
investor relations, corporate communications, human resources, project
management and strategic planning. As a consultant during 1992, Ms. Matsui
assisted in the planning and implementation of the Company's unification from
sites in Northern and Southern California to its present site in San Diego. From
1977 to 1991, she served in a variety of marketing and general management
positions at Wells Fargo Bank including Vice President and Manager responsible
for Consumer Retirement Programs and Vice President and Manager in charge of
company-wide Employee Relations and Communications. Ms. Matsui received her B.A.
and M.B.A. from Stanford University.
 
     MR. SCHNEIDER joined the Company in February 1987 as Director, Finance and
Administration and served as Senior Director, Finance and Administration from
1990 to 1991. In November 1991, he became Vice President, Finance and
Administration and in February 1996 he was appointed Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer. From 1984 to 1987, Mr. Schneider served as the Manager of
Financial Reporting and as a Senior Analyst for Syntex Laboratories. He received
a B.S. in biochemistry from University of California, Davis, received his M.B.A.
at the University of Southern California and earned his C.P.A. qualifications
while working for KPMG LLP.
 
     MR. WOOLCOTT joined the Company in March 1989 as Intellectual Property
Counsel. In 1990, he became Intellectual Property and Licensing Counsel. Mr.
Woolcott was promoted to Deputy General Counsel in 1991 and General Counsel in
1992. In 1993, Mr. Woolcott was appointed Secretary of the Company. In 1994, he
was promoted to Vice President, Secretary, General Counsel & Licensing
Executive. From 1985 to 1987, he served as Patent Counsel and Associate Counsel
at Hybritech, Inc. From 1987 to 1989, he was engaged in the private practice of
law in Seattle, Washington. Mr. Woolcott received a B.S. in Biochemistry from
Pacific Lutheran University and his J.D. from George Washington University.
 

 
     The information required by this item in regards to the identification of
Directors is hereby incorporated by reference to the information contained under
the caption "Election of Directors" in the Company's Proxy Statement for its
Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 20, 1999.
 
     The information required by Section 16(a) is hereby incorporated by
reference to the information contained under the caption "Compliance with
Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934" in the Company's Proxy
Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 20, 1999.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     The information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference
to the information contained under the caption "Executive Compensation and
Related Information" in the Company's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on May 20, 1999.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     The information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference
to the information contained under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management" in the Company's Proxy Statement for its
Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 20, 1999.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     The information required by this item is hereby incorporated by reference
to the information contained under the caption "Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions" in the Company's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on May 20, 1999.
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 

 

 
            All other financial statements schedules are omitted because they
       are not required or are not applicable, or because the required
       information is included in the financial statements or notes thereto.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
- ---------------
  + Confidential Treatment has been granted with respect to portions of this
    agreement.
 
 (1) Incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with the Registrant's
     Registration Statement on Form 8-B filed on June 2, 1997.
 

 
 (2) Incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with the Registrant's
     Registration Statement on Form S-1, File No. 33-40756.
 
 (3) Incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with the Registrant's Annual
     Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.
 
 (4) Incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with the Registrant's
     Registration Statement on Form S-1, File No. 33-76080.
 
 (5) Incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with the Registrant's
     Registration Statement on Form S-8, File No. 33-93794.
 
 (6) Incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with the Registrant's Annual
     Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994.
 
 (7) Incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with the Registrant's Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1995.
 
 (8) Incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with the Registrant's
     Registration Statement on Form S-8, File No. 33-90738.
 
 (9) Incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with the Registrant's Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995.
 
(10) Incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with the Registrant's Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995.
 
(11) Incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with the Registrant's Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1996.
 
(12) Incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with the Registrant's
     Registration Statement on Form 8-K, dated May 21, 1996.
 
(13) Incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with the Registrant's
     Registration Statement on Form S-8, File No. 333-2969.
 
(14) Incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with the Registrant's Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1996.
 
(15) Incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with the Registrant's Annual
     Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.
 
(16) Incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with the Registrant's Quarterly
     Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997.
 
(17) Incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with the Registrant's
     Registration Statement on Form S-8, File No. 333-62817.
 
(18) Incorporated by reference to exhibit filed with the Registrant's
     Registration Statement on Form 8-A, dated August 1, 1997.
 
b. No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter of 1997.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                          IDEC PHARMACEUTICALS CORPORATION
 
Date: March 30, 1999                      By:   /s/ WILLIAM H. RASTETTER
 
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                William H. Rastetter, Ph.D.,
                                                          Chairman,
                                               President and Chief Executive
                                                           Officer
 
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY
 
     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears
below does hereby constitute and appoint William H. Rastetter and Phillip M.
Schneider, or either of them, as his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and
agents, with full power of substitution, for him and his name, place and stead,
in any and all capacities, to sign the Registration Statement filed herewith and
any and all amendments to said Registration Statement (including post-effective
amendments and registration statements filed pursuant to Rule 462 and
otherwise), and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents
in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting
unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, full power and authority to do and
perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in
connection therewith as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could
do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming that all said attorneys-in-fact
and agents, or their substitute or substitutes may lawfully do or cause to be
done by virtue hereof.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has executed this Power of
Attorney as of the date indicated.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements the securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 

 

 

 

