
10-K405
FORM 10-K



 
                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
                            _______________________

                                   FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[X]  Annual report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
     Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996, or

[_]  Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934

For the transition period from _____________________ to ______________________

Commission file number 0-16125

                               FASTENAL COMPANY
            ______________________________________________________
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        Minnesota                                              41-0948415
_______________________________                             ________________
(State or other jurisdiction of                             (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                             Identification No.)

   2001 Theurer Boulevard
     Winona, Minnesota                                          55987-1500
- -------------------------------                                 ----------
(Address of principal executive offices)                        (Zip Code)

                                (507) 454-5374
             ----------------------------------------------------
             (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: Common Stock, $.01
                                                            par value

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes X  No___

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

The aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of March 3, 1997 was $1,000,669,151. For purposes of determining
this number, all officers and directors of the registrant as of March 3, 1997
are considered to be affiliates of the registrant. This number is provided only
for the purposes of this report on Form 10-K and does not represent an admission
by either the registrant or any such person as to the status of such person.

As of March 3, 1997, the registrant had 37,938,688 shares of Common Stock issued
and outstanding.

 


                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1996 are incorporated by reference in Part II. Portions of
the registrant's Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of shareholders to be
held April 22, 1997 are incorporated by reference in Part III.


                          FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Form 10-K, including the sections in Part I hereof captioned "Item 1.
Business - Development of the Business", "Item 1. Business - Products" and "Item
1. Business - Manufacturing Operations", and the section in Part II hereof
captioned "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations", contains or incorporates by reference statements
that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby
identified as, "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding expected results
of operations, new store and distribution center openings, markets for new
stores, introduction of existing and new product lines, technology conversions
and capital expenditures. A discussion of certain risks and uncertainties that
could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such
forward-looking statements is included in the registrant's Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 at the end of the
section thereof captioned "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations", which section has been incorporated in
this Form 10-K by reference. The registrant assumes no obligation to update
either such forward-looking statements or the discussion of such risks and
uncertainties.


                                    PART I


ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Fastenal Company ("Fastenal Company" and, together with its wholly owned
subsidiary, Fastenal Canada Company, collectively, "the Company") began as a
partnership in 1967, and was incorporated under the laws of Minnesota in 1968.
As of December 31, 1996, the Company has 484 store sites located in 48 states
and Canada and 1,989 people employed at these sites. Eight of these sites are
satellite stores of an existing site. The Company has six product lines. The
traditional Fastenal(R) product line/1/ consists of approximately 49,000
different types of threaded fasteners and other industrial and construction
supplies. The FastTool(R) product line/1/, which was introduced in 1993,
consists of approximately 14,000 different types of tools and safety supplies.
The SharpCut(R), PowerFlow(TM), EquipRite(TM) and CleanChoice(TM) product
lines/1/ were introduced into select store sites beginning in 1996. The
SharpCut(R) product line consists of approximately 8,000 different types of
metal cutting tool blades, the PowerFlow(TM) product line consists of
approximately 7,000 different types of fluid transfer components and accessories
for hydraulic and pneumatic power, the EquipRite(TM) product line consists of
approximately 2,000 different types of material handling and storage products,
and the CleanChoice(TM) product line consists of approximately 2,000 different
types of industrial, janitorial and paper products. The Company maintains eight
distribution centers from which the Company distributes products to its store
sites, and operates a facility in Memphis, Tennessee to receive and package
goods coming from suppliers outside of the United States.




________________
/1/Fastenal(R), FastTool(R), SharpCut(R), PowerFlow(TM), EquipRite(TM) and
CleanChoice(TM) are trademarks and/or service marks of the Company.


 


As was previously indicated in Fastenal Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1995, through 1995 the Company counted as a new store the
addition of two employees at a site dedicated to the sale of a new product line.
By way of example, each FastTool(R) store was located in a store site housing an
existing Fastenal(R) store, but was counted as a separate store because of the
addition of two people at the site to sell the FastTool(R) product line. During
1996, the Company began adding product lines to some existing sites with only
one additional employee or, in some cases, no additional employees. Therefore,
beginning in 1996, the Company's reports relating to growth ceased counting new
stores in the manner described above and started including data about total
store sites, average sales at these sites and total employment at these sites.
As of January 1, 1996, the Company had 375 store sites and 1,310 people employed
at these sites, as compared to the 484 store sites and 1,989 site employees on
December 31, 1996.

DEVELOPMENT OF THE BUSINESS

Fastenal Company began in 1967 with a marketing strategy of supplying threaded
fasteners to customers in small- to medium-sized cities. The Company believes
its success can be attributed to its ability to offer such customers a full line
of products at convenient locations, and to the high quality of the Company's
employees.

The Company opened its first store site in Winona, Minnesota, a city with a
population of approximately 25,000. The following table shows the growth in the
number of Company store sites during the last ten years, and the related
increases in the Company's consolidated net sales during that period:

As of December 31, 1996, the Company operated 484 store sites located in
Minnesota (12 sites), Wisconsin (24 sites), Iowa (13 sites), Illinois (19
sites), Indiana (17 sites), Ohio (30 sites), Michigan (22 sites), Kentucky (8
sites), Pennsylvania (22 sites), New York (14 sites), Nebraska (4 sites),
Missouri (10 sites), Kansas (7 sites), South Dakota (4 sites), West Virginia (7
sites), Arkansas (7 sites), Maryland (5 sites), North Dakota (4 sites), North
Carolina (17 sites), Oklahoma (7 sites), Tennessee (13 sites), Texas (37 sites),
South Carolina (7 sites), Colorado (8 sites), Virginia (11 sites), Louisiana (7
sites), Georgia (16 sites), Alabama (11 sites), Utah (5 sites), Washington (12
sites), Oregon (7 sites), Mississippi (6 sites), California (15 sites), Idaho (5
sites), Massachusetts (8 sites), Florida (11 sites), Connecticut (7 sites),
Arizona (3 sites), Montana (4 sites), Nevada (2 sites), New Hampshire (5 sites),
New Mexico (3 sites), Maine (4 sites), Delaware (2 sites), Vermont (1 site), New
Jersey (3 sites), Rhode Island (1 site), Wyoming (1 site) and Canada (16 sites).
The 484  sites listed above include 8 satellite store sites, with one satellite
in each of the following states: Arizona, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota,
Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, and two satellites in Ohio.  The Company has closed
only three store sites in its history.

The Company selects new locations for its stores based on their proximity to the
Company's distribution network, population statistics, and employment data for
manufacturing and construction. The Company currently intends to continue
opening new store sites at or above the rate experienced over the last several
years, subject to market and general economic conditions.


 


In 1995 the Company opened nine experimental multi-product line 'combination'
stores in communities which were smaller (populations of approximately 8,000 to
25,000) than those in which traditional stores selling one product line were
located. These stores, each of which started operations with two full-time
employees, combined the Fastenal(R) and FastTool(R) product lines in a single
store. The Company opened 71 of these combination stores in 1996, most of which
were located in smaller communities.

Beginning in 1997, the Company plans to stock all new stores with an inventory
drawn from all six product lines. This includes sites in smaller communities as
well as larger communities. Subsequent to a site's opening, the site personnel
will then customize the inventory offering to that site's customer base. In
addition, the Company plans to introduce selected product from all of the
Company's product lines into existing stores. Therefore, beginning in 1997 the
Company will no longer make a distinction between a traditional Fastenal(R)
store and a 'combination' store. The Company believes that approximately 500
additional markets in the United States and Canada (most of them located in
smaller communities) have sufficient potential to justify this type of multi-
product line store.

In 1996, the Company opened eight experimental stores that are satellites of
existing stores. These satellites are located in communities as small as 2,000
population and are usually located within a 30 mile radius of the mother store.
In most cases, the Company was already doing business in this community from the
mother store, but the addition of a physical presence in the community provided
sales increases from that community. The Company plans to open additional
satellite stores in 1997. Although the Company cannot be sure of the success of
these stores, the Company believes that their success could lead to
approximately 500 satellite store sites in the United States and Canada.

In 1996 the Company sold products into Mexico from its existing Brownsville, El
Paso and McAllen, Texas stores. The Company opened six store sites in Canada in
1995 and seven in 1996, and plans to open additional Canadian store sites in
1997.

No assurance can be given that any of the expansion plans described above will
be achieved, or that new stores, once opened, will be profitable.

It has been the Company's experience that near-term profitability has been
adversely affected by the opening of new store sites, due to the related start-
up costs and the time necessary to generate a customer base. A new store
generates its sales from direct sales calls, a slow process involving repeated
contacts. As a result of this process, sales volume builds slowly and it
typically requires nine to 12 months for a new store to achieve its first
profitable month. Of the 17 stores opened in the first quarter of 1996, six were
profitable in the fourth quarter of 1996.

 


For 1996, annual sales volumes of store sites operating at least five years
ranged between approximately $406,000 and $4,260,000, with 75% of these store
sites having annual sales volumes within the range of approximately $612,000 to
$1,658,000.  The data in the following table shows the growth in the average
sales of the Company's store sites from 1995 to 1996 based on each site's age.
The store sites opened in 1996 contributed approximately $9.5 million (or
approximately 3.3%) of the Company's consolidated sales in 1996, with the
remainder coming from existing store sites.




(1) Average sales includes sales of store sites open for less than the full
fiscal year.

As of December 31, 1996, the Company maintained distribution centers in or near
Winona, Minnesota; Indianapolis, Indiana; Dallas, Texas; Atlanta, Georgia;
Scranton, Pennsylvania; Fresno, California; Kent, Washington; and Akron, Ohio.
Distribution centers are located so as to permit twice-a-week to four times-a-
week delivery to Company stores using Company trucks and overnight delivery by
surface common carrier. As the number of stores increases, the Company intends
to add new distribution centers. In conjunction with an expansion, the Company
moved its Kent, Washington facility to Lakewood, Washington in January 1997.
The Company plans to open a distribution center in Salt Lake City, Utah in April
1997 and two to four other distribution centers later in 1997.

In December 1994 the Company opened a packaging facility in Memphis, Tennessee.
This facility receives freight containers from foreign suppliers and repackages
the items in standard packages using high speed equipment. This packaging
facility serves six of the Company's distribution centers.

The Company operates a UNIX/terminal-based computer system allowing automatic
data exchange between the stores and the distribution centers during regular
business hours. The use of client/server technology allows the Company's network
of UNIX-based machines to serve networked personal computers and workstations.
During 1997 the Company plans to convert to a Microsoft Windows NT,
client/server, graphical user environment in its store locations.


 


PRODUCTS

Traditional Fastenal(R) Product Line

The Company's Fastenal(R) product line consists of approximately 49,000
different items, which may be divided into two broad categories: threaded
fasteners, such as bolts, nuts, screws, studs, and related washers; and other
industrial and construction supplies, such as paints, various pins and machinery
keys, concrete anchors, batteries, sealants, metal framing systems, wire rope,
and related accessories.

Threaded fasteners are used in most manufactured products and building projects,
and in the maintenance and repair of machines and structures. Although some
aspects of the threaded fastener market are common to all cities, the Company
feels that each city's market is to some extent unique. Therefore, the Company
opens each store with minimal base stocks of inventory, and then tailors the
growing inventory to the local market demand as it develops. Threaded fasteners
accounted for approximately 68%, 65% and 64% of the Company's consolidated sales
in 1994, 1995 and 1996, respectively.

Concrete anchors make up the largest portion of the other supply items included
in the Fastenal(R) product line.  Most concrete anchors use threaded fasteners
as part of the completed anchor assembly.  Recently, the Company has added
stainless strut, private label stud anchors and rivets to its Fastenal(R)
product line.

FastTool(R) Product Line

In 1993 the Company began selling a new FastTool(R) product line, which consists
of power and hand tools and safety supplies, targeted to the same customer base
as the traditional Fastenal(R) product line. The inventory of tools and safety
supplies is comprised of approximately 14,000 different items.   The Company
uses its current distribution system for the FastTool(R) product line.

SharpCut(R) Product Line

Late in 1995 the Company developed a new SharpCut(R) product line which was
introduced into select stores beginning in 1996.  This product line consists of
metal cutting tool blades and a resharpening service.  The inventory related to
the SharpCut(R) product line is comprised of approximately 8,000 different
items.   The Company uses its current distribution system for the SharpCut(R)
product line.

PowerFlow(TM) Product Line

In 1996 the Company began selling a new PowerFlow(TM) product line. This product
line consists of fluid transfer components and accessories for hydraulic and
pneumatic power and a hose crimping service. The inventory related to the
PowerFlow(TM) product line is comprised of approximately 7,000 different items.
The Company uses its current distribution system for the PowerFlow(TM) product
line.

EquipRite(TM) Product Line

In 1996 the Company began selling a new EquipRite(TM) product line. This product
line consists of material handling and related storage products and a storeroom
layout design service. The inventory related to the EquipRite(TM) product line
is comprised of approximately 2,000 different items. The Company uses its
current distribution system for the EquipRite(TM) product line.

 


CleanChoice(TM) Product Line

In 1996 the Company began selling a new CleanChoice(TM) product line. This
product line consists of industrial, janitorial and paper products. The
inventory related to the CleanChoice(TM) product line is comprised of
approximately 2,000 different items. The Company uses its current distribution
system for the CleanChoice(TM) product line.

Additional Product Lines

The Company plans to add other industrial product lines in the future.

INVENTORY CONTROL

The Company controls inventory by using computer systems to preset desired stock
levels. The data used for this purpose is derived from reports showing sales
activity by item for the previous three years. Computers then convert this data
to typical store maximum-minimum inventory levels for each item. Stores can
deviate from preset inventory levels as deemed appropriate by their district
managers. Inventories in distribution centers are established from computerized
sales data for the stores served by the respective centers.

MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS

In 1996 approximately 95.9% of the Company's consolidated sales were
attributable to products manufactured by other companies to industry standards.
The remaining amount of approximately 4.1% of the Company's consolidated sales
for 1996 related to products manufactured by, or modified in, the Company's
machining shop. These manufactured products consist primarily of non-standard
sizes of threaded fasteners made to customers' specifications. The Company
engages in manufacturing activity primarily as a service to its customers and
does not expect any significant growth in the foreseeable future in the
proportion of the Company's consolidated sales attributable to manufacturing.

SOURCES OF SUPPLY

The Company uses a large number of suppliers for the approximately 82,000
standard items it distributes. Most items distributed by the Company can be
purchased from several sources, although preferred sourcing is used for some
items to facilitate quality control. No single supplier accounted for more than
5.0% of the Company's purchases in 1996.

CUSTOMERS AND MARKETING

The Company believes its success can be attributed to its ability to offer
customers in small- to medium-sized cities a full line of products at convenient
locations, and to the high quality of the Company's employees. Most of the
Company's customers are in the construction and manufacturing markets. The
construction market includes general, electrical, plumbing, sheet metal, and
road contractors. The manufacturing market includes both original equipment
manufacturers and maintenance and repair operations. Other users of the
Company's products include farmers, truckers, railroads, mining companies,
municipalities, schools, and certain retail trades. As of December 31, 1996, the
Company's total number of active customer accounts (defined as accounts having
purchase activity within the last 90 days) was approximately 57,000.

During each of the three years ended December 31, 1996, no one customer
accounted for a significant portion of the Company's sales. The Company believes
that the large number of its customers together with the varied markets that
they represent provide some protection to the Company from economic downturns in
a particular market.

 


A significant portion of the Company's sales are generated through direct calls
on customers by store personnel. Because of the nature of the Company's
business, the Company does not use the more expensive forms of mass media
advertising such as television, radio, and newspapers. Forms of advertising used
by the Company include signs and catalogs.

COMPETITION

The Company's business is highly competitive. Competitors include both large
distributors located primarily in large cities and smaller distributors located
in many of the same cities in which the Company has stores. The Company believes
that the principal competitive factors affecting the markets for the Company's
products are customer service and convenience.

Some competitors use vans to sell their products in communities away from their
main warehouses, while others rely on mail order or telemarketing sales. The
Company, however, believes that the convenience provided to customers by
actually operating a number of stores in smaller markets, each offering a full
line of products, is a competitive selling advantage and that the large number
of stores in a given area, taken together with the Company's ability to provide
frequent deliveries to such stores from centrally located distribution centers,
makes possible the prompt and efficient distribution of products. Having trained
personnel at each store also enhances the Company's ability to compete (see
"Employees" below).

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 1996, the Company employed a total of 3,073 full- and part-
time employees, 1,989 being store managers and store employees, and the balance
being employed in the Company's distribution centers, packaging facility,
manufacturing operations, and home office.

The Company believes that the quality of its employees is critical to its
ability to compete successfully in the markets it currently serves and to its
ability to open new stores in new markets. The Company fosters the growth and
education of skilled employees throughout the organization by operating training
programs and by decentralizing decision making. Wherever possible, promotions
are from within the Company. For example, most new store managers are promoted
from an assistant manager's position at another store and district managers (who
supervise a number of stores) are usually former store managers.

The Company's sales personnel participate in incentive bonus arrangements that
place emphasis on achieving increased sales on a store and regional basis, while
still attaining targeted levels of gross profit. As a result, a significant
portion of the Company's total employment cost varies with sales volume. The
Company also pays incentive bonuses to other personnel for achieving pre-
determined cost containment goals.

None of the Company's employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement
and the Company has experienced no work stoppages. The Company believes its
employee relations are excellent.

 


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

The Company owns six facilities in Winona, Minnesota: a 173,000 square foot
distribution center and home office building, a 50,000 square foot manufacturing
facility, a 13,000 square foot building that houses the Company's Winona store,
a 23,000 square foot building that houses the conveyor, sortation and packaging
equipment fabrication department, a 55,000 square foot building that houses rack
and shelving storage and a 35,000 square foot building, acquired in a 1996
acquisition, that currently houses the printing facility as well as serving as a
warehouse for the CleanChoice(TM) product line.  The Company also owns a 60,000
square foot distribution center in Indianapolis, Indiana, a 54,000 square foot
distribution center in Atlanta, Georgia, a 50,000 square foot distribution
center in Dallas, Texas, a 50,000 square foot distribution center near Scranton,
Pennsylvania and a 102,000 square foot distribution center in Akron, Ohio. The
buildings that house the Company's stores in Waterloo and Mason City, Iowa; St.
Joseph, Missouri; Wichita Falls and Texarkana, Texas; Topeka, Kansas; and
Kokomo, Indiana are also owned by the Company.

All other buildings occupied by the Company are leased. Leased stores range from
approximately 1,200 to 8,000 square feet, with lease terms of up to 48 months.
The Company's leased distribution center in Lakewood, Washington is
approximately 40,000 square feet. The term of the lease of the Washington
facility expires in February 2000, provided that the lease may be renewed at the
Company's option for two additional one-year periods.  The Company's leased
distribution center in Fresno, California is approximately 11,200 square feet.
The term of the lease of the California facility expires in February 1998,
provided that the lease may be renewed at the Company's option for two
additional one-year periods. The Company's leased packaging facility in Memphis,
Tennessee is approximately 37,500 square feet. The term of the lease of the
Memphis facility expires in November 1997.

If economic conditions are suitable, the Company will, in the future, consider
purchasing store sites to house its older stores. All sites for new stores will
continue to be leased. It is the Company's policy to negotiate relatively short
lease terms to facilitate relocation of particular store operations if deemed
desirable by management. It has been the Company's experience that space
suitable for its needs and available for leasing is more than sufficient.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

None.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

Not Applicable.

 


ITEM X.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The executive officers of Fastenal Company are:


Mr. Kierlin has been the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive
Officer of Fastenal Company and has served as a director since Fastenal
Company's incorporation in 1968.

Mr. Oberton has been the Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Fastenal
Company since March 1997.  From June 1986 through March 1997, Mr. Oberton held
the position of general operations manager of Fastenal Company.

Mr. Slaggie has been the Secretary of Fastenal Company and has served as a
director since 1970. He became a full-time employee of Fastenal Company in
December 1987, at which time he assumed the additional duties of Shareholder
Relations Director and Insurance Risk Manager.  From 1970 through June 1996, Mr.
Slaggie also served as the Treasurer of Fastenal Company.

Mr. Florness has been the Treasurer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief
Accounting Officer of Fastenal Company since June 1996.  From January 1987
through May 1996, Mr. Florness was employed by KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, a public
accounting firm.  Mr. Florness served in the capacity of senior manager at the
time of his departure from that firm.

None of the above executive officers is related to any other such executive
officer or to any other director of Fastenal Company.    

 


                                    PART II


ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Incorporated herein by reference is Fastenal Company's Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996, Common Stock Data on
page 9.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Incorporated herein by reference is Fastenal Company's Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996, page 2.


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

Incorporated herein by reference is Fastenal Company's Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996, pages 5-8.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Incorporated herein by reference is Fastenal Company's Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996, Selected Quarterly
Financial Data (Unaudited) on page 9, and Consolidated Financial Statements,
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and Independent Auditors' Report on
pages 10-20.


ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

 


                                   PART III


ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Incorporated herein by reference is the information appearing under the headings
"Election of Directors--Nominees and Required Vote", pages 4-5, and "Section
16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Requirements", page 9, in Fastenal
Company's Proxy Statement dated March 18, 1997. See also Part I hereof under the
heading "Item X. Executive Officers of the Registrant".


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Incorporated herein by reference is the information appearing under the headings
"Election of Directors--Board and Committee Meetings", page 5, "Election of
Directors--Executive Compensation--Summary of Compensation", page 5, and
"Election of Directors--Executive Compensation--Compensation Committee
Interlocks and Insider Participation", page 6, in Fastenal Company's Proxy
Statement dated March 18, 1997.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Incorporated herein by reference is the information appearing under the heading
"Security Ownership of Principal Shareholders and Management", pages 2-3, in
Fastenal Company's Proxy Statement dated March 18, 1997.


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
               
None.

 


                                    PART IV


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

a)  1. Financial Statements:

          Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1996 and 1995

          Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years ended December 31,
          1996, 1995, and 1994

          Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended
          December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994

          Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31,
          1996, 1995, and 1994

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

          Independent Auditors' Report

          (Incorporated by reference to pages 10-20 of Fastenal Company's Annual
          Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996)

    2. Financial Statement Schedules:

          Schedule VIII--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

    3. Exhibits:

          3.1  Restated Articles of Incorporation of Fastenal Company, as
               amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Fastenal
               Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1993)

          3.2  Restated By-Laws of Fastenal Company (incorporated by reference
               to Exhibit 3.2 to Registration Statement No. 33-14923)

         13    Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December
               31, 1996 (only those portions specifically incorporated by
               reference herein shall be deemed filed with the Commission)

         21    List of Subsidiaries (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 21 to
               Fastenal Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
               31, 1994)

         27    Financial Data Schedule

         Copies of Exhibits will be furnished upon request and payment of the
         Company's reasonable expenses in furnishing the Exhibits.

b)     Reports on Form 8-K

No report on Form 8-K was filed by Fastenal Company during the fourth quarter of
the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996.

 



                     [LETTERHEAD OF KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP]



                    INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON SCHEDULE



The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Fastenal Company:


Under date of February 1, 1997, we reported on the consolidated balance sheets
of Fastenal Company and subsidiary as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the
related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders' equity, and cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1996, as
contained in the 1996 annual report to shareholders. These consolidated
financial statements and our report thereon are incorporated by reference in the
annual report on Form 10-K for the year 1996. In connection with our audits of
the aforementioned consolidated financial statements, we also audited the
related financial statement schedule as listed in the accompanying index. This
financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on this financial statement schedule
based on our audits.

In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation
to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.



                                    KPMG Peat Marwick LLP



Minneapolis, Minnesota
February 1, 1997

 


                               FASTENAL COMPANY

                Schedule VIII--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

                 Years ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994


 


                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: March 17, 1997

                              FASTENAL COMPANY


                              By  /s/ Robert A. Kierlin
                                  ---------------------------------
                                  Robert A. Kierlin, President

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


Date: March 17, 1997          By  /s/ Robert A. Kierlin
                                  ---------------------------------
                                  Robert A. Kierlin, President
                                    (Principal Executive Officer) and
                                    Director


Date: March 17, 1997          By  /s/ Stephen M. Slaggie
                                  ----------------------------------
                                  Stephen M. Slaggie, Director


Date: March 17, 1997          By  /s/ Daniel L. Florness
                                  ----------------------------------
                                  Daniel L. Florness, Treasurer
                                    (Principal Financial Officer and
                                     Principal Accounting Officer)


Date: March 17, 1997          By  /s/ Michael M. Gostomski
                                  ----------------------------------
                                  Michael M. Gostomski, Director


Date: March 17, 1997          By  /s/ Henry K. McConnon
                                  ----------------------------------
                                  Henry K. McConnon, Director


Date: March 17, 1997          By  /s/John D. Remick
                                  ----------------------------------
                                  John D. Remick, Director

 
                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS


 3.1  Restated Articles of Incorporation of Fastenal
      Company, as amended (incorporated by reference
      to Exhibit 3.1 to Fastenal Company's Form 10-Q
      for the quarter ended September 30, 1993).

 3.2  Restated By-Laws of Fastenal Company 
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      3.2 to Registration Statement No. 33-14923).

 13   Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal 
      year ended December 31, 1996 (only those 
      portions specifically incorporated by reference 
      herein shall be deemed filed with the Commission).....Electronically Filed

 21   List of Subsidiaries (incorporated by reference
      to Exhibit 21 to Fastenal Company's Form 10-K
      for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994).

 27   Financial Data Schedule...............................Electronically Filed
 

