
10-K
0001.txt
FORM 10-K




                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
                           __________________________

                                   FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[X]  Annual report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
     Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, or

[_]  Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934

For the transition period from _____________________ to ______________________

Commission file number 0-16125

                               FASTENAL COMPANY
    ________________________________________________________________________
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Minnesota                                           41-0948415
________________________________                         ___________________
(State or other jurisdiction of                          (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                           Identification No.)

      2001 Theurer Boulevard
        Winona, Minnesota                                      55987-1500
_________________________________________                     ___________
(Address of principal executive offices)                       (Zip Code)

                                  (507) 454-5374
                 ____________________________________________________
                 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: Common Stock, $.01
par value

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X   No___
                                             ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

The aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of February 21, 2001 was $1,657,177,034. For purposes of
determining this number, all executive officers and directors of the registrant
as of February 21, 2001 are considered to be affiliates of the registrant. This
number is provided only for the purposes of this report on Form 10-K and does
not represent an admission by either the registrant or any such person as to the
status of such person.

As of February 21, 2001, the registrant had 37,938,688 shares of Common Stock
issued and outstanding.




                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2000 are incorporated by reference in Part II. Portions of
the registrant's Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of shareholders to be
held April 17, 2001 are incorporated by reference in Part III.


                          FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Form 10-K, including the sections in Part I hereof captioned "Item 1.
Business - Development of the Business", "Item 1. Business - Products", "Item 1.
Business - Manufacturing and Support Services Operations", and "Item 2.
Properties", and the sections in Part II hereof captioned "Item 5. Market for
Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters" and "Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations", contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not
historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as,
"forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding new store and distribution
center openings, markets for new stores, expansion of foreign operations,
technology conversions, introduction of new product lines, growth in
manufacturing and support services, completion of construction of distribution
centers, leasing of new stores, capital expenditures, funding of expansion
plans, and dividends. A discussion of certain risks and uncertainties that could
cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-
looking statements is included in the registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000 in the section thereof captioned
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations", which section has been incorporated in this Form 10-K by reference.
The registrant assumes no obligation to update either such forward-looking
statements or the discussion of such risks and uncertainties.


                                    PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Fastenal Company ("Fastenal Company" and, together with its wholly owned
subsidiaries, Fastenal Company Services, Fastenal Company Purchasing, Fastenal
Company Leasing, Fastenal Canada Company, Fastenal Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.,
and Fastenal Mexico Services, S. de R.L. de C.V., collectively, "the Company")
began as a partnership in 1967, and was incorporated under the laws of Minnesota
in 1968. As of December 31, 2000, the Company had 897 store sites located in 48
states, Puerto Rico, and Canada and 4,356 people employed at these sites. Sixty-
nine of these sites were satellite stores of an existing site.

The Company sells industrial and construction supplies. These industrial and
construction supplies are grouped into nine product lines described further
below.

The Company operated eleven distribution centers as of December 31, 2000 from
which the Company distributes products to its store sites, and operates a
facility in Memphis, Tennessee to receive and package goods coming from
suppliers outside of the United States.



Development of the Business

Fastenal Company began in 1967 with a marketing strategy of supplying threaded
fasteners to customers in small to medium-sized cities. The Company believes its
success can be attributed to its ability to offer such customers a full line of
products at convenient locations, and to the high quality of the Company's
employees.

The Company opened its first store site in Winona, Minnesota, a city with a
population of approximately 25,000. The following table shows the number of
Company store sites during each of the last ten years and the related
consolidated net sales for each year during that period:




/1/ During 2000 two "in-plant" sites, previously included in the store sites
    number, were reclassified to in-plant status. One of these "in-plant" sites
    opened in 1996 and the other opened in 1997. The store numbers above reflect
    the historical numbers and have not been reflected for the reclassification.

As of December 31, 2000, the Company operated 897 store sites located in:



The Company has closed only four store sites in its history.




The Company selects new locations for its stores based on their proximity to the
Company's distribution network, population statistics, and employment data for
manufacturing and construction. The Company intends to continue opening new
store sites and currently expects the rate of new store openings to be
approximately 10 to 15% per year.

The Company stocks all new stores with an inventory drawn from all of its
product lines. Subsequent to a site's opening, the site personnel customize the
inventory offering to that site's customer base. The Company has two types of
stores: (1) the stand-alone store and (2) the satellite store. The stand-alone
store is typically located in cities with a population in excess of 8,000. The
Company believes approximately 1,000 markets in the United States and Canada
(including those in which existing stand-alone stores are already located) has
sufficient potential to justify this type of store. Many of the future potential
markets for stand-alone stores are located in smaller communities. The second
type, the satellite store, operates as a satellite of a stand-alone store. The
satellite store is usually located within 30 miles of the stand-alone (mother)
store and is typically managed by personnel at the mother store. The Company has
satellite stores located in communities with a population as small as 2,000. In
most cases, the Company was already doing business in this community from the
mother store, but the addition of a physical presence in the community provided
sales increases from that community. Of the 90 stores opened during 2000, three
opened as satellite stores. Although the Company cannot be sure of the success
of these stores, the Company believes that their success could lead to
approximately 500 satellite store sites in the United States and Canada. Some of
these satellite stores are expected to eventually become stand-alone stores. Of
the 897 store sites operating at December 31, 2000, 828 stores were operating as
stand-alone stores and 69 were operating as satellite stores.

In addition to the stand-alone and satellite stores discussed above, the Company
also operates "in-plant" sites. The "in-plant" site is a selling unit located in
or near a customer's facility. These sites are not included in the store count
numbers.

The Company opened nine store sites in Canada in 1998, five in 1999, and eleven
in 2000, and plans to open additional store sites in Canada in the future. The
Company opened three store sites in Puerto Rico in 1998, none in 1999, and one
in 2000, and plans to open additional store sites in Puerto Rico in the future.
The stores in Canada and Puerto Rico contributed less than 5% of the Company's
consolidated net sales in 2000. In 2000 the Company sold products into Mexico
from its existing stores along the border between the United States and Mexico.
The Company also established a Mexican subsidiary in 1998. This subsidiary
employs sales personnel who sell directly into Mexico. During 2001 the Company
intends to open a store site in Mexico.

No assurance can be given that any of the expansion plans described above will
be achieved, or that new stores, once opened, will be profitable.

It has been the Company's experience that near-term profitability has been
adversely affected by the opening of new store sites, due to the related start-
up costs and the time necessary to generate a customer base. A new store
generates its sales from direct sales calls, a slow process involving repeated
contacts. As a result of this process, sales volume builds slowly and it
typically requires nine to 12 months for a new store to achieve its first
profitable month. Of the twelve stores opened in the first quarter of 2000,
seven were profitable in the fourth quarter of 2000.



For 2000, annual sales volumes of store sites operating at least five years
ranged between approximately $200,000 and $5,400,000, with 75% of these store
sites having annual sales volumes within the range of approximately $500,000 to
$1,900,000. The data in the following table shows the growth in the average
sales of the Company's store sites from 1999 to 2000 based on each site's age.
The store sites opened in 2000 contributed approximately $8.5 million (or
approximately 1.1%) of the Company's consolidated net sales in 2000, with the
remainder coming from store sites opened prior to 2000.



/1/  Average sales include sales of store sites open for less than the full
     fiscal year.

/2/  During 1999 one store site in this group closed. The 1999 average reflects
     121.5 store sites and the 2000 average reflects 121 store sites.

/3/  During 2000 two "in-plant" sites, previously included in the store sites
     number, were reclassified to in-plant status. The new 1999 and 2000
     averages reflect the number of store sites after giving effect to such
     reclassification.

As of December 31, 2000, the Company operated distribution centers in or near
Winona, Minnesota; Indianapolis, Indiana; Dallas, Texas; Atlanta, Georgia;
Scranton, Pennsylvania; Fresno, California; Lakewood, Washington; Akron, Ohio;
Salt Lake City, Utah; Winston-Salem, North Carolina; and Kansas City, Missouri.
Distribution centers are located so as to permit twice-a-week to five times-a-
week deliveries to Company stores using Company trucks and overnight delivery by
surface common carrier. As the number of stores increases, the Company intends
to add new distribution centers. The Company also operates a packaging facility
in Memphis, Tennessee. This facility receives freight containers from foreign
suppliers and repackages the items in standard packages using high-speed
equipment.

The Company operates a central UNIX/terminal-based computer system allowing
automatic data exchange between the stores and the distribution centers. The use
of client/server technology allows the Company's network of UNIX-based machines
to serve networked personal computers and workstations. The Company converted a
portion of this central processing system in both 1999 and 2000 to a new
computer software and operating system and plans to convert additional modules
during 2001 and 2002. At the store level, the Company operates a proprietary
point-of-sale system. This system operates on a Microsoft Windows NT system.



Trademarks

The Company conducts its business in the United States, Canada, and Puerto Rico
under various trademarks and service marks, including Fastenal(R), FastTool(R),
SharpCut(R), EquipRite(R), CleanChoice(R), PowerPhase(TM) and FastArc(TM).
Although the Company does not believe its operations are substantially dependent
upon any of its trademarks or service marks, the Company considers its
"Fastenal" name and other trademarks and service marks to be valuable to its
business.

Products

The Company's original product offering in 1967 was fasteners and other
industrial and construction supplies, many of which are sold under the
Fastenal(R) product name. Today, this product line consists of approximately
68,000 different stock items. This product line may be divided into two broad
categories: threaded fasteners, such as bolts, nuts, screws, studs, and related
washers; and other industrial and construction supplies, such as paints, various
pins and machinery keys, concrete anchors, batteries, sealants, metal framing
systems, wire rope, stainless strut, private label stud anchors, rivets, and
related accessories.

Threaded fasteners are used in most manufactured products and building projects,
and in the maintenance and repair of machines and structures. Although some
aspects of the threaded fastener market are common to all cities, the Company
feels that each city's market is to some extent unique. Therefore, the Company
opens each store with minimal base stocks of inventory and then tailors the
growing inventory to the local market demand as it develops. Threaded fasteners
accounted for approximately 51%, 51%, and 55% of the Company's consolidated net
sales in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Concrete anchors make up the largest portion of the other supply items included
in the Fastenal(R) product line. Most concrete anchors use threaded fasteners as
part of the completed anchor assembly.

During the 1990's, the Company added eight additional product lines. These
product lines are sold through the same distribution channel as the original
Fastenal(R) product line and include the following:



/1/ Excluding gas and welding machines.

The Company plans to add other industrial product lines in the future.



Inventory Control

The Company controls inventory by using computer systems to determine desired
stock levels. The data used for this purpose is derived from reports showing
sales activity by stock item for the previous three years. Computers then
convert this data to typical store maximum-minimum inventory levels for each
stock item. Stores can deviate from preset inventory levels as deemed
appropriate by their district managers. Inventories in distribution centers are
established from computerized sales data for the stores served by the respective
centers.

Manufacturing and Support Services Operations

In 2000 approximately 95.3% of the Company's consolidated net sales were
attributable to products manufactured by other companies to industry standards.
The remaining amount of approximately 4.7% of the Company's consolidated net
sales for 2000 related to products manufactured, modified or repaired by either
the Company's Manufacturing Division or its Support Services. The manufactured
products consist primarily of non-standard sizes of threaded fasteners made to
customers' specifications. The services provided by the Support Services group
include, but are not limited to, items such as tool repair, band saw blade
welding and light manufacturing. The Company engages in these activities
primarily as a service to its customers and expects these activities in the
future to continue to contribute in the range of 5% to 10% of the Company's
consolidated net sales.

Sources of Supply

The Company uses a large number of suppliers for the approximately 195,000
standard stock items it distributes. Most items distributed by the Company can
be purchased from several sources, although preferred sourcing is used for some
stock items to facilitate quality control. No single supplier accounted for more
than 5.0% of the Company's purchases in 2000.



Customers and Marketing

The Company believes its success can be attributed to its ability to offer
customers in small to medium-sized cities a full line of products at convenient
locations, and to the high quality of the Company's employees. Most of the
Company's customers are in the construction and manufacturing markets. The
construction market includes general, electrical, plumbing, sheet metal, and
road contractors. The manufacturing market includes both original equipment
manufacturers and maintenance and repair operations. Other users of the
Company's products include farmers, truckers, railroads, mining companies,
municipalities, schools, and certain retail trades. As of December 31, 2000, the
Company's total number of active customer accounts (defined as accounts having
purchase activity within the last 90 days) was approximately 120,000.

During each of the three years ended December 31, 2000, no one customer
accounted for a significant portion of the Company's sales. The Company believes
that the large number of its customers together with the varied markets that
they represent provide some protection to the Company from economic downturns in
a particular market.

A significant portion of the Company's sales is generated through direct calls
on customers by store personnel. Because of the nature of the Company's
business, the Company does not use the more expensive forms of mass media
advertising such as television, radio, and newspapers. Forms of advertising used
by the Company include signs, catalogs, and direct mailings.

Competition

The Company's business is highly competitive. Competitors include both large
distributors located primarily in large cities and smaller distributors located
in many of the same cities in which the Company has stores. The Company believes
that the principal competitive factors affecting the markets for the Company's
products are customer service and convenience.

Some competitors use vans to sell their products in communities away from their
main warehouses, while others rely on mail order or telemarketing sales. The
Company, however, believes that the convenience provided to customers by
actually operating a number of stores in smaller markets, each offering a wide
variety of products, is a competitive selling advantage and that the large
number of stores in a given area, taken together with the Company's ability to
provide frequent deliveries to such stores from centrally located distribution
centers, makes possible the prompt and efficient distribution of products.
Having trained personnel at each store also enhances the Company's ability to
compete (see "Employees" below).

Employees

As of December 31, 2000, the Company employed a total of 6,477 full and part-
time employees, 4,356 being store managers and store employees, and the balance
being employed in the Company's distribution centers, packaging facility,
manufacturing operations, service operations and home office.




The Company believes that the quality of its employees is critical to its
ability to compete successfully in the markets it currently serves and to its
ability to open new stores in new markets. The Company fosters the growth and
education of skilled employees throughout the organization by operating training
programs and by decentralizing decision making. Wherever possible, promotions
are from within the Company. For example, most new store managers are promoted
from an assistant manager's position at another store and district managers (who
supervise a number of stores) are usually former store managers.

The Company's sales personnel participate in incentive bonus arrangements that
place emphasis on achieving increased sales on a store and regional basis, while
still attaining targeted levels of gross profit. As a result, a significant
portion of the Company's total employment cost varies with sales volume. The
Company also pays incentive bonuses to other personnel for achieving pre-
determined cost containment goals.

None of the Company's employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement
and the Company has experienced no work stoppages. The Company believes its
employee relations are excellent.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

The Company owns six facilities in Winona, Minnesota.  These facilities are as
follows:



The Company also owns the following facilities, excluding store locations,
outside of Winona, Minnesota:



/1/  An 80,000 square foot addition to the Scranton, Pennsylvania distribution
     center is currently being built. The Company expects to complete
     construction late in the second quarter or early in the third quarter of
     2001.
/2/  A new distribution center in Kansas City is currently being built. The
     Company expects to complete construction in third quarter of 2001.




In addition, the Company owns 31 buildings that house the Company's store
locations in various cities throughout the United States.

All other buildings occupied by the Company are leased. Leased stores range from
approximately 1,200 to 8,000 square feet, with lease terms of up to 48 months.
The Company also leases the following distribution centers and packaging
facility:



/1/  The lease renewals can be exercised at the Company's option.
/2/  As previously discussed, the Company is currently in the process of
     building a new distribution center in Kansas City, Kansas.

If economic conditions are suitable, the Company will, in the future, consider
purchasing store sites to house its older stores. It is anticipated that all
sites for new stores will continue to be leased. It is the Company's policy to
negotiate relatively short lease terms to facilitate relocation of particular
store operations if deemed desirable by management. It has been the Company's
experience that space suitable for its needs and available for leasing is more
than sufficient.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

None.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

Not Applicable.




ITEM X.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The executive officers of Fastenal Company are:




Mr. Kierlin has been the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive
Officer of Fastenal Company and has served as a director of Fastenal Company
since Fastenal Company's incorporation in 1968.

Mr. Oberton has been the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of
Fastenal Company since June 2000 and has served as a director of Fastenal
Company since June 1999.  From March 1997 through June 2000, Mr. Oberton held
the position of Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Fastenal Company.
From June 1986 through March 1997, Mr. Oberton held the position of General
Operations Manager of Fastenal Company.

Mr. Lundquist has been Vice President of Sales of Fastenal Company since June
2000.  From April 1997 through June 2000, Mr. Lundquist held the position of
National Sales Manager of Fastenal Company.  From January 1991 through March
1997, Mr. Lundquist was a Regional Manager of Fastenal Company.

Mr. Florness has been the Treasurer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief
Accounting Officer of Fastenal Company since June 1996.  From January 1987
through May 1996, Mr. Florness was employed by KPMG LLP, a public accounting
firm.  Mr. Florness served in the capacity of senior manager from July 1992
through May 1996 with that firm.

Mr. Slaggie has been the Secretary of Fastenal Company and has served as a
director of Fastenal Company since 1970. He became a full-time employee of
Fastenal Company in December 1987, at which time he assumed the additional
duties of Shareholder Relations Director and Insurance Risk Manager.  From 1970
through June 1996, Mr. Slaggie also served as the Treasurer of Fastenal Company.

The executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors, generally for a
term of one year, and serve until their successors are elected and qualified.
None of the above executive officers is related to any other such executive
officer or to any other director of Fastenal Company.




                                    PART II


ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY
         AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Incorporated herein by reference is Fastenal Company's Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, Common Stock Data on
page 8.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Incorporated herein by reference is Fastenal Company's Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, Six-Year Selected
Financial Data on page 4.


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
         FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Incorporated herein by reference is Fastenal Company's Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, Management's
Discussion & Analysis of Financial Condition & Results of Operations on pages
5-7.


ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKS

Incorporated herein by reference is Fastenal Company's Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, Market Risk Management
on page 7.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Incorporated herein by reference is Fastenal Company's Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, Selected Quarterly
Financial Data (Unaudited) on page 8, and Consolidated Financial Statements,
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and Independent Auditors' Report on
pages 9-19.


ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
         ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.




                                   PART III


ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Incorporated herein by reference is the information appearing under the headings
"Election of Directors--Nominees and Required Vote", pages 4 and 5, and "Section
16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance", page 13, in Fastenal Company's
Proxy Statement dated March 6, 2001. See also Part I hereof under the heading
"Item X.  Executive Officers of the Registrant".


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Incorporated herein by reference is the information appearing under the headings
"Election of Directors--Compensation of Directors", page 6, "Executive
Compensation--Summary of Compensation", page 7, "Executive Compensation--
Option/SAR Grants", pages 8 and 9, and "Executive Compensation--Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation", page 9, in Fastenal Company's
Proxy Statement dated March 6, 2001.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
          BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Incorporated herein by reference is the information appearing under the heading
"Security Ownership of Principal Shareholders and Management", pages 2-4, in
Fastenal Company's Proxy Statement dated March 6, 2001.


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

None.



                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES,
          AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

a)   1. Financial Statements:
          Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2000 and 1999
          Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years ended
          December 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998
          Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive
          Income for the years ended
            December 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998
          Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31,
          2000, 1999, and 1998
          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
          Independent Auditors' Report
          (Incorporated by reference to pages 9-19 of Fastenal Company's Annual
          Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000)

     2. Financial Statement Schedules:
          Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

     3. Exhibits:

          3.1  Restated Articles of Incorporation of Fastenal Company, as
               amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Fastenal
               Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1993)

          3.2  Restated By-Laws of Fastenal Company (incorporated by reference
               to Exhibit 3.2 to Registration Statement No. 33-14923)

         10.1  Description of bonus arrangement for Executive Vice President
               (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to Fastenal Company's
               Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997)

         10.2  Description of bonus arrangement for Treasurer (incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Fastenal Company's Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 1998)

         10.3  Description of bonus arrangement for Vice President of Sales

         10.4  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries Stock Appreciation Rights Plan

         13    Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December
               31, 2000 (only those portions specifically incorporated by
               reference herein shall be deemed filed with the Commission)

         21    List of Subsidiaries (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 21 to
               Fastenal Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
               1999)

         23    Consent of KPMG LLP

         Copies of Exhibits will be furnished upon request and payment of the
         Company's reasonable expenses in furnishing the Exhibits.

b)  Reports on Form 8-K

    Fastenal Company filed no reports on Form 8-K during the fourth quarter of
    the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000.





                   Independent Auditors' Report on Schedule



The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Fastenal Company:


Under date of January 16, 2001 we reported on the consolidated balance sheets of
Fastenal Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the
related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders' equity and
comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2000, as contained in the 2000 annual report to
shareholders. These consolidated financial statements and our report thereon are
incorporated by reference in the annual report on Form 10-K for the year 2000.
In connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial
statements, we also audited the related financial statement schedule as listed
in the accompanying index. This financial statement schedule is the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on this financial statement schedule based on our audits.

In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation
to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.



                                         /s/ KPMG LLP
                                         KPMG LLP



Minneapolis, Minnesota
January 16, 2001




                               FASTENAL COMPANY

                Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

                 Years ended December 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998


                                          "Additions"
                            Balance at    charged to                    Balance
                            beginning     costs and      "Less"         at end
             Description     of year      expenses     deductions       of year
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Year ended December 31,
  2000 allowance for
  doubtful accounts        $ 1,400,000  $ 4,496,000    $ 3,658,000   $ 2,238,000

Year ended December 31,
  1999 allowance for
  doubtful accounts        $   740,000  $ 3,566,000    $ 2,906,000   $ 1,400,000

Year ended December 31,
  1998 allowance for
  doubtful accounts        $   660,000  $ 3,493,000    $ 3,413,000   $   740,000




                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: March 5, 2001

FASTENAL COMPANY

By /s/Robert A. Kierlin
   ____________________________________________________
   Robert A. Kierlin, President

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the date indicated.

Date: March 5, 2001

By /s/Robert A. Kierlin                    By  /s/Daniel L. Florness
   -----------------------------------         ---------------------------------
   Robert A. Kierlin, President            Daniel L. Florness, Treasurer
   (Principal Executive Officer) and       (Principal Financial Officer and
     Director                                 Principal Accounting Officer)




By /s/Stephen M. Slaggie                   By  /s/Michael M. Gostomski
   -----------------------------------         ---------------------------------
   Stephen M. Slaggie, Director            Michael M. Gostomski, Director


By /s/Henry K. McConnon                    By  /s/John D. Remick
   -----------------------------------         ---------------------------------
   Henry K. McConnon, Director             John D. Remick, Director


By /s/Robert A. Hansen                     By  /s/Willard D. Oberton
   -----------------------------------     -------------------------------------
   Robert A. Hansen, Director              Willard D. Oberton, Director


By /s/Reyne K. Wisecup                     By  /s/Michael J. Dolan
   -----------------------------------         ---------------------------------
   Reyne K. Wisecup, Director              Michael J. Dolan, Director




                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS


 3.1  Restated Articles of Incorporation of Fastenal
      Company, as amended (incorporated by reference
      to Exhibit 3.1 to Fastenal Company's Form 10-Q
      for the quarter ended September 30, 1993).

 3.2  Restated By-Laws of Fastenal Company
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2
      to Registration Statement No. 33-14923).

10.1  Description of bonus arrangement for Executive Vice President
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10
      to Fastenal Company's Form 10-K for the year
      ended December 31, 1997)

10.2  Description of bonus arrangement for Treasurer
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2
      to Fastenal Company's Form 10-K for the year
      ended December 31, 1998)

10.3  Description of bonus arrangement for Vice
      President of Sales................................... Electronically Filed

10.4  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries Stock
      Appreciation Rights Plan............................. Electronically Filed

13    Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal
      year ended December 31, 2000 (only those
      portions specifically incorporated by reference
      herein shall be deemed filed with the Commission).... Electronically Filed

21    List of Subsidiaries
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 21
      to Fastenal Company's Form 10-K for the year
      ended December 31, 1999)

23    Consent of KPMG LLP.................................. Electronically Filed

