
10-K405
FORM 10K405



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
 
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-8940
 
                          PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC.
 
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
                                    VIRGINIA
 
                        (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF
                         INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)
 
                                   13-3260245
 
                      (I.R.S. EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NO.)
 
                        120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, N.Y.
 
                    (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)
 
 
                                   (ZIP CODE)
 
        REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: 212-880-5000
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 
                              TITLE OF EACH CLASS
 
                           Common Stock, $1 par value
                            NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON
                                WHICH REGISTERED
 
                            New York Stock Exchange
 
                            ------------------------
 
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes /X/  No / /
 
    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  /X/
 
                            ------------------------
 
    At March 6, 1997, the aggregate market value of the shares of Common Stock
held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $107.8 billion. At
such date, there were 809,597,699 shares of the registrant's Common Stock
outstanding.
 
                            ------------------------
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
    Portions of the registrant's annual report to stockholders for the year
ended December 31, 1996, are incorporated in Part I, Part II and Part IV hereof
and made a part hereof. The registrant's definitive proxy statement for use in
connection with its annual meeting of stockholders to be held on April 24, 1997,
is incorporated in Part III hereof and made a part hereof.

                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS.
 
(A) GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS
 
                                    GENERAL
 
    Philip Morris Companies Inc. is a holding company whose principal
wholly-owned subsidiaries, Philip Morris Incorporated, Philip Morris
International Inc., Kraft Foods, Inc., and Miller Brewing Company, are engaged
in the manufacture and sale of various consumer products. A wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company, Philip Morris Capital Corporation, engages in various
financing and investment activities. As used herein, unless the context
indicates otherwise, the term "Company" means Philip Morris Companies Inc. and
its subsidiaries. The Company is the largest consumer packaged goods company in
the world.*
 
    Philip Morris Incorporated ("PM Inc."), which conducts business under the
trade name "Philip Morris U.S.A.," and its subsidiaries and affiliates are
engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes. PM Inc. is the largest
cigarette company in the United States. Philip Morris International Inc.
("Philip Morris International") is a holding company whose subsidiaries and
affiliates and their licensees are engaged primarily in the manufacture and sale
of tobacco products (mainly cigarettes) internationally. A subsidiary of Philip
Morris International is the leading United States exporter of cigarettes.
MARLBORO, the principal cigarette brand of these companies, has been the world's
largest-selling cigarette brand since 1972. Certain subsidiaries and affiliates
of Philip Morris International manufacture and sell a wide variety of food
products in Latin America.
 
    Kraft Foods, Inc. ("Kraft"), is the largest processor and marketer of retail
packaged foods in the United States. A wide variety of cheese, processed meat
products, coffee and grocery products are manufactured and marketed in the
United States and Canada by Kraft. Subsidiaries and affiliates of Kraft Foods
International, Inc. ("Kraft Foods International"), a subsidiary of Kraft,
manufacture and market coffee, confectionery, cheese, grocery and processed meat
products in Europe and the Asia/Pacific region.
 
    Miller Brewing Company ("Miller") is the second largest brewing company in
the United States.
 
                           SOURCE OF FUNDS--DIVIDENDS
 
    Because the Company is a holding company, its principal source of funds is
dividends from its subsidiaries. The Company's principal wholly-owned
subsidiaries currently are not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in
their ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to
their common stock.
 
(B) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS
 
    In 1996, the Company's significant industry segments were tobacco products
(principally cigarettes), food products, beer, and financial services and real
estate. Operating revenues, operating profit (together with a reconciliation to
operating income) and identifiable assets attributable to each such segment for
each of the last three years are set forth in Note 10 to the Company's
consolidated financial statements and are incorporated herein by reference to
the Company's annual report to stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1996
(the "1996 Annual Report").
 
    In 1996, operating profit from tobacco products was approximately 67% of the
Company's total operating profit (up from 65% in 1995), with PM Inc. and Philip
Morris International contributing 34% and 33%, respectively (compared with 34%
and 31%, respectively, in 1995). Food products, beer, and
 
- ------------------------
 
*   References to the Company's competitive ranking in its various businesses
    are based on sales data or, in the case of cigarettes and beer, shipments,
    unless otherwise indicated.
 

financial services and real estate accounted for approximately 27%, 4% and 2%,
respectively, of the Company's total operating profit in 1996 (compared with
29%, 4% and 2%, respectively, in 1995).
 
(C) NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
 
                                TOBACCO PRODUCTS
 
    PM Inc. manufactures, markets and sells cigarettes in the United States
(including military sales). Subsidiaries and affiliates of Philip Morris
International and their licensees manufacture, market and sell tobacco products
outside the United States and export tobacco products from the United States.
 
DOMESTIC TOBACCO PRODUCTS
 
    PM Inc. is the largest tobacco company in the United States, with total
cigarette shipments in the United States of 230.8 billion units in 1996 (an
increase of 4.1% from 1995), accounting for 47.8% of the cigarette industry's
total estimated shipments in the United States (an increase of 1.7 share points
from 1995). The industry's estimated cigarette shipments in the United States
increased by 0.4% in 1996, compared with 1995, due to two additional shipping
days in 1996 and distributor buying patterns. While PM Inc. cannot predict
future growth rates, it believes that, over the long term, the United States
industry's shipments will continue to decline in line with their historical
average decline of 1% to 2% per annum. The following table sets forth the
industry's estimated cigarette shipments in the United States, PM Inc.'s
shipments and its share of United States industry shipments:
 

 
    PM Inc.'s major premium brands are MARLBORO, BENSON & HEDGES, MERIT,
VIRGINIA SLIMS and PARLIAMENT. Its principal discount brands are BASIC and
CAMBRIDGE. All of its brands are marketed to satisfy differing preferences of
adult smokers. PM Inc. has been the leading cigarette company in the United
States market since 1983.+ MARLBORO is the largest selling cigarette brand in
the United States, with shipments of 156.2 billion units in 1996 (up 7.8% from
1995), equating to 32.3% of the United States market (up from 30.1% in 1995).
 
    In 1996, the premium and discount segments accounted for approximately 71.6%
and 28.4%, respectively, of domestic cigarette industry volume, versus
approximately 70% and 30%, respectively, in 1995, reflecting a continued shift
to the higher-margin premium segment, which began in the second half of 1993.
 
    In 1996, PM Inc.'s share of the premium segment was 56.3%, an increase of
1.9 share points over 1995. Shipments of premium cigarettes accounted for 84.4%
of PM Inc.'s 1996 volume, up from 82.7% in 1995. In 1996, United States industry
shipments within the discount segment declined 4.9% from 1995 levels; PM Inc.'s
1996 shipments within this category declined 6.3%, resulting in a share of 26.2%
of the discount segment (down 0.4 share points from 1995).
 
    PM Inc. cannot predict future change or rates of change in the relative
sizes of the premium and discount segments or in PM Inc.'s shipments, market
share (based on shipments) or retail market share.
 
- ------------------------
*   Source: Wheat, First Securities, Inc., publishers of The Maxwell Consumer
    Report.
 
+   Source: The Maxwell Consumer Report (issued by Wheat, First Securities,
    Inc.).
 

INTERNATIONAL TOBACCO PRODUCTS
 
    Philip Morris International's total cigarette shipments grew 11.3% in 1996,
to approximately 660 billion units, including approximately 17 billion units of
local Polish brands acquired in 1996 (see discussion below). Philip Morris
International's share of the world cigarette market (excluding the United
States) was approximately 13% in 1996, up from approximately 12% in 1995. Philip
Morris International estimates that world cigarette industry unit shipments
(excluding the United States) were approximately 5.1 trillion units in 1996,
which represents a compounded annual increase of approximately 1% per year over
the last five years. Philip Morris International estimates that the
American-style segment of the world market (excluding the United States), of
which it accounts for approximately 36%, has increased at a compounded annual
rate of more than 3% per year over the last five years. It also estimates that
the American-style segment constituted approximately 32% of the world cigarette
market (excluding the United States) in 1996, up from approximately 31% in 1995.
Unit sales of Philip Morris International's principal brand, MARLBORO, increased
9.2% in 1996 over 1995, to 302.2 billion units, nearly 6% of the world cigarette
market (excluding the United States).
 
    Philip Morris International has a cigarette market share of at least
15%--and in a number of instances substantially more than 15%--in more than 40
markets, including Argentina, Australia, Belgium, the Canary Islands, the Czech
Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands,
the Philippines, Poland, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland and Turkey. Philip Morris
International's leading international brands are MARLBORO, L&M, PHILIP MORRIS,
BOND STREET, CHESTERFIELD, LARK, PARLIAMENT, MERIT and VIRGINIA SLIMS.
 
    In 1996, Philip Morris International increased capacity and improved
productivity through various acquisitions and capital projects. During the year,
Philip Morris International acquired a controlling interest in Poland's largest
tobacco company, Zaklady Przemyslu Tytoniowego w Krakowie S.A. Also in 1996,
Philip Morris International began exports for selected Asian markets from its
newly completed leaf-processing facility in Malaysia, and expanded its
infrastructure by investing in manufacturing and distribution facilities in
Europe and by opening additional sales and representative offices in Eastern
Europe. In January 1997, Philip Morris International acquired a controlling
interest in Tabaqueira-Empresa Industrial de Tabacos, S.A., Portugal's formerly
state-owned tobacco company.
 
TAXES, LEGISLATION, REGULATION AND OTHER MATTERS REGARDING TOBACCO AND SMOKING
 
    The tobacco industry, both in the United States and abroad, has faced, and
continues to face, a number of issues that may adversely affect volume,
operating revenues and operating profit of PM Inc., Philip Morris International
and the Company. These issues include tax increases, health concerns relating to
the use of tobacco products and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke ("ETS"),
governmental regulation, privately imposed smoking restrictions, governmental
and grand jury investigations, decreasing social acceptance of smoking,
increased pressure from anti-smoking groups and unfavorable press reports.
 
    Cigarettes are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States and
to similar taxes in most foreign markets. The United States federal excise tax
on cigarettes, last increased in 1993, is $12 per 1,000 cigarettes ($0.24 per
pack of 20 cigarettes). Recently, several measures have been proposed to
increase the federal excise tax on cigarettes. In general, excise taxes, sales
taxes and other cigarette-related taxes levied by various states, counties and
municipalities have been increasing, and additional increases have been proposed
in a number of states. These taxes vary considerably and, when combined with the
current federal excise tax, may be as high as $1.28 per pack.
 
    In the opinion of PM Inc. and Philip Morris International, past increases in
excise and similar taxes have had an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes. Any
future increases, the extent of which cannot be predicted, could result in
volume declines for the cigarette industry, including PM Inc. and Philip Morris
International, and might cause shifts from the premium segment to the discount
segment.
 

    Reports with respect to the alleged harmful physical effects of cigarette
smoking have been publicized for many years, and the sale, promotion and use of
cigarettes continue to be subject to increasing governmental regulation. Since
1964, the Surgeon General of the United States and the Secretary of Health and
Human Services have released a number of reports purporting to link cigarette
smoking with a broad range of health hazards, including various types of cancer,
coronary heart disease and chronic lung disease, and recommending various
governmental measures to reduce the incidence of smoking. The 1988, 1990, 1992
and 1994 reports focus upon the purported "addictive" nature of cigarettes, the
purported effects of smoking cessation, the decrease in smoking in the United
States and the economic and regulatory aspects of smoking in the Western
Hemisphere, and cigarette smoking by adolescents, particularly the purported
"addictive" nature of cigarette smoking in adolescence.
 
    In 1996, the journal SCIENCE reported the results of a study that suggest
that a metabolite of a chemical found in cigarette smoke may be involved in a
cellular mechanism leading to lung cancer. The Company believes that the study
merits careful review.
 
    The Comprehensive Smoking Education Act (the "Smoking Education Act"),
enacted in 1984, requires cigarette manufacturers and importers to include the
following warning statements in rotating sequence on cigarette packages and in
advertisements: "SURGEON GENERAL'S WARNING: Smoking Causes Lung Cancer, Heart
Disease, Emphysema, And May Complicate Pregnancy"; "SURGEON GENERAL'S WARNING:
Quitting Smoking Now Greatly Reduces Serious Risks to Your Health"; "SURGEON
GENERAL'S WARNING: Smoking By Pregnant Women May Result in Fetal Injury,
Premature Birth, And Low Birth Weight"; and "SURGEON GENERAL'S WARNING:
Cigarette Smoke Contains Carbon Monoxide." The Smoking Education Act also covers
the size and format of warnings on cigarette packages and in cigarette
advertising, and prescribes a modified version of the warnings for outdoor
billboard advertisements. In addition to the warning statements, pursuant to an
agreement sanctioned by the Federal Trade Commission (the "FTC"), cigarette
advertising in the United States must disclose the average "tar" and nicotine
yields of the advertised brand or variety. The FTC is considering proposing
changes to the existing method of measuring and disclosing "tar" and nicotine
yields.
 
    Cigarette manufacturers and importers are also required to provide annually
to the Secretary of Health and Human Services a list of ingredients added to
tobacco in the manufacture of cigarettes, and the Secretary is directed to
report to Congress concerning the health effects, if any, of such ingredients.
 
    Most of the cigarettes sold by Philip Morris International are sold in
countries where warning statement requirements for cigarette packages have been
adopted. In markets where such statements are not legally required, Philip
Morris International's policy is to place the United States Surgeon General's
warnings on all cigarette packages.
 
    Studies with respect to the alleged health risk to nonsmokers of ETS have
received significant publicity. In 1986, the Surgeon General of the United
States and the National Academy of Sciences reported that nonsmokers were at
increased risk of lung cancer and respiratory illness due to ETS. In January
1993, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") issued a
report concluding, among other things, that ETS is a human lung carcinogen and
that ETS increases certain health risks for young children. In June 1993, PM
Inc. joined five other representatives of the tobacco manufacturing and related
industries in a lawsuit against the EPA, seeking a declaration that the EPA does
not have the authority to regulate ETS, and that, in view of the available
scientific evidence and the EPA's failure to follow its own guidelines in making
the determination, the EPA's final risk assessment be declared arbitrary and
capricious and ordered withdrawn. The outcome of this lawsuit cannot be
predicted. The EPA report, together with adverse publicity on ETS, have resulted
in the enactment of legislation and privately imposed limitations that restrict
or ban cigarette smoking in certain public places and some places of employment.
It has been reported that the International Agency for Research on Cancer of the
World Health Organization is conducting research on ETS that may be published
during 1997.
 

    Enactments by regulatory agencies and other governmental authorities,
together with private initiatives, have restricted or prohibited smoking aboard
certain common carriers, including domestic and certain international commercial
airline flights, in certain public places and in some places of employment.
 
    In April 1994, the United States Occupational Safety and Health
Administration ("OSHA") issued a proposed rule that could, as a practical
matter, ultimately ban smoking in the workplace. Hearings on this proposed rule
were held from September 1994 through March 1995. The period for post-hearing
submissions on the proposed rule ended in February 1996. OSHA has not yet issued
either a final rule or a proposed revised rule.
 
    Television and radio advertising of cigarettes is prohibited in the United
States, and prohibited or restricted in many other countries. In June 1995, PM
Inc. entered into a consent decree with the Department of Justice, pursuant to
which it agreed to reposition its brand advertising at professional football,
baseball, basketball and hockey arenas so as to minimize incidental television
coverage.
 
    In June 1992, the Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Act was
reauthorized. This act requires states to adopt a minimum age of at least 18 for
purchases of tobacco products and to establish a system to monitor, report and
reduce the illegal sale of tobacco products to minors in order to continue
receiving federal funding for mental health and drug abuse programs. In January
1996, regulations implementing this legislation were announced by the Department
of Health and Human Services.
 
    In June 1995, PM Inc. announced that it had voluntarily undertaken a program
to limit minors' access to cigarettes. Elements of the program include
discontinuing free cigarette sampling to consumers in the United States,
discontinuing the distribution of cigarettes by mail to consumers in the United
States, placing a notice on cigarette cartons and packs for sale in the United
States stating "Underage Sale Prohibited," working with others in support of
state legislation to prevent youth access to tobacco products, taking measures
to encourage retailer compliance with minimum-age laws, and independent auditing
of the program.
 
    In May 1996, PM Inc. proposed that comprehensive federal legislation be
enacted to respond to concerns by the President and others regarding the use of
tobacco products by minors. The proposed legislation would establish a federal
minimum age of 18 for the sale of tobacco products, and would ban, restrict or
otherwise limit the following, among other things: cigarette vending machines;
tobacco product brand names, logos, characters and selling messages displayed on
non-tobacco-related items such as hats or T-shirts; tobacco product sponsorship
of events with significant youth audiences; outdoor advertisements for tobacco
products within 1,000 feet of any playground or elementary or secondary school,
including outward-facing window display advertising; advertisements for tobacco
products in or on trains, buses, subways and taxis, and in terminals, stations,
platforms or stops for these vehicles; and advertisements for tobacco products
in youth-oriented publications. The proposed legislation would restrict youth
access to tobacco products by calling for a ban on the sale of single cigarettes
or packs with fewer than 20 cigarettes; requiring all tobacco sales to be
face-to-face where proof of age can be verified for anyone appearing under age
21; mandating that tobacco products in retail establishments be displayed within
the control or line of sight of an employee; banning sampling except in
locations where minors are denied access; and requiring retailers and their
employees to certify that they understand and will comply with minimum-age laws.
To ensure compliance, the proposed legislation calls for penalties of up to
$50,000 for violations by a tobacco manufacturer. The proposed legislation also
calls for a $250 million contribution from the tobacco industry (based on market
share) over a five-year period to assist the government and others in
implementation and enforcement. The proposed legislation, which as of yet has
not been introduced into either house of Congress, would preclude the United
States Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") from regulating tobacco
products, except with respect to brands for which a manufacturer makes an
express health claim to consumers.
 
    In August 1996, the FDA issued final regulations purportedly designed to
reduce youth smoking. In the regulations, the FDA purports to exercise
jurisdiction over cigarettes as a "medical device" (a "nicotine
 

delivery system") under the provisions of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. The
final regulations include severe restrictions on the distribution, marketing and
advertising of cigarettes, and would require the industry to comply with a wide
range of labeling, reporting, recordkeeping, manufacturing, and other
requirements applicable to medical devices and their manufacturers. For the most
part, the regulations are scheduled to become effective on August 28, 1997. The
FDA's exercise of jurisdiction, if not reversed by judicial or legislative
action, could lead to more expansive FDA-imposed restrictions on cigarette
operations than those set forth in the final regulations, and could adversely
affect the volume, operating revenues and operating profit of PM Inc. in amounts
that cannot be determined. PM Inc. and other domestic cigarette manufacturers
and an advertising firm have sued the FDA, seeking a judicial declaration that
the FDA has no authority to regulate cigarettes and asking the court to
permanently enjoin the FDA from enforcing its regulations. Similar suits have
been filed against the FDA by manufacturers of smokeless tobacco products, by a
trade association of cigarette retailers and by advertising agency associations.
A hearing on the plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment was held on February
10, 1997. The outcome of the litigation challenging the FDA regulations cannot
be predicted.
 
    In August 1996, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts enacted legislation that
would require cigarette manufacturers to disclose the flavorings and other
ingredients used in each brand of cigarettes sold in the Commonwealth, and to
provide "nicotine-yield ratings" for their products based on standards to be
established by the Massachusetts Department of Public Health. PM Inc. believes
that enforcement of the statute, which is scheduled to take effect on July 1,
1997, could require the disclosure of valuable proprietary information
concerning its brands. PM Inc. and three other domestic cigarette manufacturers
have filed suit in federal district court in Boston challenging the legislation
as being preempted by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act (the
"Labeling Act") and as violating the commerce, full faith and credit, due
process and takings clauses of the U.S. Constitution. In February 1997, the
court ruled on summary judgment motions that the Labeling Act does not preempt
the requirement that ingredient information be provided to the Commonwealth. The
plaintiffs intend to appeal that decision, and will continue to assert their
other constitutional claims. The ultimate outcome of this lawsuit cannot be
predicted. The enactment of this legislation has encouraged, and continues to
encourage, efforts to enact similar legislation in other states. The Department
of Public Health has proposed regulations to implement the Massachusetts
legislation, and has invited public comment on the proposed regulations. PM Inc.
and three other domestic cigarette manufacturers filed comments objecting to the
proposed regulations. Final regulations have not been issued.
 
    For several years, Congress has provided funds for the development of test
methodologies and standards aimed at measuring the propensity of cigarettes to
ignite upholstered furniture or mattresses. The Company cannot predict whether
these efforts will result in further legislation or regulation.
 
    In recent years, various members of Congress have introduced
legislation--some of which has been the subject of hearings or floor
debate--that would subject cigarettes to various regulations under the
Department of Health and Human Services or regulation under the Consumer
Products Safety Act, establish anti-smoking educational campaigns or
anti-smoking programs, or provide additional funding for governmental
anti-smoking activities, further restrict the advertising of cigarettes,
including requiring additional warnings on packages and in advertising, provide
that the Labeling Act and the Smoking Education Act could not be used as a
defense against liability under state statutory or common law, allow state and
local governments to restrict the sale and distribution of cigarettes, and
further restrict certain advertising of cigarettes and eliminate or reduce the
tax deductibility of tobacco advertising.
 
    Some foreign countries have also taken steps to restrict or prohibit
cigarette advertising and promotion, to require ingredient disclosure, to impose
maximum constituent levels, to increase taxes on cigarettes, to control prices,
to restrict imports, to ban or severely restrict smoking in workplaces and
public places, and otherwise to discourage cigarette smoking.
 

    It is not possible to determine the outcome of the FDA regulatory initiative
or the related litigation, or to predict what, if any, other foreign or domestic
governmental legislation or regulations will be adopted relating to the
manufacturing, advertising, sale or use of cigarettes, or to the tobacco
industry generally. However, if any or all of the foregoing were to be
implemented, the volume, operating revenues and operating profit of PM Inc.,
Philip Morris International and the Company could be adversely affected, in
amounts that cannot be determined.
 
    PM Inc. has received requests for information (including grand jury
subpoenas) in connection with governmental investigations of the tobacco
industry, and is cooperating with respect to such requests. Certain present and
former employees of PM Inc. have testified or have been asked to testify in
connection with certain of these matters. The investigations are as follows:
 
    An investigation by the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of
New York relating to The Council for Tobacco Research-U.S.A., Inc., a research
organization of which PM Inc. is a sponsor; and an investigation by the United
States Department of Justice relating to issues raised in testimony provided by
tobacco industry executives before Congress and other related matters.
 
    PM Inc. has been informed that an investigation by the United States
Attorney for the Southern District of New York, which had been initiated
following the publication of an article in THE NEW YORK TIMES that made
allegations about PM Inc. documents and supposedly secret research relating to
nicotine, has been consolidated with the United States Department of Justice
investigation discussed immediately above.
 
    While the outcomes of these investigations cannot be predicted, PM Inc.
believes it has acted lawfully.
 
    PM Inc. has been informed that previously reported investigations by the
United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia relating to Healthy
Buildings International, Inc., and by the United States Department of Justice
relating to the possibility of alleged joint activity to restrain competition in
the manufacture and sale of cigarettes, have been closed.
 
    In July 1996, an affiliate of Philip Morris International received a request
for information from the Competition Directorate of the European Commission
concerning the relationship of certain affiliates of Philip Morris International
with the Italian state cigarette monopoly. Philip Morris International and its
affiliates believe that they have acted in accordance with European Community
law.
 
SMOKING AND HEALTH LITIGATION
 
    Note 13 to the Company's consolidated financial statements ("Note 13"),
incorporated herein by reference to the Company's 1996 Annual Report, describes
certain litigation pending against the Company and its subsidiaries and related
entities. Item 3 herein describes certain subsequent developments in such
litigation. Further reference is made to such Note 13 and Item 3.
 
    During 1996, press reports discussed proposals to forge a comprehensive
legislative solution to smoking and health claims against the tobacco industry.
The Company believes that any such legislation would involve significant, and
perhaps insurmountable, difficulties in reconciling the views of many competing
interests. However, the Company will explore all reasonable measures that may be
in the best interests of its shareholders and, toward that end, may enter into
discussions with appropriate parties. Were that to happen, the Company would not
contemplate making any further comment as to the existence or progress of any
such discussions. In any event, the Company continues to believe that it has a
number of valid defenses to the smoking and health cases pending against it and
will continue to defend all cases vigorously.
 

DISTRIBUTION, COMPETITION AND RAW MATERIALS
 
    PM Inc. sells its tobacco products principally to wholesalers (including
distributors), large retail organizations, including chain stores, vending
machine operators and the armed services. Subsidiaries and affiliates of Philip
Morris International and their licensees market cigarettes and other tobacco
products worldwide, directly or through export sales organizations and other
entities with which they have contractual arrangements.
 
    The market for tobacco products is highly competitive, characterized by
brand recognition and loyalty, with product quality, price, marketing and
packaging constituting the significant methods of competition. Promotional
activities include, in certain instances, allowances, the use of incentive
items, price reductions and other discounts. The tobacco products of the
Company's subsidiaries, affiliates and their licensees are advertised and
promoted through various media, although television and radio advertising of
cigarettes is prohibited in the United States and is prohibited or restricted in
many other countries.
 
    PM Inc. and Philip Morris International's subsidiaries and affiliates and
their licensees purchase domestic burley and flue-cured leaf tobaccos of various
grades and types each year, primarily at domestic auction. In addition, oriental
tobacco and certain other tobaccos are purchased outside the United States. The
tobacco is then graded, cleaned, stemmed and redried prior to its storage for
aging up to three years. Large quantities of leaf tobacco inventory are
maintained to support cigarette manufacturing requirements. Tobacco is an
agricultural commodity subject to United States government controls, including
the tobacco price support (subject to Congressional review) and production
adjustment programs administered by the United States Department of Agriculture
(the "USDA"), either of which can substantially affect market prices. PM Inc.
and Philip Morris International believe there is an adequate supply of tobacco
in the world markets to satisfy their current production requirements.
 
                                 FOOD PRODUCTS
 
    During 1995, 1996 and the first quarter of 1997, Kraft sold several domestic
and international food businesses, including its bakery business, its North
American margarine, specialty oils, marshmallows, caramels and Kraft Foodservice
distribution businesses, its bagel business, its sugar confectionery business in
Scandinavia, its margarine businesses in the U.K. and Italy, and several small
international food businesses. The sales of these businesses have not had and
are not expected to have a material effect on the Company's results of
operations and have improved the profit margins of its food operations.
 
NORTH AMERICA
 
    Kraft is the largest packaged food company in North America. Kraft's
principal products include cheese and cheese products, processed meat and
poultry products, coffee, ready-to-eat cereals, salad and other dressings,
powdered and ready-to-drink beverages, frozen pizza, packaged and refrigerated
desserts and snacks, packaged pasta dinners, lunch combinations, barbecue
sauces, frozen toppings and other cultured dairy and grocery products. Its
principal brands include KRAFT, VELVEETA and CRACKER BARREL cheese and cheese
products, PHILADELPHIA BRAND cream cheese, CHEEZ WHIZ cheese sauce, OSCAR MAYER
luncheon meats, hot dogs, bacon, ham and other meat products, LOUIS RICH
luncheon meats, poultry franks, turkey bacon and other poultry products,
LUNCHABLES lunch combinations, CLAUSSEN pickles, MAXWELL HOUSE, YUBAN and NABOB
coffees, GENERAL FOODS INTERNATIONAL COFFEES flavored coffees, POST ready-to-eat
cereals, MIRACLE WHIP salad dressing, KRAFT spoonable and pourable salad
dressings, KOOL-AID, TANG, CAPRI SUN, CRYSTAL LIGHT and COUNTRY TIME powdered
and ready-to-drink beverages, TOMBSTONE and JACK'S frozen pizzas and DIGIORNO
pastas, sauces, cheeses and frozen pizzas, JELL-O desserts, HANDI-SNACKS snacks,
KRAFT MACARONI & CHEESE dinners, KRAFT and BULL'S-EYE barbecue sauces, COOL WHIP
whipped toppings, STOVE TOP stuffing mix, MINUTE rice, LOG CABIN syrups, SHAKE
'N BAKE coatings, LIGHT N' LIVELY cultured dairy products, and TACO BELL grocery
products (acquired by Kraft in August 1996).
 

INTERNATIONAL
 
    Subsidiaries and affiliates of Kraft Foods International manufacture and
market a wide variety of coffee, confectionery, cheese and grocery and processed
meat products in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and the Asia/Pacific region. In
Latin America, subsidiaries and affiliates of Philip Morris International
manufacture and market a wide variety of food products, including ice cream,
various powdered soft drinks and a number of the other products sold by Kraft.
In 1996, approximately 82% of operating revenues for the international foods
businesses were derived from sales made in Europe. International brands include
a wide variety of the products sold by Kraft in North America, as well as JACOBS
CAFE, GEVALIA, CARTE NOIRE, JACQUES VABRE, KAFFE HAG, GRAND' MERE, KENCO,
SAIMAZA and SPLENDID coffees, MILKA, SUCHARD, KIBON, COTE D'OR, MARABOU,
TOBLERONE, FREIA, TERRY'S, DAIM and CALLARD & BOWSER confectionery products,
HOLLYWOOD chewing gum, DAIRYLEA, EL CASERIO and INVERNIZZI cheeses, MIRACOLI
pasta dinners and sauces, VEGEMITE spread, ESTRELLA and MAARUD snacks and
SIMMENTHAL meats. In 1996, Philip Morris International acquired nearly all of
the remaining voting shares of Industrias de Chocolate Lacta S.A., the leading
confectionery company in Brazil.
 
DISTRIBUTION, COMPETITION AND RAW MATERIALS
 
    Kraft's products in North America are generally sold to supermarket chains,
wholesalers, club stores, mass merchandisers, distributors, individual stores
and other retail food outlets. Products are distributed through distribution
centers, satellite warehouses, company-operated and public cold-storage
facilities, depots and other facilities. Selling efforts are assisted by
national and regional advertising on television and radio and in magazines and
newspapers, as well as by sales promotions, product displays, trade incentives,
informative material offered to customers and other promotional activities.
Subsidiaries and affiliates of Kraft Foods International and Philip Morris
International sell their food products primarily in the same manner and also
through sales offices and agents. Advertising is tailored by product and country
to reach targeted audiences.
 
    Kraft is subject to highly competitive conditions in all aspects of its
business. Competitors include large national and international companies and
numerous local and regional companies. Its food products also compete with
generic products and private label products of food retailers, wholesalers and
cooperatives. Kraft competes primarily on the basis of product quality, service,
marketing, advertising and price.
 
    Kraft is a major purchaser of milk, cheese, green coffee beans, poultry,
meat cuts, wheat, cocoa, hazelnuts, vegetable oil, fruits and berries, and sugar
and other sweeteners. Kraft continuously monitors worldwide supply and cost
trends of these commodities to enable it to take appropriate action to obtain
ingredients needed for production.
 
    Kraft purchases all of its milk requirements and a substantial portion of
its cheddar cheese requirements from independent sources, principally from
cooperatives and individual producers. The prices for United States milk and
other dairy product purchases are substantially influenced by government
programs, as well as market supply and demand.
 
    The most significant cost item in coffee products is green coffee beans,
which are purchased on world markets. Green coffee bean prices are affected by
the quality and availability of supply, trade agreements among producing and
consuming nations, the unilateral policies of the producing nations, changes in
the value of the United States dollar in relation to certain other currencies
and consumer demand for coffee products.
 
    The purchase price of poultry and meat cuts is the major factor in the cost
of Kraft's processed meat products. Poultry and meat prices are cyclical and are
affected by market supply and demand. Meats for OSCAR MAYER processed products
are provided primarily by full-lot quantity purchases.
 

    Kraft is also a major user of packaging materials purchased from many
suppliers.
 
    The prices paid for raw materials used in food products generally reflect
external factors such as weather conditions, commodity market activities,
currency fluctuations, and the effects of governmental agricultural programs.
Although the prices of the principal raw materials can be expected to fluctuate
as a result of government actions and/or market forces (which would directly
affect the cost of products and value of inventories), Kraft and Philip Morris
International believe such raw materials to be generally available from numerous
sources and in adequate supply.
 
REGULATION
 
    Almost all of Kraft's United States food products (and packaging materials
therefor) are subject to regulations administered by the FDA or, with respect to
products containing meat and poultry, the USDA. Among other things, these
agencies enforce statutory prohibitions against misbranded and adulterated
foods, establish ingredients and/or manufacturing procedures for certain
standard foods, establish standards of identity for food, determine the safety
of food substances, and establish labeling standards and nutrition labeling
requirements for food products.
 
    In addition, various states regulate the business of Kraft's United States
operating units by licensing dairy plants, enforcing federal and state standards
of identity for food, grading food products, inspecting plants, regulating
certain trade practices in connection with the sale of dairy products and
imposing their own labeling requirements on food products.
 
    Many of the food commodities on which Kraft's United States businesses rely
are subject to governmental agricultural programs. These programs have
substantial effects on prices and supplies and are subject to Congressional
review.
 
    Almost all of the activities of the Company's food operations outside of the
United States are subject to regulations similar to those applicable to Kraft's
United States businesses and are subject to local and national and, in some
cases, international (such as the European Union) regulatory provisions. The
rules and regulations relate to labeling, packaging, food content, pricing,
marketing and advertising, and related areas.
 
                                      BEER
 
PRODUCTS
 
    Miller's brands include MILLER LITE, MILLER LITE ICE, MILLER GENUINE DRAFT,
MILLER GENUINE DRAFT LIGHT, MILLER BEER and ICEHOUSE in the premium segment; the
MILLER HIGH LIFE family, including MILLER HIGH LIFE, MILLER HIGH LIFE LIGHT and
MILLER HIGH LIFE ICE, and RED DOG in the near-premium segment; LOWENBRAU, brewed
and sold in the United States under license from Lowenbrau Munchen AG in the
above-premium segment; MEISTER BRAU, MILWAUKEE'S BEST and MAGNUM MALT LIQUOR in
the below-premium segment; and SHARP'S non-alcohol brew. Competing in the
specialty segment are the LEINENKUGEL, CELIS and SHIPYARD brands. Miller also
owns and operates Molson Breweries U.S.A. Inc., the second largest beer importer
in the United States, whose brands include MOLSON, FOSTER'S and ASAHI. Shipment
volume for Miller, including imports, exports and non-alcohol brew, decreased
2.7% in 1996, compared with 1995, while the U.S. industry was up 1.8%. Despite
higher shipments of MILLER LITE in 1996, shipments of premium-priced brands
decreased, as did shipments of budget-priced brands. Lower volume was due to
softness in most of Miller's brands and intense competition. Miller's share of
the U.S. industry (based on shipments) was 21.6%, down 1.0 share point from
1995. Despite lower overall volume, Miller's premium shipments increased to
82.5% from 81.8% of Miller's total shipments.
 

    The following table sets forth, based on shipments, the U.S. industry's
sales of beer and brewed non-alcohol beverages, as estimated by Miller, Miller's
unit sales and its estimated share of industry sales:
 

 
    During 1996, Miller took a number of actions intended to restore growth,
streamline its organization and reduce costs, including a workforce reduction.
 
DISTRIBUTION, COMPETITION AND RAW MATERIALS
 
    Beer products are distributed primarily through independent beer
wholesalers. The United States malt beverage industry is highly competitive,
with the principal methods of competition being product quality, price,
distribution, marketing and advertising. Miller engages in a wide variety of
advertising and sales promotion activities. Barley, hops, corn and water
represent the principal ingredients used in manufacturing Miller's beer
products, and are generally available in the market. The production process,
which includes fermentation and aging periods, is conducted throughout the year,
and at any one time Miller has on hand only a small quantity of finished
products. Containers (bottles, cans and kegs) for beer products are purchased
from various suppliers.
 
REGULATION
 
    The Alcoholic Beverage Labeling Act of 1988 requires all alcoholic beverages
manufactured for sale in the United States to include the following warning
statement on containers: "GOVERNMENT WARNING: (1) According to the Surgeon
General, women should not drink alcoholic beverages during pregnancy because of
the risk of birth defects; (2) Consumption of alcoholic beverages impairs your
ability to drive a car or operate machinery and may cause health problems." The
statute empowers the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms to regulate the
size and format of the warning.
 
    The federal excise tax is 32 cents per package of six 12-ounce containers.
Excise taxes, sales taxes and other taxes affecting beer are also levied by
various states, counties and municipalities. In the opinion of Miller, increases
in excise taxes have had, and could continue to have, an adverse effect on
shipments.
 
    Advertising of alcoholic beverages, including beer, has come under
increasing scrutiny by governmental agencies, and others. The FTC's Division of
Advertising Practices is conducting an investigation of advertising of alcoholic
beverages. As part of its investigation, the Division of Advertising Practices
has issued to Miller a voluntary request for certain information and materials
relating to Miller's advertising. Miller is cooperating with this request. While
the outcome of the investigation cannot be predicted, Miller believes it has
acted lawfully.
 
                       FINANCIAL SERVICES AND REAL ESTATE
 
    Philip Morris Capital Corporation ("PMCC") invests in leveraged and direct
finance leases, other tax-oriented financing transactions, third-party financial
instruments, and engages in various financing activities for customers and
suppliers of the Company's subsidiaries. Mission Viejo Company, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of PMCC, is engaged in land planning, development and sales
activities in Southern California and in the Denver, Colorado, area. Total
assets of PMCC increased to $5.9 billion at December 31, 1996, compared with
$5.6 billion at December 31, 1995, reflecting an increase in net finance assets.
 

                                 OTHER MATTERS
 
CUSTOMERS
 
    None of the Company's business segments is dependent upon a single customer
or a few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on
the Company's results of operations.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
    At December 31, 1996, the Company employed approximately 154,000 people
worldwide.
 
TRADEMARKS
 
    Trademarks are of material importance to all three of the Company's consumer
products businesses and are protected by registration or otherwise in the United
States and most other markets where the related products are sold.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION
 
    The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to various federal, state and
local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the
environment, or otherwise related to environmental protection, including the
Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act,
which imposes joint and several liability on each responsible party (commonly
known as "Superfund"). In 1996, subsidiaries (or former subsidiaries) of the
Company were involved in approximately 197 matters subjecting them to potential
remediation costs under Superfund or otherwise. The Company and its subsidiaries
expect to continue to make capital and other expenditures in connection with
environmental laws and regulations. Although it is not possible to predict
precise levels of environmental-related expenditures, compliance with such laws
and regulations, including the payment of any remediation costs and the making
of such expenditures, have not had and are not expected to have a material
adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, capital expenditures or
financial position.
 
SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM
 
    On February 26, 1997, the Company announced a new program to spend up to $8
billion to repurchase shares of its Common Stock in open market transactions
over three years. This new program will commence following the anticipated
completion in the next few weeks of the Company's current three-year $6 billion
repurchase program. Under that program, through March 6, 1997, the Company
repurchased approximately 67 million shares of its Common Stock.
 
COMMON STOCK SPLIT
 
    On February 26, 1997, the Company announced a three-for-one split of its
Common Stock, to be effected by a distribution on April 10, 1997, of two shares
for each share held of record at the close of business on March 17, 1997.
Effective at the close of business on March 17, 1997, the par value of the
Company's Common Stock will be changed from $1.00 to $0.33 1/3, and authorized
shares of Common Stock will be increased from 4 billion to 12 billion shares.
After giving effect to the stock split, earnings and dividends per share amounts
reported in the Company's consolidated financial statements, incorporated herein
by reference to the Company's 1996 Annual Report, would be as follows:
 

 

 
FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS
 
    The Company and its representatives may from time to time make written or
oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in the Company's
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its reports to
stockholders. In connection with the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company is hereby identifying
important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from
those contained in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the
Company; any such statement is qualified by reference to the following
cautionary statements.
 
    The tobacco industry continues to be subject worldwide to health concerns
relating to the use of tobacco products and exposure to ETS, legislation,
including tax increases, governmental regulation, privately imposed smoking
restrictions, governmental and grand jury investigations, and litigation. Each
of the Company's operating subsidiaries is subject to intense competition,
changes in consumer preferences, the effects of changing prices for its raw
materials and local economic conditions. The performance of each of Philip
Morris International and Kraft Foods International is affected by foreign
economies and currency movements. Developments in any of these areas, which are
more fully described elsewhere in Part I hereof and in Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") on pages
21-29 of the Company's 1996 Annual Report, each of which is incorporated into
this section by reference, could cause the Company's results to differ
materially from results that have been or may be projected by or on behalf of
the Company. The Company cautions that the foregoing list of important factors
is not exclusive. The Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking
statement that may be made from time to time by or on behalf of the Company.
 
(D) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES
 
    The amounts of operating revenues, operating profit and identifiable assets
attributable to each of the Company's geographic segments and the amount of
export sales from the United States for each of the last three fiscal years are
set forth in Note 10 to the Company's consolidated financial statements,
incorporated herein by reference to the Company's 1996 Annual Report.
 
    Subsidiaries of Philip Morris International, Kraft and Miller export tobacco
and tobacco-related products, coffee products, grocery products, cheese,
processed meats and beer. In 1996, the value of all exports from the United
States by these subsidiaries amounted to approximately $6.5 billion.
 
ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY.
  TOBACCO PRODUCTS
 
    PM Inc. owns nine tobacco manufacturing and processing facilities--six in
the Richmond, Virginia, area, two in Louisville, Kentucky, and one in Cabarrus
County, North Carolina. Subsidiaries and affiliates of Philip Morris
International own, lease or have an interest in 47 cigarette or component
manufacturing facilities in 28 countries outside the United States, including
cigarette manufacturing facilities in Bergen Op Zoom, the Netherlands, and in
Berlin, Germany.
 

FOOD PRODUCTS
 
    The Company's subsidiaries have 60 manufacturing and processing facilities
and 229 distribution centers and depots throughout the United States, as well as
113 foreign manufacturing and processing facilities in 34 countries, and various
distribution and other facilities outside the United States. All significant
plants and properties used for production of food products are owned, although
the majority of the domestic distribution centers and depots are leased.
 
BEER
 
    Miller currently owns and operates eight breweries, located in Milwaukee,
Wisconsin (two); Fort Worth, Texas; Eden, North Carolina; Albany, Georgia;
Irwindale, California; Trenton, Ohio; and Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin. Miller owns
a majority interest in the Celis Brewery in Austin, Texas, and the Shipyard
Brewery in Portland, Maine. Miller also owns a hops-processing facility in
Wisconsin, and owns or leases warehouses in several locations.
 
GENERAL
 
    The plants and properties owned and operated by the Company's subsidiaries
are maintained in good condition and are believed to be suitable and adequate
for present needs. In the fourth quarter of 1993, the Company provided for the
costs of restructuring its worldwide operations. The charge related primarily to
the downsizing or closure of approximately 40 manufacturing and other
facilities. Write-downs of such facilities included in the restructuring charge
were $429 million, of which $141 million, $211 million and $77 million related
to tobacco, food and beer facilities, respectively. The 1993 restructuring and
its impact on the Company's financial statements are described in the MD&A,
incorporated herein by reference to the Company's 1996 Annual Report.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
    Reference is made to Note 13, incorporated herein by reference to the
Company's 1996 Annual Report, for a description of certain pending legal
proceedings. The following summarizes recent developments with respect to such
litigation.
 
    In January 1997, defendants in the BROIN case, discussed in Note 13, filed a
motion to dismiss on the grounds that the suit is preempted by the Labeling Act.
 
    In February 1997, the judge in the LACEY case, discussed in Note 13, entered
a written order confirming the court's oral decision to grant defendants' motion
for summary judgment on the grounds that the suit was preempted by the Labeling
Act.
 
    In February 1997, the trial court in the CASTANO case, discussed in Note 13,
denied defendants' motions for summary judgment as to the individual claims
asserted by the two remaining named plaintiffs in the case.
 
    In February 1997, plaintiffs in the SCOTT case, discussed in Note 13, filed
briefs that seek to change the scope of this purported class action to include
not only individuals with claims relating to "nicotine dependence" but also
those with claims of physical injury.
 
    In February 1997, plaintiffs in the MCGINTY case, discussed in Note 13,
filed a class certification motion on behalf of all current residents of
Arkansas who were smokers as of November 4, 1996, and who began smoking at or
before age 19.
 

    In January 1997, the court in the HARRIS PRO SE case, discussed in Note 13,
dismissed PM Inc. and the Company.
 
    In January 1997, a purported class action was filed in West Virginia state
court against United States cigarette manufacturers and others, including the
Company, on behalf of all "nicotine dependent" residents of West Virginia, their
estates and families. Defendants have removed this case to federal court.
MCCUNE, ET AL., V. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY, ET AL., UNITED STATES DISTRICT
COURT, SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA, CASE NO. 97-C-00204.
 
    In February 1997, a purported class action was filed in Hawaii state court
against United States cigarette manufacturers and others, including the Company,
on behalf of citizens of Hawaii who have purchased and smoked cigarettes
manufactured by defendant tobacco companies and all persons who have claims
because of their personal relationship with those who purchased and smoked such
cigarettes. Defendants have removed this case to federal court. PETERSON, ET
AL., V. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY, INC., ET AL., UNITED STATES DISTRICT
COURT, DISTRICT OF HAWAII, CASE NO. 97-00233-HG.
 
    In February 1997, a purported class action was filed in Kansas state court
against United States cigarette manufacturers and others, including the Company,
on behalf of citizens of Kansas who have purchased and smoked cigarettes
manufactured by defendant tobacco companies and all persons who have claims
because of their personal relationship with those who purchased and smoked such
cigarettes. Defendants have removed this case to federal court. EMIG, ET AL., V.
THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY, INC., ET AL., UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT,
DISTRICT OF KANSAS AT WICHITA, CASE NO. 97-1121-MLB.
 
    In February 1997, a purported class action was filed in Oklahoma state court
against United States cigarette manufacturers and others, including the Company,
on behalf of citizens of Oklahoma who have purchased and smoked cigarettes
manufactured by defendant tobacco companies and those individuals who have
claims that derive from the individuals who purchased and smoked such
cigarettes. Defendants have removed this case to federal court. WALLS, ET AL.,
V. THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY, INC., ET AL., UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT,
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA, CASE NO. 97-CIV-0218.
 
    In February 1997, the court in the FLORIDA health care cost recovery action,
discussed in Note 13, granted plaintiffs' motion to strike all of defendants'
affirmative defenses to the counts brought under Florida's Medicaid recovery
statute. In response to defendants' motion for reconsideration, the court
permitted certain of the affirmative defenses to be asserted. The court also
ruled that defendants are entitled to the names of the individual Medicaid
recipients whose medical expenses form the basis of the State's damages and that
defendants may depose and obtain the medical records of twenty-five recipients
of defendants' choice.
 
    In February 1997, the court in the WEST VIRGINIA health care cost recovery
action, discussed in Note 13, granted defendants' motion to dismiss the State's
common law and equitable claims on the grounds that the State did not have a
direct cause of action against defendants on these claims.
 
    In February 1997, plaintiffs in the TEXAS health care cost recovery action,
discussed in Note 13, filed a motion seeking to prevent defendants from
asserting a "set off" defense based on the excise taxes that the State collects
from the sale of tobacco products.
 
    In February 1997, certain defendants, including PM Inc., in the LOUISIANA
health care cost recovery action, discussed in Note 13, appealed the trial
court's ruling that the Attorney General of Louisiana had procedural capacity to
bring this action.
 
    In February 1997, the court in the SAN FRANCISCO health care cost recovery
action, discussed in Note 13, granted defendants' motion to dismiss the suit,
with leave to file an amended complaint.
 

    In February 1997, defendants in the WASHINGTON health care cost recovery
action, discussed in Note 13, filed a motion to dismiss claims of special duty
and unjust enrichment and a claim for disgorgement of profits.
 
    In March 1997, defendants in the CONNECTICUT health care cost recovery
action, discussed in Note 13, filed a motion seeking to dismiss the complaint on
various grounds.
 
    In February 1997, defendants in the UTAH health care cost recovery action,
discussed in Note 13, filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on the grounds
that the State's exclusive remedy is subrogation.
 
    In February 1997, the court in the declaratory judgment action filed by
plaintiff tobacco companies against the State of Utah, discussed in Note 13,
denied plaintiffs' motion for partial summary judgment challenging the ability
of the State to prosecute a health care cost recovery action on a contingent fee
basis.
 
    In February 1997, defendants in the LOS ANGELES health care cost recovery
action, discussed in Note 13, moved to dismiss plaintiffs' misrepresentation and
breach of warranty claims.
 
    In February 1997, defendants in the MICHIGAN health care cost recovery
action, discussed in Note 13, filed motions to dismiss the complaint on the
grounds that plaintiff's exclusive remedy is subrogation and in response to
plaintiff's motion attacking certain affirmative defenses.
 
    In March 1997, the court dismissed the action, discussed in Note 13, brought
by plaintiff tobacco companies challenging the right of the New Jersey Attorney
General to bring a health care cost recovery action and to prosecute such a case
on a contingent fee basis.
 
    In February 1997, defendants in the NEW YORK CITY health care cost recovery
action, discussed in Note 13, removed the case to federal court.
 
    In January 1997, the State of New York filed a health care cost recovery
action in New York State court. Defendants have removed this action to federal
court. STATE OF NEW YORK AND DENNIS C. VACCO, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK V. PHILIP MORRIS INC., ET AL., UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, CASE NO. 97-CIV-0794 (LMM).
 
    In February 1997, the State of Hawaii filed a health care cost recovery
action in Hawaii state court. STATE OF HAWAII V. BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO
CORPORATION AS SUCCESSOR BY MERGER TO THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY, ET AL.,
FIRST CIRCUIT COURT, HONOLULU, HAWAII, CASE NO. 97-0441-01.
 
    In February 1997, the State of Wisconsin filed a health care cost recovery
action in Wisconsin state court. STATE OF WISCONSIN V. PHILIP MORRIS
INCORPORATED, ET AL., CIRCUIT COURT, DANE COUNTY, WISCONSIN, CASE NO. 30704.
 
    In February 1997, the State of Indiana filed a health care cost recovery
action in Indiana state court. STATE OF INDIANA V. PHILIP MORRIS INCORPORATED,
ET AL., MARION COUNTY SUPERIOR COURT, INDIANA, CASE NO. 49D07-9702-CT-0236.
 
    As reported in Note 13, during 1996, tax assessments alleging the
underpayment of certain Italian taxes were asserted against affiliates of the
Company. In February 1997, the Italian tax authorities withdrew assessments
totaling $104.5 million, leaving total outstanding assessments of $693.9
million. The Company anticipates that further substantial tax assessments may be
claimed. The Company and its
 

affiliates believe they have complied with applicable Italian tax laws and
intend to vigorously contest the assessments.
 
                            ------------------------
 
    The Company and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and
each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that it has a
number of valid defenses to all litigation pending against it. All such cases
are, and will continue to be, vigorously defended. It is not possible to predict
the outcome of this litigation. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and
it is possible that some of these actions could be decided unfavorably. An
unfavorable outcome of a pending smoking and health case, such as the CARTER
case mentioned in Note 13, could encourage the commencement of additional
similar litigation. There have also been a number of adverse legislative,
regulatory, political and other developments concerning cigarette smoking and
the tobacco industry. These developments generally receive widespread media
attention. The Company is not able to evaluate the effect of these developing
matters on pending litigation and the possible commencement of additional
litigation.
 
    Management is unable to make a meaningful estimate of the amount or range of
loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of all pending litigation. It
is possible that the Company's results of operations or cash flows in a
particular quarterly or annual period or its financial position could be
materially affected by an ultimate unfavorable outcome of certain pending
litigation. Management believes, however, that the ultimate outcome of all
pending litigation should not have a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial position.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
    None.
 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
 
    The following are the executive officers of the Company as of March 1, 1997:
 

 
    All of the above-mentioned officers, with the exception of Messrs.
Holsenbeck and MacDonough, have been employed by the Company in various
capacities during the past five years. Mr. Holsenbeck was elected to his current
position with the Company in January 1995. Previously, Mr. Holsenbeck held
various positions with Bethlehem Steel Corporation, including Secretary and
Deputy General Counsel from 1992 to January 1995. Mr. MacDonough was Executive
Vice President, Marketing, of Anheuser-Busch International, Inc., from 1991
until September 1992, when he became President and Chief Operating Officer of
Miller. He assumed his current position in August 1993.
 

                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
 
    The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
to the paragraph captioned "Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)" on page 52 of
the Company's 1996 Annual Report and made a part hereof.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
 
    The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
to the information appearing under the caption "Selected Financial Data" on page
30 of the Company's 1996 Annual Report and made a part hereof.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS.
 
    The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
to the paragraphs captioned "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 21-29 of the Company's 1996 Annual
Report and made a part hereof.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
 
    The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
to the Company's 1996 Annual Report as set forth under the caption "Quarterly
Financial Data (Unaudited)" on page 52 and in the Index to Consolidated
Financial Statements and Schedules (see Item 14) and made a part hereof.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
    Not applicable.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
 
    Except for the information relating to the executive officers of the Company
set forth in Part I of this Report, the information called for by Items 10, 11
and 12 is hereby incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy
statement for use in connection with its annual meeting of stockholders to be
held on April 24, 1997, and made a part hereof.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
 
    Not applicable.
 

                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
    (a) Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 

 
    Schedules other than those listed above have been omitted either because
such schedules are not required or are not applicable.
 
    (b) Reports on Form 8-K: No Current Reports on Form 8-K were filed during
the last quarter of the period for which this Report is filed. Subsequent to the
last quarter of the period for which this Report is filed, the Company filed its
Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 30, 1997.
 
    (c) The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report (Exhibit Nos.
10.1-10.15 are management contracts, compensatory plans or arrangements):
 

 


 
- ------------------------
 
(1) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
    January 30, 1997.
 
(2) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
    S-3 (No. 33-49195) dated November 25, 1992.
 
(3) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
    the year ended December 31, 1993.
 
(4) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
    the year ended December 31, 1995.
 
(5) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
    the period ended September 30, 1996.
 
(6) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
    S-14 (No. 2-96149) dated March 1, 1985.
 
(7) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
    S-3 (No. 333-16955) dated November 27, 1996.
 

(8) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
    8-B (No. 1-8940) dated July 1, 1985.
 
(9) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
    the year ended December 31, 1994.
 
(10) Incorporated by reference to the Company's proxy statement in connection
    with its annual meeting of stockholders held on April 23, 1992, filed on
    March 12, 1992.
 
(11) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
    the year ended December 31, 1990.
 

                                   SIGNATURES
 
    PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC.
 
                                BY:            /S/ GEOFFREY C. BIBLE
                                     ------------------------------------------
                                                (Geoffrey C. Bible,
Date: March 11, 1997                           Chairman of the Board)
 
    PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATE INDICATED:
 
          SIGNATURE                        TITLE                    DATE
- ------------------------------  ---------------------------  -------------------
    /s/ GEOFFREY C. BIBLE       Director, Chairman of the
- ------------------------------    Board and Chief              March 11, 1997
     (Geoffrey C. Bible)          Executive Officer
 
    /s/ LOUIS C. CAMILLERI      Senior Vice President
- ------------------------------    and Chief Financial          March 11, 1997
     (Louis C. Camilleri)         Officer
 
    /s/ KATHERINE P. CLARK      Vice President and
- ------------------------------    Controller                   March 11, 1997
     (Katherine P. Clark)
 
* ELIZABETH E. BAILEY, MURRAY
    H. BRING, HAROLD BROWN,
    WILLIAM H. DONALDSON, JANE
    EVANS, ROBERT E. R.
    HUNTLEY, RUPERT MURDOCH,
    JOHN D. NICHOLS, RICHARD
    D. PARSONS, ROGER S.
    PENSKE, JOHN S. REED,
    STEPHEN M. WOLF,            Directors
 
 *BY: /S/ LOUIS C. CAMILLERI
- -----------------------------
     (Louis C. Camilleri                                       March 11, 1997
      Attorney-in-fact)
 

                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
    Our report on our audits of the consolidated financial statements of Philip
Morris Companies Inc. has been incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K from
the 1996 annual report to stockholders of Philip Morris Companies Inc. and
appears on page 53 therein. In connection with our audits of such financial
statements, we have also audited the related financial statement schedule listed
in the index in Item 14(a) on page 20 of this Form 10-K.
 
    In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information required to be
included therein.
 
                                              COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.
 
New York, New York
January 27, 1997
 
                                      S-1

                 PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, 1995 AND 1994
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 

 
- ------------------------
 
Notes:
 
    (a) Related to divestitures, acquisitions and currency translation.
 
    (b) Represents charges for which allowances were created.
 
                                      S-2

