
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                             ---------------------
 
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-8940
                            ------------------------
 
                          PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
                         ------------------------------
 

 
                            ------------------------
 
        REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: 212-880-5000
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
                            ------------------------
 
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes /X/  No / /
 
    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. /X/
                            ------------------------
 
    The aggregate market value of the shares of Common Stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price of
such stock on February 26, 1998, was approximately $103.0 billion. At such date,
there were 2,427,925,717 shares of the registrant's Common Stock outstanding.
 
                            ------------------------
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
    Portions of the registrant's annual report to stockholders for the year
ended December 31, 1997, are incorporated in Part I, Part II and Part IV hereof
and made a part hereof. The registrant's definitive proxy statement for use in
connection with its annual meeting of stockholders to be held on April 30, 1998,
is incorporated in Part III hereof and made a part hereof.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS.
 
(A) GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS
 
                                    GENERAL
 
    Philip Morris Companies Inc. is a holding company whose principal
wholly-owned subsidiaries, Philip Morris Incorporated, Philip Morris
International Inc., Kraft Foods, Inc., and Miller Brewing Company, are engaged
in the manufacture and sale of various consumer products. A wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company, Philip Morris Capital Corporation, engages in various
financing and investment activities. As used herein, unless the context
indicates otherwise, the term "Company" means Philip Morris Companies Inc. and
its subsidiaries. The Company is the largest consumer packaged goods company in
the world.*
 
    Philip Morris Incorporated ("PM Inc."), which conducts business under the
trade name "Philip Morris U.S.A.," and its subsidiaries and affiliates are
engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes. PM Inc. is the largest
cigarette company in the United States. Philip Morris International Inc.
("Philip Morris International") is a holding company whose subsidiaries and
affiliates and their licensees are engaged primarily in the manufacture and sale
of tobacco products (mainly cigarettes) internationally. A subsidiary of Philip
Morris International is the leading United States exporter of cigarettes.
MARLBORO, the principal cigarette brand of these companies, has been the world's
largest-selling cigarette brand since 1972. Certain subsidiaries and affiliates
of Philip Morris International manufacture and sell a wide variety of food
products in Latin America.
 
    Kraft Foods, Inc. ("Kraft"), is the largest processor and marketer of retail
packaged foods in the United States. A wide variety of cheese, processed meat
products, coffee and grocery products are manufactured and marketed in the
United States and Canada by Kraft. Subsidiaries and affiliates of Kraft Foods
International, Inc. ("Kraft Foods International"), a subsidiary of Kraft,
manufacture and market coffee, confectionery, cheese, grocery and processed meat
products primarily in Europe and the Asia/ Pacific region.
 
    Miller Brewing Company ("Miller") is the second largest brewing company in
the United States.
 
                           SOURCE OF FUNDS--DIVIDENDS
 
    Because the Company is a holding company, its principal source of funds is
dividends from its subsidiaries. The Company's principal wholly-owned
subsidiaries currently are not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in
their ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to
their common stock.
 
(B) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS
 
    In 1997, the Company's significant industry segments were tobacco products
(principally cigarettes), food products, beer, and financial services and real
estate. Operating revenues, operating profit (together with a reconciliation to
operating income) and identifiable assets attributable to each such segment for
each of the last three years are set forth in Note 12 to the Company's
consolidated financial statements and are incorporated herein by reference to
the Company's annual report to stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1997
(the "1997 Annual Report").
 
- ------------------------
 
*   References to the Company's competitive ranking in its various businesses
    are based on sales data or, in the case of cigarettes and beer, shipments,
    unless otherwise indicated.
 

    In 1997, operating profit from tobacco products was approximately 64% of the
Company's total operating profit, down from 67% in 1996. This decrease was due
primarily to charges recorded in 1997 in connection with tobacco litigation
settlements discussed below in Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. PM Inc. and Philip
Morris International contributed 27% and 37%, respectively, to 1997 operating
profit (compared with 34% and 33%, respectively, in 1996). Food products, beer,
and financial services and real estate accounted for approximately 30%, 4% and
2%, respectively, of the Company's total operating profit in 1997 (compared with
27%, 4% and 2%, respectively, in 1996).
 
(C) NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
 
                                TOBACCO PRODUCTS
 
    PM Inc. manufactures, markets and sells cigarettes in the United States.
Subsidiaries and affiliates of Philip Morris International and their licensees
manufacture, market and sell tobacco products outside the United States and
export tobacco products from the United States.
 
DOMESTIC TOBACCO PRODUCTS
 
    PM Inc. is the largest tobacco company in the United States, with total
cigarette shipments in the United States of 235.2 billion units in 1997, an
increase of 1.9% from 1996. PM Inc. accounted for 48.9% of the cigarette
industry's total shipments in the United States in 1997 (an increase of 1.2
share points from 1996). The industry's cigarette shipments in the United States
decreased by 0.6% in 1997. The following table+ sets forth the industry's
cigarette shipments in the United States, PM Inc.'s shipments and its share of
United States industry shipments:
 

 
    PM Inc.'s major premium brands are MARLBORO, VIRGINIA SLIMS, MERIT, BENSON &
HEDGES and PARLIAMENT. Its principal discount brands are BASIC and CAMBRIDGE.
All of its brands are marketed to take into account differing preferences of
adult smokers. MARLBORO is the largest-selling cigarette brand in the United
States, with shipments of 164 billion units in 1997 (up 5.0% from 1996),
equating to 34.1% of the United States market (up from 32.3% in 1996).
 
    In 1997, the premium and discount segments accounted for approximately 72.5%
and 27.5%, respectively, of domestic cigarette industry volume, versus 71.5% and
28.5%, respectively, in 1996.
 
    In 1997, PM Inc.'s share of the premium segment was 57.8%, an increase of
1.5 share points over 1996. Shipments of premium cigarettes accounted for 85.7%
of PM Inc.'s 1997 volume, up from 84.4% in 1996. In 1997, United States industry
shipments within the discount segment declined 4.0% from 1996 levels; PM Inc.'s
1997 shipments within this category declined 6.4%, resulting in a share of 25.6%
of the discount segment (down 0.6 share points from 1996).
 
    PM Inc. cannot predict future change or rates of change in the relative
sizes of the premium and discount segments or in PM Inc.'s shipments, shipment
market share or retail market share; however, it believes that implementation of
the proposed Resolution, discussed below under the heading "Proposed Resolution
of Certain Regulatory and Litigation Issues," would materially adversely affect
PM Inc.'s shipments.
 
- ------------------------
 
+   Data presented in this table differ in some cases from data discussed above
    due to rounding differences.
 
*   Source: Management Science Associates.
 

INTERNATIONAL TOBACCO PRODUCTS
 
    Philip Morris International's total cigarette shipments grew 7.8% in 1997,
to 711.5 billion units, including shipments of local Portuguese brands acquired
in 1997 (see discussion below). Philip Morris International estimates that its
share of the international cigarette market (excluding the United States) was
13.6% in 1997, up from 12.8% in 1996. Philip Morris International estimates that
international cigarette industry shipments (excluding the United States) were
approximately 5.2 trillion units in 1997, which represent an increase of 1.4%
over 1996. Philip Morris International unit shipments (including brands acquired
through acquisitions) have grown at a compounded annual growth rate of 11% over
the last five years versus compounded annual industry growth of approximately
1.5% over the same period. Philip Morris International's leading international
brands--MARLBORO, L&M, PHILIP MORRIS, BOND STREET, CHESTERFIELD, LARK,
PARLIAMENT, MERIT and VIRGINIA SLIMS--collectively accounted for approximately
49% of the international cigarette industry growth (excluding the United States)
in 1997. Unit sales of Philip Morris International's principal brand, MARLBORO,
increased 5.5% in 1997, to 319 billion units, representing more than 6% of the
international cigarette market (excluding the United States).
 
    Philip Morris International has a cigarette market share of at least 15%,
and in a number of instances substantially more than 15%, in more than 40
markets, including Argentina, Australia, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Finland,
France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, the
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland and
Turkey.
 
    In 1997, Philip Morris International increased capacity and improved
productivity through various acquisitions and capital projects. Major capital
expenditures included modernization and expansion of facilities in Germany, the
Netherlands, Switzerland, Poland, Russia, Lithuania, the Ukraine, Turkey,
Malaysia and Brazil. In January 1997, Philip Morris International acquired a
controlling interest in Tabaqueira-Empresa Industrial de Tabacos, S.A.,
Portugal's formerly state-owned tobacco company, and later in the year
restructured its interests in the business of Cigarros La Tabacalera Mexicana
S.A. de C.V., a Mexican cigarette company, increasing its ownership in that
business from 28.8% to 50.0%.
 
TAXES, LEGISLATION, REGULATION AND OTHER MATTERS REGARDING TOBACCO AND SMOKING
 
    The tobacco industry, both in the United States and abroad, has faced, and
continues to face, a number of issues that may adversely affect the volume,
operating revenues, cash flows, operating income and financial position of PM
Inc., Philip Morris International and the Company.
 
    In the United States, these issues include proposed federal regulatory
controls (including, as discussed below, the issuance of final regulations by
the United States Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") that regulate
cigarettes as "drugs" or "medical devices"); actual and proposed excise tax
increases; actual and proposed federal, state and local governmental and private
bans and restrictions on smoking (including in workplaces and in buildings
permitting public access); actual and proposed restrictions on tobacco
manufacturing, marketing, advertising (including decisions by certain companies
to limit or not accept tobacco advertising) and sales; proposed legislation and
regulations to require additional health warnings on cigarette packages and in
advertising, and to eliminate the tax deductibility of tobacco advertising and
promotional costs; actual and proposed requirements regarding disclosure of
cigarette ingredients and other proprietary information; actual and proposed
requirements regarding disclosure of the yields of "tar," nicotine and other
constituents found in cigarette smoke; increased assertions of adverse health
effects associated with both smoking and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke
("ETS"); legislation or other governmental action seeking to ascribe to the
industry responsibility and liability for the purported adverse health effects
associated with both smoking and exposure to ETS; the diminishing social
acceptance of smoking; increased pressure from anti-smoking groups; unfavorable
press reports; governmental and grand jury investigations; increased smoking and
health litigation, including private plaintiff class action litigation and
health care cost recovery actions brought by state and local governments, unions
and others seeking reimbursement for Medicaid and/or other health care
expenditures allegedly caused by cigarette smoking; and the proposed Resolution
discussed below.
 

    Cigarettes are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States and
to similar taxes in most foreign markets. The United States federal excise tax
on cigarettes is currently $12 per 1,000 cigarettes ($0.24 per pack of 20
cigarettes). In August 1997, legislation was enacted that will raise the federal
excise tax to $17 per 1,000 cigarettes ($0.34 per pack of 20 cigarettes)
starting in the year 2000 and then to $19.50 per 1,000 cigarettes ($0.39 per
pack of 20 cigarettes) in 2002. In general, excise taxes and other cigarette-
related taxes levied by the federal government and by various states, counties
and municipalities have been increasing, and additional increases have been
proposed at the federal level and in a number of states. These taxes vary
considerably and, when combined with sales taxes and the current federal excise
tax, may be as high as $1.50 per pack in a given locality.
 
    In the opinion of PM Inc. and Philip Morris International, past increases in
excise and similar taxes have had an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes. Any
future increases, the extent of which cannot be predicted, could result in
volume declines for the cigarette industry, including PM Inc. and Philip Morris
International, and might cause sales to shift from the premium segment to the
discount segment.
 
    Reports with respect to the alleged harmful physical effects of cigarette
smoking have been publicized for many years, and the sale, promotion and use of
cigarettes continue to be subject to increasing governmental regulation. Since
1964, the Surgeon General of the United States and the Secretary of Health and
Human Services have released a number of reports linking cigarette smoking with
a broad range of health hazards, including various types of cancer, coronary
heart disease and chronic lung disease, and recommending various governmental
measures to reduce the incidence of smoking. The 1988, 1990, 1992 and 1994
reports focus upon the "addictive" nature of cigarettes, the effects of smoking
cessation, the decrease in smoking in the United States, and the economic and
regulatory aspects of smoking in the Western Hemisphere, and cigarette smoking
by adolescents, particularly the "addictive" nature of cigarette smoking in
adolescence.
 
    Studies with respect to the alleged health risks of ETS to nonsmokers
(including lung cancer, respiratory and coronary illnesses, and other
conditions) have also received significant publicity. In 1986, the Surgeon
General of the United States and the National Academy of Sciences reported that
nonsmokers were at increased risk of lung cancer and respiratory illness due to
ETS. In January 1993, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (the
"EPA") issued a report concluding, among other things, that ETS is a human lung
carcinogen and that ETS increases certain health risks for young children. In
June 1993, PM Inc. joined five other representatives of the tobacco
manufacturing and related industries in a lawsuit against the EPA, seeking a
declaration that the EPA does not have the authority to regulate ETS, and that,
in view of the available scientific evidence and the EPA's failure to follow its
own guidelines in making the determination, the EPA's final risk assessment be
declared arbitrary and capricious and ordered withdrawn. The outcome of this
lawsuit cannot be predicted. The EPA report, together with adverse publicity on
ETS, has resulted in the adoption of governmental and privately imposed
limitations that restrict or ban cigarette smoking in certain public places and
places of employment.
 
    The Comprehensive Smoking Education Act (the "Smoking Education Act"),
enacted in 1984, requires cigarette manufacturers and importers to include the
following warning statements in rotating sequence on cigarette packages and in
advertisements: "SURGEON GENERAL'S WARNING: Smoking Causes Lung Cancer, Heart
Disease, Emphysema, And May Complicate Pregnancy"; "SURGEON GENERAL'S WARNING:
Quitting Smoking Now Greatly Reduces Serious Risks to Your Health"; "SURGEON
GENERAL'S WARNING: Smoking By Pregnant Women May Result in Fetal Injury,
Premature Birth, And Low Birth Weight"; and "SURGEON GENERAL'S WARNING:
Cigarette Smoke Contains Carbon Monoxide." The Smoking Education Act also covers
the size and format of warnings on cigarette packages and in cigarette
advertising, and prescribes a modified version of the warnings for outdoor
billboard advertisements.
 

    Most of the cigarettes sold by Philip Morris International are sold in
countries where warning statement requirements for cigarette packages have been
adopted. In markets where such statements are not legally required, Philip
Morris International's policy is to place the United States Surgeon General's
warnings on all cigarette packages.
 
    In October 1997, at the request of the United States Senate Judiciary
Committee, the Company provided the Committee with a document setting forth the
Company's position on a number of issues. On the issues of the role played by
cigarette smoking in the development of lung cancer and other diseases in
smokers, and whether nicotine, as found in cigarette smoke, is "addictive," the
Company stated that despite the differences that may exist between its views and
those of the public health community, it would, in order to ensure that there
will be a single, consistent public health message on these issues, refrain from
debating the issues other than as necessary to defend itself and its opinions in
the courts and other forums in which it is required to do so. The Company also
stated that in relation to these issues, and the alleged health effects of
exposure to ETS, the Company is prepared to defer to the judgment of public
health authorities as to what health warning messages will best serve the public
interest, as reflected in the proposed new health warnings set out in the
proposed Resolution.
 
    In furtherance of the proposed Resolution, in late January 1998, the chief
executive officers of the four leading domestic tobacco companies or their
parent corporations, including the Company, pledged to Congress to publicly
release millions of pages of industry documents placed into the document
depository established in connection with Minnesota's health care cost recovery
action discussed below (see Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.). The documents comprise
a wide range of smoking and health issues covered in scientific and marketing
research reports, memoranda, executive correspondence, handwritten notes and
other materials. They do not include highly sensitive trade secret information,
certain third-party and personnel information, or documents for which attorney
client privilege or work product doctrine claims have been asserted. On February
27, 1998, the first installment of these documents was made available via the
Internet, consisting of the vast majority of the documents selected from the
document depository by the attorney general of Minnesota in connection with
Minnesota's health care cost recovery action.
 
    In August 1996, the FDA issued final regulations pursuant to which it
asserts jurisdiction over cigarettes as "drugs" or "medical devices" under the
provisions of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. The final regulations include
severe restrictions on the distribution, marketing and advertising of
cigarettes, and would require the industry to comply with a wide range of
labeling, reporting, recordkeeping, manufacturing and other requirements
applicable to medical devices and their manufacturers. For the most part, the
regulations were scheduled to become effective on August 28, 1997. The FDA's
exercise of jurisdiction, if not reversed by judicial or legislative action,
could lead to more expansive FDA-imposed restrictions on cigarette operations
than those set forth in the final regulations, and could materially adversely
affect the volume, operating revenues, cash flows and operating income of PM
Inc. PM Inc. and others challenged in the courts the FDA's authority to regulate
cigarettes. In April 1997, a U.S. district court ruled that Congress has not
precluded the FDA from regulating cigarettes as "drugs" or "medical devices" and
that the FDA may regulate cigarettes if the facts asserted in support of the
FDA's assertion of jurisdiction are proven to be correct. The court also ruled,
however, that the section of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act relied upon by the
agency does not give the FDA authority to implement its regulations restricting
cigarette marketing, advertising and promotions. The court stayed implementation
of the FDA's regulations scheduled for August 1997. The court left in effect the
specific regulations that took effect in February 1997 establishing a federal
minimum age of 18 for the sale of tobacco products and requiring proof of age
for anyone under age 27. The tobacco company plaintiffs, including PM Inc., are
appealing that portion of the district court's order relating to the FDA's
assertion of jurisdiction. The FDA is appealing that portion of the order
enjoining the advertising and promotion restrictions. The respective appeals
were heard by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit in August 1997.
The outcome of this litigation cannot be predicted.
 

    In August 1996, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts enacted legislation to
require cigarette manufacturers to disclose to the Massachusetts Department of
Public Health ("DPH") the flavorings and other ingredients used in each brand of
cigarettes sold in the Commonwealth, and to provide "nicotine-yield ratings" for
their products based on standards to be established by the DPH. PM Inc. believes
that enforcement of the ingredient disclosure provisions of the statute could
permit the disclosure by DPH to the public of valuable proprietary information
concerning its brands. PM Inc. and three other domestic cigarette manufacturers
have filed suit in federal district court in Boston challenging the legislation.
In December 1997, the court granted a preliminary injunction to the tobacco
company plaintiffs and enjoined the Commonwealth from enforcing the ingredient
disclosure provisions of the legislation until further order of the court. The
ultimate outcome of this lawsuit cannot be predicted. The enactment of this
legislation has encouraged efforts to enact, and the enactment of, ingredient
disclosure legislation in other states, such as Texas and Minnesota.
 
    In December 1997, PM Inc. disclosed to the DPH "tar" and nicotine deliveries
for its products sold in the Commonwealth based on standards established by the
DPH for determining "tar" and nicotine deliveries under average smoking
conditions. The "tar" and nicotine deliveries produced using the DPH test
parameters are higher than the yields produced using the test parameters
established by a 1970 voluntary agreement between the Federal Trade Commission
("FTC") and domestic cigarette manufacturers, including PM Inc., and which are
required to be disclosed in all cigarette advertising. In September 1997, the
FTC issued a request for public comments on its proposed revision of the "tar"
and nicotine testing and reporting standards established by the 1970 voluntary
agreement. The ultimate outcome of this proposal cannot be predicted.
 
    On February 10, 1998, a regulation went into effect in Thailand that would
require manufacturers and importers of tobacco products, including a subsidiary
of Philip Morris International, to disclose to the Ministry of Public Health
("MPH") the ingredients of their products to be sold in Thailand on a by-brand
basis. Although this regulation does not require the MPH to make public the
submitted ingredient lists, there are no assurances that the confidentiality of
lists to be submitted will be maintained.
 
    Cigarette manufacturers and importers are also required to provide annually
to the Secretary of Health and Human Services a composite list of ingredients
added to tobacco in the manufacture of cigarettes, and the Secretary is directed
to treat the list as trade secret information and report to Congress concerning
the health effects, if any, of such ingredients.
 
    In April 1994, the United States Occupational Safety and Health
Administration ("OSHA") issued a proposed rule that could, as a practical
matter, ultimately ban smoking in the workplace. Hearings on this proposed rule
were held from September 1994 through March 1995. The period for post-hearing
submissions on the proposed rule ended in February 1996. OSHA has not yet issued
either a final rule or a proposed revised rule.
 
    Television and radio advertising of cigarettes is prohibited in the United
States, and prohibited or restricted in many other countries. In June 1995, PM
Inc. entered into a consent decree with the Department of Justice, pursuant to
which it agreed to reposition its brand advertising at professional football,
baseball, basketball and hockey arenas so as to minimize incidental television
coverage.
 
    In June 1995, PM Inc. announced that it had voluntarily undertaken a program
to further limit minors' access to cigarettes. Elements of the program include
discontinuing free cigarette sampling to consumers in the United States,
discontinuing the distribution of cigarettes by mail to consumers in the United
States, placing a notice on cigarette cartons and packs for sale in the United
States stating "Underage Sale Prohibited," working with others in support of
state legislation to prevent youth access to tobacco products, taking measures
to encourage retailer compliance with minimum-age laws, and independent auditing
of the program.
 

    For several years, Congress has provided funds for the development of test
methodologies and standards aimed at measuring the propensity of cigarettes to
ignite upholstered furniture or mattresses. The Company cannot predict whether
these efforts will result in further legislation or regulation.
 
    In recent years, various members of Congress have introduced legislation,
some of which has been the subject of hearings or floor debate, that would
subject cigarettes to various regulations under the Department of Health and
Human Services or regulation under the Consumer Products Safety Act, establish
anti-smoking educational campaigns or anti-smoking programs, or provide
additional funding for governmental anti-smoking activities, further restrict
the advertising of cigarettes, including requiring additional warnings on
packages and in advertising, provide that the Federal Cigarette Labeling and
Advertising Act and the Smoking Education Act could not be used as a defense
against liability under state statutory or common law, allow state and local
governments to restrict the sale and distribution of cigarettes, and further
restrict certain advertising of cigarettes and eliminate or reduce the tax
deductibility of tobacco advertising.
 
    Some foreign countries have also taken steps to restrict or prohibit
cigarette advertising and promotion, to require ingredient disclosure, to impose
maximum constituent levels, to increase taxes on cigarettes, to control prices,
to restrict imports, to ban or severely restrict smoking in workplaces and
public places, and otherwise to discourage cigarette smoking.
 
    It is not possible to determine the outcome of the FDA regulatory initiative
or the related litigation discussed above, or to predict what, if any, other
foreign or domestic governmental legislation or regulations will be adopted
relating to the manufacturing, advertising, sale or use of cigarettes, or to the
tobacco industry generally. However, if any or all of the foregoing were to be
implemented, the volume, operating revenues, cash flows and operating income of
PM Inc., Philip Morris International and the Company could be adversely
affected, in amounts that cannot be determined.
 
    PM Inc. has received requests for information (including grand jury
subpoenas) in connection with governmental investigations of the tobacco
industry, and is cooperating with respect to such requests. Certain present and
former employees of PM Inc. have testified or have been asked to testify in
connection with certain of these matters. The investigations are as follows:
 
    PM Inc. has been informed that an investigation by the United States
Attorney for the Southern District of New York, which had been initiated
following the publication of an article in THE NEW YORK TIMES that made
allegations about PM Inc. documents and supposedly secret research relating to
nicotine, has been consolidated with the United States Department of Justice
investigation discussed immediately below.
 
    PM Inc. has been informed of an investigation by the United States Attorney
for the Eastern District of New York relating to The Council for Tobacco
Research-U.S.A., Inc., a research organization of which PM Inc. is a sponsor;
and an investigation by the United States Department of Justice relating to
issues raised in testimony provided by tobacco industry executives before
Congress and other related matters.
 
    PM Inc. has been advised that the staff of the FTC has commenced a
preliminary inquiry to determine whether PM Inc. unfairly restricts the
distribution of competing manufacturers' cigarette brands through its
merchandising practices at the wholesale and retail levels.
 
    While the outcomes of these investigations cannot be predicted, PM Inc.
believes it has acted lawfully.
 
PROPOSED RESOLUTION OF CERTAIN REGULATORY AND LITIGATION ISSUES
 
    In June 1997, PM Inc. and other companies in the United States tobacco
industry entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (the "Resolution") to
support the adoption of federal legislation and ancillary undertakings that
would resolve many of the regulatory and litigation issues affecting the United
States tobacco industry and, thereby, reduce uncertainties facing the industry
and increase stability in
 

business and capital markets. The complete text of the proposed Resolution is
filed as an Exhibit to this Form 10-K, and the discussion herein is qualified by
reference thereto.
 
    There can be no assurance that federal legislation in the form of the
proposed Resolution will be enacted or that it will be enacted without
modification that is materially adverse to the Company or that any modification
would be acceptable to the Company or that, if enacted, the legislation would
not face legal challenges. Moreover, the negotiation and signing of the proposed
Resolution could affect other federal, state and local regulation of the United
States tobacco industry and regulation of the international tobacco industry.
 
    The proposed Resolution includes provisions relating to advertising and
marketing restrictions, product warnings and labeling, access restrictions,
licensing of tobacco retailers, the adoption and enforcement of "no sales to
minors" laws by states, surcharges against the industry for failure to achieve
underage smoking reduction goals, regulation of tobacco products by the FDA,
public disclosure of industry documents and research, smoking cessation
programs, compliance programs by the industry, public smoking and smoking in the
workplace, enforcement of the proposed Resolution, industry payments and
litigation.
 
SURCHARGE FOR FAILURE TO ACHIEVE UNDERAGE SMOKING REDUCTION GOALS--The proposed
Resolution would require the FDA to impose annual surcharges on the industry if
targeted reductions in underage smoking incidence are not achieved in accordance
with a legislative timetable. The surcharge would be based upon an approximation
of the present value of the profit the companies would earn over the lives of
all underage consumers in excess of the target, and would be allocated among
participating manufacturers based on their market share of the United States
cigarette industry.
 
INDUSTRY PAYMENTS--The proposed Resolution would require participating
manufacturers to make substantial payments in the year of implementation and
thereafter ("Industry Payments"). Participating manufacturers would be required
to make an aggregate $10 billion initial Industry Payment on the date that
federal legislation implementing the terms of the proposed Resolution is signed.
This Industry Payment would be based on relative market capitalizations, and the
Company currently estimates that PM Inc.'s share of the initial Industry Payment
would be approximately $6.6 billion (to be adjusted downward for initial
payments made to Mississippi, Florida and Texas pursuant to settlements of
health care cost recovery actions described below in Item 3. LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS.). Thereafter, the companies would be required to make specified
annual Industry Payments determined and allocated among the companies based on
volume of domestic sales as long as the companies continue to sell tobacco
products in the United States. These Industry Payments, which would begin on
December 31 of the first full year after implementing federal legislation is
signed, would be in the following amounts (at 1996 volume levels)--year 1: $8.5
billion; year 2: $9.5 billion; year 3: $11.5 billion; year 4: $14 billion; and
each year thereafter: $15 billion. These Industry Payments would be increased by
the greater of 3% or the previous year's inflation rate, and would be adjusted
to reflect changes from 1996 domestic sales volume levels.
 
    The Industry Payments would be separate from any surcharges discussed above.
The Industry Payments would receive priority and would not be dischargeable in
any bankruptcy or reorganization proceeding and would be the obligation only of
entities selling tobacco products in the United States (and not their affiliated
companies). The proposed Resolution provides that all payments by the industry
would be ordinary and necessary business expenses in the year of payment, and no
part thereof would be either in settlement of an actual or potential liability
for a fine or penalty (civil or criminal) or the cost of a tangible or
intangible asset. The proposed Resolution would provide for the pass-through to
consumers of the annual Industry Payments in order to promote the maximum
reduction in underage use.
 
EFFECTS ON LITIGATION--If enacted, the federal legislation provided for in the
proposed Resolution would settle present attorney general health care cost
recovery actions (or similar actions brought by or on behalf of any governmental
entity other than the federal government), PARENS PATRIAE and smoking and health
 

class actions and all "addiction"/dependence claims, and would bar similar
actions from being maintained in the future. However, the proposed Resolution
provides that no stay applications will be made in pending governmental actions
without the mutual consent of the parties. In recent months, PM Inc. and other
companies in the domestic tobacco industry agreed to settle three health care
cost recovery actions in Mississippi, Florida and Texas, and a smoking and
health class action brought on behalf of flight attendants alleging injury
caused by exposure to ETS aboard aircraft. The Company may enter into
discussions to postpone or settle other actions, pending the enactment of the
legislation contemplated by the proposed Resolution. No assurance can be given
whether a postponement or settlement will be achieved or, if achieved, as to the
terms thereof. The proposed Resolution would not affect any smoking and health
class action or any health care cost recovery action that is reduced to final
judgment before implementing federal legislation is effective.
 
    Under the proposed Resolution, the rights of individuals to sue the tobacco
industry would be preserved, as would existing legal doctrine regarding the
types of tort claims that can be brought under applicable statutory and case law
except as expressly changed by implementing federal legislation. Claims,
however, could not be maintained on a class or other aggregated basis, and could
be maintained only against tobacco manufacturing companies (and not their
retailers, distributors or affiliated companies). In addition, all punitive
damage claims based on past conduct would be resolved as part of the proposed
Resolution, and future claimants could seek punitive damages only with respect
to claims predicated upon conduct taking place after the effective date of
implementing federal legislation. Finally, except with respect to actions
pending as of June 9, 1997, third-party payor (and similar) claims could be
maintained only if based on subrogation of individual claims. Under subrogation
principles, a payor of medical costs can seek recovery from a third party only
by "standing in the shoes" of the injured party and being subject to all
defenses available against the injured party.
 
    The proposed Resolution contemplates that participating tobacco
manufacturers would enter into a joint sharing agreement for civil liabilities
relating to past conduct. Judgments and settlements arising from tort actions
would be paid as follows. The proposed Resolution would set an annual aggregate
cap of up to 33% of the annual base Industry Payment (including any reductions
for volume declines). Any judgments or settlements exceeding the cap in a
particular year would roll over into the next year. While judgments and
settlements would run against the defendant, they would give rise to an
80-cents-on-the-dollar credit against the annual Industry Payment. Finally, any
individual judgments in excess of $1 million would be paid at the rate of $1
million per year unless every other judgment and settlement could first be
satisfied within the annual aggregate cap. In all circumstances, however, the
companies would remain fully responsible for costs of defense and certain costs
associated with the fees of attorneys representing certain plaintiffs in the
litigation that would be settled by the proposed Resolution.
 
FINANCIAL EFFECTS--The Company anticipates that PM Inc.'s share of the
industry's $10 billion initial payment, which it currently estimates would be
approximately $6.6 billion (adjusted downward for initial payments made to
Mississippi, Florida and Texas pursuant to settlements of health care cost
recovery actions), would be charged to expense in the period in which federal
legislation implementing the terms of the proposed Resolution is enacted. In
addition, the Company currently anticipates that implementation of the proposed
Resolution would require a significant charge to expense in the period of
enactment to comply with the proposed Resolution's regulations on advertising,
marketing and production. The initial payment would be funded from a combination
of available cash, commercial paper issuances, bank borrowings and long-term
debt issuances in global markets. The initial payment would have a material
adverse effect on the Company's operating income and cash flows in the quarter
and year in which the proposed Resolution is enacted and on its financial
position. The initial payment would result in higher debt and higher interest
expense, the amounts of which would depend upon the final form of the proposed
Resolution, borrowing requirements and interest rates.
 
    The Company anticipates that PM Inc.'s share of future annual Industry
Payments related to cigarette sales would be charged to expense as the related
sales occur, and would be funded through price increases.
 

The Company anticipates that annual surcharges, if any, imposed by the FDA for
failure to meet required reduction levels in underage smoking incidence,
beginning in the fifth year after the proposed Resolution is implemented, would
be charged to expense in the year of assessment or in the year prior thereto if
it is then probable that such assessment will be made.
 
    The Company believes that implementation of the proposed Resolution would
materially adversely affect the volume, operating revenues, cash flows and/or
operating income of the Company in future years. The degree of the adverse
impact would depend, among other things, on the rates of decline in United
States cigarette sales in the premium and discount segments, PM Inc.'s share of
the domestic premium and discount cigarette segments, interest rates and the
timing of principal payments on debt incurred to finance the initial payment due
under the proposed Resolution, and the effect of the proposed Resolution on
cigarette consumption and the regulatory and litigation environment outside the
United States.
 
    In view of the foregoing, the Company may reevaluate its share repurchase
and dividend policies.
 
TOBACCO-RELATED LITIGATION
 
    See Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. below for a discussion of the tobacco-related
litigation pending against PM Inc. and, in some cases, the Company and its
subsidiaries and related entities.
 
DISTRIBUTION, COMPETITION AND RAW MATERIALS
 
    PM Inc. sells its tobacco products principally to wholesalers (including
distributors), large retail organizations, including chain stores, and the armed
services. Subsidiaries and affiliates of Philip Morris International and their
licensees market cigarettes and other tobacco products worldwide, directly or
through export sales organizations and other entities with which they have
contractual arrangements.
 
    The market for tobacco products is highly competitive, characterized by
brand recognition and loyalty, with product quality, price, marketing and
packaging constituting the significant methods of competition. Promotional
activities include, in certain instances and where permitted by law, allowances,
the distribution of incentive items, price reductions and other discounts. The
tobacco products of the Company's subsidiaries, affiliates and their licensees
are advertised and promoted through various media, although television and radio
advertising of cigarettes is prohibited in the United States and is prohibited
or restricted in many other countries.
 
    PM Inc. and Philip Morris International's subsidiaries and affiliates and
their licensees purchase domestic burley and flue-cured leaf tobaccos of various
grades and types each year, primarily at domestic auction. In addition, oriental
tobacco and certain other tobaccos are purchased outside the United States. The
tobacco is then graded, cleaned, stemmed and redried prior to its storage for
aging up to three years. Large quantities of leaf tobacco inventory are
maintained to support cigarette manufacturing requirements. Tobacco is an
agricultural commodity subject to United States government controls, including
the tobacco price support (subject to Congressional review) and production
adjustment programs administered by the United States Department of Agriculture
(the "USDA"), either of which can substantially affect market prices. PM Inc.
and Philip Morris International believe there is an adequate supply of tobacco
in the world markets to satisfy their current production requirements.
 
                                 FOOD PRODUCTS
 
    Over the past three years, the Company's subsidiaries sold several domestic
and international food businesses. During 1997, Philip Morris International sold
its Brazilian ice cream businesses, Kraft sold North American maple-flavored
syrup businesses and Kraft Foods International sold a Scandinavian sugar
confectionery business. During 1996, Kraft sold its bagel business and Kraft
Foods International sold its margarine businesses in the U.K. and Italy. During
1995, Kraft sold its North American bakery, margarine, specialty oils,
marshmallows, caramels and Kraft Foodservice distribution businesses. Kraft and
Kraft
 

Foods International also sold several smaller non-strategic businesses in 1997,
1996 and 1995. The sales of these businesses have not had and are not expected
to have a material effect on the Company's results of operations and have
improved the profit margins of its food operations. During the fourth quarter of
1997, the international food businesses recorded pretax realignment charges of
$630 million, related primarily to the downsizing or closure of manufacturing
and other facilities, as well as the discontinuance of certain low-margin
product lines. Included in the charges were provisions for incremental
postemployment benefits, primarily related to severance.
 
NORTH AMERICA
 
    Kraft is the largest packaged food company in North America. Kraft's
principal products include cheese and cheese products, processed meat and
poultry products, coffee, ready-to-eat cereals, salad and other dressings,
powdered and ready-to-drink beverages, frozen pizza, packaged and ready-to-eat
desserts and snacks, packaged pasta dinners, lunch combinations, barbecue
sauces, frozen toppings and other cultured dairy and grocery products. Its
principal brands include KRAFT, VELVEETA and CRACKER BARREL cheese and cheese
products; PHILADELPHIA BRAND cream cheese; CHEEZ WHIZ cheese sauce; OSCAR MAYER
luncheon meats, hot dogs, bacon, ham and other meat products; LOUIS RICH
luncheon meats, poultry franks, turkey bacon and other poultry products;
LUNCHABLES lunch combinations; CLAUSSEN pickles; MAXWELL HOUSE, YUBAN and NABOB
coffees; GENERAL FOODS INTERNATIONAL COFFEES flavored coffees; POST ready-to-eat
cereals; MIRACLE WHIP salad dressing; KRAFT spoonable and pourable salad
dressings; KOOL-AID, TANG, CAPRI SUN, CRYSTAL LIGHT and COUNTRY TIME powdered
and ready-to-drink beverages; TOMBSTONE and JACK'S frozen pizzas and DI GIORNO
pastas, sauces, cheeses and frozen pizzas; JELL-O desserts; HANDI-SNACKS snack
combinations and desserts; KRAFT Macaroni & Cheese dinners; KRAFT and BULL'S-EYE
barbecue sauces; COOL WHIP whipped toppings; STOVE TOP stuffing mix; MINUTE
rice; SHAKE 'N BAKE coatings; LIGHT N' LIVELY and BREYERS cultured dairy
products; and TACO BELL grocery products.
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
    Subsidiaries and affiliates of Kraft Foods International manufacture and
market a wide variety of coffee, confectionery, cheese, grocery and processed
meat products in Europe, with distribution to the Middle East and Africa. In the
Asia/Pacific region, select grocery products are produced in, and other Company
branded products are sourced from, Europe and the United States. In Latin
America, subsidiaries and affiliates of Philip Morris International manufacture
and market a wide variety of food products, including confectionery products,
various powdered soft drinks, and other grocery products sold by Kraft. In 1997,
approximately 80% of operating revenues for the international food businesses
were derived from sales made in Europe. International brands include JACOBS
CAFE, GEVALIA, CARTE NOIRE, JACQUES VABRE, KAFFE HAG, GRAND' MERE, KENCO,
SAIMAZA and SPLENDID coffees; MILKA, SUCHARD, COTE D'OR, MARABOU, TOBLERONE,
FREIA, TERRY'S, DAIM and CALLARD & BOWSER confectionery products; HOLLYWOOD
chewing gum; DAIRYLEA, EL CASERIO and INVERNIZZI cheeses; MIRACOLI pasta dinners
and sauces; VEGEMITE spread; ESTRELLA and MAARUD snacks; and SIMMENTHAL and
NEGRONI meats as well as a variety of products sold by Kraft in the United
States, including PHILADELPHIA BRAND cream cheese. In 1996, Philip Morris
International acquired nearly all of the remaining voting shares of Industrias
de Chocolate Lacta S.A., the leading confectionery company in Brazil.
 
DISTRIBUTION, COMPETITION AND RAW MATERIALS
 
    Kraft's products in North America are generally sold to supermarket chains,
wholesalers, club stores, mass merchandisers, distributors, convenience stores,
individual stores and other retail food outlets. Products are distributed
through distribution centers, satellite warehouses, company-operated and public
cold-storage facilities, depots and other facilities. Selling efforts are
supported by national and regional advertising on television and radio and in
magazines and newspapers, as well as by sales promotions, product displays,
trade incentives, informative material offered to customers and other
promotional
 

activities. Subsidiaries and affiliates of Kraft Foods International and Philip
Morris International sell their food products primarily in the same manner and
also engage the services of independent sales offices and agents. Advertising is
tailored by product and country to reach targeted audiences.
 
    Kraft is subject to highly competitive conditions in all aspects of its
business. Competitors include large national and international companies and
numerous local and regional companies. Its food products also compete with
generic products and private-label products of food retailers, wholesalers and
cooperatives. Kraft competes primarily on the basis of product quality, service,
marketing, advertising and price.
 
    Kraft is a major purchaser of milk, cheese, green coffee beans, cocoa, corn,
wheat, poultry, pork, beef, vegetable oil, and sugar and other sweeteners. Kraft
continuously monitors worldwide supply and cost trends of these commodities to
enable it to take appropriate action to obtain ingredients needed for
production.
 
    Kraft purchases all of its milk requirements and a substantial portion of
its cheese requirements from independent sources, principally from cooperatives
and individual producers. The prices for United States milk and other dairy
product purchases are substantially influenced by government programs, as well
as market supply and demand.
 
    The most significant cost item in coffee products is green coffee beans,
which are purchased on world markets. Green coffee bean prices are affected by
the quality and availability of supply, trade agreements among producing and
consuming nations, the unilateral policies of the producing nations, changes in
the value of the United States dollar in relation to certain other currencies
and consumer demand for coffee products.
 
    A significant cost item in confectionery products is cocoa, which is
purchased on world markets, and the price of which is affected by market supply
and demand and changes in the value of the British pound sterling relative to
certain other currencies.
 
    The purchase price of poultry and meat cuts is the major factor in the cost
of Kraft's processed meat products. Poultry and meat prices are cyclical and are
affected by market supply and demand.
 
    Kraft is also a major user of packaging materials purchased from many
suppliers.
 
    The prices paid for raw materials used in food products generally reflect
external factors such as weather conditions, commodity market activities,
currency fluctuations, and the effects of governmental agricultural programs.
Although the prices of the principal raw materials can be expected to fluctuate
as a result of government actions and/or market forces (which would directly
affect the cost of products and value of inventories), Kraft and Philip Morris
International believe such raw materials to be in adequate supply and generally
available from numerous sources.
 
REGULATION
 
    Almost all of Kraft's United States food products (and packaging materials
therefor) are subject to regulations administered by the FDA or, with respect to
products containing meat and poultry, the USDA. Among other things, these
agencies enforce statutory prohibitions against misbranded and adulterated
foods, establish ingredients and/or manufacturing procedures for certain
standard foods, establish standards of identity for food, determine the safety
of food substances, and establish labeling standards and nutrition labeling
requirements for food products.
 
    In addition, various states regulate the business of Kraft's United States
operating units by licensing dairy plants, enforcing federal and state standards
of identity for food, grading food products, inspecting plants, regulating
certain trade practices in connection with the sale of dairy products and
imposing their own labeling requirements on food products.
 

    Many of the food commodities on which Kraft's United States businesses rely
are subject to governmental agricultural programs. These programs have
substantial effects on prices and supplies and are subject to Congressional
review.
 
    Almost all of the activities of the Company's food operations outside of the
United States are subject to local and national regulations similar to those
applicable to Kraft's United States businesses and, in some cases, international
regulatory provisions (such as those of the European Community) relating to
labeling, packaging, food content, pricing, marketing and advertising, and
related areas.
 
                                      BEER
 
PRODUCTS
 
    Miller's brands include MILLER LITE, MILLER LITE ICE, MILLER GENUINE DRAFT,
MILLER GENUINE DRAFT LIGHT, MILLER BEER and ICEHOUSE in the premium segment; the
MILLER HIGH LIFE FAMILY, including MILLER HIGH LIFE, MILLER HIGH LIFE LIGHT and
MILLER HIGH LIFE ICE, and RED DOG in the near-premium segment; Lowenbrau, brewed
and sold in the United States under license from Lowenbrau Munchen AG in the
above-premium segment; MEISTER BRAU, MILWAUKEE'S BEST and MAGNUM MALT LIQUOR in
the below-premium segment; and SHARP'S non-alcohol brew. Miller's brands in the
specialty segment are LEINENKUGEL, CELIS and SHIPYARD. Miller also owns a
majority interest in Molson USA, LLC, one of the largest beer importers in the
United States, whose brands include MOLSON and FOSTER'S. Other brands in the
import segment include PRESIDENTE and ASAHI.
 
    Miller's total shipment volume (which excludes international shipments of
Miller products by other brewers under license and contract brewing
arrangements) of 43.7 million barrels for 1997 decreased 0.3% from 1996,
reflecting lower export shipments of premium-priced brands, partially offset by
increased domestic shipments. Miller's estimated market share of the U.S. malt
beverage industry (based on shipments) was 21.8% in 1997, the same as in the
prior year. Wholesalers' sales of Miller's products to retailers in 1997
increased slightly from 1996, reflecting higher sales of MILLER LITE, as
Miller's new advertising and promotional campaigns renewed focus on major
brands. Domestic shipments rose 0.8%, while export shipments decreased in 1997,
reflecting a shift toward international licensing and contract brewing
arrangements. International sales of Miller products under such arrangements
more than offset the 1997 decrease in export shipments. Total shipments of
premium-priced brands in 1997 decreased slightly to 81.9% of total shipments,
down from 82.5% in 1996.
 
    The following table sets forth, based on shipments (including imports and
exports), the U.S. industry's sales of beer and brewed non-alcohol beverages, as
estimated by Miller; Miller's unit sales; and Miller's estimated share of
industry sales:
 

 
    During 1997, Miller sold its 20% interest in Molson Breweries of Canada, and
a minority ownership interest in Molson USA, LLC. During 1996, Miller initiated
a number of actions intended to restore growth, streamline its organization and
reduce costs, including a workforce reduction.
 
DISTRIBUTION, COMPETITION AND RAW MATERIALS
 
    Beer is distributed primarily through independent wholesalers. The United
States malt beverage industry is highly competitive, with the principal methods
of competition being product quality, price, distribution, marketing and
advertising. Miller engages in a wide variety of advertising and sales promotion
activities. Barley malt, hops, corn grits and water represent the principal
ingredients used in manufacturing Miller's products, and are generally available
in the market. The production process, which includes fermentation and aging
periods, is conducted throughout the year. Containers (bottles, cans and kegs)
for beer are purchased from various suppliers.
 

REGULATION
 
    The Alcoholic Beverage Labeling Act of 1988 requires all alcoholic beverages
manufactured for sale in the United States to include the following statement on
containers: "GOVERNMENT WARNING: (1) According to the Surgeon General, women
should not drink alcoholic beverages during pregnancy because of the risk of
birth defects; (2) Consumption of alcoholic beverages impairs your ability to
drive a car or operate machinery and may cause health problems." The statute
empowers the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms to regulate the size and
format of the warning.
 
    The federal excise tax is 32 cents per package of six 12-ounce containers.
Excise taxes, sales taxes and other taxes affecting beer are also levied by
various states, counties and municipalities. In the opinion of Miller, increases
in excise taxes have had, and could continue to have, an adverse effect on
shipments.
 
    Advertising of alcoholic beverages, including beer, has come under increased
scrutiny by governmental agencies and others. The FTC's Division of Advertising
Practices conducted an investigation of advertising of alcoholic beverages.
Following discussions between representatives of the Beer Institute, of which
Miller is a member, and senior FTC officials, a number of revisions to the Beer
Institute Advertising and Marketing Code were made.
 
    Key changes to the Code include the following: a revised introduction
clarifying that the Code applies to advertising and marketing in cyberspace,
including the Internet; an undertaking that the Beer Institute will make a list
of brewer web sites available to all major Internet service providers so they
can be included in parental control software; and an obligation for brewers to
include additional notices on their web sites reminding users of the legal
purchase age. Consistent with brewers' commitment to marketing their products
only to persons of legal purchase age, the revised Code requires that TV survey
data purchased by brewers reflect the proportion of viewers in the sample survey
who are over legal purchase age and also obligates brewers to review their ad
placements at least every six months to insure the majority of viewers of
brewer-sponsored TV programs are above the legal purchase age.
 
                       FINANCIAL SERVICES AND REAL ESTATE
 
    Philip Morris Capital Corporation ("PMCC") invests in leveraged and direct
finance leases, other tax-oriented financing transactions and third-party
financial instruments. During 1997, PMCC sold its wholly-owned subsidiary,
Mission Viejo Company, which was engaged in land planning, development and sales
activities in Southern California and in the Denver, Colorado area. Total assets
of PMCC were $5.9 billion at December 31, 1997, and 1996, reflecting an increase
in net finance assets, offset by the sale of real estate assets.
 
                                 OTHER MATTERS
 
CUSTOMERS
 
    None of the Company's business segments is dependent upon a single customer
or a few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on
the Company's results of operations.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
    At December 31, 1997, the Company employed approximately 152,000 people
worldwide.
 
    On February 25, 1998, the Company announced voluntary early retirement and
separation programs for salaried and hourly employees, primarily at PM Inc.'s
manufacturing facilities in Richmond, Virginia and Louisville, Kentucky. It is
estimated that approximately 1,900 employees are likely to be affected by the
programs, which do not apply to the Company's food or beer operations. The
Company estimates that the programs will result in pretax charges in the first
and second quarters of 1998 totalling approximately $290 million.
 

TRADEMARKS
 
    Trademarks are of material importance to all three of the Company's consumer
products businesses and are protected by registration or otherwise in the United
States and most other markets where the related products are sold.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION
 
    The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to various federal, state and
local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the
environment, or otherwise related to environmental protection, including the
Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act,
which imposes joint and several liability on each responsible party (commonly
known as "Superfund"). In 1997, subsidiaries (or former subsidiaries) of the
Company were involved in approximately 225 matters subjecting them to potential
remediation costs under Superfund or otherwise. The Company and its subsidiaries
expect to continue to make capital and other expenditures in connection with
environmental laws and regulations. Although it is not possible to predict
precise levels of environmental-related expenditures, compliance with such laws
and regulations, including the payment of any remediation costs and the making
of such expenditures, has not had and is not expected to have a material adverse
effect on the Company's results of operations, capital expenditures or financial
position.
 
SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM
 
    During 1997, the Company repurchased 18.2 million shares of its Common
Stock. Of these purchases, 16.9 million shares were made pursuant to remaining
authority under the Company's repurchase program, announced in 1994, to purchase
up to $6.0 billion of its Common Stock in the open market. The remaining shares
were repurchased under an $8.0 billion share repurchase program approved by the
Board of Directors in the first quarter of 1997. In view of the uncertainty
surrounding the proposed Resolution discussed above in Item 1, the Company has
suspended its share repurchase program and has not repurchased any shares since
April 1997.
 
COMMON STOCK SPLIT
 
    In February 1997, the Company declared a three-for-one split of its Common
Stock, effected by a distribution on April 10, 1997, of two shares for each
share held of record at the close of business on March 17, 1997. All share and
per-share data reported in the Company's consolidated financial statements,
incorporated herein by reference to the Company's 1997 Annual Report, have been
restated to reflect this stock split for all periods presented.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS
 
    The Company and its representatives may from time to time make written or
oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in the Company's
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its reports to
stockholders. In connection with the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company is hereby identifying
important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from
those contained in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the
Company; any such statement is qualified by reference to the following
cautionary statements.
 
    The tobacco industry continues to be subject to health concerns relating to
the use of tobacco products and exposure to ETS, legislation, including tax
increases, governmental regulation, privately imposed smoking restrictions,
governmental and grand jury investigations, litigation, and the effects of price
increases related to tobacco litigation settlements and, if implemented, of the
proposed Resolution discussed above. Each of the Company's operating
subsidiaries is subject to intense competition, changes
 

in consumer preferences, the effects of changing prices for its raw materials
and local economic conditions. The performance of each of Philip Morris
International and Kraft Foods International is affected by foreign economies and
currency movements. Developments in any of these areas, which are more fully
described elsewhere in Part I hereof and in Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") on pages 21-35 of the
Company's 1997 Annual Report, each of which is incorporated into this section by
reference, could cause the Company's results to differ materially from results
that have been or may be projected by or on behalf of the Company. The Company
cautions that the foregoing list of important factors is not exclusive. The
Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be
made from time to time by or on behalf of the Company.
 
(D) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES
 
    The amounts of operating revenues, operating profit and identifiable assets
attributable to each of the Company's geographic segments and the amount of
export sales from the United States for each of the last three fiscal years are
set forth in Note 12 to the Company's consolidated financial statements,
incorporated herein by reference to the Company's 1997 Annual Report.
 
    Subsidiaries of the Company export tobacco and tobacco-related products,
coffee products, grocery products, cheese, processed meats and beer. In 1997,
the value of all exports from the United States by these subsidiaries amounted
to approximately $6.7 billion.
 
ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY.
 
TOBACCO PRODUCTS
 
    PM Inc. owns nine tobacco manufacturing and processing facilities--six in
the Richmond, Virginia, area, two in Louisville, Kentucky, and one in Cabarrus
County, North Carolina. Subsidiaries and affiliates of Philip Morris
International own, lease or have an interest in 52 cigarette or component
manufacturing facilities in 29 countries outside the United States, including
cigarette manufacturing facilities in Bergen Op Zoom, the Netherlands, and in
Berlin, Germany.
 
FOOD PRODUCTS
 
    The Company's subsidiaries have 54 manufacturing and processing facilities
and 252 distribution centers and depots throughout the United States, as well as
103 foreign manufacturing and processing facilities in 35 countries, and various
distribution and other facilities outside the United States. All significant
plants and properties used for production of food products are owned, although
the majority of the domestic distribution centers and depots are leased.
 
BEER
 
    Miller owns and operates eight breweries, located in Milwaukee, Wisconsin
(two); Fort Worth, Texas; Eden, North Carolina; Albany, Georgia; Irwindale,
California; Trenton, Ohio; and Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin. Miller owns a majority
interest in the Celis Brewery in Austin, Texas, and the Shipyard Brewery in
Portland, Maine. Miller also owns a hops-processing facility in Wisconsin, and
owns or leases warehouses in several locations.
 
GENERAL
 
    The plants and properties owned and operated by the Company's subsidiaries
are maintained in good condition and are believed to be suitable and adequate
for present needs. In the fourth quarter of 1993, the Company provided for the
costs of restructuring its worldwide operations. The charge related primarily to
the downsizing or closure of approximately 40 manufacturing and other
facilities. Write-downs of such facilities included in the restructuring charge
were, on a pretax basis, $429 million, of which $141 million,
 

$211 million and $77 million related to tobacco, food and beer facilities,
respectively. The 1993 restructuring and its impact on the Company's financial
statements are described in the MD&A, incorporated herein by reference to the
Company's 1997 Annual Report.
 
    During 1997, the Company's international food businesses recorded a pretax
charge of $342 million, related primarily to the downsizing or closure of
manufacturing and other facilities, as well as the discontinuance of certain
low-margin product lines. Facility write-downs included in the charge totaled
$209 million.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
    Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending in various
U.S. and foreign jurisdictions against the Company, its subsidiaries, including
PM Inc., and their respective indemnitees. Various types of claims are raised in
these proceedings, including products liability, consumer protection, antitrust,
securities law, tax, patent infringement, employment matters and claims for
contribution.
 
                     OVERVIEW OF TOBACCO-RELATED LITIGATION
 
TYPES AND NUMBER OF CASES
 
    Pending claims related to tobacco products generally fall within three
categories: (i) smoking and health cases alleging personal injury brought on
behalf of individual plaintiffs, (ii) smoking and health cases alleging personal
injury and purporting to be brought on behalf of a class of individual
plaintiffs, and (iii) health care cost recovery cases, including class actions,
brought by state and local governments, unions, federal and state taxpayers,
native American tribes and others seeking reimbursement for Medicaid and/or
other health care expenditures allegedly caused by cigarette smoking. Damages
claimed in some of the smoking and health class actions and health care cost
recovery cases range into the billions of dollars.
 
    In recent years there has been a substantial increase in the number of
smoking and health cases being filed in the United States, a trend that
accelerated in 1997.
 
    As of February 27, 1998, there were approximately 390 smoking and health
cases filed and served on behalf of individual plaintiffs in the United States
against PM Inc. and, in some cases, the Company (excluding approximately 50
cases in Texas that were voluntarily dismissed but which may be refiled under
certain conditions), compared with approximately 375 such cases on December 31,
1997, and 185 such cases on December 31, 1996. Many of the new cases were filed
in Florida and New York. Seventeen of the individual cases involve allegations
of various personal injuries allegedly related to exposure to ETS.
 
    In addition, as of February 27, 1998, there were approximately 50 purported
smoking and health class actions pending in the United States against PM Inc.
and, in some cases, the Company (including six that involve allegations of
various personal injuries related to exposure to ETS), compared with
approximately 50 such cases on December 31, 1997, and 20 such cases on December
31, 1996. Most of these actions purport to constitute statewide class actions
and were filed after May 1996 when the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, in the
CASTANO case, reversed a federal district court's certification of a purported
nationwide class action on behalf of persons who were allegedly "addicted" to
tobacco products. As of February 27, 1998, there were three purported smoking
and health class actions pending overseas against affiliates and subsidiaries of
the Company, one each in Canada, Brazil and Nigeria.
 
    The number of health care cost recovery actions also increased, with
approximately 105 such cases pending as of February 27, 1998, compared with
approximately 105 such cases on December 31, 1997, and 25 such cases on December
31, 1996.
 

RECENT VERDICTS
 
    In August 1996, a Florida jury awarded a former smoker and his spouse
$750,000 in a smoking and health case against another United States cigarette
manufacturer (CARTER V. AMERICAN TOBACCO CO., ET AL.), and that manufacturer was
subsequently ordered to pay approximately $1.8 million in attorneys' fees and
costs. Neither PM Inc. nor the Company was a party to that litigation. The
defendant in that action has appealed the verdict. Later that month, a jury
returned a verdict for defendants in a smoking and health case in Indiana
against United States cigarette manufacturers, including PM Inc. (ROGERS V. R.J.
REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, ET AL.). Plaintiff has filed a motion seeking a new
trial based on the alleged discovery of new evidence. In May and October 1997,
Florida juries also returned verdicts for defendants in smoking and health cases
involving another United States cigarette manufacturer (CONNOR V. R.J. REYNOLDS
TOBACCO COMPANY; KARBIWNYK V. R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY). In September 1997,
a court in Brazil awarded plaintiffs in a smoking and health case the Brazilian
currency equivalent of $81,000, attorneys' fees (in an amount to be determined
by the court) and a monthly annuity for 35 years equal to two-thirds of the
deceased smoker's last monthly salary (ALVES V. SOUZA CRUZ). Defendant is
appealing the judgment. Neither the Company nor its affiliates were parties to
that action.
 
THE PROPOSED RESOLUTION AND RECENT SETTLEMENTS
 
    In June 1997, PM Inc. and other companies in the United States tobacco
industry agreed to a proposed Resolution to support federal legislation and
ancillary undertakings that would resolve many of the regulatory and litigation
issues affecting the industry. (See "PROPOSED RESOLUTION OF CERTAIN REGULATORY
AND LITIGATION ISSUES" in Item 1 above.) In furtherance of the proposed
Resolution, PM Inc. and other companies in the United States tobacco industry
settled health care cost recovery actions brought by the States of Mississippi,
Florida and Texas, and a smoking and health class action brought on behalf of
airline flight attendants, all on terms consistent with the proposed Resolution.
These settlements are discussed below.
 
CURRENTLY PENDING TRIALS
 
    In January 1998, trial began in the health care cost recovery action brought
by State of Minnesota and Blue Cross Blue Shield of Minnesota against PM Inc.,
other domestic tobacco manufacturers, and others, including the Company.
Plaintiffs seek $1.7 billion in compensatory damages, disgorgement of profits,
restitution, treble damages under Minnesota's antitrust statute, punitive
damages, funding of smoking cessation and public education programs, civil
penalties of $25,000 for each separate violation of various consumer protection
statutes, civil penalties of $50,000 for each separate violation of Minnesota's
antitrust statute, attorneys' fees and costs, various forms of non-monetary
relief and such other legal or equitable relief as the court deems just and
equitable. Under Minnesota law, joint and several liability applies. There have
been a number of significant rulings and developments in this case, many of
which have been adverse to defendants. Certain of these rulings and developments
are discussed below under the heading "Health Care Cost Recovery
Litigation--MINNESOTA TRIAL."
 
    Trial in an individual ETS case began in February 1998 (DUNN V. RJR NABISCO
HOLDINGS CORP., ET AL.).
 
FUTURE TRIAL DATES
 
    The following health care cost recovery actions are currently scheduled for
trial later in 1998: Washington (September), Arizona (October) and Oklahoma
(November). Approximately 25 individual smoking and health cases are currently
scheduled for trial in 1998 against PM Inc. and, in some cases, the Company, one
of which is scheduled to begin in Florida in May 1998, and approximately 15 of
which are scheduled to commence in Florida in June 1998. Trial in a New York
smoking and health class action, previously scheduled to begin in February, has
been delayed and may begin in the spring or summer of 1998 (FROSINA, ET AL. V.
PHILIP MORRIS, INC.). A Florida smoking and health class action, previously
scheduled
 

for trial in February 1998, has also been delayed (ENGLE, ET AL. V. R.J.
REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, ET AL.). No new trial date has been set.
 
    A description of the smoking and health litigation, health care cost
recovery litigation and certain other proceedings pending against the Company
and/or its subsidiaries and affiliates follows.
 
                         SMOKING AND HEALTH LITIGATION
 
    Plaintiffs' allegations of liability in smoking and health cases are based
on various theories of recovery, including negligence, gross negligence, strict
liability, fraud, misrepresentation, design defect, failure to warn, breach of
express and implied warranties, breach of special duty, conspiracy, concert of
action, violations of deceptive trade practice laws and consumer protection
statutes, and claims under the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organization Act ("RICO") and state RICO statutes. Plaintiffs in these actions
seek various forms of relief, including compensatory and punitive damages,
treble/multiple damages and other statutory damages and penalties, creation of
medical monitoring funds, disgorgement of profits, and injunctive and equitable
relief. Defenses raised in these cases include lack of proximate cause,
assumption of the risk, comparative fault and/or contributory negligence,
statutes of limitations, and preemption by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and
Advertising Act (the "Labeling Act"). In June 1992, the United States Supreme
Court held that the Labeling Act, as enacted in 1965, does not preempt common
law damage claims, but that the Labeling Act, as amended in 1969, preempts
claims arising after July 1969 against cigarette manufacturers "based on failure
to warn and the neutralization of federally mandated warnings to the extent that
those claims rely on omissions or inclusions in advertising or promotions." The
Court also held that the 1969 Labeling Act does not preempt claims based on
express warranty, fraudulent misrepresentation or conspiracy. The Court further
held that claims for fraudulent concealment were preempted except "insofar as
those claims relied on a duty to disclose...facts through channels of
communication other than advertising or promotion." (The Court did not consider
whether such common law damage claims were valid under state law.) The Court's
decision was announced by a plurality opinion. The effect of the decision on
pending and future cases will be the subject of further proceedings in the lower
federal and state courts. Additional similar litigation could be encouraged if
legislation to eliminate the federal preemption defense, proposed in Congress in
recent years, were enacted. It is not possible to predict whether any such
legislation will be enacted.
 
    In May 1996, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals held that a purported class
consisting of all "addicted" smokers nationwide did not meet the standards and
requirements of the federal rules governing class actions (CASTANO, ET AL. V.
THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY, ET AL.). Since this class decertification, lawyers
for plaintiffs have filed numerous smoking and health class action suits in
various state and federal courts. In general, these cases purport to be brought
on behalf of residents of a particular state or states and raise "addiction"
claims similar to those raised in the CASTANO case and, in some cases, claims of
physical injury as well. As of February 27, 1998, smoking and health class
actions were pending in Alabama, Arkansas, California, the District of Columbia,
Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Maryland,
Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York,
Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, South Carolina, South Dakota,
Tennessee, Texas, Utah, West Virginia and Wisconsin, as well as in Canada,
Brazil and Nigeria. As of February 27, 1998, classes had been certified in five
of these smoking and health class actions, in Florida, Louisiana, Maryland and
New York (2), and class certification had been denied or reversed in three cases
involving PM Inc., in Louisiana, the District of Columbia and Pennsylvania. A
number of these class certification decisions are under appeal. One smoking and
health class action was settled in 1997 as discussed below.
 
THE Broin SETTLEMENT
 
    The BROIN, ET AL. V. PHILIP MORRIS INCORPORATED, ET AL. class action was
settled in October 1997 by PM Inc. and other companies in the domestic tobacco
industry.
 

    The BROIN class consisted of "all non-smoking flight attendants who are or
have been employed by airlines based in the United States and are suffering from
various diseases and disorders caused by their exposure to second-hand smoke in
airline cabins." Under the settlement, the settling defendants will pay $300
million to establish a foundation to sponsor scientific research with respect to
diseases associated with cigarette smoking. These funds will be paid in three
equal annual installments, with interest. Settling defendants also agreed to pay
attorneys' fees of up to $46 million and costs of $3 million, subject to court
approval. PM Inc.'s share of all the foregoing payments (exclusive of interest)
is approximately $175 million and was charged to expense in the third quarter of
1997. Under the settlement, all defendants (and certain other entities and
persons) are released from liability for the claims asserted in the present
action. Each individual member of the class, however, may later bring an
individual action for diseases and conditions existing on or before January 15,
1997 ("retained claims"), based upon certain legal theories against the settling
defendants, but may only seek compensatory, and not punitive, damages.
 
    The defendants expressly did not admit liability for injury of any member of
the settlement class or that ETS can cause any disease. In any individual
lawsuits brought by members of the settlement class for retained claims, the
settling defendants would assume the burden of proof as to whether ETS can cause
certain conditions, but the plaintiff would retain the burden of proving that
his or her condition was caused by exposure to ETS. The settling defendants have
also agreed not to raise a statute of limitations defense with respect to any
retained claims brought by a member of the settlement class within one year
after final court approval of the settlement. The settlement does not apply to,
nor does it have any effect on, "future" claims brought by members of the
settlement class for any new and unrelated diseases or conditions arising after
January 15, 1997.
 
    Trial court approval of the BROIN settlement was granted in February 1998,
but this approval has been appealed by a number of individuals. No payments with
respect to either the research fund or attorneys' fees will be due until final
appellate court approval of the settlement. The ultimate outcome of the appeals
cannot be predicted.
 
                      HEALTH CARE COST RECOVERY LITIGATION
 
    In certain of the pending proceedings, foreign, state and local government
entities, unions, federal and state taxpayers, native American tribes and others
seek reimbursement for Medicaid and/or other health care expenditures allegedly
caused by tobacco products and, in some cases, for future expenditures and
damages as well. Certain of these cases purport to be brought on behalf of a
class of plaintiffs, and in some cases, the class has been certified by the
court. In one health care cost recovery case, private citizens seek recovery of
alleged tobacco-related health care expenditures incurred by the federal
Medicare program. In one purported class action, Blue Cross/Blue Shield
subscribers in the United States are seeking reimbursement of allegedly
increased medical insurance premiums caused by tobacco products. In the native
American cases, claims are also asserted for alleged lost productivity of tribal
government employees. Other relief sought by some but not all plaintiffs
includes punitive damages, treble/multiple damages and other statutory damages
and penalties, injunctions prohibiting alleged marketing and sales to minors,
disclosure of research, disgorgement of profits, funding of anti-smoking
programs, disclosure of nicotine yields, and payment of attorney and expert
witness fees.
 
    The claims asserted in these health care cost recovery actions vary. In most
cases, plaintiffs assert the equitable claim that the tobacco industry was
"unjustly enriched" by plaintiffs' payment of health care costs allegedly
attributable to smoking, and seek reimbursement of those costs. Other claims
made by some but not all plaintiffs include the equitable claim of indemnity,
common law claims of negligence, strict liability, breach of express and implied
warranty, violation of a voluntary undertaking or special duty, fraud, negligent
misrepresentation, conspiracy, public nuisance, claims under federal and state
statutes governing consumer fraud, antitrust, deceptive trade practices and
false advertising, and claims under federal and state RICO statutes.
 

    Defenses raised include failure to state a valid claim, lack of benefit,
adequate remedy at law, "unclean hands" (namely, that plaintiffs cannot obtain
equitable relief because they participated in, and benefited from, the sale of
cigarettes), lack of antitrust injury, federal preemption, lack of proximate
cause and statute of limitations. In addition, defendants argue that they should
be entitled to "set-off" any alleged damages to the extent the plaintiff
benefits economically from the sale of cigarettes through the receipt of excise
taxes or otherwise. Defendants also argue that these cases are improper because
plaintiffs must proceed under principles of subrogation and assignment. Under
traditional theories of recovery, a payor of medical costs (such as an insurer
or a state) can seek recovery of health care costs from a third party solely by
"standing in the shoes" of the injured party. Defendants argue that plaintiffs
should be required to bring an action on behalf of each individual health care
recipient and should be subject to all defenses available against the injured
party. In certain of these cases, defendants have also challenged the ability of
the plaintiffs to use contingency fee counsel to prosecute these actions.
Further, certain cigarette companies, including PM Inc., have filed declaratory
judgment actions in a number of states seeking to block the state's health care
cost recovery action and/or to prevent the state from hiring contingency fee
counsel.
 
    As of February 27, 1998, there were approximately 105 health care cost
recovery cases pending against PM Inc. and, in some cases, the Company,
including cases filed by states, through their attorneys general and/or other
state agencies, in Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut,
Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Maine,
Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nevada, New
Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon,
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Utah, Vermont,
Washington, West Virginia and Wisconsin. In addition, approximately 45 of the
pending health care cost recovery actions were filed by unions, eight by city
and county governments, six by federal and state taxpayers and four by native
American tribes. Health care cost recovery actions have also been brought by the
Republic of the Marshall Islands and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Three
health care cost recovery cases were settled recently as discussed below.
 
THE MISSISSIPPI, FLORIDA AND TEXAS SETTLEMENTS
 
    In June 1997, PM Inc. and other companies in the United States tobacco
industry agreed to a proposed Resolution to support federal legislation and
ancillary undertakings that would resolve much of the litigation facing the
United States tobacco industry. (See "PROPOSED RESOLUTION OF CERTAIN REGULATORY
AND LITIGATION ISSUES" in Item 1 above.) In furtherance of the proposed
Resolution, PM Inc. and other companies in the United States tobacco industry
settled health care cost recovery actions brought by the States of Mississippi,
Florida and Texas on terms consistent with the proposed Resolution. The
Mississippi action was settled in July 1997, Florida was settled in September
1997 and Texas was settled in January 1998. Copies of the settlement agreements
are filed as Exhibits to this Form 10-K, and the discussion herein is qualified
by reference thereto.
 
    Under the Mississippi settlement agreement, the settling defendants paid
$170 million, representing Mississippi's estimated share of the $10 billion
initial payment under the proposed Resolution, and paid an additional $15
million to reimburse Mississippi and its private counsel for out-of-pocket
costs. The settling defendants also paid approximately $62 million to support a
pilot program aimed at reducing the use of tobacco products by persons under the
age of eighteen. PM Inc.'s share of all the foregoing payments, approximately
$153 million, was charged to expense in the third quarter of 1997.
 
    Beginning December 31, 1998, the settling defendants will pay Mississippi
amounts based on its anticipated share of the annual industry payments under the
proposed Resolution. These payments, which (except for the payment with respect
to 1998) will be adjusted as provided in the proposed Resolution, are estimated
to be $68 million with respect to 1998 and will increase annually thereafter to
an estimated $136 million by 2003, continuing at that level thereafter, and will
be allocated among the settling defendants in accordance with their relative
unit volume of domestic tobacco product sales.
 

    Under the Florida settlement agreement, the settling defendants paid $550
million, representing Florida's estimated share of the $10 billion initial
payment under the proposed Resolution, and also reimbursed Florida's expenses
and those of its private counsel. The settling defendants also paid $200 million
to support a pilot program by Florida aimed at reducing the use of tobacco
products by persons under the age of eighteen. PM Inc.'s share of all the
foregoing payments, approximately $484 million, was charged to expense in the
third quarter of 1997.
 
    On September 15, 1998, and annually thereafter on December 31, the settling
defendants will make ongoing payments to Florida in the following estimated
amounts--1998: $220 million; 1999: $247.5 million; 2000: $275 million; 2001:
$357.5 million; 2002: $357.5 million; and each year thereafter: $440 million.
These amounts are projected to approximate that portion of the annual industry
payments under the proposed Resolution that is contemplated to be paid to
Florida. These payments (except for the payment with respect to 1998) will be
adjusted as provided in the proposed Resolution and will be allocated among the
settling defendants in accordance with their relative unit volume of domestic
tobacco product sales.
 
    Under the Texas settlement agreement, the settling defendants agreed to pay
Texas an up-front payment of $725 million in 1998, representing Texas's
estimated share of the $10 billion initial payment under the proposed
Resolution, and agreed to reimburse Texas and its private counsel for expenses
in the estimated amount of $45 million. The settling defendants also agreed to
pay Texas $264 million to support a pilot program aimed at reducing the use of
tobacco by persons under the age of eighteen. PM Inc.'s share of all of the
foregoing payments, approximately $645 million, was charged to expense in the
fourth quarter of 1997.
 
    Beginning in November and December 1998, and on December 31 of each
subsequent year, the settling defendants will pay Texas 7.25% of the annual
industry payments contemplated to be paid to the states under the proposed
Resolution. These payments, which (except for the payments with respect to 1998)
will be adjusted as provided in the proposed Resolution, will be in the
following estimated amounts--1998: $290 million; 1999: $326 million; 2000: $363
million; 2001: $471 million; 2002: $471 million; and 2003 and each year
thereafter: $580 million. These payments will be allocated among the settling
defendants in accordance with their relative unit volume of domestic tobacco
product sales.
 
    Several county hospitals, local governments and others in Texas have filed
motions challenging the applicability of the Texas settlement agreement to the
health care cost recovery claims of such entities. The effect and the ultimate
outcome of these challenges cannot be predicted.
 
    The settling defendants have also agreed to pay reasonable attorneys' fees
of private contingency fee counsel of Mississippi, Florida and Texas as set by a
panel of independent arbitrators. Each of these payments would be allocated
among the settling defendants in accordance with their relative unit volume of
domestic tobacco product sales and will be subject to an aggregate national
annual cap of $500 million. Certain of Florida's private contingency fee counsel
have challenged the attorneys' fees provision set forth in the Florida
settlement agreement, arguing that the settlement agreement has no effect on
their rights under their contingency fee agreement with Florida. In November
1997, the court ordered all parties to comply with the provisions for obtaining
attorneys' fees, as set forth in the settlement agreement. Certain contingency
fee counsel are appealing this ruling. One of these contingency fee counsel has
filed suit against PM Inc. and others alleging, among other things, tortious
interference with such counsel's contingency fee agreement with the State.
 
    If legislation implementing the proposed Resolution or its substantial
equivalent is enacted, the settlements will remain in place, but the terms of
the federal legislation will supersede the settlement agreements (except for the
terms of the pilot programs and payments thereunder, the initial payments and
the annual payments with respect to 1998), and the other payments described
above will be adjusted so that Mississippi, Florida and Texas will receive the
same payments as they would receive under such legislation.
 

    If the settling defendants enter into any future pre-verdict settlement
agreement with a non-federal governmental plaintiff on more favorable terms
(after due consideration of relevant differences in population or other
appropriate factors), Mississippi, Florida and Texas will obtain treatment at
least as relatively favorable as such governmental plaintiff.
 
    If federal legislation implementing the proposed Resolution or its
substantial equivalent is enacted, the parties contemplate that Mississippi,
Florida and Texas and any other state that has made an exceptional contribution
to secure resolution of these matters may apply to a panel of independent
arbitrators for reasonable compensation for its efforts in securing the proposed
Resolution. The settling defendants have agreed not to oppose applications for
$75 million by Mississippi, $250 million by Florida and $329.5 million by Texas,
subject to a nationwide annual cap for all such payments of $100 million.
 
    Finally, the settlement agreements provide that they are not an admission or
concession or evidence of any liability or wrongdoing on the part of any party,
and were entered into by the settling defendants solely to avoid the further
expense, inconvenience, burden and uncertainty of litigation.
 
MINNESOTA TRIAL
 
    Trial in the Minnesota health care cost recovery action began in January
1998. Plaintiffs seek $1.7 billion in compensatory damages, disgorgement of
profits, restitution, treble damages under Minnesota's antitrust statute,
punitive damages, funding of smoking cessation and public education programs,
civil penalties of $25,000 for each separate violation of various consumer
protection statutes, civil penalties of $50,000 for each separate violation of
Minnesota's antitrust statute, attorneys' fees and costs, various forms of
non-monetary relief and such other relief as the court deems just and equitable.
Under Minnesota law, joint and several liability applies.
 
    Prior to trial, in December 1997, the court imposed sanctions on certain
companies, other than PM Inc. and the Company, for alleged failure to produce
certain documents and to answer discovery questions properly. Sanctions included
fines and revocation of the privileged status of certain documents. The court
further stated that it would impose one or more of the following sanctions, or
any other sanction, that the court deems just in light of any prejudice to
plaintiffs' case as a result of the alleged discovery abuses: plaintiffs will be
permitted to present to the jury the failure to provide discovery and the court
will instruct the jury that it may draw a negative inference from such failure;
the court will order that plaintiffs' allegations against these companies that
rest upon the information ordered produced (smoking and health research and
marketing/advertising) be deemed established; and the court will enter default
judgment against these companies.
 
    In January 1998, the court denied defendants' motion to strike the jury
panel. Defendants had argued that the process of selecting the jury was unfair
and had led to the selection of a jury that is inherently biased against
defendants.
 
    In January and February 1998, the court issued a number of rulings on
summary judgment motions, denying defendants' motion based on statute of
limitations and federal preemption and plaintiffs' motion based on non-statutory
claims (special duty, unjust enrichment, and performance of a duty of another)
and antitrust claims. The court also denied defendants' motion seeking to
prohibit plaintiffs from recovering the federal government's share of Medicaid
expenses and denied a motion to prevent plaintiffs from seeking disgorgement of
profits under certain counts. The court also denied defendants' motion for
partial summary judgment based on plaintiffs' inability to prove causation or
damages and based on defendants' right to petition (I.E., lobby) the government.
 
    In February 1998, the Special Master appointed by the court to review
defendants' assertions of privilege found that over 30,000 documents should be
produced on the grounds that they were either not privileged or, if privileged,
were discoverable under the crime-fraud exception to the privilege. The finding
is preliminary and is on appeal to the trial court. In an earlier ruling on the
discoverability of certain
 

documents as to which defendants asserted a privilege, the trial court adopted a
report of the Special Master recommending release of over 800 documents as
either not being privileged or, if privileged, subject to the crime-fraud
exception.
 
    The court has also issued the following rulings, among others: defendants
cannot argue that plaintiff Blue Cross/Blue Shield passed any increased health
care costs on to smokers through differential premiums, but defendants can
introduce evidence of differential premiums to the extent it is relevant in
apportioning fault and establishing the defense of unclean hands; defendants
cannot raise affirmative defenses based on conduct of individual smokers, but
can introduce evidence relating to individual smokers to the extent that
individual conduct is relevant to the causal chain between defendants' conduct
and plaintiffs' injury; defendants cannot argue that the State's statistical
model is flawed because it does not take into account the reduction in health
care costs occasioned by the premature deaths of smokers; defendants cannot
introduce certain research results; defendants can present evidence of the
State's distribution of cigarettes and failure to enforce youth smoking laws;
defendants can present evidence regarding the reasonableness of smoking-related
actions taken by the Minnesota legislature; plaintiffs may present evidence of
defendants' alleged discovery abuses; and plaintiffs can show the jury the
videotaped deposition of a former employee of PM Inc., who asserted his Fifth
Amendment right not to testify.
 
                            ------------------------
 
    Tax assessments alleging the nonpayment of taxes in Italy (value-added taxes
for the years 1988 to 1995 and income taxes for the years 1987 to 1995) have
been served upon certain affiliates of the Company. The aggregate amount of
unpaid taxes assessed to date is alleged to be the Italian lira equivalent of
$2.5 billion. In addition, the Italian lira equivalent of $6.0 billion in
interest and penalties has been assessed. The Company anticipates that
value-added and income tax assessments may also be received in respect of 1996
and 1997. In September 1997, in the first of several appeals filed by affiliates
of the Company, the Italian administrative tax court in Milan overturned one of
the assessments for value-added taxes. A hearing on a second appeal was held in
October 1997, and hearings on additional appeals were held in December 1997 and
January 1998. Additional hearings are anticipated over the course of 1998. In a
separate proceeding in Naples, in October 1997, a court dismissed charges of
criminal association against certain present and former officers and directors
of affiliates of the Company, but permitted charges of tax evasion to remain
pending. In February 1998, the tax evasion charges were dismissed by the
criminal court in Naples following a determination that jurisdiction was not
proper, and the case file was transmitted to a public prosecutor in Milan where
a preliminary investigations judge will make a new determination as to whether
there should be a trial on these charges. The Company, its affiliates and the
officers and directors who are subject to the proceedings believe they have
complied with applicable Italian tax laws and are vigorously contesting the
pending tax assessments and pending proceedings.
                            ------------------------
 
    On March 5, 1998, Kraft received a "Notice of Violation and Proposed
Settlement" from the San Joaquin Valley Unified Air Pollution Control District
(the "Pollution Control District") alleging that a subsidiary of Kraft had
violated the terms of its air emissions permit. The Pollution Control District
is seeking a civil penalty of $281,574 in settlement of this matter.
 
                            ------------------------
 
    It is not possible to predict the outcome of the litigation pending against
the Company and its subsidiaries. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties,
and it is possible that some of these actions could be decided unfavorably. An
unfavorable outcome of a pending smoking and health case could encourage the
commencement of additional similar litigation. There have also been a number of
adverse legislative, regulatory, political and other developments concerning
cigarette smoking and the tobacco industry that have received widespread media
attention, including a decision by a federal district court on a motion for
summary judgment not to preclude the FDA from asserting jurisdiction over
cigarettes as "drugs" or
 

"medical devices," which decision is now under appeal. These developments, as
well as the widespread media attention given to the proposed Resolution
discussed in Item 1 above and the settlements of the Mississippi, Florida and
Texas health care cost recovery actions and the BROIN class action, may
negatively affect the perception of potential triers of fact with respect to the
tobacco industry, possibly to the detriment of certain pending litigation, and
may prompt the commencement of additional similar litigation.
 
    Management is unable to make a meaningful estimate of the amount or range of
loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of pending litigation. It is
possible that the Company's results of operations or cash flows in a particular
quarterly or annual period or its financial position could be materially
affected by an unfavorable outcome of certain pending litigation or by the
proposed Resolution discussed in Item 1 above or by settlement, if any, of
certain pending cases. However, implementation of the proposed Resolution should
resolve the most significant tobacco litigation against the Company and its
subsidiaries. Furthermore, the Company and each of its subsidiaries named as a
defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling the
respective cases, that it has a number of valid defenses to all litigation
pending against it. Except as described in Item 1 above, under the heading
"PROPOSED RESOLUTION OF CERTAIN REGULATORY AND LITIGATION ISSUES--EFFECTS ON
LITIGATION," all such cases are, and will continue to be, vigorously defended.
 
    Reference is made to Note 15, incorporated herein by reference to the
Company's 1997 Annual Report, for a description of certain pending legal
proceedings, and Exhibit 99 to this Form 10-K for a list of pending smoking and
health class actions, health care cost recovery actions, and certain other
actions, and for a description of certain developments in such proceedings.
Copies of Note 15 and Exhibit 99 are available upon written request to the
Corporate Secretary, Philip Morris Companies Inc., 120 Park Avenue, New York, NY
10017.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
    None.
 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
 
    The following are the executive officers of the Company as of March 1, 1998:
 

 
    All of the above-mentioned officers, with the exception of Mr. Holsenbeck,
have been employed by the Company in various capacities during the past five
years. Mr. Holsenbeck was elected to his current position with the Company in
January 1995. Previously, Mr. Holsenbeck held various positions with Bethlehem
Steel Corporation, including Secretary and Deputy General Counsel from 1992 to
January 1995.
 

                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
 
    The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
to the paragraph captioned "Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)" on page 61 of
the Company's 1997 Annual Report and made a part hereof.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
 
    The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
to the information with respect to 1993-1997 appearing under the caption
"Selected Financial Data" on pages 36 and 37 of the Company's 1997 Annual Report
and made a part hereof.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS.
 
    The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
to the paragraphs captioned "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 21-35 of the Company's 1997 Annual
Report and made a part hereof.
 
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.
 
    The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
to the paragraphs in the MD&A captioned "Market Risk" and "Value at Risk" on
pages 34 and 35 of the Company's 1997 Annual Report and made a part hereof.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
 
    The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
to the Company's 1997 Annual Report as set forth under the caption "Quarterly
Financial Data (Unaudited)" on page 61 and in the Index to Consolidated
Financial Statements and Schedules (see Item 14) and made a part hereof.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
    Not applicable.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
 
    Except for the information relating to the executive officers of the Company
set forth in Part I of this Report, the information called for by Items 10-13 is
hereby incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement for
use in connection with its annual meeting of stockholders to be held on April
30, 1998, and made a part hereof.
 

                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
    (a) Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules
 

 
    Schedules other than those listed above have been omitted either because
such schedules are not required or are not applicable.
 
    (b) Reports on Form 8-K: No Current Reports on Form 8-K were filed during
the last quarter of the period for which this Report is filed. Subsequent to the
last quarter of the period for which this Report is filed, the Company filed
Current Reports on Form 8-K dated January 16, 1998, and January 28, 1998, and a
Form 8-K/A dated February 17, 1998.
 
    (c) The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report (Exhibit Nos.
10.1-10.16 are management contracts, compensatory plans or arrangements):
 

 


 
- ------------------------
 
 (1) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended March 31, 1997.
 

 (2) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
     S-3 (No. 33-36450) dated August 22, 1990.
 
 (3) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
     S-3 (No. 33-39059) dated February 21, 1991.
 
 (4) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
     S-3 (No. 33-45210) dated January 22, 1992.
 
 (5) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended September 30, 1997.
 
 (6) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
     the year ended December 31, 1996.
 
 (7) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
     the year ended December 31, 1995.
 
 (8) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
     the year ended December 31, 1993.
 
 (9) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
     the year ended December 31, 1994.
 
(10) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended June 30, 1997.
 
(11) Incorporated by reference to the Company's proxy statement dated March 10,
     1997.
 
(12) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
     June 20, 1997.
 
(13) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
     August 25, 1997.
 
(14) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
     January 16, 1998.
 
(15) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
     January 28, 1998, as amended by Form 8-K/A dated February 17, 1998.
 

                                   SIGNATURES
 
    PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 

 
    PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATE INDICATED:
 
              SIGNATURE                          TITLE                 DATE
- -------------------------------------  -------------------------- --------------
        /s/ GEOFFREY C. BIBLE          Director, Chairman of the
- -------------------------------------    Board and Chief          March 5, 1998
         (Geoffrey C. Bible)             Executive Officer
 
       /s/ LOUIS C. CAMILLERI
- -------------------------------------  Senior Vice President and  March 5, 1998
        (Louis C. Camilleri)             Chief Financial Officer
 
        /s/ FRANK T. TOSCANO
- -------------------------------------  Vice President and         March 5, 1998
         (Frank T. Toscano)              Controller
 
* ELIZABETH E. BAILEY, MURRAY H.
    BRING, HAROLD BROWN,
    WILLIAM H. DONALDSON, JANE
    EVANS, ROBERT E. R. HUNTLEY,
    RUPERT MURDOCH, JOHN D.
    NICHOLS, LUCIO A. NOTO,
    RICHARD D. PARSONS,
    ROGER S. PENSKE, JOHN S.
    REED, CARLOS SLIM HELU,
    STEPHEN M. WOLF,                   Directors
 
     *BY: /S/ LOUIS C. CAMILLERI
- -------------------------------------
         (Louis C. Camilleri
          Attorney-in-fact)                                       March 5, 1998
 

                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
    Our report on our audits of the consolidated financial statements of Philip
Morris Companies Inc. has been incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K from
the 1997 annual report to stockholders of Philip Morris Companies Inc. and
appears on page 62 therein. In connection with our audits of such financial
statements, we have also audited the related financial statement schedule listed
in the index in Item 14(a) on page 28 of this Form 10-K.
 
    In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information required to be
included therein.
 
                                          /S/ COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.
 
New York, New York
January 26, 1998
 
                                      S-1

                 PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1996 AND 1995
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 

 
- ------------------------
 
Notes:
 
(a) Related to divestitures, acquisitions and currency translation.
 
(b) Represents charges for which allowances were created.
 
                                      S-2

