
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K
              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                             ---------------------

                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-8940
                            ------------------------

                          PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
                         ------------------------------



                            ------------------------

        REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: 917-663-5000
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:



                            ------------------------

    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes /X/  No / /

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. /X/
                            ------------------------

    The aggregate market value of the shares of Common Stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price of
such stock on February 25, 2000, was approximately $45 billion. At such date,
there were 2,314,475,814 shares of the registrant's Common Stock outstanding.

                            ------------------------

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    Portions of the registrant's annual report to stockholders for the year
ended December 31, 1999, are incorporated in Part I, Part II and Part IV hereof
and made a part hereof. The registrant's definitive proxy statement for use in
connection with its annual meeting of stockholders to be held on April 27, 2000,
to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, is incorporated in
Part III hereof and made a part hereof.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS.

(A) GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

                                    GENERAL

    Philip Morris Companies Inc. is a holding company whose principal
wholly-owned subsidiaries, Philip Morris Incorporated, Philip Morris
International Inc., Kraft Foods, Inc., and Miller Brewing Company, are engaged
in the manufacture and sale of various consumer products. A wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company, Philip Morris Capital Corporation, engages in various
financing and investment activities. As used herein, unless the context
indicates otherwise, the term "Company" means Philip Morris Companies Inc. and
its subsidiaries. The Company is the largest consumer packaged goods company in
the world.(*)

    Philip Morris Incorporated ("PM Inc."), which conducts business under the
trade name "Philip Morris U.S.A.," is engaged in the manufacture and sale of
cigarettes. PM Inc. is the largest cigarette company in the United States.
Philip Morris International Inc. ("Philip Morris International" or "PMI") is a
holding company whose subsidiaries and affiliates and their licensees are
engaged primarily in the manufacture and sale of tobacco products (mainly
cigarettes) internationally. A subsidiary of Philip Morris International is the
leading United States exporter of cigarettes. MARLBORO, the principal cigarette
brand of these companies, has been the world's largest-selling cigarette brand
since 1972. Certain subsidiaries and affiliates of Philip Morris International
manufacture and sell a wide variety of food products in Latin America.

    Kraft Foods, Inc. ("Kraft"), is the largest processor and marketer of retail
packaged foods in the United States. A wide variety of cheese, processed meat
products, coffee and grocery products are manufactured and marketed in the
United States and Canada by Kraft. Subsidiaries and affiliates of Kraft Foods
International, Inc. ("Kraft Foods International"), a subsidiary of Kraft,
manufacture and market coffee, confectionery, cheese, grocery and processed meat
products primarily in Europe and the Asia/ Pacific region.

    Miller Brewing Company ("Miller") is the second-largest brewing company in
the United States.

                           SOURCE OF FUNDS--DIVIDENDS

    Because the Company is a holding company, its principal source of funds is
dividends from its subsidiaries. The Company's principal wholly-owned
subsidiaries currently are not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in
their ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to
their common stock.

(B) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

    The Company's significant industry segments were domestic tobacco,
international tobacco, North American food, international food, beer and
financial services. Operating revenues and operating companies income (together
with a reconciliation to operating income) attributable to each such segment for
each of the last three years (along with total assets for each of tobacco, food,
beer and financial services at December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997) are set forth
in Note 11 to the Company's consolidated financial statements and are
incorporated herein by reference to the Company's annual report to stockholders
for the year ended December 31, 1999 (the "1999 Annual Report").

    In 1999, operating companies income for domestic tobacco was approximately
32.8% of consolidated operating companies income, up from 13.1% in 1998 and
25.7% in 1997. Both the decrease from 1997 to

- ------------------------

*   References to the Company's competitive ranking in its various businesses
    are based on sales data or, in the case of cigarettes and beer, shipments,
    unless otherwise indicated.


1998 and the increase from 1998 to 1999 were due primarily to charges recorded
in 1998 and 1997 for tobacco litigation settlements (discussed below in Item 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS). International tobacco contributed 33.5% of consolidated
operating companies income in 1999, compared with 44.4% and 35.7%, respectively,
in 1998 and 1997. North American food and international food contributed 21.0%
and 7.7%, respectively, to consolidated operating companies income in 1999,
compared with 27.0% and 9.9%, respectively, in 1998 and 22.4% and 10.3%,
respectively, in 1997. Beer and financial services contributed 3.5% and 1.5%,
respectively, to consolidated operating companies income in 1999, compared with
4.0% and 1.6%, respectively, in 1998, and 3.6% and 2.3%, respectively, in 1997.
The higher contribution attributable to financial services in 1997 reflects a
$103 million pre-tax gain on the sale of its real estate operations.

(C) NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

                                TOBACCO PRODUCTS

    PM Inc. manufactures, markets and sells cigarettes in the United States and
territories of the United States. Subsidiaries and affiliates of Philip Morris
International and their licensees manufacture, market and sell tobacco products
outside the United States and export tobacco products from the United States.

DOMESTIC TOBACCO PRODUCTS

    PM Inc. is the largest tobacco company in the United States, with total
cigarette shipments in the United States of 208.2 billion units in 1999, a
decrease of 8.5% from 1998. PM Inc. accounted for 49.6% of the cigarette
industry's total shipments in the United States in 1999 (an increase of 0.2
share points over 1998). The industry's cigarette shipments in the United States
decreased by 9.0% in 1999. PM Inc.'s and the industry's volume declines are due
primarily to price increases associated with tobacco litigation settlements and
excise tax increases. The following table sets forth the industry's cigarette
shipments in the United States, PM Inc.'s shipments and its share of United
States industry shipments:



    PM Inc.'s major premium brands are MARLBORO, VIRGINIA SLIMS, BENSON &
HEDGES, MERIT and PARLIAMENT. Its principal discount brands are BASIC and
CAMBRIDGE. All of its brands are marketed to take into account differing
preferences of adult smokers. MARLBORO is the largest-selling cigarette brand in
the United States, with shipments of 152.8 billion units in 1999 (down 6.0% from
1998), equating to 36.4% of the United States market (up 1.2 share points over
1998).

    In 1999 and 1998, the premium and discount segments accounted for
approximately 73% and 27%, respectively, of domestic cigarette industry volume.
PM Inc.'s share of the premium segment was 59.5% in 1999, an increase of 1.1
share points over 1998. Shipments of premium cigarettes accounted for 88.0% of
PM Inc.'s 1999 volume, up from 86.4% in 1998. In 1999, United States industry
shipments within the discount segment declined 10.3% from 1998 levels;
PM Inc.'s 1999 shipments within this category declined 19.5%, resulting in a
share of 22.4% of the discount segment (down 2.6 share points from 1998).

    During 1998, PM Inc. paid $150 million for options to purchase the voting
and non-voting common stock of a company (the "acquiree"), the sole assets of
which are three U.S. cigarette trademarks, L&M, LARK and CHESTERFIELD. During
1999, PM Inc. substantially completed its acquisition of the acquiree.

- ------------------------

*   Source: Management Science Associates.


Including the $150 million paid in December 1998, the total acquisition price
was approximately $300 million. L&M, LARK and CHESTERFIELD accounted for less
than 0.2% of domestic cigarette industry volume in 1999 and 1998.

    During 1999, PM Inc. announced plans to phase out cigarette production
capacity at its Louisville, Kentucky manufacturing plant by August 2000. The
closure of this facility will occur in stages, as cigarette production is
shifted to other PM Inc. manufacturing facilities in the United States. As a
result of this announcement, PM Inc. recorded pre-tax charges of $183 million
during 1999. These charges included enhanced severance, pension and
post-retirement benefits in accordance with the terms of the underlying plans,
affecting approximately 1,500 hourly and salaried employees.

    PM Inc. cannot predict future change or rates of change in domestic tobacco
industry volume, the relative sizes of the premium and discount segments or in
PM Inc.'s shipments, shipment market share or retail market share; however, it
believes that PM Inc.'s shipments may continue to be materially adversely
affected by price increases related to tobacco litigation settlements and, if
enacted, by increased excise taxes or other tobacco legislation discussed below.

INTERNATIONAL TOBACCO PRODUCTS

    Philip Morris International's total cigarette shipments declined 6.3% in
1999 to 672.1 billion units due primarily to the impact of regional economic
crises. Volume for 1999 includes approximately 4.2 billion units of incremental
volume from year 2000 business as customers purchased additional product in
anticipation of business disruptions from the century date change. Philip Morris
International estimates that its share of the international cigarette market
(which is defined as worldwide cigarette volume excluding the United States and
duty-free shipments) was 13.5% in 1999, down from 13.7% in 1998. Philip Morris
International estimates that international cigarette market shipments were
approximately 4.7 trillion units in 1999, down slightly from 1998. Philip Morris
International's leading brands--MARLBORO, L&M, PHILIP MORRIS, BOND STREET,
CHESTERFIELD, PARLIAMENT, LARK, MERIT and VIRGINIA SLIMS--collectively accounted
for approximately 10.2% of the international cigarette market, down from 10.4%
in 1998. Shipments of Philip Morris International's principal brand, MARLBORO,
decreased 1.9% in 1999, and represented more than 6% of the international
cigarette market in 1999 and 1998.

    Philip Morris International has a cigarette market share of at least 15%,
and in a number of instances substantially more than 15%, in more than 50
markets, including Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the
Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland and
Turkey.

    In 1999, Philip Morris International took a number of measures to invest in
and expand its international manufacturing base. Philip Morris International
increased its ownership interests in affiliated companies in Portugal and Poland
and conducted facilities expansions in Germany, Portugal, Holland, Switzerland,
Poland, Romania, Turkey, Ukraine, Russia, Kazakhstan and Indonesia.

    In 1999, Philip Morris International announced the closure of a cigarette
factory and the corresponding reduction of cigarette production capacity in
Brazil. Prior to the factory closure, existing employees were offered voluntary
dismissal benefits. These benefits were accepted by half of the approximately
1,000 employees at the facility. During the third quarter of 1999, the factory
was closed and the remaining employees were dismissed. A pre-tax charge of
$136 million was recorded by PM International to write down the tobacco
machinery and equipment no longer in use and to recognize the cost of enhanced
severance benefits.

DISTRIBUTION, COMPETITION AND RAW MATERIALS

    PM Inc. sells its tobacco products principally to wholesalers (including
distributors), large retail organizations, including chain stores, and the armed
services. Subsidiaries and affiliates of Philip Morris


International and their licensees market cigarettes and other tobacco products
worldwide, directly or through export sales organizations and other entities
with which they have contractual arrangements.

    The market for tobacco products is highly competitive, characterized by
brand recognition and loyalty, with product quality, price, marketing and
packaging constituting the significant methods of competition. Promotional
activities include, in certain instances and where permitted by law, allowances,
the distribution of incentive items, price reductions and other discounts. The
tobacco products of the Company's subsidiaries, affiliates and their licensees
are advertised and promoted through various media, although television and radio
advertising of cigarettes is prohibited in the United States and is prohibited
or restricted in many other countries. In addition, as discussed below under
TAXES, LEGISLATION, REGULATION AND OTHER MATTERS REGARDING TOBACCO AND
SMOKING--STATE SETTLEMENT AGREEMENTS, PM Inc. and other domestic tobacco
manufacturers have agreed to other marketing restrictions in the United States
as part of the settlements of state health care cost recovery actions.

    PM Inc. and Philip Morris International's subsidiaries and affiliates and
their licensees purchase domestic burley and flue-cured leaf tobaccos of various
grades and types each year, primarily at domestic auction. However, in light of
recent reductions in the federal price-support program for tobacco farmers,
PM Inc. announced in February 2000 that it would conduct a pilot partnering
program with a limited number of tobacco growers in order to ensure adequate
supply of burley tobacco. Under the terms of the program, PM Inc. would agree in
advance to purchase certain amounts of burley tobacco directly from growers in
the program. In addition, oriental tobacco and certain other tobaccos are
purchased outside the United States. The tobacco is then graded, cleaned,
stemmed and redried prior to its storage for aging up to three years. Large
quantities of leaf tobacco inventory are maintained to support cigarette
manufacturing requirements. Tobacco is an agricultural commodity subject to
United States government controls, including the tobacco price support (subject
to Congressional review) and production adjustment programs administered by the
United States Department of Agriculture (the "USDA"), either of which can
substantially affect market prices. PM Inc. and Philip Morris International
believe there is an adequate supply of tobacco in the world markets to satisfy
their current and anticipated production requirements.

TAXES, LEGISLATION, REGULATION AND OTHER MATTERS REGARDING TOBACCO AND SMOKING

    The tobacco industry, both in the United States and abroad, has faced, and
continues to face, a number of issues that may adversely affect the business,
volume, results of operations, cash flows and financial position of PM Inc.,
Philip Morris International and the Company.

    These issues, some of which are more fully discussed below, include
legislation or other governmental action seeking to ascribe to the industry
responsibility and liability for the adverse health effects associated with both
smoking and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke ("ETS"); increased smoking
and health litigation and jury verdicts against PM Inc., including in Phase One
of the ENGLE class action trial discussed below in Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS;
the filing of a civil lawsuit by the U.S. federal government against various
cigarette manufacturers and others as discussed below in Item 3. LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS; price increases in the United States related to the settlement of
certain tobacco litigation; actual and proposed excise tax increases; an
increase in diversion into the United States market of product intended for sale
outside the United States; the issuance of final regulations by the United
States Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") that, if upheld by the courts,
would regulate cigarettes as "drugs" or "medical devices"; governmental and
grand jury investigations; actual and proposed requirements regarding disclosure
of cigarette ingredients and other proprietary information; governmental and
private bans and restrictions on smoking; actual and proposed price controls and
restrictions on imports in certain jurisdictions outside the United States;
actual and proposed restrictions affecting tobacco manufacturing, marketing,
advertising and sales outside the United States; proposed legislation to
eliminate the United States tax deductibility of tobacco advertising and
promotional costs; proposed legislation in the United States to require the
establishment of ignition-propensity performance standards for cigarettes; the
diminishing social acceptance of smoking, increased pressure from anti-smoking
groups and unfavorable press reports; and other tobacco legislation


that may be considered by the Congress, the states and other jurisdictions
inside and outside the United States.

    EXCISE TAXES--Cigarettes are subject to substantial federal, state and local
excise taxes in the United States and to similar taxes in most foreign markets.
The United States federal excise tax on cigarettes is currently $0.34 per pack
of 20 cigarettes and is scheduled to increase to $0.39 per pack on January 1,
2002. In general, excise taxes and other taxes on cigarettes have been
increasing. These taxes vary considerably and, when combined with sales taxes
and the current federal excise tax, may be as high as $1.66 per pack in a given
locality in the United States. Congress has been considering significant
increases in the federal excise tax or other payments from tobacco
manufacturers, and the Clinton Administration's fiscal year 2001 budget proposal
includes an additional increase of $0.25 per pack in the federal excise tax, as
well as a contingent special assessment related to youth smoking rates.
Increases in other cigarette-related taxes have been proposed at the state and
local level and in many jurisdictions outside the United States.

    In the opinion of PM Inc. and PMI, increases in excise and similar taxes
have had an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes. Any future increases, the
extent of which cannot be predicted, could result in volume declines for the
cigarette industry, including PM Inc. and PMI, and might cause sales to shift
from the premium segment to the discount segment.

    FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION ("FTC")--In September 1997, the FTC issued a
request for public comments on its proposed revision of its "tar" and nicotine
test methodology and reporting procedures established by a 1970 voluntary
agreement among domestic cigarette manufacturers. In February 1998, PM Inc. and
three other domestic cigarette manufacturers filed comments on the proposed
revisions. In November 1998, the FTC wrote to the Department of Health and Human
Services requesting its assistance in developing specific recommendations on the
future of the FTC's program for testing the "tar," nicotine and carbon monoxide
content of cigarettes.

    FDA REGULATIONS--The FDA has promulgated regulations asserting jurisdiction
over cigarettes as "drugs" or "medical devices" under the provisions of the
Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. These regulations include severe restrictions on
the distribution, marketing and advertising of cigarettes, and would require the
industry to comply with a wide range of labeling, reporting, recordkeeping,
manufacturing and other requirements. The FDA's exercise of jurisdiction, if not
reversed by judicial or legislative action, could lead to more expansive
FDA-imposed restrictions on cigarette operations than those set forth in the
regulations, and could materially adversely affect the business, volume, results
of operations, cash flows and financial position of PM Inc. and the Company. In
August 1998, the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the FDA does not
have the authority to regulate tobacco products, and declared the FDA's
regulations invalid. In April 1999, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to review the
Fourth Circuit's decision and in December 1999 heard oral arguments. The
ultimate outcome of this litigation cannot be predicted.

    The Company has recently stated publicly that while it continues to strongly
oppose the FDA's regulations asserting jurisdiction over cigarettes as "drugs"
or "medical devices" under the provisions of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, it
is prepared to discuss new federal legislation that would provide for reasonable
regulation of cigarettes as cigarettes.

    INGREDIENT DISCLOSURE LAWS--The Commonwealth of Massachusetts has enacted
legislation to require cigarette manufacturers to report yearly the flavorings
and other ingredients used in each brand style of cigarettes sold in the
Commonwealth, and on a qualified, by-brand basis to provide "nicotine-yield
ratings" for their products based on standards established by the Commonwealth.
Enforcement of the ingredient disclosure provisions of the statute could result
in the public disclosure of valuable proprietary information. In December 1997,
a federal district court in Boston granted the tobacco company plaintiffs a
preliminary injunction and enjoined the Commonwealth from enforcing the
ingredient disclosure provisions of the legislation. In November 1998, the First
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed this ruling. In addition, both parties'
cross-motions for summary judgment are pending before the district court. The
ultimate outcome of this lawsuit cannot be predicted. Similar legislation has
been enacted or proposed in


other states. Some jurisdictions outside the United States have also enacted or
proposed some form of ingredient disclosure legislation or regulation.

    HEALTH EFFECTS OF SMOKING AND EXPOSURE TO ETS--Reports with respect to the
health risks of cigarette smoking have been publicized for many years, and the
sale, promotion and use of cigarettes continue to be subject to increasing
governmental regulation. Since 1964, the Surgeon General of the United States
and the Secretary of Health and Human Services have released a number of reports
linking cigarette smoking with a broad range of health hazards, including
various types of cancer, coronary heart disease and chronic lung disease, and
recommending various governmental measures to reduce the incidence of smoking.
The 1988, 1990, 1992 and 1994 reports focus upon the addictive nature of
cigarettes, the effects of smoking cessation, the decrease in smoking in the
United States, the economic and regulatory aspects of smoking in the Western
Hemisphere, and cigarette smoking by adolescents, particularly the addictive
nature of cigarette smoking in adolescence.

    Studies with respect to the health risks of ETS to nonsmokers (including
lung cancer, respiratory and coronary illnesses, and other conditions) have also
received significant publicity. In 1986, the Surgeon General of the United
States and the National Academy of Sciences reported that nonsmokers were at
increased risk of lung cancer and respiratory illness due to ETS. In 1993, the
United States Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") issued a report
relating to certain health effects of ETS. The report included a risk assessment
relating to the association between ETS and lung cancer in nonsmokers, and a
determination by the EPA to classify ETS as a "Group A" carcinogen. In
July 1998, a federal district court vacated those sections of the report
relating to lung cancer, finding that the EPA may have reached different
conclusions had it complied with certain relevant statutory requirements. The
federal government has appealed the court's ruling. The ultimate outcome of this
litigation cannot be predicted.

    In October 1997, at the request of the United States Senate Judiciary
Committee, the Company provided the Committee with a document setting forth the
Company's position on a number of issues. On the issues of the role played by
cigarette smoking in the development of lung cancer and other diseases in
smokers, and whether nicotine, as found in cigarette smoke, is addictive, the
Company stated that despite the differences that may exist between its views and
those of the public health community, it would, in order to ensure that there
will be a single, consistent public health message on these issues, refrain from
debating the issues other than as necessary to defend itself and its opinions in
the courts and other forums in which it is required to do so. The Company also
stated that in relation to these issues, and the health effects of exposure to
ETS, the Company is prepared to defer to the judgment of public health
authorities as to what health warning messages will best serve the public
interest.

    In 1999, the Company launched a Web site that includes, among other things,
views of public health authorities on smoking, disease causation in smokers and
addiction. Consistent with the Company's position set forth in its October 1997
submission to the United States Senate Judiciary Committee (discussed above),
the Web site advises smokers and potential smokers to rely on the messages of
public health authorities in making all smoking-related decisions. The site
furthers the Company's efforts to implement this position.

    OTHER LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES--In recent years, various members of Congress
have introduced legislation, some of which has been the subject of hearings or
floor debate, that would subject cigarettes to various regulations under the
Department of Health and Human Services or regulation under the Consumer
Products Safety Act, establish anti-smoking educational campaigns or
anti-smoking programs, or provide additional funding for governmental
anti-smoking activities, further restrict the advertising of cigarettes,
including requiring additional warnings on packages and in advertising,
eliminate or reduce the tax deductibility of tobacco advertising, provide that
the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act and the Smoking Education Act
not be used as a defense against liability under state statutory or common law,
and allow state and local governments to restrict the sale and distribution of
cigarettes. Legislative initiatives adverse to the tobacco industry have also
been considered in a number of jurisdictions outside the United States.


    It is not possible to determine the outcome of the FDA regulatory initiative
or the related litigation discussed above, or to predict what, if any, other
foreign or domestic governmental legislation or regulations will be adopted
relating to the manufacturing, advertising, sale or use of cigarettes, or to the
tobacco industry generally. However, if any or all of the foregoing were to be
implemented, the business, volume, results of operations, cash flows and
financial position of PM Inc., PMI and the Company could be materially adversely
affected.

    GOVERNMENTAL AND GRAND JURY INVESTIGATIONS--PM Inc. has received requests
for information (including grand jury subpoenas) in connection with governmental
investigations, and has cooperated with respect to such requests. Present and
former employees of PM Inc. have testified in connection with certain of these
matters. The investigations include two grand jury investigations being
conducted by: the United States Attorney for the Northern District of New York,
relating to alleged contraband transactions primarily in Canadian-brand tobacco
products; and the United States Attorney for the Western District of New York,
apparently relating to the sale of cigarettes by third parties upon which state
taxes had allegedly not been paid. PMI and its subsidiary, Philip Morris Duty
Free Inc., have also received subpoenas in connection with the investigation
being conducted by the United States Attorney for the Northern District of New
York. While the outcomes of these investigations cannot be predicted, PM Inc.,
PMI and Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. believe they have acted lawfully.

    In September 1999, the United States Department of Justice announced that it
had concluded its investigation of matters relating to issues raised in
testimony provided by tobacco industry executives before Congress in 1994 and
other related matters, and that the investigation is closed. In February 2000,
the United States Department of Justice Antitrust Division advised that it has
closed its investigation in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania relating to
tobacco leaf purchases.

    TOBACCO-RELATED LITIGATION--There is substantial litigation pending related
to tobacco products in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions,
including the ENGLE class action trial currently underway in Florida in which
PM Inc. is a defendant and a civil health care cost recovery action filed by the
United States Department of Justice in September 1999 against domestic tobacco
manufacturers and others, including the Company and PM Inc. (See Item 3. LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS, for a discussion of such litigation.)

    STATE SETTLEMENT AGREEMENTS--As discussed in Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS,
during 1997 and 1998, PM Inc. and other major domestic tobacco product
manufacturers entered into agreements with states and various U.S. jurisdictions
settling asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims.
These settlements provide for substantial annual payments. They also place
numerous restrictions on the tobacco industry's conduct of its business
operations, including restrictions on the advertising and marketing of
cigarettes. Among these are restrictions or prohibitions on the following:
targeting youth; use of cartoon characters; use of brand name sponsorships and
brand name non-tobacco products; outdoor and transit brand advertising; payments
for product placement; and free sampling. In addition, the settlement agreements
require companies to affirm corporate principles to reduce underage use of
cigarettes; impose requirements regarding lobbying activities; mandate public
disclosure of certain industry documents; limit the industry's ability to
challenge certain tobacco control and underage use laws; and provide for the
dissolution of certain tobacco-related trade associations and place restrictions
on the establishment of any replacement organizations.

                                 FOOD PRODUCTS

    Kraft and Kraft Foods International have taken a number of actions to
improve their business portfolios and operating efficiencies. During
January 2000, Kraft announced that it had agreed to purchase the outstanding
common stock of Balance Bar Co., a maker of energy and nutrition snack products,
for approximately $268 million. In a separate transaction, Kraft also announced
that it has acquired Boca Burger, Inc., a privately-held manufacturer and
marketer of soy-based meat alternatives, for approximately $100 million. During
1999, Kraft Foods International sold two international food businesses, and
Philip Morris International sold one international food business. During 1998,
Kraft Foods International sold


four international food businesses. During 1997, Philip Morris International
sold its Brazilian ice cream businesses, Kraft sold North American
maple-flavored syrup businesses and Kraft Foods International sold a
Scandinavian sugar confectionery business. The impact of acquisitions and
divestitures has not had a material effect on the Company's results of
operations.

    During 1999, Kraft announced that it was offering voluntary retirement
incentive or separation programs to certain eligible hourly and salaried
employees in the United States. Employees electing to terminate employment under
the terms of these programs were entitled to enhanced retirement or severance
benefits. Approximately 1,100 hourly and salaried employees accepted the
benefits offered by these programs and elected to retire or terminate. As a
result, Kraft recorded a pre-tax charge of $157 million during 1999.

NORTH AMERICA

    Kraft is the largest retail packaged food company in North America. Kraft's
principal products include cheese and cheese products, processed meat and
poultry products, coffee, ready-to-eat cereals, salad and other dressings,
powdered and ready-to-drink beverages, frozen pizza, packaged and ready-to-eat
desserts and snacks, packaged pasta dinners, lunch combinations, barbecue
sauces, frozen toppings, confections and other cultured dairy and grocery
products. Its principal brands include KRAFT, VELVEETA, CRACKER BARREL and
POLLY-O cheese and cheese products; PHILADELPHIA cream cheese; CHEEZ WHIZ cheese
sauce; OSCAR MAYER luncheon meats, hot dogs, bacon, ham and other meat products;
LOUIS RICH luncheon meats, poultry franks, turkey bacon and other poultry
products; LUNCHABLES lunch combinations; CLAUSSEN pickles; MAXWELL HOUSE, YUBAN,
GEVALIA and NABOB coffees; GENERAL FOODS INTERNATIONAL COFFEES flavored coffees;
POST ready-to-eat cereals; MIRACLE WHIP salad dressing; KRAFT spoonable and
pourable salad dressings; KOOL-AID, TANG, CAPRI SUN, CRYSTAL LIGHT and COUNTRY
TIME powdered and ready-to-drink beverages; TOMBSTONE and JACK'S frozen pizzas
and DI GIORNO pastas, sauces, cheeses and frozen pizzas; JELL-O desserts;
HANDI-SNACKS snack combinations and desserts; ALTOIDS confections; KRAFT
Macaroni & Cheese dinners; KRAFT and BULL'S-EYE barbecue sauces; COOL WHIP
whipped toppings; STOVE TOP stuffing mix; MINUTE rice; SHAKE `N BAKE coatings;
LIGHT N' LIVELY, BREYERS, KNUDSEN and BREAKSTONE'S cultured dairy products; and
TACO BELL grocery products. During 1998, Kraft entered into a licensing
agreement to manufacture, market and sell CALIFORNIA PIZZA KITCHEN frozen pizzas
and a licensing agreement to market, sell and distribute STARBUCKS coffees to
grocery customers.

INTERNATIONAL

    Subsidiaries and affiliates of Kraft Foods International manufacture and
market a wide variety of coffee, confectionery, cheese, powdered beverages,
processed meats and other grocery products in Europe, with distribution to the
Middle East and Africa. In the Asia/Pacific region, select grocery products are
produced locally, and other Company branded products are sourced from Europe and
the United States. In Latin America, subsidiaries and affiliates of Philip
Morris International manufacture and market a wide variety of food products,
including confectionery products, various powdered soft drinks, and other
grocery products sold by Kraft. In 1999, approximately 81% of operating revenues
for the international food businesses were derived from sales in Europe.
International brands include JACOBS, GEVALIA, CARTE NOIRE, JACQUES VABRE, KAFFEE
HAG, GRAND' MERE, KENCO, SAIMAZA and SPLENDID coffees; MILKA, SUCHARD, COTE
D'OR, MARABOU, TOBLERONE, FREIA, TERRY'S, DAIM and CALLARD & BOWSER
confectionery products; DAIRYLEA, EL CASERIO and INVERNIZZI cheeses; MIRACOLI
pasta dinners and sauces; VEGEMITE spread; ESTRELLA and MAARUD snacks; and
SIMMENTHAL meats, as well as a variety of products sold by Kraft in the United
States, including PHILADELPHIA cream cheese.

DISTRIBUTION, COMPETITION AND RAW MATERIALS

    Kraft's products in North America are generally sold to supermarket chains,
wholesalers, club stores, mass merchandisers, distributors, convenience stores,
individual stores and other retail food outlets. In general, the retail trade
for food products is consolidating. Food products are distributed through


distribution centers, satellite warehouses, company-operated and public
cold-storage facilities, depots and other facilities. Selling efforts are
supported by national and regional advertising on television and radio and in
magazines and newspapers, as well as by sales promotions, product displays,
trade incentives, informative material offered to customers and other
promotional activities. Subsidiaries and affiliates of Kraft Foods International
and Philip Morris International sell their food products primarily in the same
manner and also engage the services of independent sales offices and agents.
Advertising is tailored by product and country to reach targeted audiences.

    Kraft is subject to highly competitive conditions in all aspects of its
business. Competitors include large national and international companies and
numerous local and regional companies. Its food products also compete with
generic products and private-label products of food retailers, wholesalers and
cooperatives. Kraft competes primarily on the basis of product quality, service,
marketing, advertising and price.

    Kraft is a major purchaser of milk, cheese, green coffee beans, cocoa, corn,
wheat, poultry, pork, beef, vegetable oil, and sugar and other sweeteners. Kraft
continuously monitors worldwide supply and cost trends of these commodities to
enable it to take appropriate action to obtain ingredients needed for
production.

    Kraft purchases all of its milk requirements and a substantial portion of
its cheese requirements from independent sources, principally from cooperatives
and individual producers. The prices for milk and other dairy product purchases
are substantially influenced by government programs, as well as market supply
and demand. During the second half of 1998, the cost of certain United States
dairy commodities reached record high levels. Dairy commodity costs moderated
during the first half of 1999, increased briefly during the beginning of the
third quarter of 1999 and on average have been below the levels seen in 1998.

    The most significant cost item in coffee products is green coffee beans,
which are purchased on world markets. Green coffee bean prices are affected by
the quality and availability of supply, trade agreements among producing and
consuming nations, the unilateral policies of the producing nations, changes in
the value of the United States dollar in relation to certain other currencies
and consumer demand for coffee products. Coffee bean prices were lower during
1998 and most of 1999 after reaching a twenty-year high in May 1997. However,
coffee bean prices have been volatile in recent months due to drought conditions
in Brazil in late 1999.

    A significant cost item in confectionery products is cocoa, which is
purchased on world markets, and the price of which is affected by the quality
and availability of supply and changes in the value of the British pound
sterling relative to certain other currencies.

    The purchase price of poultry and meat cuts is the major factor in the cost
of Kraft's processed meat products. Poultry and meat prices are cyclical and are
affected by market supply and demand.

    Kraft is also a major user of packaging materials purchased from many
suppliers.

    The prices paid for raw materials used in food products generally reflect
external factors such as weather conditions, commodity market activities,
currency fluctuations, and the effects of governmental agricultural programs.
Although the prices of the principal raw materials can be expected to fluctuate
as a result of government actions and/or market forces (which would directly
affect the cost of products and value of inventories), Kraft and Philip Morris
International believe such raw materials to be in adequate supply and generally
available from numerous sources.

REGULATION

    Almost all of Kraft's United States food products (and packaging materials
therefor) are subject to regulations administered by the FDA or, with respect to
products containing meat and poultry, the USDA. Among other things, these
agencies enforce statutory prohibitions against misbranded and adulterated


foods, establish ingredients and/or manufacturing procedures for certain
standard foods, establish standards of identity for food, determine the safety
of food substances, and establish labeling standards and nutrition labeling
requirements for food products.

    In addition, various states regulate the business of Kraft's United States
operating units by licensing dairy plants, enforcing federal and state standards
of identity for food, grading food products, inspecting plants, regulating
certain trade practices in connection with the sale of dairy products and
imposing their own labeling requirements on food products.

    Many of the food commodities on which Kraft's United States businesses rely
are subject to governmental agricultural programs. These programs have
substantial effects on prices and supplies and are subject to Congressional
review.

    Almost all of the activities of the Company's food operations outside of the
United States are subject to local and national regulations similar to those
applicable to Kraft's United States businesses and, in some cases, international
regulatory provisions (such as those of the European Union) relating to
labeling, packaging, food content, pricing, marketing and advertising, and
related areas.

    During the latter part of the second quarter of 1999, the Belgian government
and the European Union banned the sale of poultry, poultry-derived products,
beef, pork and their derivative products produced in Belgium, resulting from the
discovery in Belgium of dioxin contamination in animal feed. Although none of
Kraft Foods International's products were contaminated, in the ensuing
political, media and consumer uncertainty, some of Kraft Foods International's
products in several countries were affected by delays in production and
transportation from plants to the trade.

                                      BEER

PRODUCTS

    Miller's brands include MILLER LITE, MILLER LITE ICE, MILLER GENUINE DRAFT,
MILLER GENUINE DRAFT LIGHT and ICEHOUSE in the premium segment; the MILLER HIGH
LIFE family, including MILLER HIGH LIFE, MILLER HIGH LIFE LIGHT and MILLER HIGH
LIFE ICE, and RED DOG in the near-premium segment; MEISTER BRAU, MILWAUKEE'S
BEST and MAGNUM MALT LIQUOR in the below-premium segment; and SHARP'S
non-alcohol brew. Miller's brand in the specialty segment is LEINENKUGEL. Miller
also owns a majority interest in Molson USA, LLC, one of the largest beer
importers in the United States, whose brands include MOLSON and FOSTER'S. Other
brands in the import segment include PRESIDENTE and SHANGHAI. During 1999,
Miller purchased four trademarks from the Pabst Brewing Company ("Pabst") and
the Stroh Brewery Company ("Stroh"). Miller began brewing and shipping the newly
acquired brands, HENRY WEINHARD'S in the premium segment, OLDE ENGLISH 800 and
MICKEY'S in the near-premium segment and HAMM'S in the below premium segment,
during the second quarter of 1999. Miller's license agreement for the rights to
brew and sell LOWENBRAU in the United States expired on September 30, 1999.

    Miller's total shipment volume (which excludes international shipments of
Miller products by other brewers under license and contract brewing
arrangements) of 44.2 million barrels for 1999 increased 3.5% from 1998. Export
shipments decreased 8.3%, with a planned, corresponding increase in licensee
volume. Domestic shipments of 43.3 million barrels increased 3.8% from 1998 due
to the newly-acquired brands. Miller's estimated market share of the U.S. malt
beverage industry (based on shipments) was 21.6% in 1999, up from 21.2% in 1998.
Wholesalers' sales of Miller's products to retailers in 1999 increased 3.3% from
1998. Domestic shipments of premium-priced brands in 1999 increased slightly to
82.2% of total domestic shipments.


    The following table sets forth, based on shipments (including imports and
exports), the U.S. industry's sales of beer and brewed non-alcoholic beverages,
as estimated by Miller; Miller's unit sales; and Miller's estimated share of
industry sales:



    During 1999, Miller acquired a brewery in Tumwater, Washington as part of
the purchase of brands from Pabst and Stroh. In addition, Miller recorded a
pre-tax charge of $29 million to write down three other breweries to their
estimated fair values. One of the breweries is presently closed, while the
remaining two are not expected to generate sufficient future cash flows to
recover the recorded cost of the facilities.

DISTRIBUTION, COMPETITION AND RAW MATERIALS

    Beer is distributed primarily through independent wholesalers. The United
States malt beverage industry is highly competitive, with the principal methods
of competition being product quality, price, distribution, marketing and
advertising. Miller engages in a wide variety of advertising and sales promotion
activities. Barley malt, hops, corn grits and water represent the principal
ingredients used in manufacturing Miller's products, and are generally available
in the market. The production process, which includes fermentation and aging
periods, is conducted throughout the year. Containers (bottles, cans and kegs)
for beer are purchased from various suppliers.

REGULATION

    The malt beverage industry is highly regulated at both the state and federal
levels. The Alcoholic Beverage Labeling Act of 1988 requires all alcoholic
beverages manufactured for sale in the United States to include the following
statement on containers: "GOVERNMENT WARNING: (1) According to the Surgeon
General, women should not drink alcoholic beverages during pregnancy because of
the risk of birth defects. (2) Consumption of alcoholic beverages impairs your
ability to drive a car or operate machinery, and may cause health problems." The
statute empowers the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms to regulate the
size and format of the warning.

    The federal excise tax is 32 cents per package of six 12-ounce containers.
Excise taxes, sales taxes and other taxes affecting beer are also levied by
various states, counties and municipalities. In the opinion of Miller, increases
in excise taxes have had, and could continue to have, an adverse effect on
shipments.

    Advertising of alcoholic beverages, including beer, has come under increased
scrutiny by governmental agencies and others. Pursuant to a Congressional
request in 1998, the FTC ordered Miller, along with seven other alcohol beverage
manufacturers, to file a Special Report regarding the industry's self-regulating
efforts related to alcohol advertising and underage consumption.

    In 1997, key changes were made to the Beer Institute's Advertising and
Marketing Code, including the following: a revised introduction clarifying that
the Code applies to advertising and marketing in cyberspace, including the
Internet; an undertaking that the Beer Institute will make a list of brewer web
sites available to all major Internet service providers so that the sites can be
included in parental control software; and an obligation for brewers to include
additional notices on their web sites reminding users of the legal purchase age.
Consistent with the brewers' commitment to marketing their products only to
persons of legal purchase age, the revised Code requires that television survey
data purchased by brewers reflect the proportion of viewers in the sample survey
who are over legal purchase age. The revised code also obligates brewers to
review their advertising placements at least every six months to ensure that the
majority of viewers of brewer-sponsored television programs are above the legal
purchase age.


                               FINANCIAL SERVICES

    Philip Morris Capital Corporation ("PMCC") invests in leveraged and direct
finance leases, other tax-oriented financing transactions and third-party
financial instruments. During 1997, PMCC sold its wholly-owned subsidiary,
Mission Viejo Company, which was engaged in land planning, development and sales
activities. Total assets of PMCC were $7.7 billion at December 31, 1999, up from
$6.5 billion at December 31, 1998, reflecting an increase in net finance assets.

                                 OTHER MATTERS

CUSTOMERS

    None of the Company's business segments is dependent upon a single customer
or a few customers, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on
the Company's results of operations.

EMPLOYEES

    At December 31, 1999, the Company employed approximately 137,000 people
worldwide.

TRADEMARKS

    Trademarks are of material importance to all three of the Company's consumer
products businesses and are protected by registration or otherwise in the United
States and most other markets where the related products are sold.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION

    The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to various federal, state and
local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the
environment, or otherwise related to environmental protection, including the
Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act,
which imposes joint and several liability on each responsible party (commonly
known as "Superfund"). In 1999, subsidiaries (or former subsidiaries) of the
Company were involved in approximately 160 matters subjecting them to potential
remediation costs under Superfund or otherwise. The Company and its subsidiaries
expect to continue to make capital and other expenditures in connection with
environmental laws and regulations. Although it is not possible to predict
precise levels of environmental-related expenditures, compliance with such laws
and regulations, including the payment of any remediation costs and the making
of such expenditures, has not had, and is not expected to have, a material
adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, capital expenditures,
financial position, earnings and competitive position.

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS

    The Company and its representatives may from time to time make written or
oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in the Company's
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its reports to
stockholders, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K. One can identify these
forward-looking statements by use of words such as "expects," "plans,"
"believes," "will," "estimates," "intends," "projects," "goals" and other words
of similar meaning. One can also identify them by the fact that they do not
relate strictly to historical or current facts. In connection with the "safe
harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the
Company is hereby identifying important factors that could cause actual results
and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking
statement made by or on behalf of the Company; any such statement is qualified
by reference to the following cautionary statements.

    The tobacco industry continues to be subject to health concerns relating to
the use of tobacco products and exposure to ETS, legislation, including actual
and potential excise tax increases, increasing


marketing and regulatory restrictions, governmental regulation, privately
imposed smoking restrictions, governmental and grand jury investigations,
litigation, including risks associated with adverse jury and judicial
determinations, courts reaching conclusions at variance with the Company's
understanding of applicable law, bonding requirements and the absence of
adequate appellate remedies to get timely relief from any of the foregoing, and
the effects of price increases related to concluded tobacco litigation
settlements and excise tax increases on consumption rates. Each of the Company's
consumer products subsidiaries is subject to intense competition, changes in
consumer preferences, the effects of changing prices for its raw materials and
local economic conditions. Their results are dependent upon their continued
ability to promote brand equity successfully, to anticipate and respond to new
consumer trends, to develop new products and markets and to broaden brand
portfolios, in order to compete effectively with lower priced products in a
consolidating environment at the retail and manufacturing levels and to improve
productivity. In addition, Philip Morris International, Kraft Foods
International and Kraft are subject to the effects of foreign economies
particularly the timing of economic recoveries in Latin America and Eastern
Europe and related shifts in consumer preferences, currency movements and the
conversion to the euro. Developments in any of these areas, which are more fully
described elsewhere in Part I hereof and in the Management's Discussion &
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") on pages
19-33 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report, each of which is incorporated into
this section by reference, could cause the Company's results to differ
materially from results that have been or may be projected by or on behalf of
the Company. The Company cautions that the foregoing list of important factors
is not exclusive. The Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking
statement that may be made from time to time by or on behalf of the Company.

(D) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES

    The amounts of operating revenues and long-lived assets attributable to each
of the Company's geographic segments and the amount of export sales from the
United States for each of the last three fiscal years are set forth in Note 11
to the Company's consolidated financial statements, incorporated herein by
reference to the Company's 1999 Annual Report.

    Subsidiaries of the Company export tobacco and tobacco-related products,
coffee products, grocery products, cheese, processed meats and beer. In 1999,
the value of all exports from the United States by these subsidiaries amounted
to approximately $5 billion.

ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY.

TOBACCO PRODUCTS

    PM Inc. owns seven tobacco manufacturing and processing facilities--four in
the Richmond, Virginia area, two in Louisville, Kentucky and one in Cabarrus
County, North Carolina. As noted above, cigarette production at one of
PM Inc.'s Louisville, Kentucky plants is scheduled to be phased out.
Subsidiaries and affiliates of Philip Morris International own, lease or have an
interest in 59 cigarette or component manufacturing facilities in 31 countries
outside the United States, including cigarette manufacturing facilities in
Bergen Op Zoom, the Netherlands and in Berlin, Germany.

FOOD PRODUCTS

    The Company's subsidiaries have 53 manufacturing and processing facilities
and 262 distribution centers and depots throughout the United States, as well as
88 foreign manufacturing and processing facilities in 35 countries, and various
distribution and other facilities outside the United States. All significant
plants and properties used for production of food products are owned, although
the majority of the domestic distribution centers and depots are leased.


BEER

    Miller owns and operates nine breweries, located in Milwaukee, Wisconsin
(two); Fort Worth, Texas; Eden, North Carolina; Albany, Georgia; Irwindale,
California; Trenton, Ohio; Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin; and Tumwater, Washington.
Miller owns a majority interest in the Celis Brewery in Austin, Texas and the
Shipyard Brewery in Portland, Maine. Miller also owns a hops-processing facility
in Wisconsin and owns or leases warehouses in several locations.

    During 1999, Miller recorded a pre-tax charge of $29 million to write-down
the book value of three brewing facilities to their estimated fair values. One
of the facilities is presently closed, while the remaining two small facilities
are not expected to generate sufficient future cash flows to recover the
recorded cost of the facilities.

GENERAL

    The plants and properties owned and operated by the Company's subsidiaries
are maintained in good condition and are believed to be suitable and adequate
for present needs.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

    Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened
in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against the Company, its
subsidiaries and affiliates, including PM Inc. and Philip Morris International
and their respective indemnitees. Various types of claims are raised in these
proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax,
patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of
competitors and distributors.

                     OVERVIEW OF TOBACCO-RELATED LITIGATION

TYPES AND NUMBER OF CASES

    Pending claims related to tobacco products generally fall within the
following categories: (i) smoking and health cases alleging personal injury
brought on behalf of individual plaintiffs, (ii) smoking and health cases
primarily alleging personal injury and purporting to be brought on behalf of a
class of individual plaintiffs, (iii) health care cost recovery cases brought by
governmental (both domestic and foreign) and non-governmental plaintiffs seeking
reimbursement for health care expenditures allegedly caused by cigarette smoking
and/or disgorgement of profits, and (iv) other tobacco-related litigation,
including suits by former asbestos manufacturers seeking contribution or
reimbursement for amounts expended in connection with the defense and payment of
asbestos claims that were allegedly caused in whole or in part by cigarette
smoking. Damages claimed in some of the smoking and health class actions, health
care cost recovery cases and other tobacco-related litigation range into the
billions of dollars. Plaintiffs' theories of recovery and the defenses raised in
the smoking and health and health care cost recovery cases are discussed below.
Exhibit 99.1 hereto lists the smoking and health class actions, health care cost
recovery cases and certain other actions pending as of February 15, 2000, and
discusses certain developments in such cases since November 1, 1999.

    As of February 15, 2000, there were approximately 380 smoking and health
cases filed and served on behalf of individual plaintiffs in the United States
against PM Inc. and, in some cases, the Company, compared with approximately 510
such cases on December 31, 1998, and approximately 375 such cases on
December 31, 1997. Approximately 12 of the individual cases involve allegations
of various personal injuries allegedly related to exposure to ETS. In addition,
approximately 500 additional individual cases have been filed in Florida by
current and former flight attendants claiming personal injuries allegedly
related to ETS. The flight attendants were members of an ETS smoking and health
class action which was settled in 1998. The terms of the court-approved
settlement in that case allows class members to file individual lawsuits seeking
compensatory damages, but prohibits them from seeking punitive damages.


    As of February 15, 2000, there were approximately 50 smoking and health
putative class actions pending in the United States against PM Inc. and, in some
cases, the Company (including eight that involve allegations of various personal
injuries related to exposure to ETS), compared with approximately 60 such cases
on December 31, 1998, and approximately 50 such cases on December 31, 1997. Many
of these actions purport to constitute statewide class actions and were filed
after May 1996 when the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in
the Castano case, reversed a federal district court's certification of a
purported nationwide class action on behalf of persons who were allegedly
"addicted" to tobacco products.

    As of February 15, 2000, there were approximately 60 health care cost
recovery actions pending in the United States (excluding the cases covered by
the 1998 Master Settlement Agreement discussed below), compared with
approximately 95 health care cost recovery cases pending on December 31, 1998,
and 105 cases on December 31, 1997.

    There are also a number of tobacco-related actions pending outside the
United States against PMI and its affiliates and subsidiaries, including
approximately 55 smoking and health cases initiated by one or more individuals
(Argentina (38), Brazil (2), Canada (1), Germany (3), Hong Kong (1), Ireland
(1), Italy (1), Japan (1), the Philippines (1), Poland (2), Scotland (1), Spain
(1) and Turkey (2)), compared with approximately 27 such cases on December 31,
1998. In addition, there are 10 smoking and health putative class actions
pending outside the United States (Australia (2), Brazil (3), Canada (3), Israel
(1) and Nigeria (1)), compared with six in December 1998. In addition, during
the past two years, health care cost recovery actions have been brought in
Israel, the Marshall Islands, British Columbia, Canada and France (by a local
agency of the French social security health insurance system) and, in the United
States, by Bolivia, Ecuador (not yet served), Guatemala (dismissed, as discussed
below), Ontario (not yet served), Panama, Nicaragua, Thailand (voluntarily
dismissed), Ukraine, Venezuela and the States of Goias, Rio de Janeiro and Sao
Paulo (not yet served), Brazil.

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT'S LAWSUIT

    In September 1999, the U.S. government filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District
Court for the District of Columbia against various cigarette manufacturers and
others, including the Company and PM Inc., asserting claims under three federal
statutes, the Medical Care Recovery Act, the Medicare Secondary Payer provisions
of the Social Security Act, and the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act ("RICO"). The lawsuit seeks to recover an unspecified amount
of health care costs for tobacco-related illnesses allegedly caused by
defendants' fraudulent and tortious conduct and paid for by the government under
various federal health care programs, including Medicare, military and veterans'
health benefits programs, and the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program. The
complaint alleges that such costs total more than $20 billion annually. It also
seeks various types of equitable and declaratory relief, including disgorgement,
an injunction prohibiting certain actions by the defendants, and a declaration
that the defendants are liable for the federal government's future costs of
providing health care resulting from defendants' alleged past tortious and
wrongful conduct. In December 1999, the Company and PM Inc. filed a motion to
dismiss this lawsuit on numerous grounds, including that the statutes invoked by
the government do not provide a basis for the relief sought. The Company and
PM Inc. believe that they have a number of valid defenses to the lawsuit and
will vigorously defend it.

INDUSTRY TRIAL RESULTS

    There have been several jury verdicts in tobacco-related litigation during
the past three years. In July 1999, a Louisiana jury returned a verdict in favor
of defendants in an individual smoking and health case against other cigarette
manufacturers. Also in July 1999, the jury in the Engle smoking and health class
action pending in Florida returned a verdict against PM Inc. and several other
tobacco companies in "Phase One" of the trial, which concerned certain issues
determined by the trial court to be "common" to the purported causes of action
of the plaintiff class. Liability and damages in relation to any individual
class


member were not decided in Phase One (see "Engle Trial", below, for a more
detailed discussion of the Phase One verdict and certain other developments in
this case). In June 1999, a Mississippi jury returned a verdict in favor of
defendants, including PM Inc., in an action brought on behalf of an individual
who died allegedly as a result of exposure to ETS. In May 1999, a Missouri jury
returned a verdict in favor of defendant in an individual smoking and health
case against another cigarette manufacturer. Also in May 1999, a Tennessee jury
returned a verdict in favor of defendants, including PM Inc., in two of three
individual smoking and health cases consolidated for trial. In the third case
(not involving PM Inc.), the jury found liability against defendants and
apportioned fault equally between plaintiff and defendants. Under Tennessee's
system of modified comparative fault, because the jury found plaintiff's fault
equal to that of defendants, recovery was not permitted.

    In March 1999, an Oregon jury awarded $800,000 in actual damages, $21,500 in
medical expenses and $79.5 million in punitive damages against PM Inc. In
February 1999, a California jury awarded $1.5 million in compensatory damages
and $50 million in punitive damages against PM Inc. The punitive damage awards
in the Oregon and California actions have been reduced to $32 million and
$25 million, respectively. PM Inc. is appealing the verdicts and the damage
awards in these cases.

    In March 1999, a jury returned a verdict in favor of defendants, including
PM Inc., in a union health care cost recovery action brought on behalf of
approximately 114 employer-employee trust funds in Ohio.

    Previously, juries had returned verdicts for defendants in three individual
smoking and health cases and in one individual ETS smoking and health case. In
January 1999, a Florida court set aside a jury award totaling approximately
$1 million in a smoking and health case against another United States cigarette
manufacturer and ordered a new trial in the case. In June 1998, a Florida
appeals court reversed a $750,000 jury verdict awarded in August 1996 against
another United States cigarette manufacturer, and the Florida Supreme Court has
heard oral arguments on this ruling. In 1997, a court in Brazil awarded
plaintiffs in a smoking and health case the Brazilian currency equivalent of
$81,000, attorneys' fees and a monthly annuity for 35 years equal to two-thirds
of the deceased smoker's last monthly salary. In March 1999, an appeals court
reversed the trial court's award and dismissed the case. Neither the Company nor
its affiliates were parties to that action.

    In December 1999, a French court, in an action brought on behalf of a
deceased smoker, found that another cigarette manufacturer had a duty to warn
him about risks associated with smoking prior to 1976, when the French
government required warning labels on cigarette packs, and failed to do so. The
court did not determine causation or liability, which shall be considered in
future proceedings. Neither the Company nor its affiliates are parties to this
action.

ENGLE TRIAL

    Trial in this Florida smoking and health class action case began in
July 1998. The plaintiff class seeks compensatory and punitive damages, each in
excess of $100 billion, as well as attorneys' fees and court costs. The class
consists of all Florida residents and citizens, and their survivors, "who have
suffered, presently suffer or have died from diseases and medical conditions
caused by their addiction to cigarettes that contain nicotine."

    In July 1999, the jury returned a verdict against defendants in Phase One of
the three-phase trial plan. The Phase One verdict concerned certain issues
determined by the trial court to be "common" to the causes of action of the
plaintiff class. Among other things, the jury found that smoking cigarettes
causes 20 diseases or medical conditions, that cigarettes are addictive or
dependence-producing, defective and unreasonably dangerous, that defendants made
materially false statements with the intention of misleading smokers, that
defendants concealed or omitted material information concerning the health
effects and/or the addictive nature of smoking cigarettes and agreed to
misrepresent and conceal the health effects and/or the addictive nature of
smoking cigarettes, and that defendants were negligent and engaged in extreme
and outrageous conduct or acted with reckless disregard with the intent to
inflict emotional


distress. The jury also found that defendants' conduct "rose to a level that
would permit a potential award or entitlement to punitive damages."

    Liability and damages in relation to any individual class member were not
decided in Phase One. Phase Two of the trial commenced on November 1, 1999.
During this phase, the claims of three of the named plaintiffs are being
adjudicated in a consolidated trial before the same jury that returned the
verdict in Phase One. Under the trial plan, the jury in Phase Two will determine
issues of specific causation, reliance, affirmative defenses, and other
individual-specific issues related to the claims of the named plaintiffs and
their entitlement to damages, if any.

    Phase Three of the trial plan would address other class members' claims,
including issues of specific causation, reliance, affirmative defenses and other
individual-specific issues regarding entitlement to damages, in individual
trials before separate juries.

    By order dated July 30, 1999, and supplemented on August 2, 1999 (together,
the "order"), the trial judge amended the trial plan in respect of the manner of
determining punitive damages, if any. The order provides that the jury in Phase
Two will determine punitive damages, if any, on a dollar-amount basis for the
entire qualified class. By order of September 3, 1999, the Third District Court
of Appeal quashed the July 30, 1999 and August 2, 1999 orders of the trial judge
and stated that both compensatory and punitive damages must be tried on an
individual as opposed to class-wide basis. On September 17, 1999, the Third
District Court of Appeal, on its own motion, vacated its September 3 order, and,
on October 20, 1999, ruled that defendants could not challenge the trial plan
for determining punitive damages at this stage of the proceedings; the ruling
expressly declined to address the merits of whether a class-wide determination
of punitive damages is permissible but deferred the court's review of that issue
for any appropriate subsequent appeal. Defendants sought review by the Florida
Supreme Court of the Third District Court of Appeal's ruling. In December 1999,
the Florida Supreme Court denied defendants' petition for review, noting that it
did so without prejudicing defendants' rights to raise the same issues in
subsequent appeals.

    It is unclear how the trial court's order will be implemented. The order
provides that the punitive damage amount, if any, should be standard as to each
class member and acknowledges that the actual size of the class will not be
known until the last case has withstood appeal, i.e., the punitive damage
amount, if any, determined for the entire qualified class, would be divided
equally among those plaintiffs who are ultimately successful. The order does not
address whether defendants would be required to pay the punitive damage award,
if any, prior to a determination of claims of all class members, a process that
could take years to conclude. PM Inc. and the Company do not believe that an
adverse class-wide punitive damage award in Phase Two would permit entry of a
judgment at that time that would require the posting of a bond to stay its
execution pending appeal or that any party would be entitled to execute on such
a judgment in the absence of a bond. However, in a worst case scenario, it is
possible that a judgment for punitive damages could be entered in an amount not
capable of being bonded, resulting in an execution of the judgment before it
could be set aside on appeal. PM Inc. and the Company believe that such a result
would be unconstitutional and would also violate Florida laws. PM Inc. and the
Company will take all appropriate steps to seek to prevent this worst case
scenario from occurring and believe these efforts should be successful.

    In other developments, in August 1999, the trial judge denied a motion filed
by PM Inc. and other defendants to disqualify the judge. The motion asserted,
among other things, that the trial judge was required to disqualify himself
because he has a serious medical condition of a type that the plaintiffs claim,
and the jury has now found, is caused by smoking, making him financially
interested in the result of the case and, under plaintiffs' theory of the case,
a member of the plaintiff class. The Third District Court of Appeal denied
defendants' petition to disqualify the trial judge. The defendants filed motions
seeking reconsideration of this decision and to supplement the record with the
deposition testimony of an expert witness. The Third District Court of Appeal
denied defendants' motions. In January 2000, defendants filed


a petition for a writ of certiorari to the United States Supreme Court
requesting that it review the issue of the trial judge's disqualification.

    In February 2000, the trial court denied defendants' renewed motion to quash
or amend the gag order that the court has imposed on all parties to the
litigation. The defendants filed an appeal with the Third District Court of
Appeal seeking immediate review of the gag order and asking that review be
conducted on an expedited basis. The court granted the motion for expedited
review and oral arguments were heard on February 23, 2000. On February 24, 2000,
the court affirmed the trial court's denial of defendants' motion.

    PM Inc. and the Company remain of the view that the Engle case should not
have been certified as a class action. That certification is inconsistent with
the overwhelming majority of federal and state court decisions that have held
that mass smoking and health claims are inappropriate for class treatment.
PM Inc. intends to challenge the class certification, as well as numerous other
reversible errors that it believes occurred during the trial to date, at the
earliest time that an appeal of these issues is appropriate under Florida law.
PM Inc. and the Company believe that an appeal of these issues on the merits
should prevail.

PENDING AND UPCOMING TRIAL DATES

    In addition to the Engle trial, trial in an individual smoking and health
case in which PM Inc. is a defendant commenced in California in January 2000.
Additional cases against PM Inc. and, in some cases, the Company as well, are
scheduled for trial through the end of 2000. These cases include three health
care cost recovery actions that are scheduled for trial in May (New York), June
(New York) and December (Minnesota); three asbestos contribution cases
(discussed below) that are scheduled for trial in New York in April, September
and October; two cases under the California Business and Professions Code
(discussed below) that are scheduled for trial in June (California); and
approximately ten other individual smoking and health cases that are scheduled
for trial in May (New York), June (Minnesota), July (New Jersey and Florida),
August (Iowa), October (Louisiana, New Hampshire, South Carolina, Texas and West
Virginia) and November (Alabama). Cases against other tobacco companies are also
scheduled for trial during this period. Trial dates, however, are subject to
change. A schedule of smoking and health class actions, health care cost
recovery cases and certain other actions that currently are scheduled for trial
in 2000 and 2001 is annexed as Exhibit 99.3 hereto.

LITIGATION SETTLEMENTS

    In November 1998, PM Inc. and certain other United States tobacco product
manufacturers entered into the Master Settlement Agreement (the "MSA") with 46
states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the
United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa and the Northern Marianas to settle
asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. PM Inc. and
certain other United States tobacco product manufacturers had previously settled
similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (together
with the MSA, the "State Settlement Agreements") and an ETS smoking and health
class action brought on behalf of airline flight attendants. The State
Settlement Agreements and certain ancillary agreements are filed as exhibits to
various of the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, and such agreements and the ETS settlement are discussed in detail
therein.

    The settlement agreements require that the domestic tobacco industry make
substantial annual payments in the following amounts (excluding future annual
payments contemplated by the agreement with tobacco growers discussed below),
subject to adjustment for several factors, including inflation, market share and
industry volume: 2000, $9.2 billion; 2001, $9.9 billion; 2002, $11.3 billion;
2003, $10.9 billion; 2004 through 2007, $8.4 billion per year; and, thereafter,
$9.4 billion per year. In addition, the domestic tobacco industry is required to
pay settling plaintiffs' attorneys' fees, subject to an annual cap of


$500 million, as well as additional amounts as follows: 2000, $416 million; and
2001 through 2003, $250 million per year. These payment obligations are the
several and not joint obligations of each settling defendant. For the year ended
December 31, 1998, PM Inc. recorded settlement charges of $3.1 billion, which
represented its share of up-front payments required under the settlement
agreements. For periods subsequent to December 31, 1998, PM Inc.'s portion of
ongoing adjusted payments and legal fees is based on its share of domestic
cigarette shipments in the year preceding that in which the payment is due.
Accordingly, PM Inc. records its portions of ongoing settlement payments as part
of cost of sales as product is shipped.

    The State Settlement Agreements also include provisions discussed more fully
above, relating to advertising and marketing restrictions, public disclosure of
certain industry documents, limitations on challenges to certain tobacco control
and underage use laws, restrictions on lobbying activities and other provisions.
See Item 1.(c) TAXES, LEGISLATION, REGULATION AND OTHER MATTERS REGARDING
TOBACCO AND SMOKING--STATE SETTLEMENT AGREEMENTS.

    As set forth in Exhibit 99.2, the MSA has been initially approved by trial
courts in all settling jurisdictions. If a jurisdiction does not obtain "final
judicial approval" (i.e., trial court approval and expiration of the time for
review or appeal of such approval) of the MSA by December 31, 2001, then, unless
the settling defendants and the relevant jurisdiction agree otherwise, the
agreement will be terminated with respect to such jurisdiction. As of February
2000, the MSA has received final judicial approval in 47 jurisdictions.

    As part of the MSA, the settling defendants committed to work cooperatively
with the tobacco-growing states to address concerns about the potential adverse
economic impact of the MSA on tobacco growers and quota-holders. To that end,
four of the major domestic tobacco product manufacturers, including PM Inc., and
the grower states, have established a trust fund to provide aid to tobacco
growers and quota-holders. The trust will be funded by these four manufacturers
over 12 years with payments, prior to application of various adjustments,
scheduled to total $5.15 billion. PM Inc. has charged $300 million of payments
into the trust against 1998 operating companies income. Future industry payments
(in 2000, $280 million; 2001, $400 million; 2002 through 2008, $500 million per
year; 2009 and 2010, $295 million per year) are subject to adjustments for
several factors, including inflation, United States cigarette volume and certain
other contingent events, and, in general, are to be allocated based on each
manufacturer's relative market share. PM Inc. records its portion of these
payments as part of cost of sales as product is shipped.

    In 1999, the State Settlement Agreements materially adversely affected the
volumes of PM Inc., and the Company believes that the State Settlement
Agreements may materially adversely affect the business, volume, results of
operations, cash flows or financial position of PM Inc. and the Company in
future periods. The degree of the adverse impact will depend, among other
things, on the rates of decline in United States cigarette sales in the premium
and discount segments, PM Inc.'s share of the domestic premium and discount
cigarette segments, and the effect of any resulting cost advantage of
manufacturers not subject to the MSA and the other State Settlement Agreements.
Manufacturers representing almost all domestic shipments in 1998 have agreed to
become subject to the terms of the MSA.

    Certain litigation has arisen out of the State Settlement Agreements,
including the actions described below.

    In December 1998, a putative class action was filed against PM Inc. and
certain other domestic tobacco manufacturers on behalf of a class consisting of
citizens of the United States who consume tobacco products manufactured by
defendants. One count of the complaint alleged that defendants conspired to
raise the prices of their tobacco products in order to pay the costs of the MSA
in violation of federal antitrust laws. The other two counts alleged that the
actions of defendants amount to an unconstitutional deprivation of property
without due process of law and an unlawful burdening of interstate trade. The
complaint sought unspecified damages (to be trebled under the antitrust count),
injunctive and declaratory relief, costs and attorneys' fees. In April 1999, the
court granted defendants' motions for summary


judgment, and plaintiffs have appealed. In February 2000, the United States
Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit affirmed summary judgment for defendants.

    In February 1999, a putative class action was filed on behalf of tobacco
consumers in the United States against the States of California and Utah, other
public entity defendants, certain domestic tobacco manufacturers, including
PM Inc., and others, challenging the MSA. Plaintiffs are seeking, among other
things, an order (i) prohibiting the states from collecting any monies under the
MSA, (ii) restraining the domestic tobacco manufacturers from further collection
of price increases related to the MSA and compelling them to reimburse to
plaintiffs all monies paid by plaintiffs in the form of price increases related
to the MSA, and (iii) declaring the MSA "unfair, discriminatory,
unconstitutional and unenforceable." In January 2000, the court granted
defendants' motion to dismiss the complaint.

    In April 1999, a putative class action was filed on behalf of all firms that
directly buy cigarettes in the United States from defendant tobacco
manufacturers. The complaint alleges violation of antitrust law, based in part
on the MSA. Plaintiffs seek treble damages computed as three times the
difference between current prices and the price plaintiffs would have paid for
cigarettes in the absence of an alleged conspiracy to restrain and monopolize
trade in the domestic cigarette market, together with attorneys' fees.
Plaintiffs also seek injunctive relief against certain aspects of the MSA and
against PM Inc.'s acquisition of the U.S. rights to manufacture and market three
cigarette trademarks, L&M, LARK and CHESTERFIELD.

    In June 1999, a putative class action was filed on behalf of certain native
American tribes against PM Inc. and other cigarette manufacturers challenging
the MSA. The complaint alleged that defendants, by entering into the MSA,
violated certain constitutional and civil rights of the tribes. The complaint
was dismissed by the trial court, and the tribes have appealed.

    In August 1999, five companies that import cigarettes or that are involved
in the re-importation of cigarettes into U.S. markets filed suit seeking to
invalidate the MSA and the 1998 Texas State Settlement Agreement on various
grounds, including violation of antitrust laws. Plaintiffs also seek monetary
relief, including treble damages in an unspecified amount and disgorgement of
profits. In January 2000, PM Inc. filed a motion to dismiss the complaint.

    In August 1999, after New York obtained final judicial approval of the MSA,
four alleged smokers in New York sought leave to intervene in litigation
concerning the MSA, alleging violations of antitrust laws and seeking injunctive
relief, including invalidating the settlements. The trial court denied the
motion as untimely and the putative intervenors have appealed.

    A description of the smoking and health litigation, health care cost
recovery litigation and certain other proceedings pending against the Company
and/or its subsidiaries and affiliates follows.

                         SMOKING AND HEALTH LITIGATION

    Plaintiffs' allegations of liability in smoking and health cases are based
on various theories of recovery, including negligence, gross negligence, strict
liability, fraud, misrepresentation, design defect, failure to warn, breach of
express and implied warranties, breach of special duty, conspiracy, concert of
action, violations of deceptive trade practice laws and consumer protection
statutes, and claims under the federal and state RICO statutes. In certain of
these cases, plaintiffs claim that cigarette smoking exacerbated the injuries
caused by their exposure to asbestos. Plaintiffs in the smoking and health
actions seek various forms of relief, including compensatory and punitive
damages, treble/multiple damages and other statutory damages and penalties,
creation of medical monitoring and smoking cessation funds, disgorgement of
profits, and injunctive and equitable relief. Defenses raised in these cases
include lack of proximate cause, assumption of the risk, comparative fault
and/or contributory negligence, statutes of limitations and preemption by the
Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act.


    In May 1996, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit held
in the Castano case that a class consisting of all "addicted" smokers nationwide
did not meet the standards and requirements of the federal rules governing class
actions. Since this class decertification, lawyers for plaintiffs have filed
numerous putative smoking and health class action suits in various state and
federal courts. In general, these cases purport to be brought on behalf of
residents of a particular state or states (although a few cases purport to be
nationwide in scope) and raise "addiction" claims similar to those raised in the
Castano case and, in many cases, claims of physical injury as well. As of
February 15, 2000, smoking and health putative class actions were pending in
Alabama, Arizona, California, Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Louisiana,
Massachusetts, Missouri, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North
Carolina, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah and
West Virginia, as well as in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Israel and Nigeria.
Class certification has been denied or reversed by courts in 20 smoking and
health class actions involving PM Inc. in Arkansas, the District of Columbia,
Illinois, Kansas, Louisiana, Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey (6), New York (2),
Ohio, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, Texas, and Wisconsin, while classes remain
certified in three cases in Florida, Louisiana and Maryland. A number of the
class certification decisions are on appeal. In October 1999, the State of New
York's highest court affirmed without dissent the decertification and dismissal
of a class action suit. In May 1999, the United States Supreme Court declined to
review the decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
affirming a lower court's decertification of a class. Class certification
motions are pending in a number of the putative smoking and health class
actions. As mentioned above, one ETS smoking and health class action was settled
in 1997.

                      HEALTH CARE COST RECOVERY LITIGATION

    In certain of the pending proceedings, domestic and foreign governmental
entities and non-governmental plaintiffs, including union health and welfare
funds ("unions"), native American tribes, insurers and self-insurers such as
Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans, taxpayers and others, are seeking
reimbursement of health care cost expenditures allegedly caused by tobacco
products and, in some cases, of future expenditures and damages as well. Certain
of these cases purport to be brought on behalf of a class of plaintiffs. Other
relief sought by some but not all plaintiffs includes punitive damages, treble/
multiple damages and other statutory damages and penalties, injunctions
prohibiting alleged marketing and sales to minors, disclosure of research,
disgorgement of profits, funding of anti-smoking programs, disclosure of
nicotine yields, and payment of attorney and expert witness fees.

    The claims asserted in these health care cost recovery actions include the
equitable claim that the tobacco industry was "unjustly enriched" by plaintiffs'
payment of health care costs allegedly attributable to smoking, the equitable
claim of indemnity, common law claims of negligence, strict liability, breach of
express and implied warranty, violation of a voluntary undertaking or special
duty, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, conspiracy, public nuisance, claims
under federal and state statutes governing consumer fraud, antitrust, deceptive
trade practices and false advertising, and claims under federal and state RICO
statutes.

    Defenses raised include lack of proximate cause, remoteness of injury,
failure to state a valid claim, lack of benefit, adequate remedy at law,
"unclean hands" (namely, that plaintiffs cannot obtain equitable relief because
they participated in, and benefited from, the sale of cigarettes), lack of
antitrust standing and injury, federal preemption, lack of statutory authority
to bring suit and statute of limitations. In addition, defendants argue that
they should be entitled to "set off" any alleged damages to the extent the
plaintiff benefits economically from the sale of cigarettes through the receipt
of excise taxes or otherwise. Defendants also argue that these cases are
improper because plaintiffs must proceed under principles of subrogation and
assignment. Under traditional theories of recovery, a payer of medical costs
(such as an insurer) can seek recovery of health care costs from a third party
solely by "standing in the shoes" of the injured party. Defendants argue that
plaintiffs should be required to bring any actions as subrogees of individual
health care recipients and should be subject to all defenses available against
the injured party.


    Excluding the cases covered by the MSA, as of February 15, 2000, there were
approximately 60 health care cost recovery cases pending in the United States
against PM Inc. and, in some cases, the Company, of which approximately 32 were
filed by union trust funds. As discussed above under "Federal Government's
Lawsuit," the U.S. government filed a health care cost recovery action in
September 1999 against various cigarette manufacturers and others, including the
Company and PM Inc., asserting claims under three federal statutes. Health care
cost recovery actions have also been brought in Israel, the Marshall Islands,
British Columbia, Canada and France and, in the United States, by Bolivia,
Ecuador, Guatemala (dismissed, as discussed below), Ontario (not yet served),
Panama, Nicaragua, Thailand (voluntarily dismissed), Ukraine, Venezuela and the
States of Goias, Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, Brazil. The actions brought by
Bolivia, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Ukraine, Venezuela and the State of Goias,
Brazil, have been consolidated for pre-trial purposes and transferred to the
United States District Court for the District of Columbia. Other foreign
entities and others have stated that they are considering filing health care
cost recovery actions.

    Five federal appeals courts have issued rulings in health care cost recovery
actions that were favorable to the tobacco industry. The United States Courts of
Appeals for the Second, Third, Fifth, Seventh and Ninth Circuits, relying
primarily on grounds that the plaintiffs' claims were too remote, have affirmed
dismissals of, or reversed trial courts that had refused to dismiss, such
actions. In addition, in January 2000, the United States Supreme Court denied
plaintiffs' petitions for writs of certiorari in the cases decided by the Court
of Appeals for the Second, Third and Ninth Circuits, effectively refusing to
consider plaintiffs' appeals.

    Although there have been some decisions to the contrary, to date, most lower
courts that have decided motions in these cases have dismissed all or most of
the claims against the industry. In December 1999, in the first ruling on a
motion to dismiss a health care cost recovery case brought in the United States
by a foreign governmental plaintiff, the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia dismissed a lawsuit filed by Guatemala, ruling that the
claimed injuries were too remote. Guatemala has appealed this decision to the
United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. In
March 1999, in the only union case to go to trial thus far, the jury returned a
verdict in favor of defendants on all counts. Plaintiffs' motion for a new trial
has been denied. In December 1999, the federal district court in the District of
Columbia denied defendants' motion to dismiss a suit filed by union and welfare
trust funds seeking reimbursement of health care expenditures allegedly caused
by tobacco products. Defendants are appealing this decision.

                    CERTAIN OTHER TOBACCO-RELATED LITIGATION

    ASBESTOS CONTRIBUTION CASES--As of February 15, 2000, 12 suits had been
filed by former asbestos manufacturers, asbestos manufacturers' personal injury
settlement trusts and an insurance company against domestic tobacco
manufacturers, including PM Inc. and others. Ten of these cases are pending.
These cases seek, among other things, contribution or reimbursement for amounts
expended in connection with the defense and payment of asbestos claims that were
allegedly caused in whole or in part by cigarette smoking. Plaintiffs in most of
these cases also seek punitive damages. The aggregate amounts claimed in these
cases range into the billions of dollars. In November 1999, one of these cases
was dismissed by the federal district court in the Eastern District of New York
although the case was subsequently refiled. Trials in these cases are scheduled
to begin in New York in April, September and October 2000.

    LIGHTS/ULTRA LIGHTS CASES--As of February 15, 2000, there were ten putative
class actions pending against PM Inc. and the Company, in Arizona, Florida,
Illinois, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, and
Washington, D.C., on behalf of individuals who purchased and consumed various
brands of cigarettes, including MARLBORO LIGHTS, MARLBORO ULTRA LIGHTS, VIRGINIA
SLIMS LIGHTS and SUPERSLIMS, MERIT LIGHTS and CAMBRIDGE LIGHTS. These cases
allege, in connection with the use of the term "Lights" and/or "Ultra Lights,"
among other things, deceptive and unfair trade practices and unjust enrichment,
and seek injunctive and equitable relief, including restitution.


    RETAIL LEADERS CASE--Three domestic tobacco manufacturers have filed suit
against PM Inc. seeking to enjoin the PM Inc. "Retail Leaders" program that
became available to retailers in October 1998. The complaint alleges that this
retail merchandising program is exclusionary, creates an unreasonable restraint
of trade and constitutes unlawful monopolization. In addition to an injunction,
plaintiffs seek unspecified treble damages, attorneys' fees, costs and interest.
In June 1999, the court issued a preliminary injunction enjoining PM Inc. from
prohibiting retail outlets that participate in the program at one of the four
levels from installing competitive permanent signage in any section of the
"industry fixture" that displays or holds packages of cigarettes manufactured by
a firm other than PM Inc., and requiring those outlets to allocate a percentage
of cigarette-related permanent signage to PM Inc. greater than PM Inc.'s market
share, or prohibiting retail outlets from advertising or conducting promotional
programs of cigarette manufacturers other than PM Inc. The preliminary
injunction applies only to certain accounts and does not affect any other aspect
or level of the Retail Leaders program.

    VENDING MACHINE CASE--Plaintiffs, who began their case as a purported
nationwide class of cigarette vending machine operators, allege that PM Inc. has
violated the Robinson-Patman Act in connection with its promotional and
merchandising programs available to retail stores and not available to cigarette
vending machine operators. Plaintiffs request actual damages, treble damages,
injunctive relief, attorneys' fees and costs, and other unspecified relief. In
June 1999, the court denied plaintiffs' motion for a preliminary injunction.
Plaintiffs have withdrawn their request for class action status. The claims of
ten plaintiffs are set for trial in November 2000; the claims of remaining
plaintiffs have been stayed pending disposition of those claims scheduled for
trial.

    CASES UNDER THE CALIFORNIA BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONS CODE--In July 1998, two
suits were filed in California courts alleging that domestic cigarette
manufacturers, including PM Inc. and others, have violated a California statute
known as "Proposition 65" by not informing the public of the alleged risks of
ETS to non-smokers. Plaintiffs also allege violations of California's Business
and Professions Code regarding unfair and fraudulent business practices.
Plaintiffs seek statutory penalties, injunctions barring the sale of cigarettes
or requiring issuance of appropriate warnings, restitution, disgorgement of
profits and other relief. The defendants' motions to dismiss were denied in both
of these cases. In October 1999, plaintiffs' motion for a preliminary injunction
was also denied. In January 2000, defendants' motion for summary judgment was
granted in part, and plaintiffs' "Proposition 65" claims were dismissed. Trial
on the remaining claims in these cases is scheduled to begin in June 2000.

    TOBACCO PRICE CASES--In February 2000, tobacco wholesalers filed three
putative class actions against the Company and other domestic tobacco
manufacturers alleging that the manufacturers conspired to fix cigarette prices
charged to wholesalers in violation of antitrust laws. Consumers in several
states filed similar suits alleging the Company and others conspired to fix the
prices of cigarettes sold in their states.

    TOBACCO GROWERS' CASE--In February 2000, a lawsuit was filed on behalf of a
purported class of tobacco growers and quota-holders. The lawsuit alleges, among
other things, that, through the MSA and other related activities, tobacco
manufacturers violated antitrust and other laws by conspiring to displace the
tobacco quota and price support system administered by the federal government.

                             CERTAIN OTHER ACTIONS

    NATIONAL CHEESE EXCHANGE CASES--Since 1996, seven putative class actions
have been filed alleging that Kraft Foods, Inc., and others engaged in a
conspiracy to fix and depress the prices of bulk cheese and milk through their
trading activity on the National Cheese Exchange. Plaintiffs seek injunctive and
equitable relief and treble damages. Two of the actions were voluntarily
dismissed by plaintiffs after class certification was denied. Two other actions
were dismissed in 1998 after Kraft's motions to dismiss were granted, and
plaintiffs appealed those dismissals. In one of those cases, in February 2000
the court reversed the trial court's decision to dismiss the case. The remaining
three cases were consolidated in state court in


Wisconsin, and in November 1999, the court granted Kraft's motion for summary
judgment. Plaintiffs have appealed.

    ITALIAN TAX MATTERS--One hundred eighty-eight tax assessments alleging the
nonpayment of taxes in Italy (value-added taxes for the years 1988 to 1995 and
income taxes for the years 1987 to 1995) have been served upon certain
affiliates of the Company. The aggregate amount of alleged unpaid taxes assessed
to date is the Italian lira equivalent of $2.3 billion. In addition, the Italian
lira equivalent of $3.2 billion in interest and penalties has been assessed. The
Company anticipates that value-added and income tax assessments may also be
received with respect to subsequent years. All of the assessments are being
vigorously contested. To date, the Italian administrative tax court in Milan has
overturned 149 of the assessments. The decisions to overturn 81 assessments have
been appealed by the tax authorities. In a separate proceeding in Naples, in
October 1997, a court dismissed charges of criminal association against certain
present and former officers and directors of affiliates of the Company, but
permitted tax evasion and related charges to remain pending. In February 1998,
the criminal court in Naples determined that jurisdiction was not proper, and
the case file was transmitted to the public prosecutor in Milan. Further
investigation is being conducted following which a decision will be made as to
whether there should be a trial on these charges. The Company, its affiliates
and the officers and directors who are subject to the proceedings believe they
have complied with applicable Italian tax laws and are vigorously contesting the
pending assessments and proceedings.

                            ------------------------

    It is not possible to predict the outcome of the litigation pending against
the Company and its subsidiaries. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties.
Two individual smoking and health cases in which PM Inc. is a defendant have
been decided unfavorably at the trial court level and are in the process of
being appealed, and an unfavorable verdict has been returned in the first phase
of the Engle smoking and health class action trial underway in Florida. It is
possible that additional cases could be decided unfavorably and that there could
be further adverse developments in the Engle case. An unfavorable outcome or
settlement of a pending smoking and health or health care cost recovery case
could encourage the commencement of additional similar litigation. There have
also been a number of adverse legislative, regulatory, political and other
developments concerning cigarette smoking and the tobacco industry that have
received widespread media attention. These developments may negatively affect
the perception of potential triers of fact with respect to the tobacco industry,
possibly to the detriment of certain pending litigation, and may prompt the
commencement of additional similar litigation.

    Management is unable to make a meaningful estimate of the amount or range of
loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of pending litigation. The
present legislative and litigation environment is substantially uncertain, and
it is possible that the Company's business, volume, results of operations, cash
flows or financial position could be materially affected by an unfavorable
outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation or by the enactment of
federal or state tobacco legislation. The Company and each of its subsidiaries
named as a defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling
the respective cases, that it has a number of valid defenses to all litigation
pending against it. All such cases are, and will continue to be, vigorously
defended. However, the Company and its subsidiaries may enter into discussions
in an attempt to settle particular cases if they believe it is in the best
interests of the Company's stockholders to do so.

    Reference is made to Note 15, incorporated herein by reference to the
Company's 1999 Annual Report, for a description of certain pending legal
proceedings. Reference is also made to Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 10-K for a list
of pending smoking and health class actions, health care cost recovery actions,
and certain other actions, and for a description of certain developments in such
proceedings; Exhibit 99.2 for the status of the MSA in each of the settling
jurisdictions; and Exhibit 99.3 for a schedule of smoking and health class
actions, health care cost recovery and certain other actions that are currently
scheduled for trial through 2001. Copies of Note 15 and Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and
99.3 are available upon written request to the Corporate Secretary, Philip
Morris Companies Inc., 120 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10017.


ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

    None.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

    The following are the executive officers of the Company as of February 25,
2000:



    All of the above-mentioned officers have been employed by the Company in
various capacities during the past five years.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

    The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
to the paragraph captioned "Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)" on page 58 of
the Company's 1999 Annual Report and made a part hereof.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

    The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
to the information with respect to 1995-1999 appearing under the caption
"Selected Financial Data" on pages 34 and 35 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report
and made a part hereof.


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
  OF OPERATIONS.

    The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
to the paragraphs captioned "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 19 to 33 of the Company's 1999
Annual Report and made a part hereof.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

    The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
to the paragraphs in the MD&A captioned "Market Risk" and "Value at Risk" on
pages 32 to 33 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report and made a part hereof.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

    The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference
to the Company's 1999 Annual Report as set forth under the caption "Quarterly
Financial Data (Unaudited)" on page 58 and in the Index to Consolidated
Financial Statements and Schedules (see Item 14) and made a part hereof.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

    Not applicable.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

    Except for the information relating to the executive officers of the Company
set forth in Part I of this Report, the information called for by Items 10-13 is
hereby incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement for
use in connection with its annual meeting of stockholders to be held on
April 27, 2000, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and is
made a part hereof.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

    (a) Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules




    Schedules other than those listed above have been omitted either because
such schedules are not required or are not applicable.

    (b) Reports on Form 8-K: Subsequent to the last quarter of the period for
        which this Report is filed, the Company filed a Current Report on
        Form 8-K dated January 26, 2000, relating to its 1999 financial
        statements.

    (c) The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report (Exhibit Nos.
        10.1-10.15 are management contracts, compensatory plans or
        arrangements):






- ------------------------

(1)  Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended March 31, 1997.

(2)  Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on
     Form S-3 (No. 33-36450) dated August 22, 1990.

(3)  Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on
     Form S-3 (No. 33-39059) dated February 21, 1991.

(4)  Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on
     Form S-3 (No. 33-45210) dated January 22, 1992.


(5)  Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on
     Form S-3/A (No. 333-35143) dated January 29, 1998.

(6)  Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended September 30, 1997.

(7)  Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
     the year ended December 31, 1997.

(8)  Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
     the year ended December 31, 1996.

(9)  Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
     the year ended December 31, 1995.

(10) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
     the year ended December 31, 1994.

(11) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended June 30, 1997.

(12) Incorporated by reference to the Company's proxy statement dated March 10,
     1997.

(13) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
     August 25, 1997.

(14) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
     January 16, 1998.

(15) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended March 31, 1998.

(16) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended June 30, 1998.

(17) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
     for the period ended September 30, 1998.

(18) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
     November 25, 1998, as amended by Form 8/K-A dated December 24, 1998.

(19) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
     January 26, 2000.


                                   SIGNATURES

    PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.



    PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATE INDICATED:






                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

    Our report on our audits of the consolidated financial statements of Philip
Morris Companies Inc. has been incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K from
page 59 of the 1999 annual report to stockholders of Philip Morris
Companies Inc. In connection with our audits of such financial statements, we
have also audited the related financial statement schedule listed in the index
in Item 14(a) on page 26 of this Form 10-K.

    In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information required to be
included therein.

                                          /s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

New York, New York
January 24, 2000

                                      S-1

                 PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999, 1998 AND 1997
                                 (IN MILLIONS)



- ------------------------

Notes:

(a) Related to divestitures, acquisitions, the consolidation of previously
    unconsolidated subsidiaries and currency translation.

(b) Represents charges for which allowances were created.

                                      S-2

