
10-K



                                        

                                UNITED STATES
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           Washington, D.C.  20549

                                  FORM 10-K

          [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                       SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                                     or
        [ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                       SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                        Commission file number 1-9861

                       FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION
           (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

             New York                                  16-0968385 
     (State of incorporation)           (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

  One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York                       14240   
(Address of principal executive offices)               (Zip Code)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (716)842-5445

         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Common Stock, $5 par value              American Stock Exchange
   (Title of each class)      (Name of each exchange on which registered)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes X  No 
                                        --    --

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]  

Aggregate market value of the Common Stock, $5 par value, held by non-
affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price as
of the close of business on March 6, 1995: $705,543,707.

Number of shares of the Common Stock, $5 par value, outstanding as of the
close of business on March 6, 1995: 6,584,881 shares.
  
                   Documents Incorporated By Reference:   

(1)  Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 1995 Annual Meeting of
     Stockholders of First Empire State Corporation in Part III.
     
     


                       FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION

                                  FORM 10-K

                 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                 -------------------------------------------

CROSS-REFERENCE SHEET                                                    Form
---------------------                                                    10-K
PART I                                                                   Page
------                                                                   ----

Item 1.   Business                                                          5

Statistical disclosure pursuant to Guide 3

  I. Distribution of assets, liabilities, and stockholders'
     equity; interest rates and interest rate differential

     A.   Average balance sheets                                        40-41

     B.   Interest income/expense and resulting yield or rate
          on average interest-earning assets (including non-
          accrual loans) and interest-bearing liabilities               40-41

     C.   Rate/volume variances                                            19
                                                                             
 II. Investment portfolio

     A.   Year-end balances                                             60-61

     B.   Maturity schedule and weighted average yield                     48

III. Loan Portfolio

     A.   Year-end balances                                                62

     B.   Maturities and sensitivities to changes in interest rates        46

     C.   Risk elements                      
          Nonaccrual, past-due and renegotiated loans                      45
          Actual and pro forma interest on certain loans                   63
          Nonaccrual policy                                                58
          Foreign outstandings                                             28

 IV. Summary of loan loss experience

     A.   Charge-offs and recoveries                                       43
          Factors influencing management's judgment concerning
          the adequacy of the allowance and provision                      58

     B.   Allocation of allowance for loan losses                          44

 V.  Deposits

     A.   Average balances and rates                                    40-41

     B.   Maturity schedule of domestic time deposits with
          balances of $100,000 or more                                     47

 VI. Return on equity and assets, etc.                               18,23,32




                       FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION

                                  FORM 10-K

                 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                 -------------------------------------------

CROSS-REFERENCE SHEET--continued                                         Form
--------------------------------                                         10-K
                                                                         Page
                                                                         ----
PART I, continued
-----------------

Item  1.  Business, continued

VII.      Short-term borrowings                                            65

Item  2.  Properties                                                    20,64

Item  3.  Legal Proceedings                                                20

Item  4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders              20

          Executive Officers of the Registrant                          20-21
     
PART II
-------

Item  5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
          Stockholder Matters                                              22

     A.   Principal market                                                 22
          Market prices                                                 34-35
                                                                  
     B.   Approximate number of holders at year end                        16

     C.   Frequency and amount of dividends declared                       35

     D.   Restrictions on dividends                                     10,76
                                                                  
Item  6.  Selected Financial Data                                            

     A.   Selected consolidated year-end balances                          16

     B.   Consolidated earnings, etc.                                   17-18
                                             
Item  7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of
          Financial Condition and Results of Operations                 22-50
                 
Item  8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                        

     A.   Report of Independent Accountants                                52
          
     B.   Consolidated Balance Sheet -  
          December 31, 1994 and 1993                                       53





                       FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION

                                  FORM 10-K

                 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                 -------------------------------------------

CROSS-REFERENCE SHEET--continued                                         Form
--------------------------------                                         10-K
                                                                         Page
                                                                         ----
PART II, continued
--------

Item 8, continued

     C.   Consolidated Statement of Income -
          Years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                     54

     D.   Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows -                             
          Years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                     55

     E.   Consolidated Statement of Changes in
          Stockholders' Equity - Years ended December 31,                    
          1994, 1993 and 1992                                              56

     F.   Notes to Financial Statements                                 57-78

     G.   Quarterly Trends                                                 35

Item  9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
          on Accounting and Financial Disclosure                           79 
 

PART III
--------

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the
          Registrant                                                       79

Item 11.  Executive Compensation                                           79

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
          Owners and Management                                            79

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions                   79

PART IV
-------

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and
          Reports on Form 8-K                                              80

          Signatures                                                    81-83

Exhibit Index                                                           84-85


                                   
                                   
                                   
                                   PART I
Item 1.  Business.
         --------

First Empire State Corporation ("Registrant" or "Parent Company") is a New
York business corporation which is registered as a bank holding company under
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended ("BHCA") and under Article
III-A of the New York Banking Law ("Banking Law").  The principal executive
offices of the Registrant are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York
14240.  The Registrant was incorporated in November 1969.  The Registrant and
its direct and indirect subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as
the "Company".  As of December 31, 1994, the Company had consolidated total
assets of $10.5 billion, deposits of $8.2 billion and stockholders' equity of
$721 million.  The Company had 3,792 full-time and 713 part-time employees as
of December 31, 1994.

At December 31, 1994, the Registrant had two wholly owned bank subsidiaries
conducting business primarily in the State of New York:  Manufacturers and
Traders Trust Company ("M&T Bank") and The East New York Savings Bank ("East
New York").

Since the beginning of 1990, the Company has experienced significant growth
through federally-assisted acquisitions of assets and liabilities of failed
thrift institutions and through unassisted acquisition transactions involving
commercial banks and thrift institutions.  In January and September 1990,
respectively, M&T Bank, in two federally-assisted transactions, purchased
selected assets and assumed selected liabilities of Monroe Savings Bank, FSB,
Rochester, New York, and Empire Federal Savings Bank of America, Buffalo, New
York, two institutions that had been placed in receivership.  In May 1991,
M&T Bank and East New York similarly purchased certain assets and assumed
certain liabilities of Goldome, a Buffalo, New York savings bank, from the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"), as receiver.  In July 1992,
Central Trust Company and Endicott Trust Company, two banks located in
Rochester and Endicott, New York, respectively, were acquired and merged with
and into M&T Bank.  In December 1994, the Company acquired Ithaca Bancorp,
Inc. ("Ithaca Bancorp"), Ithaca, New York, and simultaneously merged Ithaca
Bancorp's savings bank subsidiary, Citizens Savings Bank, F.S.B., into M&T
Bank.  Also, in December 1994, the Company acquired from Chemical Bank
selected assets and liabilities associated with seven banking offices in New
York State's Hudson Valley region. 

The following table summarizes the loans and deposits acquired by the Company
in these transactions at the time the transactions were consummated:

                       Recent Acquisitions and Mergers
                       -------------------------------

                                                      Loans  Deposits
                                                      -----  --------
                                                  (In billions of dollars)

  Monroe Savings Bank, FSB                             $0.4    $0.5
  Empire Federal Savings Bank of America                0.5     1.2
  Goldome                                               1.0     2.2
  Central Trust Company                                 0.8     1.0
  Endicott Trust Company                                0.2     0.3
  Ithaca Bancorp, Inc.                                  0.4     0.3
  Hudson Valley banking offices (Chemical)                -     0.1

On March 6, 1995, M&T Bank's mortgage banking subsidiary, M&T Mortgage
Corporation ("M&T Mortgage"), acquired Statewide Funding Corporation
("Statewide"), a privately-owned mortgage banking company based near Albany,
New York, which had a mortgage servicing portfolio of approximately $1.0
billion as of the acquisition date.  Statewide was merged with and into M&T
Mortgage on the same date.  On February 9, 1995, M&T Bank entered into an
agreement to acquire four banking offices from The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. 
Two of the branches are located in Dutchess County, one in Ulster County and
one in Niagara County, New York.  The branches held approximately $90 million
in deposit liabilities as of February 9, 1995.





The Company from time to time considers acquiring additional banks, thrift
institutions, branch offices or other businesses, generally within markets
currently served or in other nearby markets.  The Company has pursued such
opportunities in the past, currently continues to actively review different
opportunities, including the possibility of major acquisitions, and intends
to continue this practice.

                                Subsidiaries
                                ------------

M&T Bank is a banking corporation which is incorporated under the laws of the
State of New York.  M&T Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System, the
FDIC and the Federal Home Loan Bank System.  The Parent Company acquired all
of the issued and outstanding shares of the capital stock of M&T Bank in
December 1969.  The stock of M&T Bank represents a major asset of the Parent
Company.  M&T Bank operates under a charter granted by the State of New York
in 1892, and the continuity of its banking business is traced to the
organization of the Manufacturers and Traders Bank in 1856.  The principal
executive offices of M&T Bank are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York
14240.  As of December 31, 1994, M&T Bank had 141 banking offices located
throughout New York State, including 118 in Western New York and in the
Southern Tier of New York State, principally in Buffalo, Rochester, Ithaca
and Binghampton, 20 banking offices in the Hudson Valley region and one in
New York City, plus a branch in Nassau, The Bahamas and representative
offices in Albany and Syracuse.  As of December 31, 1994, M&T Bank had
consolidated total assets of $8.8 billion, deposits of $7.0 billion and
stockholder's equity of $583 million.  The deposit liabilities of M&T Bank
are insured by the FDIC through either its Bank Insurance Fund ("BIF") or its
Savings Association Insurance Fund ("SAIF").  Of M&T Bank's $6.7 billion in
assessable deposits at December 31, 1994, 82% were assessed as BIF-insured
and the remainder as SAIF-insured deposits.  As a commercial bank, M&T Bank
offers a broad range of financial services to a diverse base of consumers,
businesses, professional clients, governmental entities and financial
institutions located in its markets.  Lending is focused on consumers
residing in New York State and on New York-based small and medium-size
businesses.  M&T Bank also provides other financial services through its
operating subsidiaries.

East New York was acquired by the Parent Company in December 1987.  East New
York, originally organized in 1868, is a New York-chartered capital stock
savings bank and a member of the FDIC and of the Federal Home Loan Bank
System.  The deposit liabilities of East New York are insured by the FDIC
through the BIF.  The stock of East New York represents a major asset of the
Parent Company.  The principal executive offices of East New York are located
at 2644 Atlantic Avenue, Brooklyn, New York 11207.  Its banking business is
conducted from 18 banking offices located in New York City and Nassau County,
Long Island.  As of December 31, 1994, East New York had consolidated total
assets of $1.8 billion, deposits of $1.2 billion and stockholder's equity of
$124 million.  East New York takes deposits from, and offers other banking
services to, a diverse base of customers located in its markets.  East New
York concentrates on making commercial mortgage loans which are secured by
income producing properties that are primarily located throughout the
metropolitan New York City area, especially apartment buildings and
cooperative apartments.

M&T Capital Corporation ("M&T Capital"), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T
Bank, was incorporated as a New York business corporation in January 1968. 
M&T Capital is a federally-licensed small business investment company
operating under the provisions of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958,
as amended ("SBIA").  M&T Capital provides equity capital and long-term
credit to "small-business concerns", as defined by the SBIA.  M&T Capital had
assets of $13 million and stockholder's equity of $13 million as of December
31, 1994, and recorded approximately $1.5 million of revenues in 1994.  The
headquarters of M&T Capital are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York.





M&T Credit Corporation ("M&T Credit"), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank,
was incorporated as a New York business corporation in April 1994.  M&T
Credit is a consumer credit company with headquarters at One M&T Plaza,
Buffalo, New York and offices in Pennsylvania.  As of December 31, 1994, M&T
Credit had assets of $10 million and stockholder's equity of $0.9 million. 
Revenues from the date of formation through December 31, 1994 were not
significant.  

M&T Mortgage, the mortgage banking subsidiary of M&T Bank, was incorporated
as a New York business corporation in November 1991.  M&T Mortgage's
principal activities are comprised of the origination of residential mortgage
loans and providing mortgage loan servicing to M&T Bank and others.  M&T
Mortgage maintains branch offices in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Oregon, Utah and
Washington.  M&T Mortgage had assets of $34 million and stockholder's equity
of $24 million as of December 31, 1994, and recorded approximately $19.3
million of revenues during 1994.  The headquarters of M&T Mortgage are
located at M&T Center, One Fountain Plaza, Buffalo, New York.

M&T Financial Corporation ("M&T Financial"), a New York business corporation,
is a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank which specializes in capital-
equipment leasing.  M&T Financial was formed in October 1985, had assets of
$83 million and stockholder's equity of $14 million as of December 31, 1994,
and recorded approximately $3.3 million of revenues in 1994.  The
headquarters of M&T Financial are located at 4925 Main Street, Amherst, New
York.  

M&T Securities, Inc. ("M&T Securities"), is a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T
Bank which was incorporated as a New York business corporation in November
1985.  M&T Securities is registered as a broker/dealer under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and provides securities brokerage and
investment advisory services.  As of December 31, 1994, M&T Securities had
assets of $0.9 million and stockholder's equity of $0.5 million.  M&T
Securities recorded $1.4 million of revenues during 1994.  The headquarters
of M&T Securities are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York.

Highland Lease Corporation ("Highland Lease"), a wholly owned subsidiary of
M&T Bank, was incorporated as a New York business corporation in October
1994.  Highland Lease is a consumer leasing company with headquarters at One
M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York.  As of December 31, 1994, Highland Lease had
assets of $9.8 million and stockholder's equity of $7.0 million.  Revenues
from the date of formation through December 31, 1994 were not significant.

The Registrant and its banking subsidiaries have a number of other special-
purpose or inactive subsidiaries.  These other subsidiaries represented,
individually and collectively, an insignificant portion of the Company's
consolidated assets, net income and stockholders' equity at December 31,
1994.

          Lines of Business, Principal Services, Industry Segments 
          --------------------------------------------------------
                           and Foreign Operations
                           ----------------------

Commercial and retail banking, with activities incidental thereto, represents
the sole significant line and/or segment of business of the Company.  The
Company's international activities are discussed in note 14 of Notes to
Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data".  The only activities that, as a class, contributed
10% or more of the sum of consolidated interest income and other income in
each of the last three years were lending and investment securities
transactions.  The amount of income from such sources during those years is
set forth on the Company's Consolidated Statement of Income filed herewith in
Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".




                         
                         Supervision and Regulation
                         --------------------------

The banking industry is subject to extensive state and federal regulation and
is undergoing significant change.  In 1991, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation Improvement Act ("FDICIA") was enacted.  FDICIA substantially
amended the Federal Deposit Insurance Act ("FDI Act") and certain other
statutes.  Since FDICIA's enactment, the federal bank regulatory agencies
have been adopting regulations to implement its statutory provisions.  

The following discussion summarizes certain aspects of the banking laws and
regulations that affect the Company.  Proposals to change the laws and
regulations governing the banking industry are frequently raised in Congress,
in the state legislature, and before the various bank regulatory agencies. 
The likelihood and timing of any changes and the impact such changes might
have on the Company are impossible to determine with any certainty.  A change
in applicable laws or regulations, or a change in the way such laws or
regulations are interpreted by regulatory agencies or courts, may have a
material impact on the business, operations and earnings of the Company.  To
the extent that the following information describes statutory or regulatory
provisions, it is qualified entirely by reference to the particular statutory
or regulatory provision.

                       Bank Holding Company Regulation
                       -------------------------------

As a registered bank holding company, the Registrant and its nonbank
subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation under the BHCA by the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ("Federal Reserve Board")
and the New York State Banking Superintendent ("Banking Superintendent"). 
The Federal Reserve Board requires regular reports from the Registrant and is
authorized by the BHCA to make regular examinations of the Registrant and its
subsidiaries.

Under the BHCA, the Registrant may not acquire direct or indirect ownership
or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company, including a
bank, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, except as
specifically authorized under the BHCA.  The Registrant is also subject to
regulation under the Banking Law with respect to certain acquisitions of
domestic banks.  Under the BHCA, the Registrant, subject to the approval of
the Federal Reserve Board, may acquire shares of nonbanking corporations the
activities of which are deemed by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely
related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper
incident thereto. 

The Federal Reserve Board has enforcement powers over bank holding companies
and their nonbanking subsidiaries, among other things, to interdict
activities that represent unsafe or unsound practices or constitute
violations of law, rule, regulation, administrative orders or written
agreements with a federal bank regulator.  These powers may be exercised
through the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, civil money penalties or
other actions.

Under the Federal Reserve Board's statement of policy with respect to bank
holding company operations, a bank holding company is required to serve as a
source of financial strength to its subsidiary depository institutions and to
commit all available resources to support such institutions in circumstances
where it might not do so absent such policy.  Although this "source of
strength" policy has been challenged in litigation, the Federal Reserve Board
continues to take the position that it has authority to enforce it.  For a
discussion of circumstances under which a bank holding company may be
required to guarantee the capital levels or performance of its subsidiary
banks, see Capital Adequacy, below.  The Federal Reserve also has the
authority to terminate any activity of a bank holding company that
constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness or stability of any
subsidiary depository institution or to terminate its control of any bank or
nonbank subsidiaries.





The BHCA currently includes a prohibition against interstate banking which
can be overridden by any state which adopts a law that expressly permits out-
of-state banking companies to form or acquire banks in such state.  The
Banking Law currently allows out-of-state banking companies to control New
York banks if reciprocal rights are granted to New York banking companies,
and also allows a form of reciprocal interstate branching.  Most states
currently permit New York banking companies to form or acquire banks located
within their boundaries.  

On September 29, 1994, President Clinton signed into law the Riegle-Neal
Interstate Banking Efficiency Act of 1994 (the "Interstate Banking Act"). 
Generally, the Interstate Banking Act permits, beginning September 29, 1995,
bank holding companies to acquire banks in any state; permits, prior to June
1, 1997, a bank to merge with an out-of-state bank and convert any offices
into branches of the resulting bank if the home states of both banks
expressly permit interstate bank mergers; permits, beginning June 1, 1997, a
bank to merge with an out-of-state bank and convert any offices into branches
of the resulting bank if both states have not opted out of interstate
branching; permits a bank to acquire branches from an out-of-state bank,
beginning June 1, 1997, if the law of the state where the branches are
located permits the interstate branch acquisition; and permits banks to
establish and operate de novo interstate branches whenever the host state
opts-in to de novo branching.  Bank holding companies and banks seeking to
engage in transactions authorized by the Interstate Banking Act must be
adequately capitalized and managed.

Bank holding companies and their subsidiary banks are also subject to the
provisions of the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 ("CRA").  Under the
terms of the CRA, the Federal Reserve Board (or other appropriate bank
regulatory agency) is required, in connection with its examination of a bank,
to assess such bank's record in meeting the credit needs of the community
served by that bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. 
Furthermore, such assessment is also required of any bank that has applied,
among other things, to merge or consolidate with or acquire the assets or
assume the liabilities of a federally-regulated financial institution, or to
open or relocate a branch office.  In the case of a bank holding company
applying for approval to acquire a bank or bank holding company, the Federal
Reserve Board will assess the record of each subsidiary bank of the applicant
bank holding company in considering the application.  The Banking Law
contains provisions similar to the CRA which are applicable to New York-
chartered banks.

               Supervision and Regulation of Bank Subsidiaries
               -----------------------------------------------

The Registrant's banking subsidiaries are subject to regulation, and are
examined regularly, by various bank regulatory agencies:  M&T Bank by the
Federal Reserve Board and the Banking Superintendent and East New York by the
FDIC and the Banking Superintendent.  The Registrant and its direct
nonbanking subsidiaries are affiliates, within the meaning of the Federal
Reserve Act, of the Registrant's subsidiary banks and their subsidiaries.  As
a result, the Registrant's subsidiary banks and their subsidiaries are
subject to restrictions on loans or extensions of credit to, purchases of
assets from, investments in, and transactions with the Registrant and its
direct nonbanking subsidiaries and on certain other transactions with them or
involving their securities.  

Under the "cross-guarantee" provisions of the FDI Act, insured depository
institutions under common control are required to reimburse the FDIC for any
loss suffered by either the BIF or SAIF of the FDIC as a result of the
default of a commonly controlled insured depository institution or for any
assistance provided by the FDIC to a commonly controlled insured depository
institution in danger of default.  Thus, any insured depository institution





subsidiary of the Parent Company could incur liability to the FDIC in the
event of a default of another insured depository institution owned or
controlled by the Parent Company.  The FDIC's claim under the cross-guarantee
provisions is superior to claims of stockholders of the insured depository
institution or its holding company and to most claims arising out of
obligations or liabilities owed to affiliates of the institution, but is
subordinate to claims of depositors, secured creditors and holders of
subordinated debt (other than affiliates) of the commonly controlled insured
depository institution.  The FDIC may decline to enforce the cross-guarantee
provisions if it determines that a waiver is in the best interest of the BIF
or SAIF or both.

                      Dividends from Bank Subsidiaries
                      --------------------------------

M&T Bank and East New York are subject, under one or more of the banking
laws, to restrictions on the amount and frequency (no more often than
quarterly) of dividend declarations.  Future dividend payments to the
Registrant by its subsidiary banks will be dependent on a number of factors,
including the earnings and financial condition of each such bank, and are
subject to the limitations referred to in note 17 of Notes to Financial
Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data," and to other statutory powers of bank regulatory
agencies.

Under FDICIA, an insured depository institution is prohibited from making any
capital distribution to its owner, including any dividend, if, after making
such distribution, the depository institution fails to meet the required
minimum level for any relevant capital measure, including the risk-based
capital adequacy and leverage standards discussed below.

                              Capital Adequacy
                              ----------------

The Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC have adopted risk-based capital
adequacy guidelines for bank holding companies and banks under their
supervision.  Under the guidelines the so-called "Tier 1 capital" and "Total
capital" as a percentage of risk-weighted assets and certain off-balance
sheet instruments must be at least 4% and 8%, respectively.

The Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC have also imposed a leverage standard
to supplement their risk-based ratios.  This leverage standard focuses on a
banking institution's ratio of Tier 1 capital to average total assets,
adjusted for goodwill and certain other items.  Under these guidelines,
banking institutions that meet certain criteria, including excellent asset
quality, high liquidity, low interest rate exposure and good earnings, and
that have received the highest regulatory rating must maintain a ratio of
Tier 1 capital to total assets of at least 3%.  Institutions not meeting
these criteria, as well as institutions with supervisory, financial or
operational weaknesses, along with those experiencing or anticipating
significant growth are expected to maintain a Tier 1 capital to total assets
ratio equal to at least 4 to 5%.

As reflected in the following table, the risk-based capital ratios and
leverage ratios of the Registrant, M&T Bank and East New York as of December
31, 1994 exceeded the risk-based capital adequacy guidelines and the leverage
standard.





              Capital Components and Ratios at December 31, 1994
                            (dollars in millions)

                            Registrant            
                         (Consolidated)      M&T Bank      East New York  
                         --------------      --------      -------------
Capital Components
  Tier 1 capital             $  748         $  602             $  131
  Total capital                 930            766                149

Risk-weighted assets                  
and off-balance sheet
instruments                  $8,398         $6,973             $1,429

Risk-based Capital Ratio
  Tier 1 capital               8.91%          8.64%              9.13%
  Total capital               11.07          10.98              10.40

Leverage Ratio                 7.31           6.92               7.53

             
FDICIA required each federal banking agency, including the Federal Reserve
Board, to revise its risk-based capital standards within 18 months of the
enactment of the statute into law on December 19, 1991 in order to ensure
that those standards take adequate account of interest rate risk,
concentration of credit risk and the risk of nontraditional activities, as
well as reflect the actual performance and expected risk of loss on certain
multifamily housing loans.  

In September 1993, the federal banking agencies issued proposed rules whereby
exposure to interest rate risk would be measured as the effect that a
specified change in market interest rates would have on the net economic
value of a bank.  This economic perspective considers the effect that
changing market interest rates may have on the value of a bank's assets,
liabilities, and off-balance-sheet positions.  The banking agencies propose
to measure an institution's exposure using either a standardized, supervisory
model or each bank's own internal model.  In either case, the results could
be used in one of two ways when assessing capital adequacy for interest rate
risk.  One approach would be to reduce an institution's risk-based capital
ratios by an amount based on the level of measured risk.  The other would be
to use the measured exposure as only one of several factors in assessing the
need for capital.

On December 29, 1993, the Federal Reserve Board amended the risk-based
capital guidelines, effective December 31, 1993, lowering from 100 percent to
50 percent the risk weight assigned to certain multifamily housing loans.

On December 7, 1994, the Federal Reserve Board adopted a final rule,
effective December 31, 1994, providing that institutions regulated by the
Federal Reserve Board could net for risk-based capital purposes the positive
and negative market values of interest and exchange rate contracts subject to
a qualifying, legally enforceable, bilateral netting contract to calculate
one current exposure for that netting contract.

On December 8, 1994, the Federal Reserve Board amended its risk-based capital
guidelines effective December 31, 1994, directing institutions to generally
not include in regulatory capital the "net unrealized holding gains (losses)
on securities available for sale", determined pursuant to the provisions of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, "Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities", when preparing financial
statements in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.  Net
unrealized losses on marketable equity securities (i.e., equity securities





with readily determinable fair values), however, continue to be deducted from
Tier 1 capital.  This rule has the general effect of valuing available for
sale securities at amortized cost (i.e., based on historical cost), rather
than at fair value (i.e., generally at market value), for purposes of
calculating the risk-based and leverage ratios.

On December 15, 1994, the Federal Reserve Board issued a final rule,
effective January 17, 1995, addressing concentration of credit risk and risks
of nontraditional activities.  Accordingly, risk-based capital guidelines
were amended to explicitly cite concentrations of credit risk and an
institution's ability to monitor and control them as important factors in
assessing an institution's overall capital adequacy.  Institutions identified
through the examination process as having significant exposure to
concentration of credit risk or as not adequately managing concentration risk
will be required to hold capital in excess of the regulatory minimums.  The
risk-based capital guidelines were further amended to explicitly cite the
risks arising from nontraditional activities and management's ability to
monitor and control these risks as important factors to consider in assessing
an institution's overall capital adequacy.  The rule requires that as banking
institutions begin to engage in, or significantly expand their participation
in, a nontraditional activity, the risks of that activity be promptly
analyzed and the activity given appropriate capital treatment by the
agencies.

On December 22, 1994, the Federal Reserve Board revised its capital adequacy
guidelines, effective April 1, 1995, to establish a limitation on the amount
of certain deferred tax assets that may be included in (that is, not deducted
from) Tier 1 capital for purpose of risk-based capital and leverage ratios. 
Under the revised guidelines, deferred tax assets that can only be realized
if an institution earns taxable income in the future are limited for
regulatory capital purposes to the amount that the institution expects to
realize, based on projections of taxable income, within one year of each
quarter-end report date or 10 percent of Tier 1 capital, whichever is less.

Bank regulators continue to propose amendments to the risk-based capital
guidelines and related regulatory framework.  While the Company's management
studies such proposals, the timing of adoption, ultimate form and effect of
such proposed amendments on the Company's capital requirements and operations
cannot be predicted.

FDICIA requires the federal banking agencies to take "prompt corrective
action" in respect of depository institutions that do not meet minimum
capital requirements.  FDICIA established five capital tiers: "well
capitalized", "adequately capitalized", "undercapitalized", "significantly
undercapitalized" and "critically undercapitalized".  A depository
institution's capital tier depends upon where its capital levels are in
relation to various relevant capital measures, including a risk-based capital
measure and a leverage ratio capital measure, and certain other factors.

Under the implementing regulations adopted by the federal banking agencies, a
bank is considered "well capitalized" if it has (i) a total risk-based
capital ratio of 10% or greater, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6%
or greater, (iii) a leverage ratio of 5% or greater and (iv) is not subject
to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital
level for any capital measure.  An "adequately capitalized" bank is defined
as one that has (i) a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% or greater, (ii) a
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4% or greater and (iii) a leverage ratio
of 4% or greater (or 3% or greater in the case of a bank with a composite
CAMEL rating of 1).  A bank is considered (A) "undercapitalized" if it has
(i) a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8%, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-
based capital ratio of less than 4% or (iii) a leverage ratio of less than 4%
(or 3% in the case of a bank with a composite CAMEL rating of 1); (B)





"significantly undercapitalized" if the bank has (i) a total risk-based
capital ratio of less than 6%, or (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of
less than 3% or (iii) a leverage ratio of less than 3% and (C) "critically
undercapitalized" if the bank has a ratio of tangible equity to total assets
equal to or less than 2%.  The Federal Reserve Board may reclassify a "well
capitalized" bank as "adequately capitalized" or subject an "adequately
capitalized" or "undercapitalized" institution to the supervisory actions
applicable to the next lower capital category if it determines that the bank
is in an unsafe or unsound condition or deems the bank to be engaged in an
unsafe or unsound practice and not to have corrected the deficiency.  M&T
Bank and East New York currently meet the definition of "well capitalized"
institutions.

"Undercapitalized" depository institutions, among other things, are subject
to growth limitations, are prohibited, with certain exceptions, from making
capital distributions, are limited in their ability to obtain funding from a
Federal Reserve Bank and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. 
The federal banking agencies may not accept a capital plan without
determining, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic
assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the depository
institution's capital.  In addition, for a capital restoration plan to be
acceptable, the depository institution's parent holding company must
guarantee that the institution will comply with such capital restoration plan
and provide appropriate assurances of performance.  If a depository
institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, including if the holding
company refuses or is unable to make the guarantee described in the previous
sentence, it is treated as if it is "significantly undercapitalized". 
Failure to submit or implement an acceptable capital plan also is grounds for
the appointment of a conservator or a receiver.  "Significantly
undercapitalized" depository institutions may be subject to a number of
additional requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient
voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total
assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. 
Moreover, the parent holding company of a significantly undercapitalized
depository institution may be ordered to divest itself of the institution or
of nonbank subsidiaries of the holding company.  "Critically
undercapitalized" institutions, among other things, are prohibited from
making any payments of principal and interest on subordinated debt, and are
subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator.

FDICIA directs, among other things, that each federal banking agency
prescribe standards for depository institutions and depository institution
holding companies relating to internal controls, information systems,
internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest
rate exposure, asset growth, compensation, a maximum ratio of classified
assets to capital, minimum earnings sufficient to absorb losses, a minimum
ratio of market value to book value for publicly traded shares and other
standards as they deem appropriate.  The Federal Reserve Board adopted such
standards in 1993.

FDICIA also contains a variety of other provisions that may affect the
operations of the Company, including new reporting requirements, regulatory
standards for real estate lending, "truth in savings" provisions, limitations
on the amount of purchased mortgage servicing rights and purchased credit
card relationships includable in Tier 1 capital, and the requirement that a
depository institution give 90 days' prior notice to customers and regulatory
authorities before closing any branch.  FDICIA also contains a prohibition on
the acceptance or renewal of brokered deposits by depository institutions
that are not "well capitalized" or are "adequately capitalized" and have not
received a waiver from the FDIC.





                     FDIC Deposit Insurance Assessments
                     ----------------------------------

As institutions insured by the BIF and the SAIF, M&T Bank and East New York
are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments.  Under current law the
insurance assessment to be paid by BIF-insured institutions shall be
specified in a schedule required to be issued by the FDIC that specifies, at
semiannual intervals, target reserve ratios designed to increase the reserve
ratio to 1.25% of estimated insured deposits (or such higher ratio as the
FDIC may determine in accordance with the statute) no later than 2006.  The
FDIC is also authorized to impose one or more special assessments in any
amounts deemed necessary to enable repayment of amounts borrowed by the FDIC
from the Treasury Department.  On September 15, 1992, the FDIC approved the
implementation of a risk-based deposit premium assessment system under which
each depository institution is placed in one of nine assessment categories
based on the institution's capital classification under the prompt corrective
action provisions described above, and whether such institution is considered
by its supervisory agency to be financially sound or to have supervisory
concerns.  The assessment rates under the system range from .23% to .31%
depending upon the assessment category into which the insured institution is
placed.  The risk-based assessment system became effective January 1, 1993. 
In early 1995, the FDIC announced that it was considering a proposal to
reduce the low end of the deposit assessment range that banks pay to the BIF
to .04%.  The final form, likelihood or timing of adoption and implementation
of such proposal cannot be determined.  Despite the announcement of this
proposal, the FDIC retains the ability to increase BIF assessments and to
levy special additional assessments.  Moreover, the FDIC is not currently
considering any reduction in SAIF assessments.

With respect to deposit insurance assessments on SAIF-insured deposits at M&T
Bank (which represent approximately 18% of its total assessed deposit
liabilities), under current law such assessments must be the greater of .15%
of M&T Bank's average assessment base (as defined) or such rate as the FDIC
at its sole discretion determines to be appropriate to increase (or maintain)
the reserve ratio to 1.25% of estimated insured deposits (or such higher
ratio as the FDIC may determine in accordance with the statute) within a
reasonable period of time.  From January 1, 1994 through December 31, 1997
the assessment rate must not be less than .18% of the institution's average
assessment base.  The assessment rate may be higher if the FDIC, in its sole
discretion, determines such higher rate to be appropriate.  Effective January
1, 1993, the risk-based deposit premium assessment system described above was
made applicable to SAIF-insured deposits.

A significant increase in the assessment rate or a special additional
assessment with respect to insured deposits could have an adverse impact on
the results of operations and capital of M&T Bank or East New York.

                            Governmental Policies
                            ---------------------

The earnings of the Company are significantly affected by the monetary and
fiscal policies of governmental authorities, including the Federal Reserve
Board.  Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve
Board to implement these objectives are open-market operations in U.S.
Government securities and Federal funds, changes in the discount rate on
member bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against member
bank deposits.  These instruments of monetary policy are used in varying
combinations to influence the overall level of bank loans, investments and
deposits, and the interest rates charged on loans and paid for deposits.  The
Federal Reserve Board frequently uses these instruments of monetary policy,
especially its open-market operations and the discount rate, to influence the
level of interest rates and to affect the strength of the economy, the level
of inflation or the price of the dollar in foreign exchange markets.  The
monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect





on the operating results of banking institutions in the past and are expected
to continue to do so in the future.  It is not possible to predict the nature
of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies, or the effect which they
may have on the Company's business and earnings.

                                 Competition
                                 -----------

The Company competes in offering commercial and personal financial services
with other banking institutions and with firms in a number of other
industries, such as thrift institutions, credit unions, personal loan
companies, sales finance companies, leasing companies, securities brokers and
dealers, insurance companies and retail merchandising organizations. 
Furthermore, diversified financial services companies are able to offer a
combination of these services to their customers on a nationwide basis. 
Compared to less extensively regulated financial services companies, the
Company's operations are significantly impacted by state and federal
regulations applicable to the banking industry.

As described in Bank Holding Company Regulation above, the Banking Law allows
out-of-state banking companies to control New York banks if reciprocal rights
are granted to New York banking companies.  No such reciprocity is required
of foreign banking companies.  Most states permit New York banking companies
to form or acquire banks located within their boundaries.  Moreover, the
provisions of the Interstate Banking Act may further ease entry into New York
State by out-of-state banking institutions.  As a result, the number of
banking organizations with which the Registrant's subsidiary banks compete
may grow in the future.

                        Other Legislative Initiatives
                        -----------------------------

From time to time, various proposals are introduced in the United States
Congress and in the New York Legislature and before various bank regulatory
authorities which would alter the powers of, and restrictions on, different
types of banking organizations and which would restructure part or all of the
existing regulatory framework for banks, bank holding companies and other
financial institutions.  

Moreover, a number of other bills have been introduced in Congress which
would further regulate, deregulate or restructure the financial services
industry.  It is not possible to predict whether these or any other proposals
will be enacted into law or, even if enacted, the effect which they may have
on the Company's business and earnings.

                 Statistical Disclosure Pursuant to Guide 3
                 ------------------------------------------

See cross-reference sheet for disclosures incorporated elsewhere in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Additional information is included in the
following tables.



























Item 2.  Properties.
         ----------

Both the Parent Company and M&T Bank maintain their executive offices at One M&T
Plaza in Buffalo, New York.  This twenty-one story headquarters building,
containing approximately 276,000 rentable square feet of space, is owned in fee
by M&T Bank, and was completed in 1967 at a cost of approximately $17 million. 
The Parent Company, M&T Bank and their subsidiaries occupy approximately 69% of
the building and the remainder is leased to non-affiliated tenants.  At December
31, 1994, the cost of this property, net of accumulated depreciation, was $10.5
million.  

In September 1992, M&T Bank acquired an additional facility in Buffalo, New York
with approximately 346,000 rentable square feet of space at a cost of
approximately $12 million.  Approximately 70% of this facility, known as M&T
Center, is occupied by M&T Bank and its subsidiaries, with the remainder leased
to non-affiliated tenants.  At December 31, 1994, the cost of this building,
including improvements made subsequent to acquisition and net of accumulated
depreciation, was $16.8 million.

M&T Bank also owns and occupies two separate facilities in the Buffalo area
which support certain back-office and operations functions of the Company.  The
total square footage of these facilities approximates 223,000 square feet and
their combined cost, net of accumulated depreciation, was $13.0 million.

The cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization, of the Company's
premises and equipment is detailed in note 6 of Notes to Financial Statements
filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data".  Of the 159 domestic banking offices of the Registrant's subsidiary
banks, 56 are owned in fee and 103 are leased.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.
         -----------------

A number of lawsuits were pending against the Registrant and its subsidiaries
at December 31, 1994.  In the opinion of management, the potential liabilities,
if any, arising from such litigation will not have a materially adverse impact
on the Company's consolidated financial condition.  Moreover, management
believes that the Company has substantial defenses in such litigation, but there
can be no assurance that the potential liabilities, if any, arising from such
litigation will not have a materially adverse impact on the Company's
consolidated results of operations in the future.

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.  Not applicable
          ---------------------------------------------------
                    
                    Executive Officers of the Registrant
                    ------------------------------------

Information concerning the Registrant's executive officers is presented below
as of March 6, 1995.  Shown parenthetically is the year since which the officer
has held the indicated position with the Registrant or its subsidiaries.  In the
case of each such corporation, officers' terms run until the first meeting of
the board of directors after such corporation's annual meeting, and until their
successors are elected and qualified.

     Robert G. Wilmers, age 60, is chairman of the board (1994), president
       (1988), chief executive officer (1983) and a director (1982) of the
       Registrant.  He is chairman of the board, president and chief executive
       officer (1983) and a director (1982) of M&T Bank.  Mr. Wilmers is a
       director of East New York (1988) and M&T Financial (1985).  


     William A. Buckingham, age 52, is an executive vice president (1990) of the
       Registrant and of M&T Bank and is in charge of its Retail Banking
       Division.  Mr. Buckingham is a director of M&T Securities.  Mr.
       Buckingham held a number of management positions with Manufacturers
       Hanover Trust Company from 1973 to 1990, including the position of
       
       
       
       

       executive vice president of its branch banking division which he held
       immediately prior to joining the Registrant and M&T Bank.


     Atwood Collins, III, age 48, is the president, chief executive officer and
       a director (1995) of East New York.  Previously,  Mr. Collins served as
       executive vice president and chief operating officer of East New York
       (1988).  Mr. Collins held a number of management positions with Morgan
       Guaranty Trust Company of New York from 1972 to 1988, including the
       position of senior vice president and manager of treasury operations
       which he held immediately prior to joining East New York.


     Brian E. Hickey, age 42, is president (1994) of the Rochester Division of
       M&T Bank and has responsibility for managing all of M&T Bank's business
       segments in the Rochester market.  Before joining M&T Bank, Mr. Hickey
       served as regional president, Rochester/Southern Region of Marine Midland
       Bank, which he joined as a regional executive in 1989. 


     James L. Hoffman, age 55, is president (1992) of the Hudson Valley Division
       of M&T Bank.  Mr. Hoffman served as chairman of the board, president,
       chief executive officer and a director (1983) of The First National Bank
       of Highland, which had been a wholly owned subsidiary of the Registrant
       prior to its merger with and into M&T Bank on February 29, 1992.  Mr.
       Hoffman is a director of M&T Financial (1986).  He served as an executive
       vice president of M&T Bank from 1974 to 1984.


     Barbara L. Laughlin, age 50, is an executive vice president (1993) of the
       Registrant and of M&T Bank (1990), and is in charge of its Technology and
       Banking Operations Division.  Ms. Laughlin was executive vice president
       of retail banking and technology at The Seamen's Bank for Savings from
       June 1986 to April 1990 before joining M&T Bank.  


     William C. Rappolt, age 49, is an executive vice president and treasurer
       (1993) of the Registrant and M&T Bank (1984) and executive vice president
       of East New York (1994).  Mr. Rappolt is in charge of its Treasury
       Division.  Mr. Rappolt is a director of M&T Financial (1985), and M&T
       Securities (1985).  


     Robert E. Sadler, Jr., age 49, is an executive vice president (1990) of the
       Registrant and of M&T Bank (1983), and is in charge of its Commercial
       Banking Division.  Mr. Sadler is chairman of the board and a director of
       Highland Lease (1994); chairman of the board (1987) and a director of M&T
       Capital (1983); chairman of the board and a director of M&T Credit
       (1994); chairman of the board (1989) and a director of M&T Financial
       (1985); chairman of the board and a director of M&T Mortgage (1991); and
       chairman of the board and a director of M&T Securities (1994). 


     Harry R. Stainrook, age 58, is an executive vice president (1993) of the
       Registrant and of M&T Bank (1985), and is in charge of M&T Bank's Trust
       and Investment Services Division.  Mr. Stainrook is a director of M&T
       Securities (1994).


     James L. Vardon, age 53, is an executive vice president and chief financial
       officer (1984) of the Registrant and of M&T Bank, and is in charge of its
       Finance Division.  Mr. Vardon is a director of M&T Capital (1984) and M&T
       Financial (1985).





                                  PART II
                                  -------

Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
          Matters.  The Registrant's common stock is traded under the symbol
          FES on the American Stock Exchange.  See cross-reference sheet for
          disclosures incorporated elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form
          10-K for market prices of Registrant's common stock, approximate
          number of common stockholders at year-end, frequency and amounts
          of dividends on common stock and restrictions on the payment of
          dividends.

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.  See cross-reference sheet for
          disclosures incorporated elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form
          10-K.

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
          Results of Operations.  


CORPORATE PROFILE AND SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENTS

First Empire State Corporation ("First Empire") is a regional bank holding
company headquartered in Buffalo, New York with consolidated assets of $10.5
billion at December 31, 1994. First Empire and its consolidated subsidiaries
are hereinafter referred to collectively as "the Company". First Empire's
banking subsidiaries are Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company ("M&T Bank")
and The East New York Savings Bank ("East New York"), both of which are
wholly owned. M&T Bank, with $8.8 billion in assets at December 31, 1994, is
a New York-chartered commercial bank with 118 offices throughout Western New
York and New York's Southern Tier, 20 offices in New York's Hudson Valley
region and offices in New York City, Albany, Syracuse and Nassau, The
Bahamas. East New York, with $1.8 billion in assets at December 31, 1994, is
a New York-chartered savings bank with 18 offices in the New York City
metropolitan area. 

  M&T Bank's subsidiaries include M&T Mortgage Corporation, a mortgage
banking company; M&T Securities, Inc., a broker/dealer; M&T Financial
Corporation, an equipment leasing company; M&T Capital Corporation, a venture
capital company; M&T Credit Corporation, a consumer credit company and
Highland Lease Corporation, a consumer leasing company.

  On December 1, 1994, First Empire acquired Ithaca Bancorp, Inc. ("Ithaca
Bancorp"), Ithaca, New York, in exchange for cash consideration of $19 per
common share or approximately $44.2 million. Simultaneously with the
acquisition, Ithaca Bancorp's savings bank subsidiary, Citizens Savings Bank,
F.S.B., was merged into M&T Bank, bringing twelve banking offices in New
York's Southern Tier into M&T Bank's branch network. As of December 1, 1994,
assets acquired totaled $470 million, including $369 million of loans, and
deposit liabilities assumed were $330 million. Additionally, on December 10,
1994, M&T Bank purchased approximately $146 million of deposits from Chemical
Bank along with seven branch offices in the Hudson Valley region of New York
State. On February 9, 1995, M&T Bank entered into a definitive agreement to
acquire four branches and approximately $90 million in deposits from The
Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. Two of the branches are located in Dutchess
County, one in Ulster County and one in Niagara County, New York.

  On July 1, 1992, First Empire acquired Central Trust Company of Rochester,
New York ("Central Trust"), and Endicott Trust Company of Endicott, New York
("Endicott Trust"), and simultaneously merged them into M&T Bank. The
acquisitions added approximately $1.4 billion in assets and $1.3 billion in
deposits to the Company's consolidated balance sheet and added 38 banking





offices in Western New York and New York's Southern Tier to M&T Bank's branch
network on the acquisition date.

  The Company has continued to expand its out-of-state network of residential
mortgage origination offices operated by M&T Mortgage Corporation. In 1993,
offices were opened in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and in Cincinnati and
Columbus, Ohio. During 1994, offices were opened in three additional
locations in Ohio, Cleveland, Dayton and the Akron-Canton area, and in two
Pennsylvania locations, Harrisburg and Lancaster. On March 6, 1995, M&T
Mortgage Corporation acquired Statewide Funding Corporation ("Statewide"), a
privately-held mortgage banking company based near Albany, New York.
Statewide has a mortgage servicing portfolio of approximately $1.0 billion
and originated more than $400 million of mortgage loans in 1994. Statewide
operates five retail offices in New York, one in Massachusetts and one in
Vermont, and also a national wholesale lending program. 


OVERVIEW

The Company's net income increased 15% to $117.3 million in 1994, from $102.0
million in 1993, while earnings per common share increased 18% to $16.35 from
$13.87 in 1993. Fully diluted earnings per common share, which includes the
assumed full conversion of outstanding preferred stock into common stock, was
$15.71 in 1994 and $13.42 in 1993, an increase of 17%. Net income was $97.9
million or $13.41 per common share in 1992, while fully diluted earnings per
common share was $12.98. The results of operations in 1992 include
significant pre-tax securities gains of $28.1 million resulting from
management's decision to adjust the Company's holdings of investment
securities in response to declining interest rates and the expected decline
in economic value of certain securities resulting from prepayment risk. Sales
in 1992 were additionally intended to reduce the size of the Company's
balance sheet, thereby strengthening capital ratios, in anticipation of the
Central Trust and Endicott Trust acquisitions.

  The Company achieved a return on average assets of 1.17% in 1994, up from
.98% in 1993 and 1.03% in 1992. The return on average common stockholders'
equity was 16.64% in 1994, 15.61% in 1993 and 17.39% in 1992. Excluding the
effects of securities gains, the return on average assets in 1992 was .86%,
while the return on average common stockholders' equity was 14.43%. 

  Net interest income, adjusted to a fully taxable-equivalent basis for
tax-exempt interest income earned on certain loans and investments, decreased
1% in 1994 to $472.2 million, from $474.8 million in 1993. Taxable-equivalent
net interest income was $438.6 million in 1992. A $316 million decline in
average earning assets in 1994 from 1993 was the major factor in the lower
taxable-equivalent net interest income. The net interest margin, or
taxable-equivalent net interest income expressed as a percentage of average
earning assets, improved 13 basis points in 1994 to 4.89% from 4.76% in 1993.
The net interest margin was 4.79% in 1992.

  Net charge-offs in 1994 decreased to $16.6 million from $35.8 million in
1993 and $46.3 million in 1992. Nonperforming loans declined to $77.5 million
at December 31, 1994 from $82.3 million a year earlier and $113.6 million at
year-end 1992. Consistent with declines in the level of net charge-offs and
nonperforming loans and generally improving economic conditions in market
areas served by the Company, the provision for possible credit losses was
decreased to $60.5 million in 1994, compared with $80.0 million in 1993 and
$85.0 million in 1992.

  In December 1994, First Empire transferred appreciated investment
securities with a fair value of $15.7 million to pre-fund an affiliated,





tax-exempt private foundation which will utilize these resources over the
coming years for charitable purposes. As a result of the transfer, the
Company recognized charitable contributions expense and tax-exempt other
income of $13.8 million and $10.4 million, respectively, resulting in an
after-tax increase in net income of $2.4 million.

  Excluding gains on sales of bank investment securities and the effect of
the 1994 transfer of securities to the affiliated foundation, noninterest
income totaled $113.2 million in 1994, 3% above $109.7 million in 1993 and
15% above $98.2 million in 1992. Excluding $13.8 million of charitable
contributions expense associated with the transfer of securities, noninterest
expense totaled $323.1 million in 1994, down 1% from $327.8 million in 1993,
but up 4% from $311.3 million in 1992.

  The December 1994 acquisitions have been accounted for as purchase
transactions and, accordingly, the operating results of the acquired entities
have been included in the consolidated results of operations of the Company
since the respective acquisition dates. The operating results of the acquired
entities did not have a significant impact on the Company's results of
operations in 1994. The excess of the cost of the acquired entities over the
fair value of identifiable assets acquired less liabilities assumed has been
recorded as goodwill and amounted to approximately $24 million, which is
being amortized on a straight-line basis over five years. 


NET INTEREST INCOME/LENDING AND FUNDING ACTIVITIES

A $316 million decline in average earning assets to $9.7 billion in 1994 from
$10.0 billion in 1993 was the major factor contributing to the decline in
taxable-equivalent net interest income in 1994 to $472.2 million from $474.8
million in 1993. Taxable-equivalent net interest income and average earning
assets in 1992 were $438.6 million and $9.2 billion, respectively. A wider
net interest spread, or the difference between the yield on earning assets
and the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities, and a larger benefit from
interest-free funds resulted in an improvement in the net interest margin, or
taxable-equivalent net interest income expressed as a percentage of average
earning assets, to 4.89% in 1994, compared with 4.76% in 1993 and 4.79% in
1992.

  During 1994, the Company continued to benefit from a relatively wide net
interest spread. The net interest spread was 4.37% in 1994, compared with
4.33% in 1993 and 4.29% in 1992. The improvement in net interest spread in
1994 over 1993 resulted from a favorable shift in the composition of the
portfolio of earning assets reflecting a greater proportion of loans and
reduced holdings of money-market assets and investment securities. The
benefit obtained from increased holdings of loans, which typically yield more
than money-market assets and investment securities, was partially offset by
the rise in interest expense on short-term borrowings and deposits. The
higher proportion of loans and reduced holdings of money-market assets and
investment securities resulted in a 31 basis point (hundredth of one percent)
increase in 1994 to 7.77% in the yield on earning assets, while the cost of
interest-bearing liabilities increased 27 basis points to 3.40%. Rising
interest rates had the effect of narrowing the difference between the yield
on loans and leases and the rate paid on interest-bearing deposits by 23
basis points in 1994 from 1993. The increase in the net interest spread in
1993 from 1992 resulted from a widening of the spread between the yield on
loans and leases and the rate paid on interest-bearing deposits, a
then-favorable repercussion of the declining and relatively low interest
rates in 1993.

  The contribution to net interest margin of interest-free funds rose to .52%
in 1994 from .43% in 1993 and .50% in 1992. The improvement in 1994 from 1993
resulted largely from the 27 basis point increase to 3.40% in the rate paid
on interest-bearing liabilities used to value these funds, aided by a 7%





increase in average interest-free funds. The 7 basis point reduction in the
contribution of interest-free funds in 1993 from 1992 was due to the 90 basis
point decline in the rate on interest-bearing liabilities from 4.03%, which
more than offset a 22% increase in net interest-free balances. Average
interest-free funds were $1.5 billion in 1994, $1.4 billion in 1993 and 
$1.1 billion in 1992.

  The Company has benefited from relatively wide net interest spreads in
recent years. Despite significant increases in short-term interest rates
throughout 1994, the spread between the prime rate and other money-market
rates remained relatively wide in comparison to historic norms. However,
rising interest rates in 1994 have resulted in sharp reductions in
prepayments of residential mortgage loans, thereby extending the expected
lives of such loans, of mortgage-related financial instruments, such as
mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations ("CMOs"),
and of interest rate swaps indexed to residential mortgage loans. Management
believes that further changes in the interest rate environment or reductions
in spreads could adversely impact the Company's net interest margin and net
interest income. Although not necessarily indicative of a trend, the
Company's net interest spread in the fourth quarter of 1994 of 4.15% was
below that achieved in any other quarter of 1994.

  As part of an overall interest rate risk management program, the Company
utilizes interest rate swap agreements to modify, in a cost and capital
efficient manner, the repricing characteristics of certain portions of the
loan and deposit portfolios. Revenue and expense arising from these
agreements are reflected in either the yields earned on loans or, as
appropriate, rates paid on interest-bearing deposits.

  The effect of interest rate swaps on the Company's net interest income and
margin as well as average notional amounts and rates are presented in table 4.

  Average loans and leases grew to $7.4 billion in 1994 from $7.0 billion and
$6.6 billion in 1993 and 1992, respectively. The acquisition of $369 million
of loans of Ithaca Bancorp on December 1, 1994 did not substantially impact
average loans and leases in 1994. Improved economic conditions in some market
areas served by the Company contributed to increases in 1994 in the
outstanding balance of consumer loans, primarily automobile loans, and
multi-family commercial real estate loans. In 1993, when sluggish economic
conditions in the areas served by the Company restrained loan demand, 
growth in average loans resulted from the full-year effect of the
acquisitions of Central Trust and Endicott Trust on July 1, 1992. Table 5
summarizes by type, average loans and leases outstanding in 1994 and
percentage changes in average loans and leases over the past two years.

  Loans secured by real estate, excluding home equity lines of credit which
are classified as consumer loans, represented approximately 61% of the loan
portfolio during 1994, down from 63% in 1993 and 64% in 1992. At December 31,
1994, the Company held approximately $3.4 billion of commercial real estate
loans and $1.6 billion of consumer real estate loans.

  Commercial real estate loans are originated by the Company predominately in
the New York City metropolitan area, including properties in neighboring
states generally considered to be within commuting distance of New York City,
and Western New York, which includes Buffalo, Niagara Falls, Rochester and
surrounding areas. Commercial real estate loans are also originated in the
Hudson Valley and Southern Tier regions of New York State. Typical commercial
real estate loans originated by the Company are fixed-rate instruments with
monthly payments and a balloon payment of the remaining principal at
maturity, usually five years after loan origination. For borrowers in good
standing, the terms of the loan agreement may be extended for an additional
five years at the then-current market rate of interest. Table 6 presents
commercial real estate loans at December 31, 1994 by geographic area, type of





collateral and size of the loans outstanding. Approximately 58% of the $1.8
billion of commercial real estate loans in the New York City metropolitan
area were secured by multi-family residential properties, 23% by office space
and 10% by retail space. The Company's experience has been that office space
and retail properties tend to demonstrate more volatile fluctuations in value
through economic cycles and changing economic conditions. Approximately 55%
of the aggregate dollar amount of New York City area loans were for $3
million or less. Commercial real estate loans secured by properties elsewhere
in New York State, mostly in Western New York, tend to have a greater
diversity of collateral types and include a significant amount of lending to
customers who use the mortgaged properties in their trades or businesses. The
typical loan in this segment of the portfolio was $3 million or less.
Commercial real estate loans secured by properties located outside of New
York State and outside of areas of neighboring states considered to be part
of the New York City metropolitan area were largely obtained in acquisitions
of other financial institutions. 

  The Company normally refrains from construction lending, except when the
borrower has obtained a commitment for permanent financing upon project
completion. As a result, the commercial construction loan portfolio totaled 
only $43.8 million, or .5% of total loans at December 31, 1994.

  Of the $1.6 billion of real estate loans secured by one-to-four family
residential properties at December 31, 1994, approximately 80% were for
properties located in New York State. At the 1994 year-end, residential
mortgage loans held for sale totaled $33.4 million. The Company originates
residential mortgage loans in its banking offices in New York State, and
through offices of M&T Mortgage Corporation, in Ohio and Pennsylvania.

  The Company's portfolio of investment securities averaged $2.1 billion in
1994, $2.2 billion in 1993 and $2.0 billion in 1992. Factors influencing the
size of the investment securities portfolio include management of balance
sheet size and resulting capital ratios; demand for loans, which typically
generate higher yields than investment securities; repayments, which have
slowed with rising interest rates; the level of deposits and interest rate
risk management considerations. The investment securities portfolio is
largely comprised of CMOs, other adjustable rate mortgage-backed securities
and shorter-term U.S. Treasury notes. When purchasing investment securities,
the Company considers its overall interest-rate risk profile and the adequacy
of expected returns relative to prepayment and other risks assumed. During
December 1994, the Company sold approximately $57 million of investment
securities obtained in the acquisition of Ithaca Bancorp. Such sale had no
impact on the Company's net income.

  The average balance of money-market assets, which are comprised of
interest-bearing deposits at banks, trading account assets, Federal funds
sold and agreements to resell securities, declined to $166 million in 1994
from $826 million in 1993 and $594 million in 1992. The decline in 1994 from
1993 largely reflects increased demand for loans and the Company's decisions
to reduce the size of the balance sheet in order to strengthen capital ratios
in anticipation of the 1994 acquisitions and to limit the amount of
short-term borrowings, which had been used to fund money-market assets. The
increase in average money-market assets during 1993 from 1992 resulted from
investment opportunities in various short-term instruments, the relative lack
of alternative securities deemed attractive for longer-term investment and
sluggish loan demand.

  Core deposits, which include noninterest-bearing demand deposits,
interest-bearing transaction accounts, savings deposits and domestic time
deposits under $100,000, represent a significant source of funding to the
Company. Core deposits are commonly generated through the branch network at
lower interest rates than wholesale funds of similar maturities. In 1994,
average core deposits declined to $6.8 billion from $7.2 billion in 1993 and
1992. Funding provided by core deposits totaled 70% of average earning assets





in 1994, compared with 72% in 1993 and 79% in 1992. The December 1994
acquisitions of $442 million of core deposits did not have a significant
effect on the average balance of such deposits for 1994. In response to
generally lower interest rates, in recent years many depositors sought
potentially higher returns by redeploying deposits, primarily time and
savings deposits, out of the banking system into alternative investment
vehicles, such as mutual funds. However, the Company has been successful in
retaining many customer relationships associated with closed deposit accounts
by offering alternative investments to customers through M&T Securities, Inc.
and through an unaffiliated company renting space in the Company's branches.
By mid-year 1995, M&T Securities, Inc. will assume responsibility for sales
of mutual funds and other alternative investments from the unaffiliated
company. An analysis of changes in the components of core deposits is
presented in table 8.

  In addition to core deposits, the Company obtains funding through domestic
time deposits of $100,000 or more, off-shore deposits originated through the
Company's international office and, beginning in the fourth quarter of 1994,
a brokered retail certificate of deposit program. Domestic time deposits over
$100,000, excluding brokered retail certificates of deposit, averaged $357
million in 1994 compared with $294 million in 1993 and $326 million in 1992.
Off-shore deposits, comprised primarily of accounts with balances of $100,000
or more, averaged $156 million in 1994 compared with $120 million and $130
million in 1993 and 1992, respectively. Brokered deposits averaged $45
million in 1994 and totaled $456 million at December 31, 1994. The brokered
retail certificate of deposit program was initiated to solicit up to $900
million of deposits as an alternative to short-term borrowings and other
wholesale funding sources. The weighted-average remaining term to maturity of
brokered deposits at December 31, 1994 was 2.6 years. 

  The Company also uses short-term borrowings from banks, securities dealers,
the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York ("FHLB") and others as sources of
funding. Short-term borrowings averaged $1.8 billion in 1994, $1.9 billion in
1993 and $1.1 billion in 1992. In general, short-term borrowings have been
used to fund the Company's discretionary investments in money-market assets
and investment securities, and to replace deposit outflows.


PROVISION FOR POSSIBLE CREDIT LOSSES

The purpose of the provision is to replenish and build the Company's
allowance for possible credit losses to a level necessary to maintain an
adequate reserve position. In assessing the adequacy of the allowance for
possible credit losses, management performs an ongoing evaluation of the loan
portfolio, including such factors as the differing economic risks associated
with each loan category, the current financial condition of specific
borrowers, the economic environment in which borrowers operate, the level of
delinquent loans and the value of any collateral. Based upon the results of
such review, management believes that the allowance for possible credit
losses at December 31, 1994 was adequate to absorb credit losses from
existing loans, leases and credit commitments.

  The provision for possible credit losses was $60.5 million in 1994, a
decrease of 24% from $80.0 million in 1993 and 29% from $85.0 million in
1992. Net charge-offs in 1994 decreased to $16.6 million from $35.8 million
in 1993 and $46.3 million in 1992. Net charge-offs as a percentage of average
loans outstanding were .22% in 1994, .51% in 1993 and .70% in 1992. At
December 31, 1994, nonperforming loans totaled $77.5 million, a decline of
$4.7 million from a year earlier and $36.1 million from December 31, 1992.
The declines in the level of net charge-offs and nonperforming loans, and
improved economic conditions in market areas served by the Company were major
factors contributing to the lower provision for possible credit losses in
1994. The allowance for possible credit losses was $243.3 million or 2.96% of
net loans and leases at December 31, 1994, up from $195.9 million or 2.70% at





December 31, 1993 and $151.7 million or 2.17% at December 31, 1992. The ratio
of the allowance to nonperforming loans was 314%, 238% and 134% at year-end
1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

  A comparative allocation of the allowance for possible credit losses for
each of the past five year-ends is presented in table 10. Amounts were
allocated to specific loan categories based upon management's classification
of loans under the Company's internal loan grading system and estimates of
potential charge-offs inherent in each category. However, as the total
reserve is available to absorb losses from any loan category, amounts
assigned do not necessarily indicate future losses within these categories.
The increase in the allocated portion of the reserve in 1994 and 1993
compared with prior years is not indicative of a deterioration of credit
quality within the loan portfolio, but rather reflects certain revisions to
the assumptions used to calculate the allocated portion of the allowance for
possible credit losses. Nevertheless, the unallocated portion of the reserve
represents management's assessment of the overall level of credit risk
inherent in the loan portfolio over a longer time frame.

  The Company's credit loss experience is influenced by many factors,
including general economic conditions. However, due to the size of the
Company's commercial real estate loan portfolio, the Company's credit loss
experience has been and will continue to be significantly affected by real
estate valuations, in particular. Nonperforming commercial real estate loans
totaled $47.5 million and $48.3 million at December 31, 1994 and 1993,
respectively. At December 31, 1994, $27.1 million of nonperforming commercial
real estate loans were secured by properties located in the New York City
metropolitan area, compared with $29.7 million a year earlier. Net
charge-offs of commercial real estate loans were $12.8 million in 1994, $19.2
million in 1993 and $26.0 million in 1992. Included in these totals are net
charge-offs of commercial real estate loans secured by properties in the New
York City metropolitan area of $11.1 million, $14.2 million and $21.8 million
in 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively. 

  The Company has limited exposure to possible credit losses originating from
concentrations of credit extended to any specific industry. No such
concentration exceeded 10% of total loans outstanding at December 31, 1994.
Furthermore, the Company had no exposure to less developed countries, and
only $1.2 million of foreign loans in total. 

  Repossessed assets taken in foreclosure of defaulted loans totaled $10.1
million at December 31, 1994, compared with $12.2 million and $16.7 million
at the end of 1993 and 1992, respectively.


OTHER INCOME

Excluding gains on sales of bank investment securities and the effect of the
previously noted transfer of securities to an affiliated foundation, other
income totaled $113.2 million in 1994, an increase of 3% from $109.7 million
in 1993 and 15% from $98.2 million in 1992. Service charges on deposit
accounts increased 8% to $35.0 million in 1994 from $32.3 million in 1993.
Merchant discount and other credit card fees in 1994 totaled $8.7 million
compared with $7.9 million in 1993. Deposit service charges and merchant and
credit card revenues were $28.4 million and $6.7 million, respectively, in
1992 when the mid-year acquisitions of Central Trust and Endicott Trust
provided only six months of revenue. Trust income of $22.6 million declined
5% from $23.9 million in 1993, largely the result of lower securities
clearing revenues. The increase in trust revenues in 1993 from $16.9 million
in 1992 was primarily due to the Central Trust and Endicott Trust
acquisitions and higher securities clearing revenues. Trading account gains
declined to $.7 million in 1994, from $2.7 million in 1993 and $1.7 million
in 1992. 





  Excluding the $10.4 million of tax-exempt income related to the transfer of
securities to the affiliated foundation, other revenues from operations
increased to $46.2 million in 1994, up from $42.9 million in 1993 and $44.5
million in 1992. The improvement in other revenues in 1994 over the prior two
years resulted in part from growth in the Company's residential mortgage
servicing business. Residential mortgage loans serviced for others totaled
$4.0 billion at December 31, 1994, up from $2.9 billion and $2.2 billion at
year-end 1993 and 1992, respectively. Revenues from servicing residential
mortgage loans for others were $13.1 million, $10.4 million and 
$5.9 million in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively. Also favorably impacting
the year-over-year comparisons were higher loan fees, such as prepayment
fees, and asset management revenues, as well as the full-year impact in 1993
of revenues attributable to the mid-1992 acquisitions. The overall decline in
other revenues from operations in 1993 from 1992 resulted from lower gains
from the sales of out-of-state loans and leases obtained in acquisitions,
which totaled $2.8 million in 1993 and $6.0 million in 1992. Additionally,
other revenues in 1992 included $2.5 million of non-recurring earnings on
options written to sell certain mortgage-backed securities.

 
OTHER EXPENSES

Other expenses totaled $336.9 million in 1994, compared with $327.8 million
in 1993 and $311.3 million in 1992. As previously noted, other expenses in
1994 included $13.8 million of charitable contributions expense related to
the transfer of investment securities to a private, tax-exempt charitable
foundation affiliated with the Company. Such expense is included in other
costs of operations. Excluding the $13.8 million of expense related to the
transfer, other expense in 1994 decreased $4.7 million from 1993. 

  Salaries and employee benefits expenses were $161.2 million in 1994, an
increase of $6.9 million or 4% from $154.3 million in 1993. The rise was due
largely to merit salary increases and higher pension and other benefits
costs. Personnel costs were $130.8 million in 1992 when only six months of
expense associated with the acquired franchises of Central Trust and Endicott
Trust were incurred. Growth in the Company's residential mortgage lending and
servicing business, as well as merit salary increases and higher pension and
other benefits costs were additional factors contributing to the increase in
1993 from 1992. The number of full-time equivalent employees was 4,149 at
December 31, 1994, including 185 employees from the December 1994
acquisitions. Full-time equivalent employees totaled 4,028 and 3,959 at
December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

  Excluding the $13.8 million of contributions expense noted above,
nonpersonnel expenses totaled $161.9 million in 1994, $11.6 million or 7%
lower than 1993 and $18.7 million or 10% below 1992. Expenses in 1994 for
professional services and other real estate owned declined a combined $7.9
million from 1993. Write-downs in the carrying value of excess servicing
receivables and purchased mortgage servicing rights associated with
residential mortgage loans serviced for others were $.5 million in 1994,
compared with $4.7 million in 1993 and $16.8 million in 1992. At December 31,
1994, excess servicing receivables and purchased mortgage servicing rights
recorded as assets totaled $17.6 million. Nonpersonnel expense in 1992
included only six months of expenses associated with the Central Trust and
Endicott Trust franchises. Also, expenses associated with the project,
completed in 1993, to significantly upgrade the Company's major computer
systems were approximately $1.0 million in 1993 and $9.2 million 
in 1992. 


INCOME TAXES

The provision for income taxes in 1994 was $77.2 million, up from $71.5
million in 1993 and $64.8 million in 1992. The effective tax rates were 40%
in 1994, 41% in 1993 and 40% in 1992.





  As previously noted, in December 1994 First Empire transferred investment
securities having a cost and market value of $5.2 million and $15.7 million,
respectively, to an affiliated tax-exempt private foundation. The $10.4
million excess of market value over cost is not subject to federal or state
income taxes and has been included in other revenues from operations in the
consolidated statement of income. The effect of this permanent difference was
to decrease income tax expense and the effective tax rate in 1994 by $4.3
million and 2%, respectively, from the amount computed by applying the
statutory income tax rates to pre-tax income.

  On August 10, 1993, President Clinton signed the Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1993 into law. As part of the legislation, effective
January 1, 1993, the tax rate applied to corporate taxable income in excess
of $10 million was increased 1% to 35%. Under generally accepted accounting
principles, the effects of the higher tax rate (and other changes made by the
legislation) are recognized in determining financial statement income and
deferred tax assets and liabilities in the period that includes the date of
enactment. Accordingly, the aggregate effect of the legislation was to
increase income tax expense and the effective tax rate in 1993 by
approximately $792 thousand and .46%, respectively, including a $698 thousand
benefit related to years prior to 1993. 


INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES

The Company's investment in international assets was $7 million and $62 
million at December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively. Total off-shore deposits
were $203 million and $189 million at December 31, 1994 and 1993,
respectively.


LIQUIDITY AND INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY 

As a financial intermediary, the Company creates liquidity risk whenever the
maturities of financial instruments included in assets and liabilities
differ. As a result, ensuring that sufficient cash flow and liquid assets are
available to satisfy demands for loans, deposit withdrawals, operating
expenses and other corporate purposes is a critical element in managing a
banking institution. Core deposits have historically provided a large source
of funds for the Company. Such deposits are generated from a large base of
consumer, corporate and institutional customers, which over the past several
years has become more geographically diverse. The Company competes with many
financial market participants and alternative investment vehicles for
deposits and, consistent with banking industry experience in general, has
experienced a decline in the proportion of average earning assets funded by
core deposits. The decline in average core deposits has been primarily in
time and savings deposit accounts as many depositors have transferred funds
out of the banking system into mutual funds and other alternative
investments. Core deposits financed 71% of the Company's earning assets at
December 31, 1994, compared with 68% at December 31, 1993 and 83% at December
31, 1992. 

  The Company supplements funding from core deposits with various wholesale
borrowings, such as Federal funds purchased and securities sold under
agreements to repurchase, and the brokered retail certificate of deposit
program previously discussed. Additionally, M&T Bank and East New York, have
a combined credit facility with the FHLB aggregating $853 million, with any
borrowings secured by commercial and residential mortgage loans and
investment securities. Borrowings outstanding under such credit facility
totaled $249 million at December 31, 1994. Funding is also available through
various arrangements for unsecured short-term borrowings from a wide group of
banks and other financial institutions which, while informal and sometimes
reciprocal, aggregate to several times anticipated funding needs. Other
sources of liquidity include maturities of money-market assets and repayments





of loans and investment securities. Cash flow generated from operations, such
as fees collected for services, also contributes to liquidity.

  First Empire's ability to pay dividends, repurchase treasury stock and fund
operating expenses is primarily dependent on the receipt of dividends from
its banking subsidiaries, which are subject to various regulatory
limitations. First Empire also maintains a line of credit with an
unaffiliated commercial bank. 

  Management does not currently anticipate engaging in any activities, in
either the short- or long-term, which would cause a significant strain on the
liquidity of either First Empire or its subsidiary banks. Furthermore, in the
opinion of management, available sources of liquidity are more than adequate
to meet anticipated funding needs.

  On average, the Company's earning assets reprice more quickly than its 
interest-bearing liabilities. As a result, the Company's net interest income
is subject to the effects of changing interest rates and, in particular,
would be negatively impacted in declining interest rate environments. The
Company's interest rate risk management program is designed to protect
against this risk by limiting the variability of net interest income under
differing interest rate scenarios. As part of the interest rate risk
management program, the Company has entered into interest rate swap
agreements. Information about interest rate swaps entered into for interest
rate risk management purposes is included in note 15 of Notes to Financial
Statements. The estimated fair value of the interest rate swap portfolio
presented in the Notes to Financial Statements results from the effects of
changing interest rates and should be considered in the context of the entire
balance sheet and the Company's overall interest rate risk profile. Such fair
value is not recognized in the consolidated financial statements. The swaps
modify the repricing characteristics of certain portions of the Company's
loan and deposit portfolios. The carrying values of such loans and deposits
are also not adjusted for appreciation or depreciation resulting from changes
in interest rates.

  In accordance with industry practice, table 15 presents cumulative totals
of net assets (liabilities) repricing on a contractual basis within the
specified time frames, as adjusted for the impact of interest rate swap
agreements entered into for interest rate risk management purposes.
Management believes this measure does not appropriately depict interest rate
risk since changes in interest rates do not necessarily affect all categories
of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities equally nor, as assumed in
the table, on the contractual maturity or repricing date. Furthermore, this
static presentation of interest rate risk fails to consider the effect of
ongoing lending and deposit gathering activities, projected changes 
in balance sheet composition or any subsequent interest rate risk management
activities the Company is likely to implement.

  In management's opinion, the interest rate sensitivity analysis presented
in the table does not accurately reflect the Company's actual sensitivity to
changes in interest rates. Management monitors the Company's interest rate
sensitivity with the aid of a computer model which considers statistically
derived interrelationships in the magnitude and timing of the repricing of
all financial instrument products, including the effect of changing interest
rates on expected prepayments and maturities. Interest rate risk is measured
by the variability of net interest income under a number of interest rate
scenarios. Management's assessment is that a sustained increase in interest
rates would likely have a detrimental effect on net interest income in the
coming year. Management closely monitors the Company's exposure to changing
interest rates and spreads and stands ready to take action, through the use
of on- or off-balance sheet financial instruments, to mitigate such exposure
when deemed prudent to do so.





CAPITAL

Common stockholders' equity totaled $681.0 million at December 31, 1994,
compared with $684.0 million and $586.8 million at the end of 1993 and 1992,
respectively. On a per share basis, common stockholders' equity was $103.02
at December 31, 1994, an increase of 4% from $99.43 at December 31, 1993 and
20% from $85.79 at December 31, 1992. Total stockholders' equity at December
31, 1994 was $721.0 million or 6.85% of total assets, compared with $724.0
million or 6.99% at December 31, 1993 and $626.8 million or 6.54% at December
31, 1992. The ratio of average total stockholders' equity to average total
assets was 7.21%, 6.45% and 6.10% in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

  Stockholders' equity at December 31, 1994 included a reduction of $50.6
million, or $7.65 per common share, for the net after-tax impact of
unrealized losses on investment securities classified as available for sale
pursuant to the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
("SFAS") No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities", which the Company adopted on December 31, 1993. Such unrealized
losses represent the amount by which amortized cost exceeded the fair value
of such investment securities, net of applicable income taxes. At December
31, 1993, stockholders' equity included $9.1 million, or $1.33 per common
share, of net unrealized gains from securities classified as available for
sale. The market valuation of investment securities should be considered in
the context of the entire balance sheet of the Company. In general, the
carrying value of other financial instruments in the balance sheet is not
adjusted for appreciation or depreciation resulting from changes in interest
rates.

  Federal regulators generally require banking institutions to maintain "core
capital" and "total capital" ratios of at least 4% and 8%, respectively, of
risk-adjusted total assets. In addition to the risk-based measures, Federal
bank regulators have also implemented a minimum "leverage" ratio guideline of
3% of the quarterly average of total assets. Under regulatory guidelines, the
unrealized gains or losses on investment securities available for sale
pursuant to SFAS No. 115 are not recognized in determining regulatory
capital. The capital ratios of the Company and its banking subsidiaries, M&T
Bank and East New York, as of December 31, 1994 are presented in table 16.

  The Company has historically maintained capital ratios well in excess of
minimum regulatory guidelines largely through a high rate of internal capital
generation. The rate of internal capital generation, or net income (excluding
the after-tax effects of gains from sales of investment securities) less
dividends paid expressed as a percentage of average total stockholders'
equity, rose to 13.67% in 1994 from 12.66% in 1993 and 11.59% in 1992. 

  Cash dividends on common stock of $14.7 million were paid in 1994 compared
with $13.1 million in 1993 and $10.8 million in 1992. In the third 
quarter of 1994, First Empire's quarterly common stock dividend rate was
increased to $.60 per share from $.50. In total, dividends per common share
increased to $2.20 in 1994 from $1.90 in 1993. Total dividends per common
share were $1.60 in 1992. Dividends of $3.6 million were paid to the
preferred stockholder in 1994, 1993 and 1992.

  In December 1993, First Empire announced a plan to repurchase and hold as
treasury stock up to 506,930 shares of common stock for reissuance upon the
possible future conversion of its 9% convertible preferred stock. Such
preferred stock is convertible at any time into shares of First Empire's
common stock at a conversion price of $78.90625 per share, subject to certain
adjustments. First Empire has the right to redeem the preferred stock without
premium on or after March 31, 1996. However, upon receipt of notification of
such a planned redemption, the holder may convert the preferred stock into
common shares. As of December 31, 1994, First Empire had repurchased 298,700
shares pursuant to such plan at an average cost of $147.18. In the fourth
quarter the repurchase program was temporarily halted until after completion





of the December acquisitions. Repurchases have been resumed in the first
quarter of 1995.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NOT YET ADOPTED

In May 1993, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 114
"Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan". SFAS No. 114 was amended
in October 1994. As amended, SFAS No. 114 requires that creditors measure
certain impaired loans based on the present value of expected future cash
flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate or at the loan's
observable value or the fair value of underlying collateral, if the loan is
collateral-dependent. SFAS No. 114 applies to financial statements for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 1994. The Company will adopt SFAS No. 114
in the first quarter of 1995. When adopted, SFAS No. 114 is not expected 
to have an adverse impact on the Company's results of operations. 

























-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                     Table 5 

AVERAGE LOANS AND LEASES
(net of unearned discount)                             Percent increase
                                                       (decrease) from
Dollars in millions                 1994       1993 to 1994     1992 to 1993
---------------------------------  ------      ------------     ------------
Commercial, financial, etc.        $1,487                 5 %             15 %
Real estate - commercial            3,132                 9               10  
Real estate - consumer              1,430                (6)              (7) 
Consumer                            1,378                17                6  
---------------------------------  ------      ------------     ------------   
  Total                            $7,427                 6 %              6 %
---------------------------------  ------      ------------     ------------














(continued)-41                                                     


                                                     


(continued)                                                     
                                                     




























------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                      Table 13

MATURITY OF DOMESTIC CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT AND TIME DEPOSITS
WITH BALANCES OF $100,000 OR MORE


Dollars in thousands                      December 31, 1994
-------------------------                ------------------
Under 3 months                          $           265,875
3 to 6 months                                        52,521
6 to 12 months                                      153,172
Over 12 months                                      437,103
-------------------------                ------------------
  Total                                 $           908,671
-------------------------                ------------------














----------------------------------------------------------------------------
           FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                    Table 16

REGULATORY CAPITAL RATIOS
                                    First                          East
                                   Empire            M&T           New
December 31, 1994              (Consolidated)        Bank          York
-----------------------------  ---------------   ------------  -------------
Core capital                             8.91%          8.64%          9.13%
Total capital                           11.07%         10.98%         10.40%
Leverage                                 7.31%          6.92%          7.53%
-----------------------------  ---------------   ------------  ------------- 





Item 8.     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  Financial Statements
            and Supplementary Data consist of the financial statements as
            indexed and presented below and table 2 "Quarterly Trends" presented
            in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
            Financial Condition and Results of Operations".

            Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules
            ---------------------------------------------------------------
                  Report of Independent Accountants

                  Consolidated Balance Sheet -
                  December 31, 1994 and 1993                

                  Consolidated Statement of Income -
                  Years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992    

                  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows -    
                  Years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992
    
                  Consolidated Statement of Changes in
                  Stockholders' Equity - Years ended December 31, 
                  1994, 1993 and 1992                       

                  Notes to Financial Statements       





                      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
                      ---------------------------------


To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
of First Empire State Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of First Empire
State Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the
related consolidated statements of income, cash flows and changes in
stockholders' equity for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 1994.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. 
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements audited by us present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of First Empire State
Corporation and subsidiaries at December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1994, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.



/s/ Price Waterhouse LLP           

Buffalo, New York
January 10, 1995






















               


               FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        Notes to Financial Statements

1.  Significant accounting policies

The accounting and reporting policies of First Empire State Corporation and
subsidiaries ("the Company") conform to generally accepted accounting
principles and to general practices within the banking industry.  The more
significant accounting policies are as follows:

Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include First Empire State Corporation
("Parent Company") and its subsidiaries, all of which are wholly owned.  The
financial statements of the Parent Company report investments in subsidiaries
under the equity method, adjusted for the impact of significant intercompany
transactions, all of which are eliminated in consolidation.   

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

For purposes of this statement, cash and due from banks, Federal funds sold
and agreements to resell securities are considered cash and cash equivalents.

Trading account

Financial instruments used for trading purposes are stated at fair value. 
Realized gains and losses and unrealized changes in fair value are included
in trading account gains in the Consolidated Statement of Income.  

Investment securities

Investments in debt securities are classified as held to maturity and stated
at amortized cost when management has the positive intent and ability to hold
such securities to maturity.  Investments in other debt securities and equity
securities having readily determinable fair values are classified as
available for sale and stated at estimated fair value.  Unrealized gains or
losses related to investment securities available for sale are reflected in
stockholders' equity, net of applicable income taxes.

     Other securities include stock of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
and Federal Home Loan Bank of New York and are stated at cost.

     Amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts for investment
securities available for sale and held to maturity are included in interest
income.  The cost basis of individual securities is written down to estimated
fair value through a charge to earnings when declines in value below
amortized cost are considered to be other than temporary.  Realized gains and
losses on the sales of investment securities are determined using the
specific identification method.

     On December 31, 1993, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in
Debt and Equity Securities".  As required, the provisions of SFAS No. 115
were not applied to any prior periods.  Prior to December 31, 1993 debt
securities were carried at amortized cost when management had both the
ability and intent to hold such securities to maturity.  Periodic sales of
these securities occurred principally as a result of reactive measures taken
by management to changing business circumstances.  When it became probable
that a debt security would be sold, the security was classified as held for
sale.  Investment securities held for sale were reported at the lower of
aggregate cost or fair market value.  Adjustments to the carrying value of
investment securities held for sale were included in gain on sales of bank
investment securities in the Consolidated Statement of Income.  Equity
securities were stated at the lower of cost or fair market value.  The  





1.  Significant accounting policies, continued

carrying value of individual securities was written down to estimated fair
value through a charge to earnings when declines in value were considered to
be other than temporary.  

Loans

Interest income on loans is accrued on a level yield method.  Loans are
placed on nonaccrual status and previously accrued interest thereon is
charged against income when principal or interest is delinquent 90 days,
unless management determines that the loan status clearly warrants other
treatment.  Loan fees and certain direct loan origination costs are deferred
and recognized as an interest yield adjustment over the life of the loan. 
Net deferred fees have been included in unearned discount in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet as a reduction of loans outstanding.  Loans held for sale are
carried at the lower of cost or fair market value.  Valuation adjustments
made on these loans are included in other revenues from operations in the
Consolidated Statement of Income.

Allowance for possible credit losses

The allowance for possible credit losses represents the amount which, in
management's judgment, will be adequate to absorb credit losses from existing
loans, leases and credit commitments.  The adequacy of the allowance is
determined by management's evaluation of the loan portfolio based on such
factors as the differing economic risks associated with each loan category,
the current financial condition of specific borrowers, the economic
environment in which borrowers operate, any delinquency in payments, and the
value of any collateral.            

Premises and equipment

Premises and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. 
Depreciation expense is computed principally using the straight-line method
over the estimated useful lives of the assets.

Income taxes

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax effects
attributable to differences between the financial statement value of existing
assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and carryforwards.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates and
laws.  Investment tax credits related to leveraged leasing property are
amortized into income tax expense over the life of the lease agreement.

Financial futures

On occasion the Company uses interest rate futures contracts as part of its
management of interest rate risk.  Outstanding financial futures contracts
represent future commitments and are not included in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet.  Futures contracts used in securities trading operations are marked to
market and the resulting gains or losses are recognized in trading account 
gains.  Gains and losses on futures contracts designated as hedges are
amortized as an adjustment to interest income or expense over the life of the
item hedged.

Interest rate swap agreements

For interest rate swap agreements used to manage interest rate risk arising
from financial assets and liabilities, amounts receivable or payable are 





1.  Significant accounting policies, continued

recognized as accrued under the terms of the agreement and the net interest
differential, including any amortization of premiums paid or accretion of
discounts received, is recorded as an adjustment to interest income or 
expense of the related asset or liability.  Gains or losses resulting from
early termination of interest rate swap agreements used to manage interest
rate risk are amortized over the remaining term or estimated life of the
agreement.  Agreements and commitments entered into for trading purposes are
marked to market with resulting gains or losses recorded in trading account
gains.  

Earnings per common share

Earnings per common share data are computed on the basis of the weighted
average number of shares outstanding during the year, plus shares issuable
upon the assumed exercise of outstanding common stock options.  Proceeds
assumed to have been received on such exercise are treated as if applied
toward the repurchase of outstanding common shares in the open market during
the year, as required under the "treasury stock" method of accounting.  

2.  Acquisitions

On December 1, 1994, the Parent Company acquired Ithaca Bancorp, Inc.
("Ithaca Bancorp"), Ithaca, New York, in exchange for a cash consideration of
$19 per common share, or approximately $44.2 million.  Simultaneously with
the acquisition, Ithaca Bancorp's savings bank subsidiary, Citizens Savings
Bank, F.S.B., was merged into the Parent Company's commercial bank
subsidiary, Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company ("M&T Bank") bringing
twelve banking offices in New York's Southern Tier into M&T Bank's branch
network.  As of December 1, 1994, assets acquired totaled $470 million,
including $369 million of loans; at that date, liabilities assumed totaled
$425 million, including $330 million of deposits.

     On December 10, 1994, M&T Bank purchased, in a cash transaction,
approximately $146 million of deposits from Chemical Bank, along with seven
banking offices in the Hudson Valley region of New York State.

     These acquisitions have been accounted for as purchase transactions and,
accordingly, the operating results of the acquired entities have been
included in the Company's results of operations since the respective
acquisition dates.  The operating results of the acquired entities did not
have a significant impact on the Company's results of operations in 1994. 
The excess of the cost of the acquired entities over the fair value of
identifiable assets acquired less liabilities assumed has been recorded as
goodwill and amounted to approximately $24 million, which is being amortized
on a straight-line basis over five years.

     Presented below is certain proforma information as if Ithaca Bancorp had
been acquired on January 1, 1993.  These results combine the historical
results of Ithaca Bancorp into the Company's Consolidated Statement of Income
and, while certain adjustments were made for the estimated impact of purchase
accounting adjustments and other acquisition-related activity, they are not
necessarily indicative of what would have occurred had the acquisition taken
place at that time.







2.  Acquisitions, continued

                                                            Proforma
                                                    Year ended December 31
                                                      1994           1993    
                                                    --------        -------
                                                         (in thousands,
                                                        except per share)

Interest income                                     $775,879        771,715
Other income                                         126,353        114,237
Net income                                           116,608        101,205
Earnings per common share                             $16.26          13.76
                                                     =======        =======

     On January 4, 1995, M&T Bank's mortgage banking subsidiary, M&T Mortgage
Corporation, entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Statewide Funding
Corporation ("Statewide"), a privately-owned mortgage banking company based
near Albany, New York.  Statewide has a mortgage servicing portfolio of
approximately $1.0 billion and originated more than $400 million of mortgage
loans in 1994.  The acquisition is subject to regulatory approval and other
customary conditions.  It is currently anticipated that the transaction will
be completed in the first quarter of 1995.  The transaction will be accounted
for under the purchase method of accounting.

3.  Investment securities

The amortized cost and estimated fair value of investment securities were as
follows:

                                          Gross        Gross      Estimated 
                            Amortized   unrealized   unrealized      fair
                              cost         gains       losses       value  
                            ---------   ----------   ----------   ---------
                                           (in thousands)
December 31, 1994
Investment securities
  available for sale:
U.S. Treasury and federal
  agencies                 $    5,775            -           13       5,762
Mortgage-backed securities
  Government issued              
   or guaranteed              869,031          403       46,901     822,533 
  Other                       706,909          110       41,810     665,209
Other debt securities           6,537           20            -       6,557 
Equity securities              14,664        1,532        1,862      14,334
                            ---------    ---------    ---------   ---------
                            1,602,916        2,065       90,586   1,514,395
                            ---------    ---------    ---------   ---------  

Investment securities
  held to maturity:
U.S. Treasury and
  federal agencies            171,112            1        6,511     164,602
Obligations of states and
  political subdivisions       55,787          266          181      55,872
Other debt securities             752            -           61         691
                            ---------    ---------    ---------   ---------
                              227,651          267        6,753     221,165
                            ---------    ---------    ---------   ---------

Other securities               48,994            -            -      48,994
                            ---------    ---------    ---------   ---------

Total                      $1,879,561        2,332       97,339   1,784,554
                            =========    =========    =========   =========






3.  Investment securities, continued

                                          Gross        Gross      Estimated 
                            Amortized   unrealized   unrealized      fair
                              cost         gains       losses       value  
                            ---------   ----------   ----------   ---------
                                           (in thousands)

December 31, 1993
Investment securities
  available for sale:
Mortgage-backed securities
  Government issued              
   or guaranteed           $1,210,921        7,950        4,669   1,214,202 
  Other                       896,362        3,670        4,130     895,902
Other debt securities          39,893          938            -      40,831 
Equity securities              11,086       12,266          220      23,132
                            ---------    ---------    ---------   ---------
                            2,158,262       24,824        9,019   2,174,067
                            ---------    ---------    ---------   --------- 

Investment securities
  held to maturity:
U.S. Treasury and
  federal agencies            173,193           83          405     172,871
Obligations of states and
  political subdivisions       49,230          701           51      49,880
Other debt securities             908           13           55         866
                            ---------    ---------    ---------   ---------
                              223,331          797          511     223,617
                            ---------    ---------    ---------   ---------

Other securities               31,754            -            -      31,754
                            ---------    ---------    ---------   ---------

Total                      $2,413,347       25,621        9,530   2,429,438
                            =========    =========    =========   =========

     The amortized cost and estimated fair value of collateralized mortgage
obligations included in mortgage-backed securities were as follows:

                                                  December 31
                                              1994            1993    
                                            --------        --------  
                                                (in thousands)

Amortized cost                              $788,776       1,184,026  
Estimated fair value                         736,259       1,182,194  
                                             =======       =========

     Gross realized gains on the sale of investment securities available for
sale were $128,000 in 1994.  Gains recognized in 1993 consisted of
appreciation in market value of investment securities held for sale at
December 31, 1992.  Proceeds from the sales of debt securities were
$843,315,000 in 1992.  Gross gains and losses realized on sales in 1992 were
$31,742,000 and $3,013,000, respectively.  






 

3.  Investment securities, continued

     At December 31, 1994, the amortized cost and estimated fair value of
debt securities by contractual maturity were as follows:
                                                           Estimated
                                           Amortized          fair
                                             cost            value    
                                           ---------       ---------     
                                                (in thousands)
Debt securities available for sale:
Due in one year or less                   $    1,214           1,217  
Due after one year through five years          8,500           8,494  
Due after five years through ten years         2,051           2,058  
Due after ten years                              547             550 
                                           ---------       ---------
                                              12,312          12,319 
Mortgage-backed securities available
  for sale                                 1,575,940       1,487,742  
                                           ---------       ---------
                                          $1,588,252       1,500,061  
                                           =========       =========
Debt securities held to maturity: 
Due in one year or less                   $  100,269          98,817
Due after one year through five years        125,340         120,187  
Due after five years through ten years         1,787           1,890  
Due after ten years                              255             271  
                                           ---------       ---------
                                          $  227,651         221,165  
                                           =========       =========

     At December 31, 1994, investment securities with a carrying value of
$902,603,000, including $733,463,000 of investment securities available for
sale, were pledged to secure demand notes issued to the U.S. Treasury,
borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, repurchase
agreements, governmental deposits and interest rate swap agreements.

4.  Loans and leases

Total gross loans and leases outstanding were comprised of the following:

                                           December 31
                                      1994            1993  
                                    ---------       --------  
                                        (in thousands)
Loans 
Commercial, financial,
  agricultural, etc.               $1,592,627      1,419,039      
Real estate:
  Residential                       1,707,840      1,536,579     
  Commercial                        3,339,097      3,003,598     
  Construction                         53,535         51,384
Consumer                            1,666,230      1,337,293
                                    ---------      ---------
    Total loans                     8,359,329      7,347,893
                                    ---------      ---------
Leases-commercial                      87,788         91,166 
                                    ---------      ---------
    Total loans and leases         $8,447,117      7,439,059     
                                    =========      =========

     One-to-four family residential mortgage loans held for sale were $33.4
million and $203.3 million at December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively.  The
Company typically retains the mortgage servicing rights related to one-to-
four family residential mortgage loans sold.  One-to-four family residential
mortgage loans serviced for others totaled approximately $4.0 billion at
December 31, 1994 and $2.9 billion at December 31, 1993.  Approximately $18.4
million of one-to-four family residential mortgage loans have been sold with
recourse.  The total credit loss exposure resulting from loans sold with 
recourse was considered negligible as of December 31, 1994.





4.  Loans and leases, continued

     Included in the table above are nonperforming loans (loans on which
interest was not being accrued, or which were ninety days or more past due or
had been renegotiated at below-market interest rates) of $77,535,000 at
December 31, 1994 and $82,253,000 at December 31, 1993.  If nonaccrual and
renegotiated loans had been accruing interest at their originally contracted
terms, interest income on these loans would have amounted to $9.6 million in
1994 and $10.2 million in 1993.  The actual amount included in interest
income during 1994 and 1993 on these loans was $1.6 million and $1.4 million,
respectively.

     Borrowings by directors and officers of the Parent Company and its
banking subsidiaries, and by associates of such persons, exclusive of loans
aggregating less than $60,000, amounted to $129,736,000 and $61,179,000 at
December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively.  During 1994, new borrowings by
such persons amounted to $94,643,000 (including borrowings of new directors
or officers that were outstanding at the time of their election) and
repayments and other deductions equaled $26,086,000.

     At December 31, 1994, approximately $370 million of real estate loans,
primarily commercial real estate loans, were pledged to secure borrowings.


5.  Allowance for possible credit losses

Changes in the allowance for possible credit losses were as follows:

                                1994         1993         1992   
                              --------     --------     --------           
                                         (in thousands)

Beginning balance             $195,878      151,690      100,265  
Provision for possible
  credit losses                 60,536       79,958       84,989    
Allowance for possible 
  credit losses acquired         3,538            -       12,749       
Net charge-offs
  Charge-offs                  (32,443)     (46,089)     (51,384)  
  Recoveries                    15,823       10,319        5,071  
                               -------      -------      -------
  Net charge-offs              (16,620)     (35,770)     (46,313) 
                               -------      -------      -------

Ending balance                $243,332      195,878      151,690  
                               =======      =======      =======




6.  Premises and equipment

The detail of premises and equipment was as follows:

                                                          December 31
                                                     1994           1993   
                                                    -------        -------    
                                                        (in thousands)

Land                                               $ 12,730         15,151  
Buildings owned                                      88,123         89,613  
Buildings under capital leases                        1,773          1,773  
Leasehold improvements                               33,404         30,185  
Furniture and equipment owned                       102,212         92,544 
                                                    -------        -------
                                                    238,242        229,266 
Less:  accumulated depreciation
  and amortization
    Owned assets                                    109,354         92,819  
    Capital leases                                    1,614          1,573 
                                                    -------        -------
                                                    110,968         94,392 
                                                    -------        -------

Premises and equipment, net                        $127,274        134,874
                                                    =======        =======


     Net lease expense for all operating leases totaled $13,329,000 in 1994,
$12,051,000 in 1993 and $11,617,000 in 1992.  The Company occupies certain
banking offices and uses certain equipment under noncancellable operating
lease agreements expiring at various dates over the next 22 years.  Minimum
lease payments under noncancellable operating leases are summarized as
follows:

Year ending December 31:          (in thousands)

           1995                       $  8,045
           1996                          6,812
           1997                          7,105
           1998                          6,390
           1999                          7,529
           Later years                  75,834
                                       -------
                                      $111,715
                                       =======

     Payments required under capital leases are not material.





7.  Borrowings

The amount and interest rate of short-term borrowings were as follows:

                             Federal funds
                             purchased and
                              repurchase       Other
                              agreements     borrowings        Total  
                              ----------     ----------     ----------         
                                       (dollars in thousands)
At December 31, 1994
  Amount outstanding          $  695,665        669,185      1,364,850  
  Weighted-average
    interest rate                   6.07%          6.02%          6.05%      

For the year ended
  December 31, 1994
  Highest amount
    at a month-end            $1,829,630      1,038,502
  Daily-average
    amount outstanding         1,432,845        339,676      1,772,521
  Weighted-average
    interest rate                   4.12%          4.38%          4.17%
                               =========      =========      =========

At December 31, 1993
  Amount outstanding          $1,381,335        720,332      2,101,667  
  Weighted-average
    interest rate                   3.41%          2.97%          3.26%      

For the year ended
  December 31, 1993
  Highest amount
    at a month-end            $2,434,239        720,332
  Daily-average
    amount outstanding         1,639,537        282,989      1,922,526
  Weighted-average
    interest rate                   3.06%          2.93%          3.04%
                               =========      =========      =========

At December 31, 1992
  Amount outstanding          $  329,161        363,530        692,691
  Weighted-average
    interest rate                   3.19%          2.49%          2.82%       
     
For the year ended
  December 31, 1992
  Highest amount
    at a month-end            $1,350,404        883,236      
  Daily-average
    amount outstanding           831,494        289,917      1,121,411     
  Weighted-average
    interest rate                   3.45%          3.34%          3.42%  
                               =========      =========      =========

     At December 31, 1994, the Parent Company, M&T Bank and The East New York
Savings Bank ("East New York"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Parent
Company, had lines of credit under formal agreements as follows:

                              Parent           M&T            East
                              Company          Bank         New York
                              -------        --------       --------           
                                         (in thousands)

Outstanding borrowings        $ 3,000         23,701         225,000
Unused                         22,000        580,401          23,958
                               ======        =======         =======





7.  Borrowings, continued

     Long-term borrowings at December 31, 1994 and 1993 included $75 million
of 8 1/8% subordinated notes issued by M&T Bank.  Such notes mature on
December 1, 2002 and are subordinate to the claims of depositors and other
creditors of M&T Bank.  At December 31, 1994 long-term borrowings also
included $20,701,000 of notes payable to the Federal Home Loan Bank of New
York with fixed and variable rates of interest ranging from 4.74% to 8.60%. 
Such notes are secured by residential mortgage loans.

     Long-term borrowings at December 31, 1994 mature as follows:

Year ending December 31:          (in thousands)
           1995                       $     -
           1996                        14,351
           1997                         3,991
           1998                           398
           1999                             -
           Later years                 76,961
                                       ------
                                      $95,701
                                       ======

8. Preferred stock

The 9% cumulative preferred stock is convertible at any time into shares of
the Parent Company's common stock at an initial conversion price of $78.90625
per share.  The conversion formula provides the holder with anti-dilution
protections in the event the Parent Company issues additional common stock at
a price which is less than the conversion price or in the event that there
are other capital changes such as common stock dividends or stock splits. 
The Parent Company has the right, subject to regulatory approval, to redeem
the preferred stock, in whole, but not in part, on or after March 31, 1996 at
a price of $40,000,000 plus accrued and unpaid dividends.  The Parent Company
must provide at least 45 days notice to the preferred stockholder of its
intention to redeem the shares, during which time the preferred stockholder
may exercise the conversion privilege.

      The preferred stock is not considered to be a common stock equivalent. 
Preferred stock dividends are deducted from net income when calculating
primary earnings per common share.  The calculation of fully diluted earnings
per common share assumes that the preferred stock was converted to 506,930
shares of common stock at issuance and that no preferred stock dividends were
paid.

9. Disclosures about fair value of financial instruments

SFAS No. 107, "Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments",
requires that financial institutions disclose the estimated "fair value" of
their financial instruments.  "Fair value" is generally defined as the price
a willing buyer and a willing seller would exchange for a financial
instrument in other than a distressed sale situation.  Disclosures related to
fair value presented herein are as of December 31, 1994 and 1993.

      With the exception of marketable securities, certain off-balance sheet
financial instruments and one-to-four family residential mortgage loans
originated for sale, the Company's financial instruments are not readily
marketable and market prices do not exist.  The Company, in attempting to
comply with the provisions of SFAS No. 107, has not attempted to market its 





9. Disclosures about fair value of financial instruments, continued

financial instruments to potential buyers, if any exist.  Since negotiated
prices in illiquid markets depend greatly upon the then present motivations
of the buyer and seller, it is reasonable to assume that actual sales prices
could vary widely from any estimate of fair value made without the benefit of
negotiations.  Additionally, changes in market interest rates can
dramatically impact the value of financial instruments in a short period of
time.

      The estimated fair value of investments in readily marketable debt and
equity securities were based on the market prices quoted by the related
exchanges at the respective year-end.  The Company, in arriving at estimated
fair value of other financial instruments, primarily used calculations based
upon discounted cash flows of the related financial instruments.  In general,
discount rates used for loan products were based upon the Company's pricing
at the respective year-end.  A higher discount rate was assumed with respect
to estimated cash flows associated with nonaccrual loans.  

      As more fully described in note 3, the carrying value and estimated
fair value of investment securities were as follows:

                                            Carrying      Estimated
                                              value       fair value
                                            --------      ----------    
                                                (in thousands)

      December 31
        1994                               $1,791,040      1,784,554
        1993                                2,429,152      2,429,438
                                            =========      =========

      The following table presents the carrying value and calculated
estimates of fair value related to loans and loan commitments:

                                            Carrying      Calculated
                                              value        estimate 
                                            --------      ----------
                                                (in thousands)
December 31, 1994                           
Commercial loans and leases                $1,659,532      1,650,138
Commercial real estate loans                3,352,600      3,261,013
Residential real estate loans               1,653,552      1,609,921
Consumer loans                              1,551,609      1,554,609
                                            ---------      ---------
                                           $8,217,293      8,075,681
                                            =========      =========
December 31, 1993                           
Commercial loans and leases                $1,490,745      1,490,869
Commercial real estate loans                3,019,859      3,086,602
Residential real estate loans               1,526,104      1,550,504
Consumer loans                              1,224,391      1,259,579
                                            ---------      ---------
                                           $7,261,099      7,387,554
                                            =========      =========

      SFAS No. 107 requires that the estimated fair value ascribed to
noninterest-bearing deposits, savings deposits and NOW accounts be
established at carrying value because of the customers' ability to withdraw
funds immediately.  Additionally, time deposit accounts are required to be   





9. Disclosures about fair value of financial instruments, continued

revalued based upon prevailing market interest rates for similar maturity
instruments.  The following summarizes the results of these calculations:

                                           Carrying    Calculated
                                            value       estimate 
                                           --------    ----------   
                                              (in thousands)
December 31, 1994
Noninterest-bearing deposits              $1,087,102    1,087,102
Savings deposits and NOW accounts          3,846,637    3,846,637
Time deposits                              3,106,723    3,088,666
Deposits at foreign office                   202,611      202,611
                                           =========    =========

December 31, 1993
Noninterest-bearing deposits              $1,052,258    1,052,258
Savings deposits and NOW accounts          4,129,673    4,129,673
Time deposits                              1,982,272    2,016,376
Deposits at foreign office                   189,058      189,058
                                           =========    =========

      The Company believes that deposit accounts clearly have a value greater
than that prescribed by SFAS No. 107.  The Company feels, however, that the
value associated with these deposits is greatly influenced by characteristics
of the buyer, such as the ability to reduce the costs of servicing the
deposits, and the expected deposit attrition which is customary in
acquisitions.  Accordingly, estimating the fair value of deposits with any
degree of certainty is not practical.

      As more fully described in note 15, the Company had entered into
interest rate swap agreements for purposes of managing the Company's exposure
to changing interest rates.  The estimated fair value of interest rate swap
agreements represents the amount the Company would have expected to receive
or pay to terminate such swaps.  The following table includes information
about the estimated fair value of interest rate swaps entered into for
interest rate risk management purposes:

                                  Gross          Gross          Estimated
                   Notional     unrealized     unrealized     fair value -
                    amount        gains          losses        gain (loss)
                   --------     ----------     ----------     ------------
                                     (in thousands)

December 31
  1994           $2,388,000              -       (119,079)        (119,079)
  1993           $1,711,294         16,901         (1,330)          15,571
                  =========     ==========     ==========     ============

     As described in note 15, the Company also uses certain derivative
financial instruments as part of its trading activities.  Interest rate swaps
entered into for trading purposes had a notional value of $40 million and an
estimated fair value of $3,000 at December 31, 1994.  There were no interest
rate swaps held for trading purposes at December 31, 1993.  The Company also
entered into foreign exchange and other option and futures contracts totaling
$296 million and $467 million at December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively. 
Such contracts were valued at a loss of $19,000  and $195,000 at December 31,
1994 and 1993, respectively.  All trading account assets and liabilities are
recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at estimated fair value.

     Due to the near maturity of other money-market assets and short-term
borrowings, the Company estimates that the carrying value of such instruments
approximates estimated fair value.  The carrying value and estimated fair
value of long-term borrowings were $96,187,000 and $93,277,000, respectively,
at December 31, 1994 and $75,590,000 and $83,607,000, respectively, at
December 31, 1993.





9. Disclosures about fair value of financial instruments, continued

     The Company does not believe that the estimated fair value information
presented herein is representative of the earnings power or value of the
Company.  The preceding analysis, which is inherently limited in depicting
fair value, also does not consider any value associated with existing
customer relationships nor the ability of the Company to create value through
its loan origination, deposit gathering, or fee generating activities.

     Many of the fair value estimates presented herein are based upon the use
of highly subjective information and assumptions and, accordingly, the
results may not be precise.  Management believes that fair value estimates
may not be comparable between financial institutions due to the wide range of
permitted valuation techniques and numerous estimates which must be made. 
Further, since the fair value is estimated as of the balance sheet date, the
amounts actually realized or paid upon maturity or settlement of the various
financial instruments could be significantly different.  

10. Stock option plan

The stock option plan allows the grant of stock options and stock
appreciation rights (either in tandem with options or independently) which
are exercisable over terms not exceeding ten years and one day, and at prices
which may not be less than the fair market value of the common stock on the
date of grant.  When exercisable, the stock appreciation rights issued in
tandem with stock options entitle grantees to receive cash, stock or a
combination equal to the amount of stock appreciation between the dates of
grant and exercise.  Stock appreciation rights issued independently of stock
options contain similar terms as the stock options, although upon exercise
the holder is only entitled to receive cash instead of purchasing shares of
the Parent Company's common stock.  Of the stock options outstanding at
December 31, 1994, 514,946 were granted with limited stock appreciation
rights attached thereto.  A summary of related activity follows:

                                    Cash-only  
                         Stock    appreciation              
                        options      rights         Exercise price per share
                      outstanding  outstanding        Range          Average
                      -----------  -----------    --------------   ---------

Beginning balance       459,983       139,500    $ 15.75- 70.00      $ 46.00
  Granted               110,702             -     105.13-131.88       106.65
  Exercised            (137,288)      (14,300)     15.75- 70.00        30.78 
  Cancelled              (2,200)       (4,000)     40.25-105.13        63.76 
                      ---------      --------     -------------      -------
  At year-end           431,197       121,200      23.00-131.88        62.13

  Granted               119,725             -     133.88-141.50       134.00 
  Exercised             (40,540)       (5,800)     35.25-105.13        50.78
  Cancelled              (3,150)       (2,200)     53.00-133.88        96.87  
                      ---------      --------     -------------      ------- 
  At year-end           507,232       113,200      23.00-141.50        76.55 

  Granted               142,449             -     139.50-150.50       139.96 
  Exercised             (33,944)      (22,600)     35.25- 70.00        52.43
  Cancelled              (4,500)            -     105.13-139.50       131.24  
                      ---------      --------     -------------      ------- 
  At year-end           611,237        90,600      23.00-150.50        91.01 
                      =========      ========     =============      =======


Exercisable at
December 31, 1994       274,392        68,800    $ 23.00-141.50      $ 58.41
                      =========      ========     =============      =======






10. Stock option plan, continued

     At December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively, there were 137,721 and
275,670 shares available for future grant.  A total of 1,500,000 shares were
authorized under the plan.

11.  Pension plans and other postretirement benefits

The Company has a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan covering
substantially all full-time employees.  Pension benefits accrue to
participants based on their level of compensation and number of years of
service.  With respect to employees added as a result of the acquisitions
completed in 1994, service with the acquired entities was counted in the
pension formula for vesting, but not for benefit accrual purposes.  The
Company contributes to the pension plan amounts sufficient to meet Internal
Revenue Code funding standards.

     Net periodic pension cost (benefit) consisted of the following:
 
                                             1994        1993        1992 
                                             ----        ----        ---- 
                                                  (in thousands)
   
Service cost                               $4,148       3,075       2,357   
Interest cost on projected benefit
 obligation                                 5,823       4,904       4,569   
Actual return on assets                     1,487      (8,217)     (6,022)   
Net amortization and deferral              (9,541)        293      (1,601)  
                                           ------      ------      ------
Net periodic pension cost (benefit)        $1,917          55        (697)  
                                            =====      ======      ======

     Data relating to the funding position of the pension plan were as
follows:
                                               1994          1993       
                                              ------        ------    
                                                  (in thousands)

Vested accumulated benefit obligation       $(60,307)      (64,169)
Total accumulated benefit obligation         (62,351)      (66,317)       
Projected benefit obligation                 (75,735)      (81,943) 
Plan assets at fair value                     88,215        93,601 
                                             -------       -------
Plan assets in excess of projected
 benefit obligation                           12,480        11,658 
Unrecognized net asset                        (2,917)       (3,775)
Unrecognized past service cost                  (538)            -
Unrecognized net (gain) loss                    (284)        2,775  
                                              ------        ------
Pension asset                               $  8,741        10,658 
                                              ======        ======

     The assumed rates used in the actuarial computations were as follows:

                                                1994        1993
                                                ----        ----

Discount rate                                   8.00%       7.00%
Rate of increase in future                      
  compensation levels                           5.00%       5.00%
Long-term rate of return on assets              8.00%       8.25%  
                                                ====        ====

     In addition, the Company has an unfunded supplemental pension plan for
certain key executives.  Net periodic pension cost was $341,000, $159,000 and
$151,200 in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

     The Company also provides health care and life insurance benefits for
qualified retired employees who reached the age of 55 while working for the
Company.  Substantially all salaried employees are covered in the plan.





11.  Pension plans and other postretirement benefits, continued

     Net postretirement benefit cost consisted of the following:

                                                   1994     1993     1992
                                                   ----     ----     ----   
                                                      (in thousands)

Service cost                                     $  136       94       48    
Interest cost on projected benefit obligation     1,059    1,094    1,057    
Actual return on assets                              (1)    (364)    (394)   
Net amortization and deferral                      (452)    (281)    (592) 
                                                  -----    -----    -----
Net postretirement benefit cost                  $  742      543      119
                                                  =====    =====    =====


     Data relating to the funding position of the plan were as follows:

                                                  1994      1993    
                                                 ------    ------ 
                                                  (in thousands)
Accumulated benefit obligation:
  Retirees                                      $12,611    15,196
  Active employees
    Fully eligible                                1,477     1,695
    Other                                           800     1,180
Plan assets at fair value                        (7,580)   (8,621)
                                                 ------    ------
Accumulated benefit obligation in
 excess of plan assets                            7,308     9,450
Unrecognized net loss                            (2,019)   (5,637)
Unrecognized past service cost                    2,651     2,855 
                                                 ------    ------
Accrued postretirement benefit cost             $ 7,940     6,668 
                                                 ======    ======

     The Company on occasion funds a portion of these postretirement benefit
obligations through contributions to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association
trust account.  

     The assumed rates used in the actuarial computations were as follows:

                                                1994       1993
                                                ----       ----

Discount rate                                    8.0%       7.0%
Long-term rate of return on assets               8.0%       8.0%     
Medical inflation rate                          14.0%      14.5%  
                                                ====       ====

     The medical inflation rate was assumed to gradually reduce to 5.5% over
twenty years.

     The Company's 1994 service cost, interest cost and accumulated benefit
obligation, assuming a 1% increase in the medical inflation rate assumption,
are depicted as follows:
                                                 (in thousands)

Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation        $15,994
Service cost                                             136
Interest cost                                          1,137
                                                      ======





12.  Income taxes

The components of income tax expense were as follows:

                                        1994     1993     1992    
                                       ------   ------   ------     
                                            (in thousands)
Current
  Federal                             $58,801   69,744   65,672         
  State and city                       21,251   25,487   27,037       
                                       ------   ------   ------
    Total current                      80,052   95,231   92,709       
                                       ------   ------   ------

Deferred
  Federal                              (3,424) (18,124) (19,919)       
  State and city                          558   (5,576)  (7,949)     
                                       ------   ------   ------
    Total deferred                     (2,866) (23,700) (27,868)      
                                       ------   ------   ------
    Total income taxes
      applicable to pre-tax income    $77,186   71,531   64,841      
                                       ======   ======   ======

     The Company files a consolidated tax return which includes all
subsidiaries.  East New York may elect to compute its bad debt deduction for
tax purposes as a percentage of taxable income.  Applicable federal tax law
allows qualified savings banks the option of deducting as bad debt expense 8%
of their taxable income.  However, failure to maintain savings bank status as
defined by the Internal Revenue Code or charges to the reserve established by
these deductions for other than bad debt losses would create taxable income,
subject to the applicable tax rates in effect at that time.  At December 31,
1994, East New York's bad debt reserve for federal tax purposes was
$45,460,000.  No actions are planned which would cause this reserve to become
wholly or partially taxable.

     The portion of income tax expense attributable to gains on sales of bank
investment securities was $53,000 in 1994, $392,000 in 1993 and $12,016,000
in 1992. No alternative minimum tax expense was recognized in any year.

     Total income taxes differed from the amount computed by applying the
statutory federal income tax rate to pre-tax income as follows:
                                        
                                      1994        1993        1992    
                                     ------      ------      ------        
                                             (in thousands)

Income taxes at statutory rate      $68,068      60,733      55,345        
Increase (decrease) in taxes:
  Tax-exempt income                  (5,758)     (2,066)     (3,138)       
  State and city income taxes,
    net of federal income
    tax effect                       14,176      12,942      12,598        
  Other                                 700         (78)         36        
                                     ------      ------      ------
                                    $77,186      71,531      64,841
                                     ======      ======      ======






12.  Income taxes, continued

     Deferred tax assets (liabilities) were comprised of the following at
December 31:

                                      1994        1993         1992 
                                     ------      ------       ------        
                                             (in thousands)

Interest on loans                  $  6,593       7,115        6,811
Gain on sales of loans                    -       2,207        2,571
Depreciation and amortization         4,652       3,477        2,897
Losses on loans and other assets     96,128      76,783       54,747
Postretirement and other        
  supplemental employee benefits      6,382       5,969        5,311
Incentive compensation plans          9,242       9,247        7,282
Purchase accounting adjustments       3,649           -            - 
Unrealized investment losses         37,966           -            -
Other                                 5,561       3,060        3,765
                                    -------     -------      -------
  Gross deferred tax assets         170,173     107,858       83,384
                                    -------     -------      -------

Retirement benefits                  (3,801)     (4,904)      (4,552) 
Leasing transactions                (69,469)    (72,019)     (71,597)
Restructured interest rate 
  swap agreements                   (16,950)          -            -
Unrealized investment gains               -      (6,657)           -  
Other                               ( 4,538)          -            -
                                    -------     -------      -------
  Gross deferred tax liabilities    (94,758)    (83,580)     (76,149)
                                    -------     -------      -------
Net deferred asset                 $ 75,415      24,278        7,235
                                    =======     =======      =======

     The income tax credits shown in the Statement of Income of the Parent 
Company arise principally from operating losses before dividends from 
subsidiaries.


13.  Other income and other expense

The following items, which exceeded 1% of total revenues in the respective
period, were included in either other revenues from operations or other costs
of operations in the Consolidated Statement of Income:

                                        1994       1993       1992    
                                       ------     ------     ------       
                                              (in thousands)

Other income:
 Residential mortgage servicing fees  $13,125     10,359          
 Transfer of investment securities
    to charitable foundation           10,439

Other expense:
 Professional services
  Data processing                                            14,343 
  Other                                                       5,362 
 Advertising                           11,067      9,069            
 Charitable contributions              15,652
 Write-downs of mortgage
  servicing rights                                           16,800
                                       ======      =====     ======

14.  International activities

The Company engages in certain international activities consisting primarily
of purchasing Eurodollar placements, collecting Eurodollar deposits and
engaging in a limited amount of foreign currency trading.

     At December 31, 1994 and 1993, assets identified with international
activities amounted to $7,172,000 and $62,419,000, respectively.





15.  Derivative financial instruments


As part of an overall interest rate risk management program, the Company has
entered into several interest rate swap agreements.  The swaps modify the
repricing characteristics of certain portions of the Company's loan and
deposit portfolios.  In general, under terms of the agreements the Company
receives a fixed rate of interest and pays a variable rate based on London
Inter-Bank Offered Rates ("LIBOR").  Interest rate swap agreements are
generally entered into with counterparties with substantial net worth and
most contain collateral provisions protecting the at-risk party.  The Company
considers the credit risk inherent in these contracts to be negligible. 
Interest rate swaps entered into for interest rate risk management purposes
were as follows:

                                 Average   Weighted-average rate  Estimated
                    Notional     expected    Fixed    Variable   fair value-
                     amount      maturity  (receive)   (pay)     gain(loss)
                    --------     --------  ---------   -----     ----------
                 (in thousands) (in years)                     (in thousands)

December 31, 1994
-----------------

Current:
 Amortizing        $1,000,000      2.46      5.84%      6.12%    $ (57,332)
 Non-amortizing     1,388,000      2.99      6.11       6.03       (61,747)
                    ---------                                     --------
                   $2,388,000      2.77      5.99%      6.07%    $(119,079) 
                    =========      ====      ====       ====      ========


December 31, 1993
-----------------

Current:
 Amortizing        $  836,294      1.89      5.88%      3.43%    $  10,690
 Non-amortizing       400,000      2.09      5.24       3.41         5,375
                    ---------                                     --------
                   $1,236,294      1.95      5.67%      3.42%    $  16,065   
                    =========      ====      ====       ====      ========

Forward-starting:
 Amortizing        $  400,000      3.25      5.99%         -     $    (906)
 Non-amortizing        75,000      2.50      5.34          -           412
                    ---------                                     --------
                   $  475,000      3.13      5.89%         -     $    (494)
                    =========      ====      ====       ====      ======== 

      The notional amount of an amortizing swap may, following an initial
lock-out period, vary depending on the level of interest rates or the
repayment behavior of mortgage-backed securities to which the swap is indexed. 
The notional amount of a non-amortizing swap does not change during the term
of an agreement.

      The estimated fair value of interest rate swap agreements represents the
amount the Company would have expected to receive (pay) to terminate such
contracts.  Since these swaps have been entered into for interest rate risk
management purposes, the estimated market appreciation or depreciation should
be considered in the context of the entire balance sheet of the Company.  The
estimated fair value of interest rate swaps entered into for interest rate
risk management purposes is not recognized in the consolidated financial
statements.

      The net effect of interest rate swaps was to increase net interest
income by $12,481,000, $34,242,000, and $20,063,000 during the years ended
December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.  The average notional amount





15.  Derivative financial instruments, continued

of interest rate swaps impacting net interest income which were entered into
for interest rate risk management purposes were $1,627,454,000, $1,213,886,000
and $502,452,000 during the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992,
respectively.

      During December 1994, the Company restructured several interest rate
swap agreements with a notional amount of $500 million from amortizing to non-
amortizing.  The purpose of the restructuring was to enhance the effectiveness
of the swaps in managing the Company's exposure to changing interest rates in
future years.  The restructuring did not have a significant effect on net
income in 1994.  A deferred loss of $40.2 million on the amortizing swaps and
a purchase discount of $40.2 million on the restructured non-amortizing swaps
were recognized as a result of this transaction and were included in the
carrying amount of loans which the swaps modified.  The deferred loss will be
amortized and the purchase discount accreted into interest income over the
remaining terms of the original swaps and restructured swaps, respectively. 
The net increase (decrease) in interest income from amortization and accretion
of such amounts in future years is as follows:

Year ending December 31:               (in thousands)

      1995                                $(1,946)
      1996                                 (1,946)
      1997                                 (1,946)
      1998                                   (525)
      1999                                  5,960
      2000                                    403
                                           ------     
                                                -
                                           ======

      Derivative financial instruments used for trading purposes included
foreign exchange and other option contracts, foreign exchange forward and spot
contracts, interest rate swap agreements and financial futures.  The following
table includes information about the estimated fair value of derivative
financial instruments used for trading purposes:

                                           1994          1993
                                           ----          ----  
                                             (in thousands)

December 31:
 Gross unrealized gains                   $1,673          1,397
 Gross unrealized losses                   1,689          1,592

Year ended December 31:
 Average gross unrealized gains           $1,842          3,005
 Average gross unrealized losses           1,558          2,888
                                           =====          =====


     Net gains (losses) arising from derivative financial instruments used for
trading purposes were $(336,000), $219,000 and $2,685,000 during the years
ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.





16.  Commitments and contingencies

In the normal course of business, various commitments and contingent
liabilities are outstanding, such as commitments to extend credit guarantees,
and "standby" letters of credit (approximately $150,219,000 and $152,604,000
at December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively) which are not reflected in the
consolidated financial statements.  No material losses are expected as a
result of these transactions.  Additionally, the Company had outstanding loan
commitments of approximately $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31,
1994, and 1993, respectively.  

     Because many loan commitments and almost all credit guarantees and
"standby" letters of credit expire without being funded in whole or part, the
contract amounts are not estimates of future cash flows.  Commitments to sell
one-to-four family residential mortgage loans totaled $74,614,000 at December
31, 1994 and $373,369,000 at December 31, 1993.

     In the opinion of management, the potential liabilities, if any, arising
from all lawsuits pending against the Company at December 31, 1994 will not
have a materially adverse impact on the Company's consolidated financial
condition.  Moreover, management believes that the Company has substantial
defenses in such litigation, but that there can be no assurance that the
potential liabilities, if any, arising from such litigation will not have a
materially adverse impact on the Company's consolidated results of operations
in the future.

17.  Regulatory restrictions

The payment of dividends by the banking subsidiaries is restricted by various
legal and regulatory limitations.  Dividends by any banking subsidiary to the
Parent Company are limited by the amount of earnings of the banking subsidiary
in the current year and the preceding two years.  For purposes of this test,
at December 31, 1994, approximately $200,351,000 and $11,804,000 was available
for payment of dividends to the Parent Company from M&T Bank and East New
York, respectively, without prior regulatory approval.  

     Banking regulations prohibit extensions of credit by the subsidiary banks
to the Parent Company unless appropriately secured by assets.  Securities of
affiliates are not eligible as collateral for this purpose.

     The banking subsidiaries are required to maintain noninterest-earning
reserves against deposit liabilities.  During the maintenance periods that
included December 31, 1994 and 1993, cash and due from banks included a daily
average of $158,342,000 and $159,742,000, respectively, for such purpose.

18.  Parent Company revolving credit agreement

The Parent Company has a revolving credit agreement with an unaffiliated
commercial bank whereby the Parent Company may borrow up to $25,000,000 at its
discretion through December 26, 1995.  The agreement provides for a facility
fee assessed on the entire amount of the commitment (whether or not utilized)
ranging from 3/16 to 5/16 of 1% depending on the credit rating of the
subordinated notes of M&T Bank.  Various interest rate options exist,
including a variable rate based upon the higher of the Federal funds rate plus
1/4 of 1%, or the lender's prime rate, or a fixed rate based upon LIBOR. 
Borrowings outstanding under the credit agreement at December 31, 1994 were
$3.0 million at a rate of 6.50%.  These borrowings were recorded as other
short-term borrowings in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.





19.  Parent Company financial statements
See other notes to financial statements.











19.  Parent Company financial statements, continued







Item 9.   Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
          Financial Disclosure.  None.




                                    PART III
                                    --------


Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.  The
          identification of the Registrant's directors is incorporated by
          reference to the caption "NOMINEES FOR DIRECTOR" contained in the
          Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its 1995 Annual Meeting
          of Stockholders, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange
          Commission on March 16, 1995.  The identification of the
          Registrant's executive officers is presented under the caption
          "Executive Officers of the Registrant" contained in Part I of this
          Annual Report on Form 10-K.

          Disclosure of compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities
          Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, by the Registrant's directors and
          executive officers, and persons who are the beneficial owners of
          more than 10% of the Registrant's common stock, is incorporated by
          reference to the caption "STOCK OWNERSHIP BY DIRECTORS AND
          EXECUTIVE OFFICERS" contained in the Registrant's definitive Proxy
          Statement for its 1995 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation.  Incorporated by reference to the
          Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its 1995 Annual Meeting
          of Stockholders, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange
          Commission on March 16, 1995.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management. 
          Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's definitive Proxy
          Statement for its 1995 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which was
          filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 16,
          1995.  

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.  Incorporated by
          reference to the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its
          1995 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, was filed with the Securities
          and Exchange Commission on March 16, 1995.  






                                     PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.

     (a)  Financial statements and financial statement schedules filed as
          part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  See Part II, Item 8.
          "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".

          The financial statement schedules required by Rule 9-07 under
          Regulation S-X are omitted because the required information is not
          applicable.

     (b)  Reports on Form 8-K.     

          The Registrant filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated December
          14, 1994 with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December
          14, 1994, reporting that on December 1, 1994, the Registrant
          consummated the acquisition of Ithaca Bancorp, Inc., Ithaca, New
          York, and the merger of its savings bank subsidiary, Citizens
          Savings Bank, F.S.B., into M&T Bank.  The Current Report on Form 8-
          K further disclosed that M&T Bank consummated the acquisition of
          six banking offices in Orange County and one branch in Rockland
          County from Chemical Bank on December 10, 1994.

     (c)  Exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K.

          The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index on pages 84 and 85 of this
          Annual Report on Form 10-K have been previously filed, are filed
          herewith or are incorporated herein by reference to other filings.

     (d)  Additional financial statement schedules.

          None.


                                 


                                 SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 16th day
of March, 1995.

                                        FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION
                                                              

                                             
                                        By: /s/ Robert G. Wilmers            
                                            --------------------------

                                        Robert G. Wilmers
                                        Chairman of the Board, 
                                        President and
                                        Chief Executive Officer


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


Signature                            Title                          Date
---------                            -----                          ----

Principal Executive
Officer:



/s/ Robert G. Wilmers                Chairman of the Board,
--------------------------           President and 
Robert G. Wilmers                    Chief Executive Officer          3/16/95 
                                                                     ---------



Principal Financial
and Accounting Officer:


/s/ James L. Vardon                  Executive Vice President               
--------------------------           and Chief Financial Officer      3/16/95 
James L. Vardon                                                      ---------
    





A majority of the board of directors:



/s/ Brent D. Baird                                 3/16/95     
-------------------------------------         ----------------
Brent D. Baird


/s/ John H. Benisch                                3/16/95     
-------------------------------------         ----------------  
John H. Benisch  


/s/ C. Angela Bontempo                             3/16/95     
-------------------------------------         ---------------- 
C. Angela Bontempo


-------------------------------------         ----------------
Robert T. Brady


/s/ Patrick J. Callan                              3/16/95     
-------------------------------------         ----------------
Patrick J. Callan


/s/ David N. Campbell                              3/16/95      
-------------------------------------         ---------------- 
David N. Campbell


/s/ James A. Carrigg                               3/16/95      
-------------------------------------         ---------------- 
James A. Carrigg 


/s/ Barber B. Conable, Jr.                         3/16/95      
-------------------------------------         ----------------
Barber B. Conable, Jr.


/s/ Richard E. Garman                              3/16/95            
-------------------------------------         ---------------- 
Richard E. Garman


/s/ James V. Glynn                                 3/16/95      
-------------------------------------         ----------------
James V. Glynn


-------------------------------------         ----------------
Roy M. Goodman

     
/s/ Patrick W.E. Hodgson                           3/16/95       
-------------------------------------         ----------------
Patrick W.E. Hodgson


-------------------------------------         ----------------
Samuel T. Hubbard, Jr.


/s/ Lambros J. Lambros                             3/16/95     
-------------------------------------         ---------------- 
Lambros J. Lambros


/s/ Wilfred J. Larson                              3/16/95     
-------------------------------------         ----------------
Wilfred J. Larson





/s/ Jorge G. Pereira                               3/16/95     
-------------------------------------         ----------------
Jorge G. Pereira


/s/ William C. Shanley, III                        3/16/95     
-------------------------------------         ----------------
William C. Shanley, III


/s/ Raymond D. Stevens, Jr.                        3/16/95      
-------------------------------------         ---------------- 
Raymond D. Stevens, Jr.


/s/ Peter Tower                                    3/16/95      
-------------------------------------         ----------------
Peter Tower
  

/s/ Richard D. Trent                               3/16/95      
-------------------------------------         ---------------- 
Richard D. Trent


/s/ John L. Wehle, Jr.                             3/16/95      
-------------------------------------         ---------------- 
John L. Wehle. Jr.


/s/ Robert G. Wilmers                              3/16/95      
-------------------------------------         ----------------   
Robert G. Wilmers


                                 

                                 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX


    3.1        Restated Certificate of Incorporation of First Empire State
               Corporation dated April 19, 1989, filed by the Secretary of
               State of New York on April 20, 1989.  Incorporated by reference
               to Exhibit No. 19 to the Form 10-Q  for the  quarter ended
               March 31, 1989  (File No. 1-9861).

    3.2        Certificate of Amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation of
               First Empire State Corporation dated March 13, 1991, filed by
               the Secretary of State of New York on March 14, 1991. 
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 19 to the Form 10-Q
               for the quarter ended March 31, 1991 (File No. 1-9861).         
                              
    3.3        By-Laws of First Empire State Corporation as last amended on
               July 16, 1991.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 3.2 to
               the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991 (File No. 
               1-9861).

    4          Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including
               indentures.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit Nos. 3.1,
               3.2, 3.3, 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3 hereof. 
          
   10.1        Credit Agreement, dated as of December 30, 1993, between First
               Empire State Corporation and The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. 
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.1 to the Form 10-K
               for the year ended December 31, 1993 (File No. 1-9861).

   10.2        Amendment No. 1, dated as of December 27, 1994, to the Credit
               Agreement, dated as of December 30, 1993, between First Empire
               State Corporation and The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.  Filed
               herewith.

   10.3        First Empire State Corporation 1983 Stock Option Plan as
               amended.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.3 to the
               Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991 (File No. 1-
               9861).
           
   10.4        First Empire State Corporation Annual Executive Incentive Plan. 
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.4 to the Form 10-K
               for the year ended December 31, 1992 (File No. 1 - 9861).

               Supplemental Deferred Compensation Agreements between
               Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company and: 

   10.5        Robert E. Sadler, Jr. and James L. Vardon, each dated as of
               March 7, 1985. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit Nos.
               (10)(d) (A) and (B), respectively, to the Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 1984 (File No. 0-4561);

   10.6        Harry R. Stainrook dated as of December 12, 1985. Incorporated
               by reference to Exhibit No. (10)(e)(ii) to the Form 10-K for
               the year ended December 31, 1985 (File No. 0-4561);

   10.7        William C. Rappolt dated as of March 7, 1985. Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit No. (10)(e)(iv) to the Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 1987 (File No. 1-9861); and

   10.8        William A. Buckingham dated as of August 7, 1990.  Incorporated
               by reference to Exhibit No. 10.8 to the Form 10-K for the year
               ended December 31, 1990 (File No. 1-9861).





   10.9        Salary Continuation Agreement, dated as of April 16, 1987,
               between The East New York Savings Bank and Paul B. Murray. 
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. (10)(f) to the Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987 (File No. 1-9861).

   10.10       Employment Agreement, dated as of December 24, 1987, among
               First Empire State Corporation, The East New York Savings Bank
               and Paul B. Murray.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No.
               (10)(g) to the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987
               (File No. 1-9861).

  10.11        Supplemental Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated July 17,
               1989, between The East New York Savings Bank and Atwood
               Collins, III.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.11
               to the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991 (File No.
               1-9861).

  10.12        First Empire State Corporation Supplemental Pension Plan. 
               Filed herewith.

  10.13        First Empire State Corporation Supplemental Retirement Savings
               Plan.  Filed herewith.

  11           Statement re:  Computation of Earnings Per Common Share.  Filed
               herewith.

  21           Subsidiaries of the Registrant.  Incorporated by reference to
               the caption "Subsidiaries" contained in Part I, Item 1 hereof.

  23.1         Consent of Price Waterhouse re: Registration Statement No.  
               33-32044.  Filed herewith. 

  23.2         Consent of Price Waterhouse re: Registration Statements Nos. 
               33-12207 and 33-58500.  Filed herewith. 

  27           Article 9 Financial Data Schedule for the year ended December
               31, 1994.  Filed herewith.

  99.1         First Empire State Corporation Retirement Savings Plan and
               Trust Financial Statements and Additional Information for the
               years ended December 31, 1994 and 1993.  Filed herewith.





