
10-K
10-K





                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

            [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998
                                       or
          [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                          Commission file number 1-9861

                              M&T BANK CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                 New York                       16-0968385
         (State of incorporation)   (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

  One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York                      14203
(Address of principal executive offices)              (Zip Code)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (716)842-5445

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

 Common Stock, $5 par value              New York Stock Exchange
   (Title of each class)      (Name of each exchange on which registered)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

            8.234% Capital Securities of First Empire Capital Trust I
        (and the Guarantee of M&T Bank Corporation with respect thereto)
                                (Title of class)
                    8.234% Junior Subordinated Debentures of
                              M&T Bank Corporation
                                (Title of class)
           8.277% Capital Securities of First Empire Capital Trust II
        (and the Guarantee of M&T Bank Corporation with respect thereto)
                                (Title of class)
                    8.277% Junior Subordinated Debentures of
                              M&T Bank Corporation
                                (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90 days. Yes X No _

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

Aggregate market value of the Common Stock, $5 par value, held by non-affiliates
of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price as of the close of
business on March 1, 1999: $2,939,991,477.

Number of shares of the Common Stock, $5 par value, outstanding as of the close
of business on March 1, 1999: 7,725,294 shares.

                      Documents Incorporated By Reference:

(1)      Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 1999 Annual Meeting of
         Stockholders of M&T Bank Corporation in Part III.






                              M&T BANK CORPORATION

                                    FORM 10-K

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998







                              M&T BANK CORPORATION

                                    FORM 10-K

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998







                              M&T BANK CORPORATION

                                    FORM 10-K

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998

























                                     PART I

Item 1.  BUSINESS.

M&T Bank Corporation ("Registrant" or "M&T") is a New York business corporation
which is registered as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act
of 1956, as amended ("BHCA") and under Article III-A of the New York Banking Law
("Banking Law"). The principal executive offices of the Registrant are located
at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203. The Registrant was incorporated in
November 1969. The Registrant and its direct and indirect subsidiaries are
collectively referred to herein as the "Company". As of December 31, 1998, the
Company had consolidated total assets of $20.6 billion, deposits of $14.7
billion and stockholders' equity of $1.6 billion. The Company had 5,485
full-time and 982 part-time employees as of December 31, 1998.

At December 31, 1998, the Registrant had two wholly owned bank subsidiaries:
Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company ("M&T Bank") and M&T Bank, National
Association ("M&T Bank, N.A."). The banks collectively offer a wide range of
commercial banking, trust and investment services to their customers. At
December 31, 1998, M&T Bank represented 98% of consolidated assets of the
Company.

On April 1, 1998, M&T completed the acquisition of ONBANCorp, Inc.
("ONBANCorp"), a bank holding company headquartered in Syracuse, New York.
Immediately after the acquisition, ONBANCorp's two banking subsidiaries, OnBank
& Trust Co. in Syracuse, which operated 59 offices in upstate New York, and
Franklin First Savings Bank in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, which operated 19
offices in northeastern Pennsylvania, were merged with and into M&T Bank. The
acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and,
accordingly, the operations acquired from ONBANCorp have been included in the
financial results of the Company since the acquisition date. ONBANCorp's
stockholders received $266.3 million in cash and 1,429,998 shares of M&T common
stock in exchange for ONBANCorp shares outstanding at the time of acquisition. A
summary of assets acquired and liabilities assumed on April 1, 1998 in
connection with the ONBANCorp transaction follows (in thousands):




In connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded approximately $563
million of goodwill and core deposit intangible, and incurred nonrecurring
expenses related to systems conversions and other costs of integrating and
conforming the acquired operations with and into the operations of M&T Bank.
Such expenses totaled $21.3 million ($14.0 million after-tax) during the year
ended December 31, 1998.

On December 9, 1998, M&T entered into a definitive agreement with FNB Rochester
Corp. ("FNB"), a bank holding company headquartered in Rochester,






New York, providing for a merger between the two companies. FNB, with total 
assets of $588 million as of December 31, 1998, is the parent company of the 
First National Bank of Rochester, which has 19 offices in western and central 
New York State. Under the terms of the merger agreement, stockholders of FNB 
may elect to receive .06766 of a share of M&T common stock (and cash in lieu 
of any fractional share) or $33.00 in cash for each outstanding share of FNB 
common stock. Subject to certain adjustments set forth in the merger 
agreements, 50% of the 3,625,806 shares of FNB common stock outstanding on 
December 9, 1998 will be exchanged for shares of M&T common stock and the 
remaining shares will be converted for cash. The elections of FNB's 
stockholders will be subject to allocation and proration if either portion of 
the merger consideration is oversubscribed. The merger, which will be 
accounted for as a purchase, has been approved by the boards of directors of 
each company, and is subject to certain conditions, including regulatory 
approvals and approval of FNB's stockholders. It is anticipated that the 
merger will take place during the second quarter of 1999.

The Company from time to time considers acquiring banks, thrift institutions,
branch offices or other businesses within markets currently served or in other
nearby markets. The Company has pursued acquisition opportunities in the past,
continues to review different opportunities, including the possibility of major
acquisitions, and intends to continue this practice.

                                  SUBSIDIARIES

Olympia Financial Corp. ("Olympia"), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T, is a
Delaware corporation that holds the stock of M&T Bank and is registered as a
bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act. Its registered office
is located at 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801.

M&T Bank is a banking corporation which is incorporated under the laws of the
State of New York. M&T Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System and the
Federal Home Loan Bank System, and its deposits are insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") up to applicable limits. M&T acquired all
of the issued and outstanding shares of the capital stock of M&T Bank in
December 1969. The stock of M&T Bank represents a major asset of M&T. M&T Bank
operates under a charter granted by the State of New York in 1892, and the
continuity of its banking business is traced to the organization of the
Manufacturers and Traders Bank in 1856. The principal executive offices of M&T
Bank are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203. As of December 31,
1998, M&T Bank had 228 banking offices located throughout New York State, 19
offices in northeastern Pennsylvania, plus a branch in Nassau, The Bahamas. As
of December 31, 1998, M&T Bank had consolidated total assets of $20.1 billion,
deposits of $14.3 billion and stockholder's equity of $1.8 billion. The deposit
liabilities of M&T Bank are insured by the FDIC through either its Bank
Insurance Fund ("BIF") or its Savings Association Insurance Fund ("SAIF"). Of
M&T Bank's $14.3 billion in assessable deposits at December 31, 1998, 84% were
assessed as BIF-insured and the remainder as SAIF-insured deposits. As a
commercial bank, M&T Bank offers a broad range of financial services to a
diverse base of consumers, businesses, professional clients, governmental
entities and financial institutions located in its markets. Lending is largely
focused on consumers residing in New York State and northeastern Pennsylvania,
and on small and medium-size businesses based in those areas. In addition, the
Company conducts lending activities in other states through various
subsidiaries. M&T Bank and certain of its subsidiaries also offer commercial
mortgage loans secured by income producing properties or properties used by
borrowers in a trade or business. Other financial services are also provided
through operating subsidiaries.

M&T Bank, N.A., a national banking association and a member of the Federal
Reserve System and the FDIC, commenced operations on
October 2, 1995.  The






deposit liabilities of M&T Bank, N.A. are insured by the FDIC through the BIF.
The main office of M&T Bank, N.A. is located at 48 Main Street, Oakfield, New
York 14125. M&T Bank, N.A. offers selected deposit and loan products on a
nationwide basis, primarily through direct mail and telephone marketing
techniques. M&T Bank, N.A. is also a licensed insurance agency, and offers
insurance products primarily through the banking offices of M&T Bank. As of
December 31, 1998, M&T Bank, N.A. had total assets of $629 million, deposits of
$421 million and stockholder's equity of $49 million.

M&T Capital Corporation ("M&T Capital"), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank,
was incorporated as a New York business corporation in January 1968. M&T Capital
is a federally-licensed small business investment company operating under the
provisions of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, as amended. During
1998, the Corporation's strategy was to continue the liquidation of its
investments, while managing the remainder of its existing investment portfolio.
Upon liquidation of its only significant remaining portfolio investment, it is
the Company's current intention to surrender its license to the Small Business
Administration. M&T Capital had assets and stockholder's equity of approximately
$2 million as of December 31, 1998, and recorded approximately $65 thousand of
revenues in 1998. The headquarters of M&T Capital are located at One M&T Plaza,
Buffalo, New York 14203.

M&T Credit Corporation ("M&T Credit"), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank,
was incorporated as a New York business corporation in April 1994. M&T Credit is
a consumer credit company with headquarters at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York
14203, and offices in Pennsylvania. As of December 31, 1998, M&T Credit had
assets of $482 million and stockholder's equity of $25 million. M&T Credit
recorded $30 million of revenues during 1998.

M&T Financial Corporation ("M&T Financial"), a New York business corporation, is
a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank which specializes in capital-equipment
leasing. M&T Financial was formed in October 1985, had assets of $101 million
and stockholder's equity of $18 million as of December 31, 1998, and recorded
approximately $2 million of revenues in 1998. The headquarters of M&T Financial
are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203.

M&T Mortgage Corporation ("M&T Mortgage"), the wholly owned mortgage banking
subsidiary of M&T Bank, was incorporated as a New York business corporation in
November 1991. M&T Mortgage's principal activities are comprised of the
origination of residential mortgage loans and providing residential mortgage
loan servicing to M&T Bank, M&T Bank, N.A. and others. M&T Mortgage operates
throughout New York State, and also maintains branch offices in Arizona,
Colorado, Idaho, Massachusetts, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Utah and Washington.
M&T Mortgage had assets of $711 million and stockholder's equity of $122 million
as of December 31, 1998, and recorded approximately $113 million of revenues
during 1998. Residential mortgage loans serviced by M&T Mortgage for
non-affiliates totaled $7.3 billion at December 31, 1998. The headquarters of
M&T Mortgage are located at M&T Center, One Fountain Plaza, Buffalo, New York
14203.

M&T Real Estate, Inc.("M&T Real Estate") is a subsidiary of M&T Bank which was
incorporated as a New York business corporation in August 1995. M&T Bank owns
all of the outstanding common stock and 87.5% of the preferred stock of M&T Real
Estate. The remaining 12.5% of M&T Real Estate's preferred stock is owned by
officers or former officers of the Company. M&T Real Estate engages in
commercial real estate lending and servicing activities. As of December 31,
1998, M&T Real Estate had assets of $4.9 billion and stockholder's equity of
$4.8 billion. M&T Real Estate recorded $393 million of revenues in 1998. The
headquarters of M&T Real Estate are located at M&T Center, One Fountain Plaza,
Buffalo, New York 14203.

M&T Securities, Inc. ("M&T Securities") is a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank
that was incorporated as a New York business corporation in November 1985. M&T
Securities is registered as a broker/dealer under the Securities






Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as an investment advisor under the Investment
Advisors Act of 1940, as amended, and is licensed as an insurance agent. It
provides securities brokerage, investment advisory, and insurance services. As
of December 31, 1998, M&T Securities had assets of $9 million and stockholder's
equity of $4 million. M&T Securities recorded $22 million of revenues during
1998. The headquarters of M&T Securities are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo,
New York 14203.

Highland Lease Corporation ("Highland Lease"), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T
Bank, was incorporated as a New York business corporation in October 1994.
Highland Lease is a consumer leasing company with headquarters at One M&T Plaza,
Buffalo, New York 14240. As of December 31, 1998, Highland Lease had assets of
$419 million and stockholder's equity of $37 million. Highland Lease recorded
$23 million of revenues during 1998.

During 1997, the Company formed two Delaware business trusts and ONBANCorp 
formed one Delaware business trust to issue preferred capital securities 
("Capital Securities"). First Empire Capital Trust I ("Trust I") issued $150 
million of 8.234% Capital Securities on January 17, 1997, and First Empire 
Capital Trust II ("Trust II") issued $100 million of 8.277% Capital 
Securities on May 30, 1997. On February 4, 1997, OnBank Capital Trust I 
("OnBank Trust I" and, together with Trust I and Trust II, the "Trusts") 
issued $60 million of 9.25% preferred capital securities. As a result of the 
ONBANCorp acquisition, the Company assumed responsibility for the ONBANCorp 
Capital Securities. The common securities ("Common Securities") of Trust I 
and Trust II are wholly owned by M&T and the common securities of OnBank 
Trust I are wholly owned by Olympia. The common securities of each Trust are 
the only class of each Trust's securities possessing general voting powers. 
The Capital Securities represent preferred undivided interests in the assets 
of the corresponding Trust and are classified in the Company's consolidated 
balance sheet as long-term borrowings, with accumulated distributions on such 
securities included in interest expense. Under the Federal Reserve Board's 
current risk-based capital guidelines, the Capital Securities are includable 
in M&T's Tier 1 capital. The proceeds from the issuances of the Capital 
Securities and the Common Securities were used by the Trusts to purchase 
junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by M&T in the case 
of Trust I and Trust II and Olympia in the case of OnBank Trust I. The junior 
subordinated debentures represent the sole assets of each Trust and payments 
under the junior subordinated debentures are the sole source of cash flow for 
each Trust. As of December 31, 1998, Trust I had assets of $160 million and 
stockholders' equity of $155 million, and during 1998 Trust I recorded $13 
million of revenues. Trust II had assets of $104 million and stockholders' 
equity of $103 million at December 31, 1998, and during 1998 Trust II 
recorded $9 million of revenues. OnBank Trust I had assets of $73 million and 
stockholders' equity of $62 million at December 31, 1998, and during 1998 
OnBank Trust I recorded $4 million of revenues.

The Registrant and its banking subsidiaries have a number of other
special-purpose or inactive subsidiaries. These other subsidiaries represented,
individually and collectively, an insignificant portion of the Company's
consolidated assets, net income and stockholders' equity at December 31, 1998.






                SEGMENT INFORMATION, PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS/SERVICES
                             AND FOREIGN OPERATIONS

Information about the Registrant's business segments is included in note 21 of
Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, "Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data" and is further discussed in Part II, Item 7,
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations". The Company's international activities are discussed in note 16 of
Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, "Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data".

The Registrant's reportable segments have been determined based upon its
internal profitability reporting system, which is organized by strategic
business unit. Certain strategic business units have been combined for segment
information reporting purposes where the nature of the products and services,
the type of customer and the distribution of those products and services are
similar. The reportable segments are Commercial Banking, Commercial Real Estate,
Discretionary Portfolio, Residential Mortgage Banking and Retail Banking.

The only activities that, as a class, contributed 10% or more of the sum of
consolidated interest income and other income in each of the last three years
were lending and investment securities transactions. The amount of income from
such sources during those years is set forth on the Company's Consolidated
Statement of Income filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data".

                           SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

The banking industry is subject to extensive state and federal regulation and
continues to undergo significant change. In 1991, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation Improvement Act ("FDICIA") was enacted. FDICIA substantially amended
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act ("FDI Act") and certain other statutes. Since
FDICIA's enactment, the federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted
regulations to implement its statutory provisions.

The following discussion summarizes certain aspects of the banking laws and
regulations that affect the Company. Proposals to change the laws and
regulations governing the banking industry are frequently raised in Congress, in
state legislatures, and before the various bank regulatory agencies. The
likelihood and timing of any changes and the impact such changes might have on
the Company are impossible to determine with any certainty. A change in
applicable laws or regulations, or a change in the way such laws or regulations
are interpreted by regulatory agencies or courts, may have a material impact on
the business, operations and earnings of the Company. To the extent that the
following information describes statutory or regulatory provisions, it is
qualified entirely by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory
provision.

                         BANK HOLDING COMPANY REGULATION

As a registered bank holding company, the Registrant and its nonbank
subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation under the BHCA by the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ("Federal Reserve Board") and
the New York State Banking Superintendent ("Banking Superintendent"). The
Federal Reserve Board requires regular reports from the Registrant and is
authorized by the BHCA to make regular examinations of the Registrant and its
subsidiaries.

Under the BHCA, the Registrant may not acquire direct or indirect ownership or
control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company, including a bank,
without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, except as specifically
authorized under the BHCA. The Registrant is also subject to regulation under
the Banking Law with respect to certain acquisitions of domestic banks. Under
the BHCA, the Registrant, subject to the approval of the Federal Reserve Board,
may acquire shares of non-banking corporations the activities of which are
deemed by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely






related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident
thereto.

The Federal Reserve Board has enforcement powers over bank holding companies and
their non-banking subsidiaries, among other things, to interdict activities that
represent unsafe or unsound practices or constitute violations of law, rule,
regulation, administrative orders or written agreements with a federal bank
regulator. These powers may be exercised through the issuance of
cease-and-desist orders, civil money penalties or other actions.

Under the Federal Reserve Board's statement of policy with respect to bank
holding company operations, a bank holding company is required to serve as a
source of financial strength to its subsidiary depository institutions and to
commit all available resources to support such institutions in circumstances
where it might not do so absent such policy. Although this "source of strength"
policy has been challenged in litigation, the Federal Reserve Board continues to
take the position that it has authority to enforce it. For a discussion of
circumstances under which a bank holding company may be required to guarantee
the capital levels or performance of its subsidiary banks, SEE CAPITAL ADEQUACY,
below. The Federal Reserve also has the authority to terminate any activity of a
bank holding company that constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness
or stability of any subsidiary depository institution or to terminate its
control of any bank or nonbank subsidiaries.

The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994, as
amended (the "Interstate Banking Act") generally permits bank holding companies
to acquire banks in any state, and preempts all state laws restricting the
ownership by a bank holding company of banks in more than one state. The
Interstate Banking Act also permits a bank to merge with an out-of-state bank
and convert any offices into branches of the resulting bank if both states have
not opted out of interstate branching; permits a bank to acquire branches from
an out-of-state bank if the law of the state where the branches are located
permits the interstate branch acquisition; and permits banks to establish and
operate DE NOVO interstate branches whenever the host state opts-in to DE NOVO
branching. Bank holding companies and banks seeking to engage in transactions
authorized by the Interstate Banking Act must be adequately capitalized and
managed. The 19 branches of Franklin First Savings Bank, a wholly owned
subsidiary of ONBANCorp, were merged into M&T Bank on April 1, 1998 as a part of
M&T's acquisition of ONBANCorp under the interstate banking authority of the
Interstate Banking Act.

The Banking Law authorizes interstate branching by merger or acquisition on a
reciprocal basis, and permits the acquisition of a single branch without
restriction, but does not provide for DE NOVO interstate branching.

Bank holding companies and their subsidiary banks are also subject to the
provisions of the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 ("CRA"). Under the terms of
the CRA, the Federal Reserve Board (or other appropriate bank regulatory agency)
is required, in connection with its examination of a bank, to assess such bank's
record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by that bank,
including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. Furthermore, such assessment
is also required of any bank that has applied, among other things, to merge or
consolidate with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of a
federally-regulated financial institution, or to open or relocate a branch
office. In the case of a bank holding company applying for approval to acquire a
bank or bank holding company, the Federal Reserve Board will assess the record
of each subsidiary bank of the applicant bank holding company in considering the
application. The Banking Law contains provisions similar to the CRA which are
applicable to New York-chartered banks.






                 SUPERVISION AND REGULATION OF BANK SUBSIDIARIES

The Registrant's banking subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation,
and are examined regularly, by various bank regulatory agencies: M&T Bank by the
Federal Reserve Board and the Banking Superintendent; and M&T Bank, N.A. by the
Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC"). The Registrant and its direct
non-banking subsidiaries are affiliates, within the meaning of the Federal
Reserve Act, of the Registrant's subsidiary banks and their subsidiaries. As a
result, the Registrant's subsidiary banks and their subsidiaries are subject to
restrictions on loans or extensions of credit to, purchases of assets from,
investments in, and transactions with the Registrant and its direct non-banking
subsidiaries and on certain other transactions with them or involving their
securities.

Under the "cross-guarantee" provisions of the FDI Act, insured depository
institutions under common control are required to reimburse the FDIC for any
loss suffered by either the BIF or SAIF of the FDIC as a result of the default
of a commonly controlled insured depository institution or for any assistance
provided by the FDIC to a commonly controlled insured depository institution in
danger of default. Thus, any insured depository institution subsidiary of M&T
could incur liability to the FDIC in the event of a default of another insured
depository institution owned or controlled by M&T. The FDIC's claim under the
cross-guarantee provisions is superior to claims of stockholders of the insured
depository institution or its holding company and to most claims arising out of
obligations or liabilities owed to affiliates of the institution, but is
subordinate to claims of depositors, secured creditors and holders of
subordinated debt (other than affiliates) of the commonly controlled insured
depository institution. The FDIC may decline to enforce the cross-guarantee
provisions if it determines that a waiver is in the best interest of the BIF or
SAIF or both.

                        DIVIDENDS FROM BANK SUBSIDIARIES

M&T Bank and M&T Bank, N.A. are subject, under one or more of the banking laws,
to restrictions on the amount and frequency (no more often than quarterly) of
dividend declarations. Future dividend payments to the Registrant by its
subsidiary banks will be dependent on a number of factors, including the
earnings and financial condition of each such bank, and are subject to the
limitations referred to in note 22 of Notes to Financial Statements filed
herewith in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," and
to other statutory powers of bank regulatory agencies.

Under FDICIA, an insured depository institution is prohibited from making any
capital distribution to its owner, including any dividend, if, after making such
distribution, the depository institution fails to meet the required minimum
level for any relevant capital measure, including the risk-based capital
adequacy and leverage standards discussed below.

                                CAPITAL ADEQUACY

The Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the OCC have adopted risk-based capital
adequacy guidelines for bank holding companies and banks under their
supervision. Under these guidelines, the so-called "Tier 1 capital" and "Total
capital" as a percentage of risk-weighted assets and certain off-balance sheet
instruments must be at least 4% and 8%, respectively.

The Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the OCC have also imposed a leverage
standard to supplement their risk-based ratios. This leverage standard focuses
on a banking institution's ratio of Tier 1 capital to average total assets,
adjusted for goodwill and certain other items. Under these guidelines, banking
institutions that meet certain criteria, including excellent asset quality, high
liquidity, low interest rate exposure and good earnings, and that have received
the highest regulatory rating must maintain






a ratio of Tier 1 capital to total adjusted average assets of at least 3%.
Institutions not meeting these criteria, as well as institutions with
supervisory, financial or operational weaknesses, along with those experiencing
or anticipating significant growth are expected to maintain a

Tier 1 capital to total adjusted average assets ratio equal to at least 4 to 5%.

As reflected in the following table, the risk-based capital ratios and leverage
ratios of the Registrant, M&T Bank and M&T Bank, N.A. as of December 31, 1998
exceeded the required capital ratios for classification as "well capitalized,"
the highest classification under the regulatory capital guidelines.

               Capital Components and Ratios at December 31, 1998
                              (dollars in millions)




FDICIA required the federal banking agencies, including the Federal Reserve
Board and the OCC, to revise their risk-based capital standards in order to
ensure that those standards take adequate account of interest rate risk,
concentration of credit risk and the risk of nontraditional activities, as well
as reflect the actual performance and expected risk of loss on certain
multifamily housing loans.

Bank regulators periodically propose amendments to the risk-based capital
guidelines and related regulatory framework. While the Company's management
studies such proposals, the timing of adoption, ultimate form and effect of any
such proposed amendments on the Company's capital requirements and operations
cannot be predicted. During 1998 the Federal Reserve and OCC amended their
risk-based capital guidelines to permit the inclusion of up to 45% of unrealized
gains on certain equity securities in Tier 2 capital, and raised the Tier 1
capital limitation for mortgage servicing assets from 50 to 100 percent of Tier
1 capital.

FDICIA requires the federal banking agencies to take "prompt corrective action"
in respect of depository institutions and their bank holding companies that do
not meet minimum capital requirements. FDICIA established five capital tiers:
"well capitalized", "adequately capitalized", "undercapitalized", "significantly
undercapitalized" and "critically undercapitalized". A depository institution's
capital tier, or that of its bank holding company, depends upon where its
capital levels are in relation to various relevant capital measures, including a
risk-based capital measure and a leverage ratio capital measure, and certain
other factors.

Under the implementing regulations adopted by the federal banking agencies, a
bank holding company or bank is considered "well capitalized" if it has (i) a
total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based
capital ratio of 6% or greater, (iii) a leverage ratio of 5% or greater and






(iv) is not subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a
specific capital level for any capital measure. An "adequately capitalized" bank
holding company or bank is defined as one that has (i) a total risk-based
capital ratio of 8% or greater, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4% or
greater and (iii) a leverage ratio of 4% or greater (or 3% or greater in the
case of a bank with a composite CAMELS rating of 1). A bank holding company or
bank is considered (A) "undercapitalized" if it has (i) a total risk-based
capital ratio of less than 8%, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less
than 4% or (iii) a leverage ratio of less than 4% (or 3% in the case of a bank
with a composite CAMELS rating of 1); (B) "significantly undercapitalized" if
the bank has (i) a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 6%, or (ii) a
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 3% or (iii) a leverage ratio of
less than 3% and (C)"critically undercapitalized" if the bank has a ratio of
tangible equity to total assets equal to or less than 2%. The Federal Reserve
Board may reclassify a "well capitalized" bank holding company or bank as
"adequately capitalized" or subject an "adequately capitalized" or
"undercapitalized" institution to the supervisory actions applicable to the next
lower capital category if it determines that the bank holding company or bank is
in an unsafe or unsound condition or deems the bank holding company or bank to
be engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice and not to have corrected the
deficiency. M&T, Olympia, M&T Bank and M&T Bank, N.A. currently meet the
definition of "well capitalized" institutions.

"Undercapitalized" depository institutions, among other things, are subject to
growth limitations, are prohibited, with certain exceptions, from making capital
distributions, are limited in their ability to obtain funding from a Federal
Reserve Bank and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. The federal
banking agencies may not accept a capital plan without determining, among other
things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is likely to succeed
in restoring the depository institution's capital. In addition, for a capital
restoration plan to be acceptable, the depository institution's parent holding
company must guarantee that the institution will comply with such capital
restoration plan and provide appropriate assurances of performance. If a
depository institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, including if the
holding company refuses or is unable to make the guarantee described in the
previous sentence, it is treated as if it is "significantly undercapitalized".
Failure to submit or implement an acceptable capital plan also is grounds for
the appointment of a conservator or a receiver. "Significantly undercapitalized"
depository institutions may be subject to a number of additional requirements
and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become
adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of
receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Moreover, the parent holding
company of a significantly undercapitalized depository institution may be
ordered to divest itself of the institution or of nonbank subsidiaries of the
holding company. "Critically undercapitalized" institutions, among other things,
are prohibited from making any payments of principal and interest on
subordinated debt, and are subject to the appointment of a receiver or
conservator.

FDICIA directs, among other things, that each federal banking agency prescribe
standards for depository institutions and depository institution holding
companies relating to internal controls, information systems, internal audit
systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset
growth, compensation, a maximum ratio of classified assets to capital, minimum
earnings sufficient to absorb losses, a minimum ratio of market value to book
value for publicly traded shares and other standards as they deem appropriate.
The Federal Reserve Board and OCC have adopted such standards.

FDICIA also contains a variety of other provisions that may affect the
operations of the Company, including new reporting requirements, regulatory






standards for real estate lending, "truth in savings" provisions, limitations on
the amount of capitalized mortgage servicing rights and purchased credit card
relationships includable in Tier 1 capital, and the requirement that a
depository institution give prior notice to customers and regulatory authorities
before closing any branch. FDICIA also contains a prohibition on the acceptance
or renewal of brokered deposits by depository institutions that are not "well
capitalized" or are "adequately capitalized" and have not received a waiver from
the FDIC.

                       FDIC DEPOSIT INSURANCE ASSESSMENTS

As institutions with deposits insured by the BIF and the SAIF, M&T Bank and M&T
Bank, N.A. are subject to FDIC deposit insurance assessments. Under current law
the regular insurance assessments to be paid by BIF-insured and SAIF-insured
institutions are specified in schedules issued by the FDIC that specify, at
semiannual intervals, target reserve ratios designed to maintain the reserve
ratios of each of those insurance funds at 1.25% of their estimated insured
deposits. The FDIC is also authorized to impose one or more special assessments.

The FDIC has implemented a risk-based deposit premium assessment system under
which each depository institution is placed in one of nine assessment categories
based on the institution's capital classification under the prompt corrective
action provisions described above, and whether such institution is considered by
its supervisory agency to be financially sound or to have supervisory concerns.
The adjusted assessment rates for both BIF-insured and SAIF-insured institutions
under the current system range from .00% to .31% depending upon the assessment
category into which the insured institution is placed. Neither of the Company's
banking subsidiaries paid regular insurance assessments to the FDIC in 1998.
However, the FDIC retains the ability to increase regular BIF and SAIF
assessments and to levy special additional assessments.

In addition to deposit insurance fund assessments, beginning in 1997 the FDIC
assessed BIF-assessable and SAIF-assessable deposits to fund the repayment of
debt obligations of the Financing Corporation ("FICO"). FICO is a government
agency-sponsored entity that was formed to borrow the money necessary to carry
out the closing and ultimate disposition of failed thrift institutions by the
Resolution Trust Corporation. The FDIC is required to set FICO assessments for
BIF-assessable deposits at one-fifth the amount for SAIF-assessable deposits.
The current annualized rates established by the FDIC for BIF-assessable and
SAIF-assessable deposits are 1.22 basis points and 6.10 basis points,
respectively.

Any significant increases in assessment rates or additional special assessments
by the FDIC could have an adverse impact on the results of operations and
capital of M&T Bank or M&T Bank, N.A.

                              GOVERNMENTAL POLICIES

The earnings of the Company are significantly affected by the monetary and
fiscal policies of governmental authorities, including the Federal Reserve
Board. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve
Board to implement these objectives are open-market operations in U.S.
Government securities and Federal funds, changes in the discount rate on member
bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against member bank
deposits. These instruments of monetary policy are used in varying combinations
to influence the overall level of bank loans, investments and deposits, and the
interest rates charged on loans and paid for deposits. The Federal Reserve Board
frequently uses these instruments of monetary policy, especially its open-market
operations and the discount rate, to influence the level of interest rates and
to affect the strength of the economy, the level of inflation or the price of
the dollar in foreign exchange markets. The monetary policies of the Federal
Reserve Board have






had a significant effect on the operating results of banking institutions in the
past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. It is not possible to
predict the nature of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies, or the
effect which they may have on the Company's business and earnings.

                                   COMPETITION

The Company competes in offering commercial and personal financial services with
other banking institutions and with firms in a number of other industries, such
as thrift institutions, credit unions, personal loan companies, sales finance
companies, leasing companies, securities brokers and dealers, insurance
companies and retail merchandising organizations. Furthermore, diversified
financial services companies are able to offer a combination of these services
to their customers on a nationwide basis. Compared to less extensively regulated
financial services companies, the Company's operations are significantly
impacted by state and federal regulations applicable to the banking industry.
Moreover, the provisions of the Interstate Banking Act and the Banking Law may
further ease entry into New York State by out-of-state banking institutions. As
a result, the number of banking organizations with which the Registrant's
subsidiary banks compete may grow in the future.


                          OTHER LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVES

From time to time, various proposals are introduced in the United States
Congress and in the New York Legislature and before various bank regulatory
authorities which would alter the powers of, and restrictions on, different
types of banking organizations and which would restructure part or all of the
existing regulatory framework for banks, bank holding companies and other
financial institutions.

Moreover, a number of other bills have been introduced in Congress which would
further regulate, deregulate or restructure the financial services industry. It
is not possible to predict whether these or any other proposals will be enacted
into law or, even if enacted, the effect which they may have on the Company's
business and earnings.

                   STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE PURSUANT TO GUIDE 3

See cross-reference sheet for disclosures incorporated elsewhere in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K. Additional information is included in the following tables.






- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Item 1, Table 1

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED YEAR-END BALANCES



STOCKHOLDERS, EMPLOYEES AND OFFICES









- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Item 1, Table 2
CONSOLIDATED EARNINGS








- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Item 1, Table 3

COMMON SHAREHOLDER DATA










- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Item 1, Table 4

CHANGES IN INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE*



- -----------------

      * INTEREST INCOME DATA ARE ON A TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS. THE
        APPORTIONMENT OF CHANGES RESULTING FROM THE COMBINED EFFECT OF BOTH
        VOLUME AND RATE WAS BASED ON THE SEPARATELY DETERMINED VOLUME AND RATE
        CHANGES.


                                      -19-


Item 2.  PROPERTIES.

Both M&T and M&T Bank maintain their executive offices at One M&T Plaza in
Buffalo, New York. This twenty-one story headquarters building, containing
approximately 276,000 rentable square feet of space, is owned in fee by M&T
Bank, and was completed in 1967 at a cost of approximately $17 million. M&T, M&T
Bank and their subsidiaries occupy approximately 84% of the building and the
remainder is leased to non-affiliated tenants. At December 31, 1998, the cost of
this property, net of accumulated depreciation, was $9.6 million.

In September 1992, M&T Bank acquired an additional facility in Buffalo, New York
with approximately 365,000 rentable square feet of space at a cost of
approximately $12 million. Approximately 77% of this facility, known as M&T
Center, is occupied by M&T Bank and its subsidiaries, with the remainder leased
to non-affiliated tenants. At December 31, 1998, the cost of this building,
including improvements made subsequent to acquisition and net of accumulated
depreciation, was $15.3 million.

M&T Bank also owns and occupies two separate facilities in the Buffalo area
which support certain back-office and operations functions of the Company. The
total square footage of these facilities approximates 223,000 square feet and
their combined cost, net of accumulated depreciation, was $13.6 million.

As a result of the April 1, 1998 ONBANCorp merger, M&T Bank acquired a facility
in Syracuse, New York with approximately 136,000 rentable square feet of space.
Approximately 49% of this facility is occupied by M&T Bank, with the remainder
leased to non-affiliated tenants. At December 31, 1998, the cost of this
building, net of accumulated depreciation, was $7.9 million.

The cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization, of the Company's
premises and equipment is detailed in note 6 of Notes to Financial Statements
filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data". Of the 248 domestic banking offices of the Registrant's subsidiary banks,
84 are owned in fee and 164 are leased.

Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

M&T and its subsidiaries are subject in the normal course of business to various
pending and threatened legal proceedings in which claims for monetary damages
are asserted. Management, after consultation with legal counsel, does not
anticipate that the aggregate ultimate liability, if any, arising out of
litigation pending against M&T or its subsidiaries will be material to M&T's
consolidated financial position, but at the present time is not in a position to
determine whether such litigation will have a material adverse effect on M&T's
consolidated results of operations in any future reporting period.

Item 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
         Not applicable.

                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information concerning the Registrant's executive officers is presented below as
of March 1, 1999. Shown parenthetically is the year since which the officer has
held the indicated position with the Registrant or its subsidiaries. In the case
of each such corporation, officers' terms run until the first meeting of the
board of directors after such corporation's annual meeting, and until their
successors are elected and qualified.


                                      -20-


       Robert J. Bennett, age 57, is chairman of the board and a director (1998)
           of the Registrant. He is a vice chairman of the board and a director
           (1998) of M&T Bank and serves as chairman of the Directors Advisory
           Council-Syracuse Division. Mr. Bennett is also a director (1998) of
           M&T Bank, N.A. He served as chairman of the board, president, chief
           executive officer and a director of ONBANCorp from May 1989 until its
           merger with M&T on April 1, 1998.


       Robert G. Wilmers, age 64, is president (1988), chief executive officer
           (1983) and a director (1982) of the Registrant. Prior to the
           acquisition of ONBANCorp, Mr. Wilmers held the additional position of
           chairman of the board of the Registrant from April 1994 through March
           1998. He is chairman of the board, chief executive officer (1983) and
           a director (1982) of M&T Bank, and served as president of M&T Bank
           from March 1984 to June 1996. Mr. Wilmers is a director of M&T
           Financial (1983). He is chairman of the board and a director of M&T
           Bank, N.A.(1995).


       Emerson L. Brumback, age 47, is an executive vice president (1997) of the
           Registrant and M&T Bank, and is in charge of the Company's Retail
           Banking Division. Mr. Brumback is president and a director of
           Highland Lease (1997) and executive vice president (1998) and a
           director of M&T Bank, N.A.(1997). He is a director of M&T Credit
           (1997), M&T Mortgage (1997) and M&T Securities (1997). Mr. Brumback
           was executive vice president, national retail distribution, at
           BancOne Corporation prior to joining the Company.


       Atwood Collins, III, age 52, is an executive vice president of the
           Registrant (1997) and M&T Bank (1996) and is chairman of the
           Directors Advisory Council (1998) of M&T Bank's New York City
           Division. Previously, Mr. Collins served as president and chief
           executive officer of the New York City Division of M&T Bank (1997),
           and as president, chief executive officer and a director (1995) of
           The East New York Saving Bank, which had been a wholly owned
           subsidiary of the Registrant prior to its merger with and into M&T
           Bank on May 24, 1997. He is a director of M&T Real Estate (1995). Mr.
           Collins has responsibility for managing the Company's middle market,
           commercial real estate and business banking activities in
           Westchester, Putnam and Rockland counties of New York State and
           Connecticut, business banking in New York City and Investment
           banking, Institutional and Correspondent banking activities. He also
           manages the Company's Facilities Management and Services group.


       Mark J. Czarnecki, age 43, is an executive vice president of the
           Registrant (1999) and M&T Bank (1997) and is in charge of the M&T
           Investment Group, which is comprised of M&T Securities, Inc., the
           Insurance Services Division of M&T Bank, N.A. and the Trust and
           Investment Services Division of M&T Bank. Mr. Czarnecki is president
           of M&T Securities, Inc. (1996) and an executive vice president of M&T
           Bank, N.A. (1997). Mr. Czarnecki has held a number of management
           positions with M&T Bank since 1977, most recently as senior vice
           president of the private client services group of the Trust and
           Investment Services Division (1994), and prior thereto as an
           administrative vice president and regional manager for the Retail
           Banking Division.



                                      -21-



       Brian E. Hickey, age 46, is an executive vice president of the Registrant
           (1997) and M&T Bank (1996) and is president and a member of the
           Directors Advisory Council (1994) of the Rochester Division of M&T
           Bank. Mr. Hickey is a director of M&T Financial (1996). In addition
           to managing all of M&T Bank's business segments in the Rochester
           market, Mr. Hickey has responsibility for managing the Company's
           Western New York Commercial Banking Division.


       James L. Hoffman, age 59, is an executive vice president of the
           Registrant (1997) and M&T Bank (1996) and is president (1992) of the
           Hudson Valley Division of M&T Bank. Mr. Hoffman served as chairman of
           the board, president, chief executive officer and a director (1983)
           of The First National Bank of Highland, which had been a wholly owned
           subsidiary of the Registrant prior to its merger with and into M&T
           Bank on February 29, 1992.


       Adam C. Kugler, age 41, is an executive vice president and treasurer
           (1997) of the Registrant and M&T Bank, and is in charge of the
           Company's Treasury Division. Mr. Kugler is a director of M&T
           Financial (1997), M&T Securities (1997) and is an executive vice
           president, Treasurer and a director of M&T Bank, N.A. (1997). Mr
           Kugler was previously a senior vice president in the Treasury
           Division of M&T Bank.


       Ray E. Logan, age 61, is an executive vice president of M&T Bank (1999)
           and is in charge of the Company's Human Resources Division. Mr. Logan
           served as senior vice president of M&T Bank from 1986 to 1999.


       John L. Pett, age 50, is an executive vice president (1997) and chief
           credit officer (1995) of the Registrant and is an executive vice
           president and chief credit officer of M&T Bank (1996). Mr. Pett is
           chairman of the board and a director of Highland Lease (1997) and M&T
           Credit (1997). He is an executive vice president (1998) and a
           director (1996) of M&T Bank, N.A. Mr. Pett served as senior vice
           president of the Registrant from 1991 to 1997.


       Michael P. Pinto, age 43, is an executive vice president and chief
           financial officer of the Registrant (1997) and M&T Bank (1996), and
           is in charge of the Company's Finance Division and its Technology and
           Banking Operations Division. Mr. Pinto is chairman of the board,
           president and a director of Olympia Financial Corp. (1997), and a
           director of M&T Capital (1996), M&T Financial (1996), M&T Mortgage
           (1996) and M&T Real Estate (1996). He is an executive vice president
           and chief financial officer (1996) and a director (1998) of M&T Bank,
           N.A. Mr. Pinto served as senior vice president and controller of the
           Registrant from 1993 to 1997.


       Robert E. Sadler, Jr., age 53, is an executive vice president (1990) and
           a director (1999) of the Registrant, president and a director of M&T
           Bank (1996), and is in charge of the Company's Commercial Banking
           Division. Mr. Sadler is chairman of the board (1987) and a director
           of M&T Capital (1983); chairman of the board (1989) and a director of
           M&T Financial (1985); chairman of the board and a director of M&T
           Mortgage (1991); chairman of the board and a director of M&T
           Securities (1994); president, chief executive officer and a director
           of M&T Bank, N.A.(1995); and chairman of the board, president and a
           director of M&T Real Estate (1995).



                                      -22-


                                     PART II


Item 5.         MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
                MATTERS. The Registrant's common stock is traded under the
                symbol MTB on the New York Stock Exchange. See cross-reference
                sheet for disclosures incorporated elsewhere in this Annual
                Report on Form 10-K for market prices of the Registrant's common
                stock, approximate number of common stockholders at year-end,
                frequency and amounts of dividends on common stock and
                restrictions on the payment of dividends.

Item 6.         SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA. See cross-reference sheet for
                disclosures incorporated elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form
                10-K.

Item 7.         MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
                RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.


CORPORATE PROFILE AND SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENTS

M&T Bank Corporation ("M&T") is a bank holding company headquartered in Buffalo,
New York with consolidated assets of $20.6 billion at December 31, 1998.
Formerly known as First Empire State Corporation, M&T changed its name effective
May 29, 1998. M&T's common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol "MTB" on June 1, 1998. Prior to that date, the common stock was
traded on the American Stock Exchange under the symbol "FES." M&T and its
consolidated subsidiaries are hereinafter referred to collectively as "the
Company." M&T's wholly owned banking subsidiaries are Manufacturers and Traders
Trust Company ("M&T Bank") and M&T Bank, National Association ("M&T Bank,
N.A.").

         M&T Bank, with total assets of $20.1 billion at December 31, 1998, is a
New York-chartered commercial bank with 223 banking offices throughout New York
State, 19 banking offices in northeastern Pennsylvania and an office in Nassau,
The Bahamas. M&T Bank and its subsidiaries offer a broad range of financial
services to a diverse base of consumers, businesses, professional clients,
governmental entities and financial institutions located in its markets. Lending
is largely focused on consumers residing in New York State and northeastern
Pennsylvania, and on small and medium size businesses based in those areas.
Certain lending activities are also conducted in other states through various
subsidiaries. M&T Bank's subsidiaries include M&T Mortgage Corporation, a
residential mortgage banking company; M&T Securities, Inc., a broker/dealer; M&T
Real Estate, Inc., a commercial mortgage lender; M&T Financial Corporation, a
commercial leasing company; M&T Capital Corporation, a venture capital company;
M&T Credit Corporation, a consumer credit company; and Highland Lease
Corporation, a consumer leasing company.

         M&T Bank, N.A., with total assets of $629 million at December 31, 
1998, is a national bank with an office in Oakfield, New York. M&T Bank, N.A. 
commenced operations on October 2, 1995 and offers selected deposit, loan and 
insurance products on a nationwide basis, primarily through telephone and 
direct mail marketing techniques. Insurance products are also offered by M&T 
Bank, N.A. through banking offices of M&T Bank.

         On April 1, 1998, M&T completed the acquisition of ONBANCorp, Inc.
("ONBANCorp"), a bank holding company headquartered in Syracuse, New York.
Immediately after the acquisition, ONBANCorp's two banking subsidiaries, OnBank
& Trust Co. in Syracuse, which operated 59 offices in upstate New York, and
Franklin First Savings Bank in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, which operated 19
offices in northeastern Pennsylvania, were merged with and into


                                      -23-


M&T Bank. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of
accounting and, accordingly, the operations acquired from ONBANCorp have been
included in the financial results of the Company since the acquisition date.
ONBANCorp's stockholders received $266.3 million in cash and 1,429,998 shares of
M&T common stock in exchange for ONBANCorp shares outstanding at the time of
acquisition. The accompanying table provides a summary of assets acquired and
liabilities assumed on April 1, 1998 in connection with the ONBANCorp
transaction:



         In connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded approximately
$563 million of goodwill and core deposit intangible, and incurred nonrecurring
expenses related to systems conversions and other costs of integrating and
conforming the acquired operations with and into the operations of M&T Bank.
Such expenses totaled $21.3 million ($14.0 million after-tax) during the year
ended December 31, 1998 and consisted largely of expenses for professional
services and other temporary help fees associated with the conversion of systems
and/or integration of operations; recruiting and other incentive compensation;
initial marketing and promotion expenses designed to introduce M&T Bank to
ONBANCorp customers; and printing, supplies and other costs of commencing
operations in new market regions. Since the systems conversions and integration
of operations is complete, the Company does not expect to incur a material
amount of additional integration costs. In accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, included in the determination of goodwill were charges,
net of applicable income taxes, of $16.8 million for severance of former
ONBANCorp employees; investment banking, legal and other professional fees; and
termination of ONBANCorp contracts for data processing and other services. As of
December 31, 1998, the remaining unpaid portion of merger-related expenses and
charges included in the determination of goodwill were $2.1 million and $1.1
million, respectively. The resolution of any preacquisition contingencies is not
expected to have a material impact on the allocation of the purchase price or
the amount of goodwill recorded as part of the acquisition.

         On December 9, 1998, M&T entered into a definitive agreement with FNB
Rochester Corp. ("FNB"), a bank holding company headquartered in Rochester, New
York, providing for a merger between the two companies. FNB, with total assets
of $588 million as of December 31, 1998, is the parent company of First National
Bank of Rochester, which has 19 offices in western and central New York State.
Under the terms of the merger agreement, stockholders of FNB may elect to
receive .06766 of a share of M&T common stock (and cash in lieu of any
fractional share) or $33.00 in cash for each outstanding share of FNB common
stock. Subject to certain adjustments set forth in the merger agreements, 50% of
the 3,625,806 shares of FNB common stock outstanding on



                                      -24-



December 9, 1998 will be exchanged for shares of M&T common stock and the
remaining shares will be converted for cash. The elections of FNB's stockholders
will be subject to allocation and proration if either portion of the merger
consideration is oversubscribed. The merger, which will be accounted for as a
purchase, has been approved by the boards of directors of each company, and is
subject to certain conditions, including regulatory approvals and approval of
FNB's stockholders. It is anticipated that the merger will take place during the
second quarter of 1999.

         On July 31, 1998, M&T completed the sale of its retail credit card
business, including outstanding balances of approximately $186 million on that
date, and recognized a pre-tax gain of approximately $3.2 million. M&T continues
to offer credit cards to its customers in the name of M&T Bank, but the
cardholder accounts are owned and serviced by the purchaser of that business.


OVERVIEW

The Company's net income was $208.0 million or $26.16 of diluted earnings per
common share in 1998, increases of 18% and 4%, respectively, from $176.2 million
or $25.26 per diluted share in 1997. Basic earnings per share rose 3% to $27.30
in 1998 from $26.60 in 1997. In 1996, net income totaled $151.1 million while
diluted and basic earnings per share were $21.08 and $22.54, respectively. The
after-tax impact of nonrecurring expenses associated with merging the operations
of ONBANCorp into the Company during 1998 was $14.0 million, representing $1.76
of diluted earnings per share and $1.84 of basic earnings per share.

         Net income expressed as a rate of return on average assets in 1998 was
1.14%, compared with 1.32% in 1997 and 1.21% in 1996. The return on average
common stockholders' equity was 13.86% in 1998, 18.49% in 1997 and 17.60% in
1996. Excluding the impact of merger-related expenses, the rates of return on
average assets and average common equity in 1998 were 1.21% and 14.79%,
respectively.

         Growth in average loans outstanding, including the impact of the $3.0
billion of loans obtained on April 1, 1998 in the ONBANCorp acquisition, was the
leading factor for a 19% increase in taxable-equivalent net interest income to
$671 million in 1998 from $563 million in 1997. Average loans totaled $14.3
billion in 1998, up 30% from $11.0 billion in 1997. Similarly, average earning
assets increased 32%, to $16.9 billion in 1998 from $12.8 billion in 1997. An 8%
increase in average loans in 1997 was also the most significant factor for the
rise in that year's net interest income from $536 million in 1996. Average loans
and average earning assets in 1996 were $10.1 billion and $12.0 billion,
respectively. Improvement in 1998's net interest income resulting from asset
growth was partially offset by a reduction of the Company's net interest margin,
or taxable-equivalent net interest income expressed as a percentage of average
earning assets. Net interest margin in 1998 was 3.97%, compared with 4.40% in
1997 and 4.45% in 1996.

         The provision for possible credit losses was $43.2 million in 1998,
compared with $46.0 million in 1997 and $43.3 million in 1996. Net charge-offs
in 1998 were $39.4 million, compared with $41.8 million in 1997 and $35.2
million in 1996. Included in net charge-offs were net consumer loan charge-offs
totaling $31.5 million in 1998, $35.8 million in 1997 and $28.5 million in 1996.
Net charge-offs of credit card balances included in the consumer loan amounts
were $14.4 million in 1998, $19.0 million in 1997, and $15.9 million in 1996. As
a percentage of average loans outstanding, net charge-offs declined to .28% in
1998, compared with .38% in 1997 and .35% in 1996.


                                      -25-



         In January 1998, M&T contributed appreciated investment securities with
a fair value of $24.6 million to an affiliated, tax-exempt private charitable
foundation. As a result of this transfer, the Company incurred charitable
contributions expense of $24.6 million and recognized tax-exempt other income of
$15.3 million. The transfer provided an income tax benefit of approximately
$10.0 million and, accordingly, resulted in an after-tax increase in net income
of $0.7 million, or $.09 per diluted share. Excluding the effect of this
transfer, noninterest income totaled $255 million in 1998, 32% above the $193
million in 1997 and 50% above the $170 million in 1996. Approximately 40% of the
increase from 1997 to 1998 was attributable to revenues related to operations
and/or market areas associated with the ONBANCorp acquisition. Higher revenues
from mortgage banking, trust activities and a bank-owned life insurance program
also contributed to the increases from prior years. Excluding $24.6 million of
expense related to the previously mentioned transfer of securities to an
affiliated charitable foundation in 1998, noninterest expense was $542 million
in 1998, up 28% from $422 million in 1997 and 32% from $409 million in 1996. A
$27.2 million increase in amortization of goodwill and core deposit intangible,
$21.3 million of nonrecurring merger-related expenses and operating expenses
related to the acquired operations of ONBANCorp significantly contributed to the
increase in expenses from 1997 to 1998. Expenses associated with expanding
certain businesses providing loan and investment services contributed to the
increase in expenses from 1996 and 1997.


CASH OPERATING RESULTS

As a result of the acquisition of ONBANCorp on April 1, 1998 and, to a
significantly lesser extent, acquisitions of other entities in prior years, the
Company had recorded as assets at December 31, 1998 goodwill and core deposit
intangible totaling $546 million. Since the amortization of goodwill and core
deposit intangible does not result in a cash expense, M&T believes that
supplemental reporting of its operating results on a "cash" (or "tangible")
basis (which excludes the after-tax effect of amortization of goodwill and core
deposit intangible and the related asset balances) presents a relevant measure
of financial performance and better reflects the cash return on the investments
made by M&T to improve and expand its franchise. The supplemental cash basis
data presented herein do not exclude the effect of other non-cash operating
expenses such as depreciation, provision for possible credit losses, or deferred
income taxes associated with the results of operations.

         Excluding nonrecurring merger-related expenses, cash net income was
$251.9 million in 1998, up 38% from $182.4 million in 1997. On the same basis,
diluted and basic earnings per share were $31.69 and $33.06, respectively, up
21% and 20%, respectively, from $26.14 and $27.53 in 1997. In 1996, cash net
income was $156.7 million while diluted and basic cash earnings per share were
$21.85 and $23.38, respectively.

         Cash return on average tangible assets, excluding the impact of
nonrecurring merger-related expenses, was 1.41% in 1998, compared with 1.37% in
1997 and 1.26% in 1996. Cash return on average tangible common equity, also
before one-time expenses, was 23.08% in 1998, compared with 19.56% and 18.79% in
1997 and 1996, respectively.


NET INTEREST INCOME/LENDING AND FUNDING ACTIVITIES

Net interest income expressed on a taxable-equivalent basis increased 19% to
$671 million in 1998 from $563 million in 1997. This increase resulted from
growth in average earning assets, which rose $4.1 billion or 32% to $16.9
billion in 1998 from $12.8 billion in 1997. Taxable-equivalent net interest


                                      -26-


income and average earning assets in 1996 were $536 million and $12.0 billion,
respectively. Growth in average earning assets in 1998 was largely attributable
to higher average loans and leases outstanding, which totaled $14.3 billion in
1998, up 30% from $11.0 billion in 1997. The primary reason for the higher loan
balances in 1998 was the $3.0 billion of loans obtained on April 1, 1998 from
the ONBANCorp acquisition, including approximately $450 million of commercial
loans, $380 million of commercial real estate loans, $1.2 billion of residential
mortgage loans and $930 million of consumer loans. Partially offsetting these
increases in average loans and leases was the impact of the July 1998 sale of
M&T's retail credit card business. Average credit card balances for 1998 were
$136 million, compared with $268 million in 1997 and $258 million in 1996.
Average loans in 1997 were 8% higher than the $10.1 billion in 1996. The
accompanying table 4 summarizes average loans and leases outstanding in 1998 and
percentage changes in the major components of the loan and lease portfolio over
the past two years.

         Loans secured by real estate, including outstanding home equity loans
and lines of credit which are classified as consumer loans, represented
approximately 66% of the loan and lease portfolio during 1998, up from 64% in
1997 and 1996. At December 31, 1998, the Company held approximately $5.5 billion
of commercial real estate loans, $4.3 billion of consumer real estate mortgage
loans secured by one-to-four family residential properties and $739 million of
outstanding home equity loans and lines of credit, compared with $4.4 billion,
$2.5 billion and $654 million, respectively, at December 31, 1997.

         Commercial real estate loans originated by the Company are
predominately secured by properties in the New York City metropolitan area,
including areas in neighboring states generally considered to be within
commuting distance of New York City, and Western New York, which includes
Buffalo, Niagara Falls, Rochester and surrounding areas. Commercial real estate
loans are also originated in the Syracuse, Albany, Hudson Valley and Southern
Tier regions of New York State, as well as in northeastern Pennsylvania. Most
commercial real estate loans in the Company's portfolio are either fixed-rate
instruments with monthly payments and a balloon payment of the remaining
principal at maturity, often five years after loan origination, or adjustable
rate loans. For borrowers in good standing, the customer may extend the terms of
the loan agreement for an additional five years at the then-current market rate
of interest. In recent years, in response to customer needs, the Company has
also originated fixed-rate commercial real estate loans with maturities of
greater than five years. In general, these loans have original maturity terms of
approximately ten years. The accompanying table 6 presents commercial real
estate loans at December 31, 1998 by geographic area, type of collateral and
size of the loans outstanding. Of the $2.7 billion of commercial real estate
loans in the New York City metropolitan area, approximately 52% were secured by
multi-family residential properties, 22% by retail space and 9% by office space.
The Company's experience has been that office space and retail properties tend
to demonstrate more volatile fluctuations in value through economic cycles and
changing economic conditions than do multi-family residential properties.
Approximately 61% of the aggregate dollar amount of New York City area loans
were for $5 million or less, while loans of more than $10 million made up
approximately 22% of the total. Commercial real estate loans secured by
properties elsewhere in New York State tend to have a greater diversity of
collateral types and include a significant amount of lending to customers who
use the mortgaged property in their trade or business. Approximately 78% of the
aggregate dollar amount of loans in this segment of the portfolio were for $5
million or less.

         Commercial real estate loans secured by properties located outside of
New York State and outside of areas of neighboring states considered to be part
of the New York City metropolitan area comprised 8% of total commercial


                                      -27-



         real estate loans.

         Amounts presented as construction lending in the accompanying table
represent commercial construction loans for which the Company has not committed
to provide permanent financing. Such loans totaled $363 million, or 2% of total
loans and leases at December 31, 1998.

         Real estate loans secured by one-to-four family residential properties
totaled $4.3 billion at December 31, 1998, including approximately 62% secured
by properties located in New York State. At December 31, 1998, $445 million of
residential real estate loans were held for sale by M&T Mortgage Corporation,
the Company's mortgage banking subsidiary.

         Consumer loans and leases represented approximately 19% of the average
loan portfolio during 1998, compared with 21% in 1997 and 22% in 1996.
Automobile loans and home equity loans and lines of credit represent the largest
components of the consumer loan portfolio. At December 31, 1998, 52% of the
automobile loan portfolio was to borrowers in New York State, while the
remainder was largely to borrowers in Pennsylvania. Automobile loans and leases
are generally originated through dealers, however, all applications submitted by
dealers are subject to the Company's normal underwriting and loan approval
procedures. Automobile loans and leases represented approximately 9% of the
Company's average loan portfolio during 1998, while no other consumer loan
product represented more than 5%. Due to poorer than expected results, during
1998 and 1997 the Company terminated all of its co-branded credit card programs
and, as already discussed, sold its retail credit card business on July 31,
1998, including outstanding balances of approximately $186 million.

         The Company's investment securities portfolio averaged $2.4 billion in
1998, $1.7 billion in 1997 and $1.8 billion in 1996. Investment securities
obtained in the acquisition of ONBANCorp added approximately $800 million to the
average balance during 1998. The size of the investment securities portfolio is
influenced by such factors as demand for loans, which generally yield more than
investment securities, ongoing repayments, the level of deposits, and management
of balance sheet size and resulting capital ratios. The investment securities
portfolio is largely comprised of mortgage-backed securities, collateralized
mortgage obligations, and shorter-term U.S. Treasury notes. When purchasing
investment securities, the Company considers its overall interest-rate risk
profile as well as the adequacy of expected returns relative to prepayment and
other risks assumed. The Company occasionally sells investment securities as a
result of changes in interest rates, actual or anticipated prepayments, or
credit risk associated with a particular security.

         Money-market assets, which are comprised of interest-earning deposits
at banks, interest-earning trading account assets, Federal funds sold and
agreements to resell securities, averaged $230 million in 1998, compared with
$123 million in 1997 and $110 million in 1996.

         Core deposits represent the most significant source of funding to the
Company and generally carry lower interest rates than wholesale funds of
comparable maturities. Core deposits consist of noninterest-bearing deposits,
interest-bearing transaction accounts, savings deposits and nonbrokered domestic
time deposits under $100,000. The Company's branch network is its principal
source of core deposits. Certificates of deposit under $100,000 generated on a
nationwide basis by M&T Bank, N.A. are also included in core deposits. Average
core deposits rose to $10.7 billion in 1998, up from $8.3 billion in 1997 and
$8.0 billion in 1996. Core deposits obtained on April 1, 1998 in the acquisition
of ONBANCorp totaled approximately $2.8 billion. Average core deposits of M&T
Bank, N.A. were $401 million in 1998, $432 million in 1997 and $261 million in
1996. Funding


                                      -28-


         provided by core deposits totaled 63% of average earning assets in
1998, compared with 65% in 1997 and 66% in 1996. An analysis of changes in the
components of core deposits is presented in the accompanying table 7.

         Domestic time deposits of $100,000 or more, deposits originated through
the Company's offshore branch office, and brokered certificates of deposit also
provide funding to the Company. Domestic time deposits over $100,000, excluding
brokered certificates of deposit, averaged $1.3 billion in 1998, compared with
$1.0 billion and $892 million in 1997 and 1996, respectively. Offshore branch
deposits, comprised primarily of accounts with balances of $100,000 or more,
averaged $288 million in 1998, compared with $230 million in 1997 and $239
million in 1996. Brokered deposits averaged $1.4 billion in 1998 and 1997 and
$1.1 billion in 1996, and totaled $1.3 billion at December 31, 1998. Brokered
deposits are used as an alternative to short-term borrowings to lengthen the
average maturity of interest-bearing liabilities. The weighted-average remaining
term to maturity of brokered deposits at December 31, 1998 was 2 years. However,
certain of the deposits have provisions that allow early redemption.
Nevertheless, in connection with the Company's management of interest rate risk,
interest rate swaps have been entered into under which the Company receives a
fixed rate of interest and pays a variable rate and that have notional amounts
and terms substantially similar to the amounts and terms of the brokered
deposits. Additional amounts of brokered deposits may be solicited in the future
depending on market conditions and the cost of funds available from alternative
sources at the time.

         The Company also uses borrowings from banks, securities dealers, the
Federal Home Loan Banks ("FHLB") and others as funding sources. Short-term
borrowings averaged $1.9 billion in 1998, $812 million in 1997 and $1.1 billion
in 1996. In general, short-term borrowings have been used to fund the Company's
discretionary investments in money-market assets and investment securities, and,
if necessary, to replace deposit outflows or provide funding for loan growth.
Long-term borrowings averaged $835 million in 1998, $373 million in 1997 and
$189 million in 1996. Long-term borrowings include $250 million of trust
preferred securities issued by two special-purpose entities formed by M&T during
the first half of 1997 and similar securities with a carrying value of $69
million that were issued in the first quarter of 1997 by a special-purpose
entity formed by ONBANCorp. Further information regarding the trust preferred
securities is provided in note 8 of Notes to Financial Statements. Average
long-term borrowings included amounts borrowed from the FHLB of $343 million in
1998 and $2 million in 1997 and 1996, as well as $175 million of subordinated
capital notes issued in prior years by M&T Bank. Information regarding
contractual maturities of long-term borrowings is presented in note 8 of Notes
to Financial Statements.

         In addition to changes in the composition of the Company's earning
assets and interest-bearing liabilities, as described herein, net interest
income is also affected by changes in interest rates and spreads. The increase
in net interest income resulting from growth in average earning assets in 1998
was partially offset by a narrowing of the net interest spread, or the
difference between the yield on earning assets and the rate paid on
interest-bearing liabilities. The net interest spread was 3.39% in 1998,
compared with 3.71% in 1997. The yield on earning assets decreased 34 basis
points (hundredths of one percent) to 8.03% in 1998 from 8.37% in 1997. Lower
yielding residential real estate loans, consumer loans and investment securities
acquired in the ONBANCorp transaction; the July 1998 sale of the Company's
retail credit card business; and competitive pressure on interest rates charged
for newly originated loans, particularly commercial loans and commercial real
estate loans, contributed to the decline in yield. The rate paid on
interest-bearing liabilities was 4.64% in 1998, compared with 4.66% in 1997. In
1996, the net interest spread was 3.80%, the yield on earning assets was 8.33%
and the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities was 4.53%.


                                      -29-


Generally higher prevailing interest rates and the effect of the previously
discussed issuances of $250 million of trust preferred securities during 1997
contributed to the increase in the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities in
1997 from 1996.

         Interest-free funds, consisting largely of noninterest-bearing deposits
and stockholders' equity, contributed .58% to net interest margin in 1998,
compared with .69% in 1997 and .65% in 1996. Average interest-free funds were
$2.1 billion in 1998, $1.9 billion in 1997 and $1.7 billion in 1996. The decline
in the contribution to net interest margin of interest-free funds in 1998 from
1997 and 1996 was due, in part, to the goodwill and core deposit intangible
assets recorded in conjunction with the ONBANCorp acquisition, which averaged
$413 million during 1998, and the cash surrender value of bank-owned life
insurance, which averaged $314 million in 1998, compared with $41 million in
1997 and none in 1996. Increases in the cash surrender value of bank-owned life
insurance are not included in interest income, but rather are recorded in "other
revenues from operations." These two noninterest earning assets mitigated much
of the benefit derived from increases in noninterest-bearing deposits and
stockholders' equity resulting from the ONBANCorp transaction.

         Future changes in market interest rates or spreads, as well as changes
in the composition of the Company's portfolios of earning assets and
interest-bearing liabilities that result in reductions in spreads could
adversely impact the Company's net interest margin and net interest income.
Management assesses the potential impact of future changes in interest rates and
spreads by projecting net interest income under a number of different interest
rate scenarios. As part of the management of interest rate risk, the Company
utilizes interest rate swap agreements to modify the repricing characteristics
of certain portions of the loan and deposit portfolios. Revenue and expense
arising from these agreements are reflected in either the yields earned on
assets or, as appropriate, the rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities.
Excluding forward-starting swaps, the notional amount of interest rate swaps
entered into for interest rate risk management purposes as of December 31, 1998
was approximately $2.4 billion. In general, under the terms of these swaps, the
Company receives payments based on the outstanding notional amount of the swaps
at fixed rates of interest and makes payments at variable rates. However, under
terms of $82 million of swaps, the Company pays a fixed rate of interest and
receives a variable rate. To help manage exposure resulting from changing
interest rates in future years, as of December 31, 1998, the Company had also
entered into forward-starting swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $391
million in which the Company will pay a fixed rate of interest and receive a
variable rate. Such forward-starting swaps had no effect on the Company's net
interest income through December 31, 1998. The average notional amounts of
interest rate swaps entered into for interest rate risk management purposes and
the related effect on net interest income and margin are presented in the
accompanying table 8.

         The Company estimates that as of December 31, 1998 it would have
received approximately $23 million if all interest rate swap agreements entered
into for interest rate risk management purposes had been terminated. This
estimated fair value of the interest rate swap portfolio results from the
effects of changing interest rates and should be considered in the context of
the entire balance sheet and the Company's overall interest rate risk profile.
Changes in the estimated fair value of interest rate swaps entered into for
interest rate risk management purposes are not reflected in the consolidated
financial statements. Additional information about interest rate swaps is
included in note 17 of Notes to Financial Statements.


                                      -30-


PROVISION FOR POSSIBLE CREDIT LOSSES

The provision for possible credit losses was $43.2 million in 1998, compared
with $46.0 million in 1997 and $43.3 million in 1996. The purpose of the
provision is to replenish or build the Company's allowance for possible credit
losses to a level necessary to maintain an adequate reserve position that
reflects losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. Net
charge-offs for 1998 were $39.4 million, compared with $41.8 million in 1997 and
$35.2 million in 1996. Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans
outstanding were .28% in 1998, .38% in 1997 and .35% in 1996. Nonperforming
loans totaled $117.0 million or .74% of loans outstanding at December 31, 1998,
compared with $80.7 million or .70% of loans a year earlier and $97.9 million or
 .91% at December 31, 1996. Included in nonperforming loans at December 31, 1998
were $37.3 million of loans obtained in the acquisition of ONBANCorp. The
allowance for possible credit losses was $306.3 million or 1.94% of net loans
and leases at the end of 1998, compared with $274.7 million or 2.39% at December
31, 1997 and $270.5 million or 2.52% at December 31, 1996. The ratio of the
allowance to nonperforming loans at year-end 1998, 1997 and 1996 was 262%, 341%
and 276%, respectively.

         The decline in the allowance as a percentage of total loans at December
31, 1998 as compared with prior years reflects management's evaluation of the
loan and lease portfolio, the July 1998 sale of the retail credit card business,
and other factors. Management regularly assesses the adequacy of the allowance
by performing an ongoing evaluation of the loan and lease portfolio, including
such factors as the differing economic risks associated with each loan category,
the current financial condition of specific borrowers, the economic environment
in which borrowers operate, the level of delinquent loans and the value of any
collateral. Significant loans are individually analyzed, while other smaller
balance loans are evaluated by loan category. Impacting the assessment as of
December 31, 1998 was the effect that volatile economic conditions in foreign
markets were having on the domestic economy. While the Company's direct
international exposure is not significant, volatile conditions in foreign
markets can cause instability in the domestic economy. Given the concentration
of commercial real estate loans in the Company's loan portfolio, particularly
the large concentration of loans secured by properties in New York State, in
general, and in the New York City metropolitan area, in particular, coupled with
the amount of commercial and industrial loans to businesses in areas of New York
State outside of the New York City metropolitan area and significant growth in
recent years in loans to individual consumers, management cautiously evaluated
the impact of interest rates and overall economic conditions on the ability of
borrowers to meet repayment obligations when assessing the adequacy of the
Company's allowance for possible credit losses as of December 31, 1998. Based
upon the results of such review, management believes that the allowance for
possible credit losses at December 31, 1998 was adequate to absorb credit losses
from existing loans and leases.

         The accompanying table 10 presents a comparative allocation of the
allowance for possible credit losses for each of the past five year-ends.
Amounts were allocated to specific loan categories based upon management's
classification of loans under the Company's internal loan grading system and
assessment of near-term charge-offs and losses existing in specific larger
balance loans that are reviewed in detail by the Company's internal loan review
department and pools of other loans that are not individually analyzed. The
unallocated portion of the allowance is intended to provide for probable losses
that are not otherwise identifiable resulting from (i) comparatively poorer
economic conditions and an unfavorable business climate in market regions served
by the Company, in particular areas of New York State outside of the New York
City metropolitan area that have not experienced the same degree of economic
growth evident in much of the rest of


                                      -31-


the country in recent years, (ii) portfolio concentrations regarding loan 
type, collateral type and geographic location, in particular the large 
concentration of commercial real estate loans secured by properties in the 
New York City metropolitan area and other areas of New York State, (iii) the 
effect of expansion into new markets, including market areas of New York 
State and Pennsylvania entered through the acquisition of ONBANCorp, and/or 
new loan product types, including expansion of automobile loan and leasing 
activities in recent years, and, (iv) the possible use of imprecise estimates 
in determining the allocated portion of the allowance. Nevertheless, the 
allowance is general in nature and is available to absorb losses from any 
loan category. Accordingly, the amounts presented in the table do not 
necessarily indicate future losses within the individual loan categories.

         Several factors influence the Company's credit loss experience,
including overall economic conditions affecting businesses and consumers, in
general, and, due to the size of the Company's commercial real estate loan
portfolio, real estate valuations, in particular. Commercial real estate
valuations include many assumptions and, as a result, can be highly subjective.
Commercial real estate values can be significantly affected over relatively
short periods of time by changes in business climate and economic conditions,
and, in many cases, the results of operations of businesses and other occupants
of the real property. Nonperforming commercial real estate loans totaled $17.8
million, $17.4 million and $27.1 million at December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively. At December 31, 1998, $180 thousand of nonperforming commercial
real estate loans were secured by properties located in the New York City
metropolitan area, compared with $7.0 million and $10.3 million at December 31,
1997 and 1996, respectively. Net charge-offs of commercial real estate loans
were $3.6 million in 1998, $.9 million in 1997 and $1.5 million in 1996.
Included in these totals were net recoveries of $.2 million in 1998 and net
charge-offs of $1.1 million and $.6 million in 1997 and 1996, respectively, for
commercial real estate loans secured by properties in the New York City
metropolitan area.

         Net charge-offs of consumer loans totaled $31.5 million in 1998, or
1.13% of average consumer loans outstanding during the year, compared with $35.8
million or 1.55% in 1997 and $28.5 million or 1.30% in 1996. Charge-offs of
credit card balances and indirect automobile loans represented the most
significant types of consumer loans charged off during the past three years. Net
credit card and indirect automobile loan charge-offs during 1998 were $14.4
million and $10.5 million, respectively, compared with $19.0 million and $11.2
million, respectively, in 1997 and $15.9 million and $9.6 million, respectively,
in 1996. Higher levels of consumer bankruptcies in recent years were a
contributing factor to the higher rate of consumer loan charge-offs experienced
which, in general, was consistent with trends reported by other financial
institutions. As previously noted, the Company sold its retail credit card
business in July 1998. Nonperforming consumer loans totaled $25.8 million or
 .89% of outstanding consumer loans at December 31, 1998, compared with $21.9
million or .99% at December 31, 1997 and $17.6 million or .73% at December 31,
1996.

         Commercial real estate loans secured by multi-family properties in the
New York City metropolitan area represented 9% of loans outstanding at December
31, 1998. However, the Company had no concentrations of credit extended to any
specific industry that exceeded 10% of total loans at December 31, 1998.
Furthermore, the Company had no exposure to less developed countries, and only
$25 million of foreign loans in total.

         Assets acquired in settlement of defaulted loans totaled $11.1 million
at December 31, 1998, compared with $8.4 million a year earlier and $8.5 million
at the end of 1996.


                                      -32-


OTHER INCOME

Other income in 1998 included $15.3 million of tax-exempt income resulting from
the previously noted transfer of appreciated investment securities to an
affiliated, tax-exempt charitable foundation. Excluding that income, other
income rose 32% to $255 million in 1998 from $193 million in 1997. Approximately
40% of this increase was attributable to revenues related to operations and/or
market areas associated with the former ONBANCorp. Other income was $170 million
in 1996.

         Mortgage banking revenues, which consist of residential mortgage loan
servicing fee income, gains from sales of residential mortgage loans and loan
servicing rights, and other residential mortgage loan-related fees, increased to
$65.6 million in 1998 from $51.5 million in 1997 and $44.5 million in 1996.
Revenues from servicing residential mortgage loans for others increased to $29.3
million in 1998, compared with $25.7 million in 1997 and $20.9 million in 1996.
Gains from sales of residential mortgage loans and loan servicing rights totaled
$32.4 million in 1998, $23.1 million in 1997 and $21.6 million in 1996. The
Company maintains residential mortgage loan production offices in New York
State, as well as in Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Massachusetts, Ohio, Oregon,
Pennsylvania, Utah and Washington. Due, in part, to generally favorable interest
rates for borrowers, residential mortgage loans originated in 1998 increased to
$3.8 billion, compared with $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion in 1997 and 1996,
respectively. Residential mortgage loans serviced for others were $7.3 billion,
$7.5 billion and $5.8 billion at December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
Capitalized servicing assets were $62 million at December 31, 1998, compared
with $61 million at December 31, 1997 and $38 million at December 31, 1996.

         Service charges on deposit accounts rose 32% to $57.4 million in 1998
from $43.4 million in 1997, and 41% from $40.7 million in 1996. Fees for
services provided to customers in the areas formerly served by ONBANCorp
contributed approximately three-fourths of the increase from 1997. Trust income
increased 25% to $38.2 million in 1998 from $30.7 million in 1997 and 38% from
$27.7 million in 1996. The increase from 1997 was due largely to higher revenues
for investment management and personal trust services. Merchant discount and
other credit card fees in 1998 totaled $12.4 million, compared with $19.4
million in 1997 and $18.3 million in 1996. As noted earlier, during 1997 and
1998 the Company terminated all of its co-branded credit card programs, and on
July 31, 1998 sold its retail credit card business. Total credit card fees
included in merchant discount and credit card fees in 1998 were approximately $9
million, compared with approximately $16 million in 1997 and $15 million in
1996. Through the date of sale, the results of operations of the retail credit
card business in 1998, including internal allocations of the provision for
possible credit losses, interest expense and other expenses, were essentially
break-even. On the same basis, the Company's retail credit card business
incurred losses of approximately $10 million in each of 1997 and 1996. Trading
account and foreign exchange activity resulted in gains of $4.0 million in 1998,
$3.7 million in 1997 and $2.4 million in 1996.

         Excluding the effect of the contribution of securities to the
affiliated foundation, other revenues from operations increased to $75.9 million
in 1998, compared with $44.7 million in 1997 and $36.8 million in 1996. Such
amounts include $17.6 million and $2.3 million in 1998 and 1997, respectively,
from tax-exempt income earned from increases in the cash surrender value of
bank-owned life insurance. There was no such income in 1996. Also included in
other revenues from operations were revenues from the sales of mutual funds and
annuities of $18.0 million, $15.3 million and $13.0 million in 1998, 1997 and
1996, respectively. Other items contributing to the increase in 1998 as compared
with 1997 include a $3.2 million gain from the sale of the retail credit card
business and higher revenues for automated


                                      -33-


teller machine service fees and for credit and other services provided to
borrowers and other customers. Income earned from venture capital and other
investments in 1997 also contributed to the increase in other revenues from
operations as compared with 1996.


OTHER EXPENSE

Excluding $21.3 million of nonrecurring merger-related expenses in 1998;
amortization of goodwill and core deposit intangible of $34.5 million in 1998,
$7.3 million in 1997 and $6.3 million in 1996; and $24.6 million of expense
related to the previously discussed transfer of securities to an affiliated
charitable foundation in 1998, other expense totaled $486 million in 1998, 17%
higher than $414 million in 1997 and 21% higher than $403 million in 1996.
Expenses related to the acquired operations of ONBANCorp significantly
contributed to the higher expense level in 1998. However, since all operating
systems and support operations of ONBANCorp have been converted to or combined
with those of the Company, the Company's operating expenses cannot be precisely
divided between or attributed directly to operations acquired from ONBANCorp or
to the Company as it existed prior to the merger.

         Salaries and employee benefits expense was $259 million in 1998, 18%
higher than the $220 million in 1997 and 25% higher than the $208 million in
1996. Salaries and employee benefits relating to the operations acquired from
ONBANCorp largely contributed to the increased expense level in 1998 over 1997.
Merit salary increases and expenses associated with incentive compensation plans
also contributed to the increase. Partially offsetting the impact of these
higher expenses was a $6.3 million decrease in 1998 from 1997 for expense
associated with stock appreciation rights. Factors contributing to the higher
expenses from 1996 to 1997 were higher incentive-based compensation
arrangements, including stock appreciation rights, and merit salary increases.
The number of full-time equivalent employees was 6,044 at December 31, 1998,
compared with 4,781 at December 31, 1997 and 4,832 at December 31, 1996.

         Excluding one time merger-related expenses and the already discussed
charitable contributions expense in 1998, and amortization of goodwill and core
deposit intangible, nonpersonnel expense totaled $228 million in 1998, 17%
higher than $194 million in each of 1997 and 1996. The increases from 1997 were
largely the result of expenses related to the acquired operations of ONBANCorp
plus an increase in amortization of capitalized servicing rights. Including $3.7
million of amortization of residential mortgage servicing rights obtained in the
ONBANCorp acquisition, amortization of capitalized servicing rights increased to
$19.7 million in 1998 from $14.4 million in 1997. Partially offsetting these
increases in 1998 was a decline in co-branded credit card rebate and other
operating expenses based on card usage of $8.1 million. Excluding a $7 million
charge in 1996 for a special assessment by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation to recapitalize the Savings Association Insurance Fund, nonpersonnel
expense increased 4% from 1996 to 1997. Higher costs associated with the
Company's mortgage banking business, including amortization of capitalized
servicing rights, contributed to the increase.


Income Taxes

The provision for income taxes in 1998 was $117.6 million, up from $105.9
million in 1997 and $97.9 million in 1996. The effective tax rates were 36% in
1998, 38% in 1997 and 39% in 1996. A reconciliation of income tax expense to the
amount computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate to pre-tax
income is provided in note 12 of Notes to Financial Statements.


                                      -34-



INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES

The Company's net investment in international assets was $33 million and $12
million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Total offshore deposits
were $303 million at December 31, 1998 and $251 million at December 31, 1997.


LIQUIDITY, MARKET RISK, AND INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY

The Company is exposed to various risks as a financial intermediary, including
liquidity and market risk. Liquidity refers to the Company's ability to ensure
that sufficient cash flow and liquid assets are available to satisfy demands for
loans and deposit withdrawals, to fund operating expenses, and to be used for
other corporate purposes. Liquidity risk arises whenever the maturities of
financial instruments included in assets and liabilities differ.

         Historically, the Company's core deposits have provided a significant
source of funds. Such deposits are generated from a large base of consumer,
corporate and institutional customers, which over the past several years has
become more geographically diverse as a result of acquisitions and expansion of
the Company's businesses. Nevertheless, in recent years the Company has faced
increased competition in offering services and products from a large array of
financial market participants, including banks, thrifts, mutual funds,
securities dealers and others. As a result, and consistent with banking industry
experience in general, the Company has experienced a reduction in the percentage
of earning assets funded by core deposits. Core deposits financed 62% of the
Company's earning assets at December 31, 1998, compared with 64% and 65% at
December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

         Funding from core deposits is supplemented by the Company with various
wholesale borrowings, including Federal funds purchased and securities sold
under agreements to repurchase, and brokered certificates of deposit.
Additionally, M&T Bank has a credit facility with the FHLB aggregating $1.6
billion of which borrowings outstanding at December 31, 1998 and 1997 totaled
$1.5 billion and $22 million, respectively. Such borrowings are secured by loans
and investment securities. Although informal and sometimes reciprocal, sources
of funding are available to the Company through various arrangements for
unsecured short-term borrowings from a wide group of banks and other financial
institutions. In addition to deposits and borrowings, other sources of liquidity
include maturities of money-market assets and investment securities, repayments
of loans and investment securities, and cash generated from operations, such as
fees collected for services.

         M&T's primary source of funds to pay for operating expenses,
stockholder dividends and treasury stock repurchases has historically been the
receipt of dividends from its banking subsidiaries, which are subject to various
regulatory limitations. However, during 1997 M&T issued junior subordinated debt
to two special purpose subsidiaries which provided a substantial portion of
M&T's funding needs during 1998 and 1997. Additional information regarding the
junior subordinated debt is included in note 8 of Notes to Financial Statements.
M&T also maintains a $25 million line of credit with an unaffiliated commercial
bank, all of which was available for borrowing at December 31, 1998.

         The Company expects to have access to sufficient liquid assets to fund
the cash portion of the previously discussed acquisition of FNB and,
accordingly, management does not anticipate engaging in any activities, either
currently or in the long-term, which would cause a significant strain on
liquidity at either M&T or its subsidiary banks. Furthermore, management closely
monitors the Company's liquidity position for compliance with internal policies
and believes that available sources of liquidity are


                                      -35-


adequate to meet anticipated funding needs.

         Market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market prices
and/or interest rates of the Company's financial instruments. The primary market
risk the Company is exposed to is interest rate risk. The core banking
activities of lending and deposit-taking expose the Company to interest rate
risk. Interest rate risk occurs when assets and liabilities reprice at different
times as interest rates change. As a result of interest rate risk, net interest
income earned by the Company is subject to the effects of changing interest
rates. The Company measures interest rate risk by calculating the variability of
net interest income in future years under various interest rate scenarios using
projected balances for earning assets, interest-bearing liabilities and
off-balance sheet financial instruments. Management's philosophy toward
positioning the Company for interest rate movements is to attempt to limit the
variability of net interest income. The balances of both on- and off-balance
sheet financial instruments used in the projections are based on expected growth
from forecasted business opportunities, anticipated prepayments of
mortgage-related assets and expected maturities of investment securities, loans
and deposits. Management supplements the modeling technique described above with
analyses of market values of the Company's financial instruments. The Company
has entered into interest rate swap agreements to help manage exposure to
interest rate risk. At December 31, 1998, the aggregate notional amount of
interest rate swaps entered into for interest rate risk management purposes was
approximately $2.8 billion, including approximately $391 million of forward
starting swaps. Information about interest rate swaps entered into for interest
rate risk management purposes is included herein under "Net Interest
Income/Lending and Funding Activities" and in note 17 of Notes to Financial
Statements.

         The Asset-Liability Committee, which includes members of senior
management, monitors the Company's interest rate sensitivity with the aid of a
computer model that considers the impact of ongoing lending and deposit
gathering activities, as well as statistically derived interrelationships in the
magnitude and timing of the repricing of financial instruments, including the
effect of changing interest rates on expected prepayments and maturities. When
deemed prudent, management has taken action, and intends to do so in the future,
to mitigate exposure to interest rate risk through the use of on- or off-balance
sheet financial instruments. Possible actions include, but are not limited to,
changes in the pricing of loan and deposit products, modifying the composition
of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and entering into or
modifying existing interest rate swap agreements.

         The accompanying table 14 as of December 31, 1998 and 1997 displays the
estimated impact on net interest income from non-trading financial instruments
resulting from changes in interest rates during the first modeling year. The
calculation of the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest income is
based upon many assumptions, including prepayments of mortgage-related assets,
cash flows from derivative and other financial instruments held for non-trading
purposes, loan and deposit volumes and pricing, and deposit maturities. The
Company also assumes gradual changes in rates of 100 and 200 basis points up and
down during a twelve-month period. As these assumptions are inherently
uncertain, the Company cannot precisely predict the impact of changes in
interest rates on net interest income. Actual results may differ significantly
due to timing, magnitude, and frequency of interest rate changes and changes in
market conditions, as well as any actions, such as those previously described,
which management may take to counter these changes.

         In accordance with industry practice, cumulative totals of net assets
(liabilities) repricing on a contractual basis within the specified time frames,
as adjusted for the impact of interest rate swap agreements entered into for
interest rate risk management purposes, are presented in the


                                      -36-


accompanying table 15. Management believes this measure does not appropriately
depict interest rate risk since changes in interest rates do not necessarily
affect all categories of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities equally
nor, as assumed in the table, on the contractual maturity or repricing date.
Furthermore, this static presentation of interest rate risk fails to consider
the effect of ongoing lending and deposit gathering activities, projected
changes in balance sheet composition or any subsequent interest rate risk
management activities the Company is likely to implement.

         The Company engages in trading activities to meet the financial needs
of customers and to profit from perceived market opportunities. Trading
activities are conducted utilizing financial instruments that include forward
and futures contracts related to foreign currency exchange and mortgage-backed
securities, U.S. Treasury and other government securities, mortgage-backed
securities and interest rate contracts, such as swaps. The Company generally
mitigates the foreign currency and interest rate risk associated with trading
activities by entering into offsetting trading positions. The amounts of gross
and net trading positions as well as the type of trading activities conducted by
the Company are subject to a well-defined series of potential loss exposure
limits established by the Asset-Liability Committee.

         The notional amounts of interest rate and foreign currency trading
contracts totaled $.4 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, at December 31,
1998 and $1.4 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively, at December 31, 1997. The
notional amounts of these trading contracts are not recorded in the consolidated
balance sheet. However, the fair values of all financial instruments used for
trading activities are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet. The fair
values of all trading account assets and liabilities were $173 million and $51
million, respectively, at December 31, 1998 and $57 million and $58 million,
respectively, at December 31, 1997. Given the Company's policies, limits and
positions, management believes that the potential loss exposure to the Company
resulting from trading activities was not material as of December 31, 1998 and
1997. Additional information related to trading derivative contracts is included
in note 17 of Notes to Financial Statements.


CAPITAL

Stockholders' equity at December 31, 1998 was $1.6 billion or 7.78% of total
assets, compared with $1.0 billion or 7.36% at December 31, 1997 and $906
million or 7.00% at December 31, 1996. Stockholders' equity per share was
$207.94 at December 31, 1998, an increase of 33% from $155.86 at December 31,
1997 and 54% from $135.45 at December 31, 1996. Excluding goodwill and core
deposit intangible, net of applicable tax effect, tangible equity per share was
$139.89 at December 31, 1998, compared with $153.24 at December 31, 1997 and
$132.62 at December 31, 1996. The ratio of average total stockholders' equity to
average total assets was 8.20%, 7.16% and 6.92% in 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively. To complete the acquisition of ONBANCorp on April 1, 1998, M&T
issued 1,429,998 shares of common stock to former holders of ONBANCorp common
stock and assumed employee stock options for 61,772 shares of M&T common stock
resulting in additions to stockholders' equity of $587.8 million and $19.4
million, respectively.

         Stockholders' equity at December 31, 1998 reflected a gain of $2.9
million, or $.37 per share, for the net after-tax impact of unrealized gains on
investment securities classified as available for sale, compared with unrealized
gains of $12.0 million, or $1.82 per common share, at December 31, 1997 and a
reduction for unrealized losses of $2.5 million, or $.37 per common share, at
December 31, 1996. The unrealized gains at December 31, 1998 represent the
amount by which the fair value of investment securities classified as available
for sale exceeded amortized cost, net of applicable


                                      -37-


income taxes. The market valuation of investment securities should be considered
in the context of the entire balance sheet of the Company. With the exception of
investment securities classified as available for sale, trading account assets
and liabilities, and residential mortgage loans held for sale, the carrying
values of financial instruments in the balance sheet are generally not adjusted
for appreciation or depreciation in market value resulting from changes in
interest rates.

         Cash dividends on M&T's common stock of $29.0 million were paid in
1998, compared with $21.2 million in 1997 and $18.6 million in 1996. In the
second quarter of 1998 M&T's quarterly common stock dividend rate was increased
to $1.00 per share from $.80 per share. In total, dividends per common share
increased to $3.80 in 1998 from $3.20 in 1997 and $2.80 in 1996.

         In October 1998, M&T announced a plan to repurchase and hold as
treasury stock up to 200,674 shares of common stock for reissuance upon the
possible future exercise of outstanding stock options. As of December 31, 1998,
M&T had repurchased 199,093 common shares pursuant to such plan at an average
cost of $480.40 per share. Including prior repurchase plans completed in 1998
and 1997, M&T repurchased common shares totaling 479,532 in 1998, 207,073 in
1997 and 336,220 in 1996. The total cost of these common stock repurchases was
$231.8 million, $67.8 million and $80.8 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively.

         Federal regulators generally require banking institutions to maintain
"core capital" and "total capital" ratios of at least 4% and 8%, respectively,
of risk-adjusted total assets. In addition to the risk-based measures, Federal
bank regulators have also implemented a minimum "leverage" ratio guideline of 3%
of the quarterly average of total assets. Core capital includes the $250 million
of trust preferred securities issued by two special-purpose entities formed by
M&T during 1997 and similar securities having a carrying value of $69 million
issued by a special-purpose entity formed by ONBANCorp. As of December 31, 1998
total capital further included $145 million of the subordinated notes issued by
M&T Bank in prior years. The capital ratios of the Company and its banking
subsidiaries, M&T Bank and M&T Bank, N.A., as of December 31, 1998 and 1997 are
presented in note 22 of Notes to Financial Statements.

         The rate of internal capital generation, or net income (excluding the
after-tax effect of gains or losses from sales of bank investment securities)
less dividends paid expressed as a percentage of average total stockholders'
equity, was 11.86% in 1998, 16.28% in 1997 and 15.25% in 1996.


YEAR 2000 INITIATIVES

The "Year 2000" problem relates to the ability of computer systems, including
those in non-information technology equipment and systems ("Computer Systems"),
to distinguish date data between the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. The
Company is currently working to resolve the potential impact of the Year 2000
problem. The risk for the Company is that all of the corrections and testing
will not be adequately completed in time for its own Computer Systems and/or for
those of third parties doing business with or providing services to the Company.

         Addressing the Year 2000 problem requires that the Company identify,
remediate and test its Computer Systems that have date sensitive functions. As
part of this process, the Company has identified those of its Computer Systems
which, if uncorrected, would have a material adverse impact on the Company's
customers, the Company's compliance with applicable regulations, or the
Company's financial statements ("Mission Critical Systems"). Management believes
that approximately seventy-five percent of all of the Company's


                                      -38-



Mission Critical Systems are Year 2000 compliant. Management anticipates that
testing of Year 2000 renovations related to the Company's remaining Mission
Critical Systems will be substantially complete by March 31, 1999. The Company
also expects that its remaining Computer Systems will be Year 2000 compliant
before the new millennium.

         The Company could also be adversely affected if its vendors, customers
and other third parties that supply or rely on data processing systems are not
Year 2000 compliant prior to the end of 1999. The Company, therefore, is working
with its data processing vendors and providing information to its commercial
customers regarding Year 2000 issues. Specifically, lending officers have been
trained to address Year 2000 issues with customers, including assessing customer
needs for Year 2000 compliance. The Company is also addressing the Year 2000
risks posed by other third parties such as its funds providers and capital
market/asset management counterparties. Lack of corrective measures by
government agencies or service providers which the Company either receives data
from or provides data to could also have a negative impact on the Company's
operations. Notwithstanding the Company's efforts, a risk remains due to the
uncertainty that such third parties will be Year 2000 compliant before the new
millennium. As a result, it is possible that if all aspects of Year 2000 issues
are not adequately resolved by each of the third parties referred to above, the
Company's future business operations, financial position and results of
operations could be adversely impacted. For example, the credit quality of
commercial and other loans may be adversely affected by the failure of
customers' operating systems resulting from Year 2000 issues.

         Management is monitoring the Company's progress regarding Year 2000
issues. The Company has established a Year 2000 Steering Committee consisting of
senior members of management to oversee all Year 2000 activities. In conjunction
with its assessment of the Company's Year 2000 remediation plans and the
remediation efforts of third parties such as those described in the preceding
paragraph, management is in the process of developing appropriate contingency
plans to mitigate risks associated with critical Year 2000 issues that could
arise during the period leading up to and after January 1, 2000. These
contingency plans, which are expected to be complete by the end of the second
quarter of 1999, will include business resumption contingency plans.

         Through December 31, 1998, the Company has spent approximately $5
million (including approximately $4 million during 1998) in addressing its
potential Year 2000 problems. Management believes that the Company is continuing
to devote appropriate financial and human resources to resolve its Year 2000
issues in a timely manner, and currently estimates that it will expend an
additional $4 to $6 million in order to address Year 2000 issues. A majority of
the Company's past and future Year 2000 costs relate to internal costs and
constitute resources that would otherwise have been reallocated within the
Company. Such reallocation has not had a material adverse impact on the
Company's financial condition or results of operations, nor is it expected to
have a material adverse impact in future periods. Costs associated with Year
2000 issues are recognized in expense as incurred.

         The preceding discussion of Year 2000 initiatives contains
forward-looking statements as to Year 2000 issues. See also the discussion of
Future Factors under the caption "Forward-Looking Statements," which are
incorporated by reference into the preceding discussion.


FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS

Net income in the fourth quarter of 1998 was $57.8 million, an increase of 25%
from the final quarter of 1997 when net income was $46.3 million.


                                      -39-


Diluted earnings per share increased 7% to $7.14 from $6.66 earned in the
year-earlier quarter. Basic earnings per share increased 6% to $7.44 in the
fourth quarter of 1998 from $7.01 in the comparable 1997 quarter. Net income for
the recent quarter expressed as an annualized rate of return on average assets
was 1.14% compared with 1.33% in the year-earlier quarter. The annualized rate
of return on average common stockholders' equity was 14.20% compared with 18.25%
in 1997's fourth quarter. Cash net income in the fourth quarter was $67.3
million, an increase of 41% from the final quarter of 1997 when cash net income
was $47.8 million. Diluted cash earnings per share increased 21% to $8.31 in
1998's final quarter from $6.88 in the comparable period in 1997. Cash return on
average tangible assets was an annualized 1.36% in the recent quarter, compared
with 1.38% in the year-earlier quarter. Cash return on average tangible common
equity rose to an annualized 24.57% in the fourth quarter of 1998 from 19.20% in
the comparable 1997 quarter.

         Taxable-equivalent net interest income increased to $175 million in the
fourth quarter of 1998, up $31 million or 22% from $144 million in the
corresponding 1997 quarter. Growth in average loans outstanding was the primary
factor contributing to the improvement in net interest income. Average loans for
the fourth quarter of 1998 totaled $15.4 billion, a 36% increase from the $11.3
billion average during the fourth quarter of 1997, largely due to the $3.0
billion of loans obtained on April 1, 1998 from the ONBANCorp acquisition. In
total, earning assets averaged $18.4 billion in the final quarter of 1998, up
40% from $13.1 billion in the corresponding 1997 quarter. The yield on earning
assets decreased to 7.73% in the final 1998 quarter from 8.36% in the
year-earlier period due, in part, to lower yielding loans and investment
securities acquired in the ONBANCorp transaction. The impact of lower interest
rates in the fourth quarter of 1998 as compared with the corresponding period in
1997, coupled with competitive pressure on interest rates charged for newly
originated loans during much of 1998, particularly commercial loans and
commercial real estate loans, also contributed to the decline in yield. The rate
paid on interest-bearing liabilities decreased to 4.50% in 1998's final quarter
from 4.72% in the year-earlier period due to generally lower market interest
rates that resulted following actions taken by the Federal Reserve to lower
interest rates in the third and fourth quarters of 1998. The resulting net
interest spread was 3.23% in the recent quarter, compared with 3.64% in the
fourth quarter of 1997. Similarly, net interest margin decreased to 3.77% in the
fourth quarter of 1998 from 4.34% in the year-earlier quarter. Although not
necessarily indicative of future results, the Company's net interest spread and
margin declined in the last three quarters of 1998. As a result, the net
interest spread and margin in the fourth quarter of 1998 were below those
achieved in any other quarter of 1998.

         The provision for possible credit losses was $7.5 million in the 
fourth quarter of 1998, compared with $12.0 million in the year-earlier 
quarter. Net charge-offs totaled $10.7 million in 1998's fourth quarter, 
compared with $9.7 million in the corresponding 1997 quarter. Net charge-offs 
as an annualized percentage of average loans and leases were .28% in the 
recent quarter, down from .34% in the corresponding 1997 quarter. Including 
the impact of the ONBANCorp acquisition, other income rose 27% to $67.2 
million in the fourth quarter of 1998 from $53.0 million in the year-earlier 
quarter, largely due to increases of $3.5 million in the change in cash 
surrender value associated with bank-owned life insurance, $4.6 million in 
service charges on deposit accounts, and $2.4 million in mortgage banking 
revenues. Other expense was $138.8 million in the fourth quarter of 1998, up 
25% from $110.7 million in the fourth quarter of 1997, due largely to a $9.1 
million increase in amortization of goodwill and core deposit intangible and 
higher operating expense levels resulting from combining ONBANCorp with the 
Company.

                                      -40-


SEGMENT INFORMATION

The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No.
131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information," in
1998. The Company's reportable segments have been determined in accordance with
the provisions of SFAS No. 131 and are based upon the Company's internal
profitability reporting system, which is organized by strategic business unit.
Certain strategic business units have been combined for segment information
reporting purposes where the nature of the products and services, the type of
customer and the distribution of those products and services are similar. The
reportable segments are Commercial Banking, Commercial Real Estate,
Discretionary Portfolio, Residential Mortgage Banking and Retail Banking. The
financial information of the Company's segments was compiled utilizing the
accounting policies described in note 21 of Notes to Financial Statements.

         The management accounting policies and processes utilized in compiling
segment financial information are highly subjective and, unlike financial
accounting, are not based on authoritative guidance similar to generally
accepted accounting principles. As a result, reported segment results are not
necessarily comparable with similar information reported by other financial
institutions. Furthermore, changes in management structure or allocation
methodologies and procedures may result in changes in reported segment financial
data. Financial information about the Company's segments is presented in note 21
of Notes to Financial Statements.

         The Commercial Banking segment provides a wide range of credit products
and banking services for middle-market and large commercial customers, largely
within the markets the Company serves. Among the services provided by this
segment are commercial lending and leasing, deposit products, and cash
management services. The Commercial Banking segment's earnings rose 24% to $67.4
million in 1998 from $54.3 million in 1997. Commercial loans obtained from
ONBANCorp and loan growth in most of the markets already served by the Company
were the leading factors contributing to the increase. Net income in 1996 was
$44.4 million. The higher net income from 1996 to 1997 resulted largely from an
$11.6 million increase in net interest income resulting from a 13% increase in
average loans outstanding.

         The Commercial Real Estate segment provides credit and deposit services
to its customers. Loans are largely secured by properties in the New York City
metropolitan area and in Western New York, however, loans are also originated in
the other regions in New York State and Pennsylvania. Commercial real estate
loans may be secured by apartment/multifamily buildings, office space, retail
space, industrial space or other types of collateral. In 1998, the Commercial
Real Estate segment reported net income of $57.3 million, up 8% from $53.0
million earned a year earlier, due in part to the commercial real estate loans
added to the Company's portfolio in the ONBANCorp transaction. An increase in
fees for credit and other services also contributed to the growth in this
segment's net income from 1997 to 1998. The Commercial Real Estate segment
earned $51.4 million in 1996. The increase in net income from 1996 to 1997 was
due largely to an increase in net interest income of $3.5 million resulting from
a 9% increase in average loans outstanding.

         The Discretionary Portfolio segment includes securities, residential
mortgage loans and other assets; short-term and long-term borrowed funds;
brokered certificates of deposit and interest rate swaps related thereto; and
offshore branch deposits. This segment also provides services to commercial
customers and consumers which include foreign exchange, securities trading and
municipal bond underwriting and sales. In 1998, this segment contributed net
income of $31.7 million, compared with $18.5 million in 1997 and $19.2 million
in 1996. Noninterest income increased $16.9 million from 1997 to


                                      -41-


1998 largely due to tax-exempt income earned from increases in the cash
surrender value of bank-owned life insurance. In addition, the ONBANCorp
acquisition added approximately $0.9 billion of residential mortgage loans and
$0.8 billion of investment securities to the average balance of the Company's
discretionary portfolio. The decline in net income from 1996 to 1997 was due, in
part, to a reduction in net interest income resulting from lower average
balances of money-market assets and investment securities in 1997.

         The Residential Mortgage Banking segment originates and services
residential mortgage loans for consumers and sells substantially all of those
loans in the secondary market to investors or to banking subsidiaries of M&T.
The Company maintains mortgage loan production offices in New York State, as
well as Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Massachusetts, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania,
Utah and Washington. The Company also periodically purchases the rights to
service residential mortgage loans. Residential mortgage loans held for sale are
included in this segment. The Residential Mortgage Banking segment had net
income of $19.5 million in 1998, an increase of 77% from $11.0 million in 1997,
largely the result of an 81% increase in residential mortgage loans originated
and a 14% increase to $10.9 billion in loans serviced, including $3.6 billion of
loans serviced for the Company as of December 31, 1998. A favorable interest
rate environment during 1998 was the primary factor leading to the increase in
origination volume and the related increase in net income for this segment when
compared to 1997. In 1996, net income for the mortgage banking segment was $7.8
million. Higher servicing fee income was the leading factor in the increase from
1996 to 1997.

         The Retail Banking segment offers a variety of consumer and small
business services through several delivery channels which include traditional
and "in-store" banking offices, automated teller machines, telephone banking and
personal computer banking. The Company has banking offices throughout New York
State and in northeastern Pennsylvania. The Retail Banking segment also offers
certain deposit and loan products on a nationwide basis through M&T Bank, N.A.
Credit services offered by this segment include consumer installment loans,
student loans, automobile loans and leases (both directly and indirectly through
dealers), home equity loans and lines of credit, and loans and leases to small
businesses. The financial results of Retail Banking also include the results of
the Company's retail credit card business and, in 1998, the $3.2 million gain
that resulted from the sale of that business. The segment also offers to its
customers deposit products, including demand, savings and time accounts;
investment products, including mutual funds and annuities; and other services.
Retail Banking earned $100.1 million in 1998, up 52% from $65.7 million in 1997.
The increase was largely the result of the April 1, 1998 acquisition of
ONBANCorp and a $16.3 million decrease in the provision for credit losses. The
decrease in the provision was largely due to the July 1998 sale of the Company's
retail credit card business and the 1997 and 1998 termination of all of the
Company's co-branded credit card programs. In 1996, Retail Banking had net
income of $53.1 million. The 24% increase in earnings from 1996 to 1997 was due
in part to higher net interest income earned in 1997, largely the result of an
7% increase in average loans outstanding and a 5% increase in average deposits.


RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NOT YET ADOPTED

In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No.
133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." SFAS No.
133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments,
including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for
hedging activities. It requires that an entity recognize all derivatives as
either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet and measure those instruments
at fair value. If certain conditions are met, a


                                      -42-


derivative may be specifically designated as (a) a hedge of the exposure to
changes in the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or an unrecognized
firm commitment, (b) a hedge of the exposure to variable cash flows of a
forecasted transaction, or (c) a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net
investment in a foreign operation, an unrecognized firm commitment, an available
for sale security, or a foreign currency denominated forecasted transaction.

         The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on
the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation. An entity that
elects to apply hedge accounting is required to establish at the inception of
the hedge the method it will use for assessing the effectiveness of the hedging
derivative and the measurement approach for determining the ineffective aspect
of the hedge. Those methods must be consistent with the entity's approach to
managing risk.

         SFAS No. 133 is effective for all fiscal quarters of fiscal years 
beginning after June 15, 1999. Initial application of SFAS No. 133 should be 
as of the beginning of an entity's fiscal quarter; on that date, hedging 
relationships must be designated anew and documented pursuant to the 
provisions of the statement. Early application of all of the provisions of 
SFAS No. 133 is encouraged, but is permitted only as of the beginning of any 
fiscal quarter that began after issuance of the statement. SFAS No. 133 
should not be applied retroactively to financial statements of prior periods.

         The Company intends to adopt SFAS No. 133 as of January 1, 2000;
however, it has not yet quantified the financial statement impact of adoption,
nor has the method of adoption been determined. The Company anticipates that
adoption of SFAS No. 133 could increase the volatility of reported earnings and
stockholders' equity and could result in the modification of certain data
processing systems and hedging practices.

         In October 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 134, "Accounting for
Mortgage-Backed Securities Retained after the Securitization of Mortgage Loans
Held for Sale by a Mortgage Banking Enterprise." SFAS No. 134 revises current
accounting and reporting standards to require that after the securitization of
mortgage loans held for sale, an entity engaged in mortgage banking activities
classify the resulting mortgage-backed securities or other retained interests
based on its ability and intent to sell or hold those investments. SFAS No. 134
is effective for the first fiscal quarter beginning after December 15, 1998. The
Company will adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 134 on January 1, 1999. When
adopted, SFAS No. 134 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company.

         In March 1998, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee of the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued Statement of Position
("SOP") 98-1, "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or
Obtained for Internal Use." SOP 98-1 requires the capitalization of certain
costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining internal-use computer
software. SOP 98-1 is effective for financial statements for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 1998 and should be applied to internal-use software
costs incurred in the year of adoption, including costs relating to those
projects in progress upon initial application of the SOP. The Company intends to
adopt SOP 98-1 on January 1, 1999. When adopted, SOP 98-1 is not expected to
have a material impact on the Company's results of operations or financial
condition.


FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Financial Review and other sections of this Annual Report contain
forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates


                                      -43-


and projections about the Company's business, management's beliefs and
assumptions made by management. These statements are not guarantees of future
performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions ("Future
Factors") which are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results
may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such
forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update
publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information,
future events or otherwise.

         Future Factors include changes in interest rates, spreads on earning
assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and interest rate sensitivity; credit
losses; sources of liquidity; regulatory supervision and oversight, including
required capital levels; increasing price and product/service competition by
competitors, including new entrants; rapid technological developments and
changes; the ability to continue to introduce competitive new products and
services on a timely, cost-effective basis; the mix of products/services;
containing costs and expenses; governmental and public policy changes, including
environmental regulations; protection and validity of intellectual property
rights; reliance on large customers; technological, implementation and
cost/financial risks in large, multi-year contracts; technological,
implementation and financial risks associated with year 2000 issues; the outcome
of pending and future litigation and governmental proceedings; continued
availability of financing; and financial resources in the amounts, at the times
and on the terms required to support the Company's future businesses. These are
representative of the Future Factors that could affect the outcome of the
forward-looking statements. In addition, such statements could be affected by
general industry and market conditions and growth rates, general economic
conditions, including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, and
other Future Factors.


                                      -44-




(a)  Excludes impact of nonrecurring merger-related expenses, net securities
     transactions and contribution of appreciated investment securities to
     affiliated, tax-exempt charitable foundation in 1998.
(b)  Excludes amortization and balances related to goodwill and core deposit
     intangible and nonrecurring merger-related expenses which, except in the
     calculation of the efficiency ratio, are net of applicable income tax
     effects.
(c)  Cash net income excludes the after-tax impact of nonrecurring
     merger-related expenses of $14.0 million or $1.76 per diluted share in
     1998.

                                      -45-




- ----------------- 
     (1)Excludes amortization and balances related to goodwill and core deposit
        intangible and nonrecurring merger-related expenses, net of applicable
        income tax effects.

                                      -46-




- -------------

     * CHANGES WERE CALCULATED FROM UNROUNDED AMOUNTS.
    ** INTEREST INCOME DATA ARE ON A TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS. THE
       TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT ADJUSTMENT REPRESENTS ADDITIONAL INCOME TAXES THAT
       WOULD BE DUE IF ALL INTEREST INCOME WERE SUBJECT TO INCOME TAXES. THIS
       ADJUSTMENT IS PRIMARILY TO INTEREST RECEIVED ON QUALIFIED MUNICIPAL
       SECURITIES AND INDUSTRIAL REVENUE FINANCINGS AND IS BASED ON A COMPOSITE
       INCOME TAX RATE OF APPROXIMATELY 41% FOR 1998 AND 1997, 42% FOR 1996 AND
       1995, AND 43% FOR 1994.

                                      -47-




                                      -48-



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                         Table 5


AVERAGE BALANCE SHEETS AND TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT RATES




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                                                                         Table 5





- -----------------

 *INCLUDES NONACCRUAL LOANS.
**INCLUDES AVAILABLE FOR SALE SECURITIES AT AMORTIZED COST. 



                                                                     (continued)

                                      -49-



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                             Table 5 (continued)

AVERAGE BALANCE SHEETS AND TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT RATES



- -----------------

 *INCLUDES NONACCRUAL LOANS.
**INCLUDES AVAILABLE FOR SALE SECURITIES AT AMORTIZED COST.


                                      -50-



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                         Table 6

COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE LOANS
(NET OF UNEARNED DISCOUNT)
DECEMBER 31, 1998




                                      -51-



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                         Table 7

AVERAGE CORE DEPOSITS




                                      -52-



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                         Table 8

INTEREST RATE SWAPS



- ---------------

*   COMPUTED AS AN ANNUALIZED PERCENTAGE OF AVERAGE EARNING ASSETS OR 
    INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES. 
**  EXCLUDES FORWARD-STARTING INTEREST RATE SWAPS.
*** WEIGHTED-AVERAGE RATE PAID OR RECEIVED ON INTEREST RATE SWAPS IN EFFECT 
    DURING YEAR.


                                      -53-



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                         Table 9

LOAN CHARGE-OFFS, PROVISION AND ALLOWANCE FOR POSSIBLE CREDIT LOSSES




                                      -54-



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                        Table 10

ALLOCATION OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR POSSIBLE CREDIT LOSSES TO LOAN CATEGORIES




                                      -55-



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                        Table 11

NONPERFORMING ASSETS
DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS




- ---------------

* INCLUDED IN TOTAL NONPERFORMING LOANS.


                                      -56-



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                        Table 12

MATURITY OF DOMESTIC CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT AND TIME DEPOSITS
WITH BALANCES OF $100,000 OR MORE




                                      -57-



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                        Table 13

MATURITY DISTRIBUTION OF LOANS*
DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS




*The data do not include nonaccrual loans.


                                      -58-



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                        Table 14

Sensitivity of Net Interest Income to Changes in Interest Rates
(dollars in thousands)



                                      -59-



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                        Table 15

CONTRACTUAL REPRICING DATA
Dollars in thousands by repricing date



                                      -60-



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                        Table 16

MATURITY AND TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT YIELD OF INVESTMENT SECURITIES
DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS



*     INVESTMENT SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE ARE PRESENTED AT ESTIMATED
      FAIR VALUE. YIELDS ON SUCH SECURITIES ARE BASED ON AMORTIZED COST.

**    MATURITIES ARE REFLECTED BASED UPON CONTRACTUAL PAYMENTS DUE. ACTUAL
      MATURITIES ARE EXPECTED TO BE SIGNIFICANTLY SHORTER AS A RESULT OF LOAN
      REPAYMENTS IN THE UNDERLYING MORTGAGE POOLS.


                                      -61-



Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.
         Incorporated by reference to the discussion contained under the
         captions "Liquidity, Market Risk, and Interest Rate Sensitivity" and
         "Capital," and Table 13.

Item  8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA. Financial Statements and
         Supplementary Data consist of the financial statements as indexed and
         presented below and table 2 "Quarterly Trends" presented in Part II,
         Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
         and Results of Operations."

         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                           Report of Independent Accountants

                           Consolidated Balance Sheet -
                           December 31, 1998 and 1997

                           Consolidated Statement of Income -
                           Years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

                           Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows - 
                           Years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

                           Consolidated Statement of Changes in
                           Stockholders' Equity - Years ended December 31,
                           1998, 1997 and 1996

                           Notes to Financial Statements


                                      -62-



                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
M&T Bank Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of M&T Bank
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the related
consolidated statements of income, cash flows and changes in stockholders'
equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1998. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements audited by us present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of M&T Bank Corporation
and subsidiaries at December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1998, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Buffalo, New York
January 11, 1999




                                      -63-



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET




                 SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.



                                      -64-



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME



SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.



                                      -65-


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



See accompanying notes to financial statements.




                                      -66-



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY











- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
See accompanying notes to financial statements.






                                      -67-




                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

In May 1998, First Empire State Corporation changed its name to M&T Bank
Corporation ("M&T"). M&T is a bank holding company headquartered in Buffalo, New
York. Through subsidiaries, M&T provides individuals, corporations and other
businesses, and institutions with commercial and retail banking services,
including loans and deposits, trust, mortgage banking, asset management and
other financial services. Banking activities are largely focused on consumers
residing in New York State and northeastern Pennsylvania and on small and
medium-size businesses based in those areas. Certain subsidiaries also conduct
activities in other states.

        The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The
accounting and reporting policies of M&T and subsidiaries ("the Company")
conform to generally accepted accounting principles and to general practices
within the banking industry. The more significant accounting policies are as
follows:

Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include M&T and all of its subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation. The financial statements of M&T included in note 23 report
investments in subsidiaries under the equity method.

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

For purposes of this statement, cash and due from banks, Federal funds sold and
agreements to resell securities are considered cash and cash equivalents.

Trading account

Financial instruments used for trading purposes are stated at fair value.
Realized gains and losses and unrealized changes in fair value of financial
instruments utilized in trading activities are included in trading account and
foreign exchange gains in the consolidated statement of income.

Investment securities

Investments in debt securities are classified as held to maturity and stated at
amortized cost when management has the positive intent and ability to hold such
securities to maturity. Investments in other debt securities and equity
securities having readily determinable fair values are classified as available
for sale and stated at estimated fair value. Unrealized gains or losses related
to investment securities available for sale are reflected in accumulated other
comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes.

        Other securities are stated at cost and include stock of the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York and the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York and Federal
Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh (together, the "Federal Home Loan Banks").

        Amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts for investment
securities available for sale and held to maturity are included in interest


                                      -68-



                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, CONTINUED

Investment securities, CONTINUED

income. The cost basis of individual securities is written down to estimated
fair value through a charge to earnings when declines in value below amortized
cost are considered to be other than temporary. Realized gains and losses on the
sales of investment securities are determined using the specific identification
method.

Loans

Interest income on loans is accrued on a level yield method. Loans are placed on
nonaccrual status and previously accrued interest thereon is charged against
income when principal or interest is delinquent 90 days, unless management
determines that the loan status clearly warrants other treatment. Loan balances
are charged off when it becomes evident that such balances are not fully
collectible. Loan fees and certain direct loan origination costs are deferred
and recognized as an interest yield adjustment over the life of the loan. Net
deferred fees have been included in unearned discount as a reduction of loans
outstanding. Loans held for sale are carried at the lower of aggregate cost or
fair market value. Valuation adjustments made on these loans are included in
mortgage banking revenues.

        Except for consumer and residential mortgage loans that are considered
smaller balance homogenous loans and are evaluated collectively, the Company
considers a loan to be impaired when, based on current information and events,
it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts according
to the contractual terms of the loan agreement or the loan is delinquent 90
days. Impaired loans are classified as either nonaccrual or as loans
renegotiated at below market rates. Loans less than 90 days delinquent are
deemed to have a minimum delay in payment and are generally not considered
impaired. Impairment of a loan is measured based on the present value of
expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate, the
loan's observable market price, or the fair value of collateral if the loan is
collateral dependent. Interest received on impaired loans placed on nonaccrual
status is applied to reduce the carrying value of the loan or, if principal is
considered fully collectible, recognized as interest income.

Allowance for possible credit losses

The allowance for possible credit losses represents the amount which, in
management's judgment, will be adequate to absorb credit losses from existing
loans and leases. The adequacy of the allowance is determined by management's
evaluation of the loan portfolio based on such factors as the differing economic
risks associated with each loan category, the current financial condition of
specific borrowers, the economic environment in which borrowers operate, any
delinquency in payments, and the value of any collateral.

Premises and equipment

Premises and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation expense is computed principally using the straight-line method over
the estimated useful lives of the assets.



                                      -69-



                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, CONTINUED

Capitalized servicing rights

Servicing rights retained in a sale or securitization of financial assets are
measured at the date of transfer by allocating the previous carrying amount
between the assets transferred and the servicing rights based on their relative
fair values. Servicing assets purchased or servicing liabilities assumed are
initially measured at fair value. Capitalized servicing assets are included in
other assets and amortized in proportion to and over the period of estimated net
servicing income.

        To estimate the fair value of servicing rights, the Company considers
market prices for similar assets and the present value of expected future cash
flows associated with the servicing rights calculated using assumptions that
market participants would use in estimating future servicing income and expense.
Such assumptions include estimates of the cost of servicing loans, loan default
rates, an appropriate discount rate, and prepayment speeds. For purposes of
evaluating and measuring impairment of capitalized servicing rights, the Company
stratifies such assets based on predominant risk characteristics of underlying
financial instruments that are expected to have the most impact on projected
prepayments, cost of servicing and other factors affecting future cash flows
associated with the servicing rights. Such factors may include financial asset
or loan type, note rate and term. The amount of impairment recognized is the
amount by which the carrying value of the capitalized servicing rights for a
stratum exceeds estimated fair value. Impairment is recognized through a
valuation allowance.

Goodwill and core deposit intangible

The excess of the cost of acquired entities or operations over the fair value of
identifiable assets acquired less liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill.
Substantially all of the Company's goodwill is being amortized on a
straight-line basis over twenty years. Core deposit intangibles are amortized on
an accelerated basis over an estimated useful life of ten years. The Company
periodically assesses whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying amounts of goodwill and core deposit intangible may be impaired.
Impairment is measured using estimates of future cash flows or earnings
potential of the operations acquired.

Stock-based compensation

Compensation expense is not recognized for stock option awards to employees
under the Company's stock option plan since the exercise price of options is
equal to the market price of the underlying stock at the date of grant.
Compensation expense for stock appreciation rights issued separately from stock
options is recognized based upon changes in the quoted market value of M&T's
common stock. The pro forma effects of stock-based compensation arrangements are
based on the estimated grant date fair value of stock options that are expected
to vest calculated pursuant to the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation." Pro forma compensation expense, net of applicable income tax
effect, is recognized over the vesting period, which is generally four years.



                                      -70-



                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, CONTINUED

Income taxes

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax effects
attributable to differences between the financial statement value of existing
assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and carryforwards.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates and
laws. Investment tax credits related to leveraged leasing property are amortized
into income tax expense over the life of the lease agreement.

Financial futures

Outstanding financial futures contracts represent future commitments and are not
included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Futures contracts used in trading
activities are marked to market and the resulting gains or losses are recognized
in trading account and foreign exchange gains. On occasion the Company uses
interest rate futures contracts as part of its management of interest rate risk.
Gains and losses on futures contracts designated as hedges are amortized as an
adjustment to interest income or expense over the life of the item hedged.

Interest rate swap agreements

For interest rate swap agreements used to manage interest rate risk arising from
financial assets and liabilities, amounts receivable or payable are recognized
as accrued under the terms of the agreement and the net interest differential,
including any amortization of premiums paid or accretion of discounts received,
is recorded as an adjustment to interest income or expense of the related asset
or liability. To qualify for such accounting treatment, an interest rate swap
must (i) be designated as having been entered into for interest rate risk
management purposes and linked to a specific financial instrument or pool of
similar financial instruments in the Company's consolidated balance sheet and
(ii) have interest rate and repricing characteristics that have a sufficient
degree of correlation with the corresponding characteristics of the designated
on-balance sheet financial instrument. Gains or losses resulting from early
termination of interest rate swap agreements used to manage interest rate risk
are amortized over the shorter of the remaining term or estimated life of the
agreement or the on-balance sheet financial instrument to which the swap had
been linked. Agreements and commitments that do not satisfy the requirements
noted above, including those entered into for trading purposes, are marked to
market with resulting gains or losses recorded in trading account and foreign
exchange gains.

Earnings per common share

Basic earnings per share excludes dilution and is computed by dividing income
available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares
outstanding and common shares issuable under deferred compensation arrangements
during the period. Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution
that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were
exercised or converted into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common
stock that then shared in earnings. Proceeds assumed to have been received on
such exercise or conversion are assumed to be used to purchase shares of M&T
common stock at the average market price during the period, as required by the
"treasury stock method" of accounting.




                                      -71-


                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES, CONTINUED

Treasury stock

Repurchases of shares of M&T common stock are recorded at cost as a reduction of
stockholders' equity. Reissuances of shares of treasury stock are recorded at
average cost.

2.  ACQUISITIONS

On April 1, 1998, M&T consummated the merger ("Merger") of ONBANCorp, Inc.
("ONBANCorp") with and into Olympia Financial Corp.("Olympia"), a wholly owned
subsidiary of M&T. Following the Merger, OnBank & Trust Co., Syracuse, New York,
and Franklin First Savings Bank, Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, both wholly owned
subsidiaries of ONBANCorp, were merged with and into Manufacturers and Traders
Trust Company ("M&T Bank"), M&T's principal banking subsidiary.

         After application of the election, allocation and proration procedures
contained in the merger agreement with ONBANCorp, M&T paid $266.3 million in
cash and issued 1,429,998 shares of common stock in exchange for the ONBANCorp
common shares outstanding at the time of acquisition. In addition, based on the
merger agreement and the exchange ratio provided for therein, M&T converted
outstanding and unexercised stock options granted by ONBANCorp into options to
purchase 61,772 shares of M&T common stock. The purchase price of the
transaction was approximately $873.6 million based on the cash paid to ONBANCorp
stockholders, the market price of M&T common shares on October 28, 1997 before
the terms of the Merger were agreed to and announced by M&T and ONBANCorp, and
the estimated fair value of ONBANCorp stock options converted into M&T stock
options.

         Acquired assets, loans and deposits of ONBANCorp on April 1, 1998
totaled approximately $5.5 billion, $3.0 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively.
The transaction has been accounted for as a purchase and, accordingly,
operations acquired from ONBANCorp have been included in the Company's financial
results since the acquisition date. In connection with the acquisition, the
Company recorded approximately $501 million of goodwill and $61 million of core
deposit intangible. The amount of goodwill may change as certain estimates and
contingencies are finalized, although any adjustments are not expected to be
significant. The goodwill is being amortized on a straight-line basis over
twenty years and the core deposit intangible is being amortized on an
accelerated basis over ten years. The Company incurred expenses related to
systems conversions and other costs of integrating and conforming the acquired
operations with and into the Company of approximately $21.3 million ($14.0
million net of applicable income taxes) during 1998. Since the systems
conversions and integration of operations is complete, the Company does not
expect to incur a material amount of additional integration costs. Expenses
related to systems conversions and other costs of integration are included in
the consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 1998 as
follows:




                                      -72-



                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


2.  ACQUISITIONS, CONTINUED

         The $21.3 million of expenses consisted largely of professional
services and other temporary help fees associated with the conversion of systems
and/or integration of operations; recruiting and other incentive compensation;
initial marketing and promotion expenses to introduce the Company to ONBANCorp
customers; and printing, supplies and other costs of commencing operations in
new market regions.

         Presented below is certain pro forma information as if ONBANCorp had
been acquired on January 1, 1997. These results combine the historical results
of ONBANCorp into the Company's consolidated statement of income and, while
certain adjustments were made for the estimated impact of purchase accounting
adjustments and other acquisition-related activity, they are not necessarily
indicative of what would have occurred had the acquisition taken place at that
time. In particular, expenses related to systems conversions and other costs of
integration are included in the 1998 periods in which such costs were incurred
and, additionally, the Company expects to achieve further operating cost savings
as a result of the Merger which are not reflected in the pro forma amounts
presented below.



         On December 9, 1998, M&T entered into a definitive agreement with FNB
Rochester Corp. ("FNB"), a bank holding company headquartered in Rochester, New
York, providing for a merger between the two companies. FNB had total assets of
$588 million as of December 31, 1998. The merger, which will be accounted for as
a purchase, has been approved by the boards of directors of each company, and is
subject to certain conditions, including regulatory approvals and approval of
FNB's stockholders. It is anticipated that the merger will take place during the
second quarter of 1999. Under the terms of the merger agreement, stockholders of
FNB may elect to receive .06766 of a share of M&T common stock (and cash in lieu
of any fractional share) or $33.00 in cash for each outstanding share of FNB
common stock. Subject to certain adjustments set forth in the merger agreements,
50% of the 3,625,806 shares of FNB common stock outstanding on December 9, 1998
will be exchanged for shares of M&T common stock and the remaining shares will
be converted for cash. The elections of FNB's stockholders will be subject to
allocation and proration if either portion of the merger consideration is
oversubscribed. At December 31, 1998, FNB had 3,628,618 shares of common stock
issued and outstanding.



                                      -73-


                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


3. INVESTMENT SECURITIES

The amortized cost and estimated fair value of investment securities were as
follows:




                                      -74-



                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


3. INVESTMENT SECURITIES, CONTINUED

         No investment in securities of a single non-U.S. Government or
government agency issuer exceeded ten percent of stockholders' equity at
December 31, 1998.

         As of December 31, 1998, the latest available investment ratings of all
privately issued mortgage-backed securities were A or better.

         Investment securities issued by U.S. Treasury and federal agencies and
classified as held to maturity at December 31, 1997 consisted of structured
notes issued by the Federal Home Loan Banks.

         The amortized cost and estimated fair value of collateralized mortgage
obligations included in mortgage-backed securities were as follows:




         Gross realized gains on the sale of investment securities were
$1,808,000 in 1998, $1,179,000 in 1997 and $820,000 in 1996. Gross realized
losses on the sale of investment securities were $47,000 in 1998, $1,459,000 in
1997 and $857,000 in 1996.

         At December 31, 1998, the amortized cost and estimated fair value of
debt securities by contractual maturity were as follows:



         At December 31, 1998, investment securities with a carrying value of
$1,960,999,000, including $1,928,837,000 of investment securities available for
sale, were pledged to secure demand notes issued to the U.S. Treasury,
borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Banks, repurchase agreements, governmental
deposits and interest rate swap agreements.



                                      -75-


                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


4. LOANS AND LEASES

Total gross loans and leases outstanding were comprised of the following:



         One-to-four family residential mortgage loans held for sale were $445.0
million at December 31, 1998 and $189.4 million at December 31, 1997.
One-to-four family residential mortgage loans serviced for others totaled
approximately $7.3 billion and $7.5 billion at December 31, 1998 and 1997,
respectively. As of December 31, 1998, approximately $33.1 million of
one-to-four family residential mortgage loans serviced for others have been sold
with recourse. The total credit loss exposure resulting from loans sold with
recourse was considered negligible.

         Included in the preceding table are nonperforming loans (loans on which
interest was not being accrued, or which were ninety days or more past due or
had been renegotiated at below-market interest rates) of $117,045,000 at
December 31, 1998 and $80,650,000 at December 31, 1997. If nonaccrual and
renegotiated loans had been accruing interest at their originally contracted
terms, interest income on these loans would have amounted to $7,806,000 in 1998
and $7,264,000 in 1997. The actual amount included in interest income during
1998 and 1997 on these loans was $2,367,000 and $2,445,000, respectively.

         The recorded investment in loans considered impaired was $47,248,000
and $32,772,000 at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The recorded
investment in loans for which there was a related valuation allowance for
possible impairment included in the allowance for possible credit losses and the
amount of such impairment allowance were $20,470,000 and $6,758,000,
respectively, at December 31, 1998 and $23,963,000 and $3,095,000, respectively,
at December 31, 1997. The recorded investment in loans considered impaired for
which there was no related valuation allowance for possible impairment was
$26,778,000 and $8,809,000 at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The
average recorded investment in impaired loans during 1998, 1997 and 1996 was
$42,485,000, $37,732,000 and $48,146,000, respectively. Interest income
recognized on impaired loans totaled $2,351,000, $2,051,000 and $1,571,000 for
the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.



                                      -76-


                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


4. LOANS AND LEASES, CONTINUED

         Borrowings by directors and certain officers of M&T and its banking
subsidiaries, and by associates of such persons, exclusive of loans aggregating
less than $60,000, amounted to $22,115,000 and $29,870,000 at December 31, 1998
and 1997, respectively. During 1998, new borrowings by such persons amounted to
$10,387,000 (including borrowings of new directors or officers that were
outstanding at the time of their election) and repayments and other reductions
equaled $18,142,000.

         At December 31, 1998, approximately $1.4 billion of one-to-four family
residential mortgage loans were pledged to secure borrowings.

5. ALLOWANCE FOR POSSIBLE CREDIT LOSSES

Changes in the allowance for possible credit losses were as follows:


6. PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT

The detail of premises and equipment was as follows:



         Net lease expense for all operating leases totaled $20,607,000 in 1998,
$16,983,000 in 1997 and $12,223,000 in 1996. The Company occupies certain
banking offices and uses certain equipment under noncancellable operating lease
agreements expiring at various dates over the next 22 years. Minimum


                                      -77-



                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


6. PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT, CONTINUED

lease payments under noncancellable operating leases are summarized as follows:



         Payments required under capital leases are not material.

7. CAPITALIZED SERVICING ASSETS

Changes in capitalized servicing assets were as follows:



         As a result of impairment of certain strata of capitalized servicing
assets, additions to the valuation allowance totaling $1,000,000 and $500,000
were recorded during 1998 and 1997, respectively. During 1997, the valuation
allowance was reduced by $802,000 to reflect the write-down of the recorded
value of certain capitalized servicing assets related to loans that had been
repaid by borrowers. The estimated fair value of capitalized servicing rights
was approximately $80 million at December 31, 1998 and $84 million at December
31, 1997. Such amounts were estimated using discounted cash flows that reflect
current prepayment and discount rate assumptions as of each year-end.

         The Company adopted SFAS No. 125, "Accounting for Transfers and
Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities," on January 1,
1997. Among other things, SFAS No. 125 required that for each servicing contract
in existence before January 1, 1997 previously recognized servicing rights and
excess servicing receivables that did not exceed contractually specified
servicing fees be combined. The carrying value of such excess servicing
receivables at January 1, 1997 was $4,074,000. Retroactive application of the
provisions of SFAS No. 125 to years prior to 1997 was not permitted.


                                      -78-



                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


8. BORROWINGS

The amounts and interest rates of short-term borrowings were as follows:






                                      -79-


                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


8. BORROWINGS, CONTINUED

         In general, Federal funds purchased and repurchase agreements
outstanding at December 31, 1998 mature within four days following year-end.
Other short-term borrowings consisted of interest-bearing trading account
liabilities and borrowings from the U.S. Treasury, the Federal Home Loan Banks
and others having original maturities of one year or less.

         At December 31, 1998, M&T and M&T Bank had lines of credit under formal
agreements as follows:



         Long-term borrowings were as follows:




         The subordinated notes of M&T Bank are unsecured and are subordinate to
the claims of depositors and other creditors of M&T Bank. Long-term variable
rate advances from the Federal Home Loan Banks had contractual rates that ranged
from 5.19% to 5.44%. The weighted average contractual interest rate was 5.29% at
December 31, 1998. Long-term fixed-rate advances from the Federal Home Loan
Banks had contractual rates of interest ranging from 4.05% to 8.45% at December
31, 1998 and from 7.72% to 8.45% at December 31, 1997. The weighted average
contractual interest rates payable were 6.23% and 8.05% at December 31, 1998 and
1997, respectively. Advances from the Federal Home Loan Banks mature at various
dates through 2006 and are secured by residential mortgage loans.

         In January 1997, First Empire Capital Trust I ("Trust I"), a Delaware
business trust organized by the Company on January 17, 1997, issued $150 million
of 8.234% preferred capital securities. In June 1997, First Empire Capital Trust
II ("Trust II"), a Delaware business trust organized by the



                                      -80-



                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


8. BORROWINGS, CONTINUED

Company on May 30, 1997, issued $100 million of 8.277% preferred capital
securities. As a result of the ONBANCorp acquisition, the Company assumed
responsibility for similar preferred capital securities previously issued by a
special-purpose entity formed by ONBANCorp. In February 1997, OnBank Capital
Trust I ("OnBank Trust I" and, together with Trust I and Trust II, the
"Trusts"), a Delaware business trust organized by ONBANCorp on January 24, 1997,
issued $60 million of 9.25% preferred capital securities. Including the
unamortized portion of a purchase accounting adjustment to reflect estimated
fair value at the April 1, 1998 acquisition of ONBANCorp, the preferred capital
securities of OnBank Trust I have a financial statement carrying value of
approximately $69 million at December 31, 1998.

         Other than the following payment terms (and the redemption terms
described below), the preferred capital securities issued by the Trusts
("Capital Securities") are identical in all material respects:



        The common securities of Trust I and II are wholly owned by M&T and the
common securities of OnBank Trust I are wholly owned by Olympia. The common
securities of each trust ("Common Securities") are the only class of each
trust's securities possessing general voting powers. The Capital Securities
represent preferred undivided interests in the assets of the corresponding trust
and are classified in the Company's consolidated balance sheet as long-term
borrowings, with accumulated distributions on such securities included in
interest expense. Under the Federal Reserve Board's current risk-based capital
guidelines, the Capital Securities are includable in M&T's Tier 1 capital.

        The proceeds from the issuances of the Capital Securities and Common
Securities were used by the Trusts to purchase the following amounts of junior
subordinated deferrable interest debentures ("Junior Subordinated Debentures")
of M&T in the case of Trust I and Trust II and Olympia in the case of OnBank
Trust I:


                                      -81-


                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

8. BORROWINGS, CONTINUED



        The Junior Subordinated Debentures represent the sole assets of each
Trust and payments under the Junior Subordinated Debentures are the sole source
of cash flow for each Trust.

        Holders of the Capital Securities receive preferential cumulative cash
distributions semi-annually on each distribution date at the stated distribution
rate unless M&T, in the case of Trust I or Trust II, or Olympia, in the case of
OnBank Trust I, exercise the right to extend the payment of interest on the
Junior Subordinated Debentures for up to ten semi-annual periods, in which case
payment of distributions on the Capital Securities will be deferred for a
comparable period. During an extended interest period, M&T and/or Olympia may
not pay dividends or distributions on, or repurchase, redeem or acquire any
shares of the respective company's capital stock. The agreements governing the
Capital Securities, in the aggregate, provide a full, irrevocable and
unconditional guarantee by M&T in the case of Trust I or Trust II, or Olympia,
in the case of OnBank Trust I, of the payment of distributions on, the
redemption of, and any liquidation distribution with respect to the Capital
Securities. The obligations under such guarantee and the Capital Securities are
subordinate and junior in right of payment to all senior indebtedness of M&T and
Olympia.

        The Capital Securities are mandatorily redeemable in whole, but not in
part, upon repayment at the stated maturity dates of the Junior Subordinated
Debentures or the earlier redemption of the Junior Subordinated Debentures in
whole upon the occurrence of one or more events ("Events") set forth in the
indentures relating to the Capital Securities, and in whole or in part at any
time after the stated optional redemption dates (February 1, 2007 in the case of
Trust I and OnBank Trust I, and June 1, 2007 in the case of Trust II)
contemporaneously with the Company's optional redemption of the related Junior
Subordinated Debentures in whole or in part. The Junior Subordinated Debentures
are redeemable prior to their stated maturity dates at M&T's option in the case
of Trust I and Trust II and Olympia's option in the case of OnBank Trust I (i)
on or after the stated optional redemption dates, in whole at any time or in
part from time to time, or (ii) in whole, but not in part, at any time within 90
days following the occurrence and during the continuation of one or more of the
Events, in each case subject to possible regulatory approval. The redemption
price of the Capital Securities upon



                                      -82-


                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


8. BORROWINGS, CONTINUED

early redemption will be expressed as a percentage of the liquidation amount
plus accumulated but unpaid distributions. In the case of Trust I, such
percentage adjusts annually and ranges from 104.117% at February 1, 2007 to
100.412% for the annual period ending January 31, 2017, after which the
percentage is 100%, subject to a make-whole amount if the early redemption
occurs prior to February 1, 2007. In the case of Trust II, such percentage
adjusts annually and ranges from 104.139% at June 1, 2007 to 100.414% for the
annual period ending May 31, 2017, after which the percentage is 100%, subject
to a make-whole amount if the early redemption occurs prior to June 1, 2007. In
the case of OnBank Trust I, such percentage adjusts annually and ranges from
104.625% at February 1, 2007 to 100.463% for the annual period ending January
31, 2017, after which the percentage is 100%, subject to a make-whole amount if
the early redemption occurs prior to February 1, 2007.

        Long-term borrowings at December 31, 1998 mature as follows:



9. PREFERRED STOCK

On March 29, 1996, the holder of all of the then outstanding shares of M&T's 9%
convertible preferred stock converted such shares into 506,930 shares of M&T
common stock at a contractual conversion price of $78.90625 per common share.
Dividends paid on the 40,000 shares of preferred stock, which had been issued on
March 15, 1991 for $40 million, were deducted from net income in calculating
basic earnings per share. Calculations of diluted earnings per common share for
periods prior to the conversion reflect the assumption that the preferred stock
had been converted to 506,930 shares of common stock at issuance and that no
preferred stock dividends were paid.

10. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS

Stock option plan

The stock option plan allows the grant of stock options and stock appreciation
rights (either in tandem with options or independently) at prices which may not
be less than the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant.
Awards granted under the stock option plan generally vest over four years and
are exercisable over terms not exceeding ten years and one day. When
exercisable, the stock appreciation rights issued in tandem with stock options
entitle grantees to receive cash, stock or a combination equal to the amount of
stock appreciation between the dates of grant and exercise. Stock appreciation
rights issued independently of stock options contain similar terms as the stock
options, although upon exercise the holder is only entitled to receive cash
instead of purchasing shares of M&T's common stock. Of the stock options
outstanding at December 31, 1998, 783,224 were granted with limited stock
appreciation rights attached thereto. A summary of related activity follows:


                                      -83-



                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


10. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS, CONTINUED

Stock option plan, continued



        At December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively, there were 489,302 and
170,488 shares available for future grant. During 1998, the number of shares
authorized for issuance under the stock option plan was increased to 2,500,000
shares from 2,000,000.

        A summary of stock options at December 31, 1998 follows:



        The Company used a binomial option pricing model to estimate the grant
date present value of stock options granted in 1998, 1997 and 1996. The
estimated value per option was $114.60 in 1998, $79.26 in 1997 and $49.75 in
1996. The values were calculated using the following assumptions: an option term
of 6.5 years (representing the estimated period between grant date and exercise
date based on historical data since inception of the plan), a risk-free interest
rate of 5.53% in 1998, 6.37% in 1997 and 5.48% in 1996


                                      -84-



                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


10. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS, CONTINUED

Stock option plan, continued

(representing the yield on a U.S. Treasury security with a remaining term equal
to the expected option term), expected volatility of 14% in 1998 and 1997 and
15% in 1996, and estimated dividend yields of .72% in 1998, .97% in 1997 and
1.28% in 1996 (representing the approximate annualized cash dividend rate paid
with respect to a share of common stock at or near the grant date). The Company
also deducted 10% to reflect an estimate of the probability of forfeiture prior
to vesting. The estimated forfeiture rate was based on historical data since
inception of the stock option plan.

        The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations in
accounting for the stock option plan. Accordingly, no compensation expense was
recognized in 1998, 1997 and 1996 for stock option awards since the exercise
price of stock options granted under the stock option plan was not less than the
fair market value of the common stock at date of grant. Compensation expense
recognized for cash-only stock appreciation rights was $2,238,000 in 1998,
$8,510,000 in 1997 and $3,974,000 in 1996. Had compensation expense for stock
option awards granted since January 1, 1995 been determined consistent with SFAS
No. 123, net income and earnings per share would be reduced to the pro forma
amounts indicated below:



        The pro forma effects presented above are in accordance with the
requirements of SFAS No. 123, however, such effects are not representative of
the effects to be reported in future years due to the fact that options vest
over several years and additional awards generally are made each year.

Deferred bonus plan

The Company provides a deferred bonus plan to eligible employees which allows
such employees to elect to defer all or a portion of their current annual
incentive compensation awards and allocate such awards to several investment
options, including M&T common stock. Participants may elect the timing of
distributions from the plan. Such distributions are payable in cash with the
exception of balances allocated to M&T common stock, which effective January 1,
1998, are distributable in the form of M&T common stock. As of December 31,
1998, 8,028 shares of M&T common stock were distributable pursuant to the terms
of the deferred bonus plan. In connection with the deferred bonus


                                      -85-



                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


10. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS, CONTINUED

Deferred bonus plan, continued

plan, 15,000 shares of M&T common stock were authorized for issuance, of which
334 shares were issued in 1998.

Directors' stock plan

Effective January 1, 1998, the Company initiated a compensation plan for
non-employee directors which provides that annual compensation payable to such
directors shall be paid fifty percent in cash and fifty percent in shares of M&T
common stock. In connection with the directors' stock plan, 5,000 shares of M&T
common stock were authorized for issuance, of which 451 shares were issued in
1998.

11. PENSION PLANS AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

The Company provides defined benefit pension plan and other postretirement
benefits (including health care and life insurance benefits) to qualified
retired employees.

        Net periodic pension expense consisted of the following:


        Net postretirement benefits expense consisted of the following:






                                      -86-




                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


11. PENSION PLANS AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS, CONTINUED

Data related to the funding position of the plans were as follows:



         The Company has an unfunded supplemental pension plan for key
executives. The projected benefit obligation and accumulated benefit obligation
included in the preceding data related to such plan were $2,356,000 and
$1,863,000, respectively, as of December 31, 1998 and $1,992,000 and $1,495,000,
respectively, as of December 31, 1997.


                                      -87-



                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

11. PENSION PLANS AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS, CONTINUED

         The assumed rates used in the actuarial computations were:



         For measurement purposes, a 7.5% annual rate of increase in the cost of
covered health care benefits was assumed for 1999. The rate was assumed to
decrease gradually to 5% over 6 years. A one-percentage point change in assumed
health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:



         Pension plan assets included common stock of M&T with a fair value of
$14,674,000 and $13,072,000 at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

         The Company has a retirement savings plan ("Savings Plan") that is a
defined contribution plan in which eligible employees of the Company may defer
up to 15% of qualified compensation via contributions to the plan. The Company
makes an employer matching contribution in an amount equal to 75% of an
employee's contribution, up to 4.5% of the employee's qualified compensation.
Employees' accounts, including employee contributions, employer matching
contributions and accumulated earnings thereon, are at all times fully vested
and nonforfeitable. The Company's contributions to the Savings Plan totaled
$6,085,000, $5,221,000 and $4,724,000 in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

12. INCOME TAXES

The components of income tax expense (benefit) were as follows:




                                      -88-



                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED



12. INCOME TAXES, CONTINUED

        The Company files a consolidated federal income tax return reflecting
taxable income earned by all subsidiaries. In prior years, applicable federal
tax law allowed certain financial institutions the option of deducting as bad
debt expense for tax purposes amounts in excess of actual losses. In accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, such financial institutions were
not required to provide deferred income taxes on such excess. Recapture of the
excess tax bad debt reserve established under the previously allowed method will
result in taxable income if M&T Bank fails to maintain bank status as defined in
the Internal Revenue Code or charges are made to the reserve for other than bad
debt losses. At December 31, 1998 M&T Bank's tax bad debt reserve for which no
federal income taxes have been provided was $74,021,000, including $27,304,000
obtained in the acquisition of ONBANCorp. No actions are planned that would
cause this reserve to become wholly or partially taxable.

        The portion of income taxes attributable to gains or losses on sales of
bank investment securities was an expense of $718,000 in 1998 and a benefit of
$114,000 in 1997. The effect on income taxes from sales of bank investment
securities was insignificant in 1996. No alternative minimum tax expense was
recognized in 1998, 1997 or 1996.

        Total income taxes differed from the amount computed by applying the
statutory federal income tax rate to pre-tax income as follows:




                                      -89-



                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED



12. INCOME TAXES, CONTINUED

    Deferred tax assets (liabilities) were comprised of the following at
 December 31:



        The Company believes that it is more likely than not that the net
deferred tax asset will be realized through taxable earnings or alternative tax
strategies.

        The income tax credits shown in the statement of income of M&T in note
23 arise principally from operating losses before dividends from subsidiaries.




                                      -90-


                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED




13. EARNINGS PER SHARE

The computations of basic earnings per share follow:









14. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

The Company adopted SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income," in the first
quarter of 1998. SFAS No. 130 established standards for reporting and displaying
comprehensive income and its components. Adoption of SFAS No. 130 had no impact
on the Company's results of operations or its financial position. Financial
statements presented for periods prior to 1998 were required to be reclassified
to reflect application of the provisions of SFAS No. 130.




                                      -91-


                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


14. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME, CONTINUED

The following table displays the components of other comprehensive income:




(a) Including the effect of the contribution of appreciated investment 
securities described in note 15.










                                      -92-




                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

15. OTHER INCOME AND OTHER EXPENSE

The following items, which exceeded 1% of total interest income and other income
in the respective period, were included in either other revenues from operations
or other costs of operations in the consolidated statement of income:




(a)    In January 1998, M&T contributed appreciated investment securities with a
       fair value of $24.6 million to an affiliated, tax-exempt private
       charitable foundation. As a result of this transfer, the Company
       recognized tax-exempt other income of $15.3 million and incurred
       charitable contributions expense of $24.6 million. These amounts are
       included in the consolidated statement of income in "Other revenues from
       operations" and "Other costs of operations," respectively. The transfer
       provided an income tax benefit of approximately $10.0 million and,
       accordingly, resulted in an after-tax increase in net income of $.7
       million.

16. INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES

The Company engages in certain international activities consisting largely of
collecting Eurodollar deposits, engaging in foreign currency trading and
providing credit to support the international activities of domestic companies.
Net assets identified with international activities amounted to $32,891,000 and
$11,514,000 at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

17. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

As part of managing interest rate risk, the Company has entered into several
interest rate swap agreements. The swaps modify the repricing characteristics of
certain portions of the Company's loan and deposit portfolios. Under terms of
most of the agreements the Company receives a fixed rate of interest and pays a
variable rate based on London Inter-Bank Offered Rates ("LIBOR"). Interest rate
swap agreements are generally entered into with counterparties that meet
established credit standards and most contain collateral provisions protecting
the at-risk party. The Company considers the credit risk inherent in these
contracts to be negligible. Information about interest rate swaps entered into
for interest rate risk management purposes summarized by type of financial
instrument the swaps were intended to modify follows:



                                      -93-




                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

17. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, CONTINUED




Under all swap agreements, the Company receives interest at a fixed rate and
pays at a variable rate, except for:

(a) Under the terms of this swap, the Company receives interest at a variable
rate and pays at a fixed rate.

(b)     Under the terms of these forward-starting swaps the Company will receive
        interest at a variable rate and pay at a fixed rate beginning in the
        years indicated below.



                                      -94-





                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED




17. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, CONTINUED





     The estimated fair value of interest rate swap agreements represents the
amount the Company would have expected to receive (pay) to terminate such
contracts. Since these swaps have been entered into for interest rate risk
management purposes, the estimated market appreciation or depreciation should be
considered in the context of the entire balance sheet of the Company. The
estimated fair value of interest rate swaps entered into for interest rate risk
management purposes is not recognized in the consolidated financial statements.

         The notional amount of the amortizing swaps linked to fixed rate loans
declines by the amount of scheduled principal payments of the loans. The
notional amounts of other amortizing swaps may, following an initial lock-out
period, vary depending on the level of interest rates or the repayment behavior
of mortgage-backed securities to which individual swaps are indexed. The
notional amount of a non-amortizing swap does not change during the term of an
agreement.

         At December 31, 1998 the notional amount of interest rate swaps
outstanding mature as follows:




         The net effect of interest rate swaps was to increase net interest
income by $16,156,000 in 1998, $14,089,000 in 1997 and $15,454,000 in 1996.
Excluding forward-starting swaps, the average notional amount of interest rate
swaps impacting net interest income which were entered into for interest rate
risk management purposes were $2,521,426,000 in 1998, $2,691,638,000 in 1997 and
$2,410,547,000 in 1996.

         During 1995 and 1994, the Company restructured several interest rate
swap agreements with notional amounts of $260 million and $500 million,
respectively, from amortizing to non-amortizing. The purpose of the
restructurings was to enhance the effectiveness of the swaps in managing the
Company's exposure to changing interest rates in future years. Losses resulting
from the early termination of the amortizing swaps and equal amounts of purchase
discount received on the restructured non-amortizing swaps were recognized as a
result of these transactions and included in the carrying amount of loans which
the swaps modified. The deferred losses and



                                      -95-




                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


17. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, CONTINUED

purchase discounts totaled $.3 million and $6.7 million, respectively, at
December 31, 1998 and $9.5 million and $15.8 million, respectively, at December
31, 1997. The deferred losses are being amortized and the purchase discounts
accreted to interest income over the remaining terms of the original swaps and
restructured swaps, respectively. Such amortization and accretion were $9.2
million and $9.1 million, respectively, in 1998, $11.3 million and $9.6 million,
respectively, in 1997 and $12.1 million and $9.8 million, respectively, in 1996.
Net purchase discounts related to the restructured swaps remaining at December
31, 1998 were $6,363,000, of which $5,960,000 will accrete to interest income in
1999.

         Derivative financial instruments used for trading purposes included
foreign exchange and other option contracts, foreign exchange forward and spot
contracts, interest rate contracts and financial futures. The following
table includes information about the estimated fair value of derivative
financial instruments used for trading purposes:



  
        Net gains arising from derivative financial instruments used for trading
purposes were $2,648,000 in 1998, $2,072,000 in 1997 and $2,689,000 in 1996.

18. DISCLOSURES ABOUT FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

SFAS No. 107, "Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments," requires
disclosure of the estimated "fair value" of financial instruments. "Fair value"
is generally defined as the price a willing buyer and a willing seller would
exchange for a financial instrument in other than a distressed sale situation.
Disclosures related to fair value presented herein are as of December 31, 1998
and 1997.

        With the exception of marketable securities, certain off-balance sheet
financial instruments and one-to-four family residential mortgage loans
originated for sale, the Company's financial instruments are not readily
marketable and market prices do not exist. The Company, in attempting to comply
with the provisions of SFAS No. 107, has not attempted to market its financial
instruments to potential buyers, if any exist. Since negotiated prices in
illiquid markets depend greatly upon the then present motivations of the buyer
and seller, it is reasonable to assume that actual sales prices could vary
widely from any estimate of fair value made without the benefit of negotiations.
Additionally, changes in market interest rates can dramatically impact the value
of financial instruments in a short period of time.

        The estimated fair values of investments in readily marketable debt and
equity securities were based on quoted market prices at the respective year-end.
In arriving at estimated fair value of other financial instruments, the Company
generally used calculations based upon discounted cash flows of the related
financial instruments. In general, discount rates used for loan


                                      -96-



                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

18. DISCLOSURES ABOUT FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, CONTINUED

products were based on the Company's pricing at the respective year-end. A
higher discount rate was assumed with respect to estimated cash flows associated
with nonaccrual loans.

        As more fully described in note 3, the carrying value and estimated fair
value of investment securities were as follows:




        The following table presents the carrying value and calculated estimates
of fair value of loans and commitments related to loans originated for sale:




        The allowance for possible credit losses represented the Company's
assessment of the overall level of credit risk inherent in the loan and lease
portfolio and totaled $306,347,000 and $274,656,000 at December 31, 1998 and
1997, respectively.

        As described in note 19, in the normal course of business, various
commitments and contingent liabilities are outstanding, such as loan
commitments, credit guarantees and letters of credit. The Company's pricing of
such financial instruments is based largely on credit quality and relationship,
probability of funding and other requirements. Commitments generally have fixed
expiration dates and contain termination and other clauses which provide for
relief from funding in the event of significant deterioration in the credit
quality of the customer. The rates and terms of the Company's loan commitments,
credit guarantees and letters of credit are competitive with other financial
institutions operating in markets served by the Company. The Company believes
that the carrying amounts are reasonable estimates of the fair value of these
financial instruments. Such carrying amounts, comprised principally of
unamortized fee income, are included in other liabilities and totaled $7,630,000
and $4,911,000 at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.



                                      -97-




                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED


18. DISCLOSURES ABOUT FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, CONTINUED

        SFAS No. 107 requires that the estimated fair value ascribed to
noninterest-bearing deposits, savings deposits and NOW accounts be established
at carrying value because of the customers' ability to withdraw funds
immediately. Additionally, time deposit accounts are required to be revalued
based upon prevailing market interest rates for similar maturity instruments.

        The following summarizes the results of these calculations:




        The Company believes that deposit accounts have a value greater than
that prescribed by SFAS No. 107. The Company feels, however, that the value
associated with these deposits is greatly influenced by characteristics of the
buyer, such as the ability to reduce the costs of servicing the deposits, and
the expected deposit attrition which is customary in acquisitions. Accordingly,
estimating the fair value of deposits with any degree of certainty is not
practical.

        As more fully described in note 17, the Company had entered into
interest rate swap agreements for purposes of managing the Company's exposure to
changing interest rates. The estimated fair value of interest rate swap
agreements represents the amount the Company would have expected to receive or
pay to terminate such swaps. The following table includes information about the
estimated fair value of interest rate swaps entered into for interest rate risk
management purposes:




        As described in note 17, the Company also uses certain derivative
financial instruments as part of its trading activities. Interest rate contracts
entered into for trading purposes had notional values and estimated fair value
gains of $436 million and $723,000, respectively, at December 31, 1998 and
notional values and estimated fair value losses of $1.4 billion and $24,000,
respectively, at December 31, 1997. The Company also entered into



                                      -98-



                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

18. DISCLOSURES ABOUT FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, CONTINUED

foreign exchange and other option and futures contracts totaling approximately
$2.0 billion and $2.1 billion at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Such
contracts were valued at gains of $3,868,000 at December 31, 1998 and losses of
$38,000 at December 31, 1997. All trading account assets and liabilities are
recorded in the consolidated balance sheet at estimated fair value.

        Due to the near maturity of other money-market assets and short-term
borrowings, the Company estimates that the carrying value of such instruments
approximates estimated fair value. The carrying value and estimated fair value
of long-term borrowings were $1,567,543,000 and $1,613,040,000, respectively, at
December 31, 1998 and $427,819,000 and $453,113,000, respectively, at December
31, 1997.

        The Company does not believe that the estimated fair value information
presented herein is representative of the earnings power or value of the
Company. The preceding analysis, which is inherently limited in depicting fair
value, also does not consider any value associated with existing customer
relationships nor the ability of the Company to create value through loan
origination, deposit gathering or fee generating activities.

        Many of the fair value estimates presented herein are based upon the use
of highly subjective information and assumptions and, accordingly, the results
may not be precise. Management believes that fair value estimates may not be
comparable between financial institutions due to the wide range of permitted
valuation techniques and numerous estimates which must be made.

        Furthermore, since the disclosed fair value amounts were estimated as of
the balance sheet date, the amounts actually realized or paid upon maturity or
settlement of the various financial instruments could be significantly
different.

19. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

In the normal course of business, various commitments and contingent liabilities
are outstanding, such as commitments to extend credit guarantees and "standby"
letters of credit (approximately $410,357,000 and $193,838,000 at December 31,
1998 and 1997, respectively) which are not reflected in the consolidated
financial statements. No material losses are expected as a result of these
transactions. Additionally, the Company had outstanding loan commitments of
approximately $3.5 billion and $2.9 billion at December 31, 1998 and 1997,
respectively. Because many loan commitments and almost all credit guarantees and
"standby" letters of credit expire without being funded in whole or part, the
contract amounts are not estimates of future cash flows. Commitments to sell
one-to-four family residential mortgage loans totaled $695,444,000 at December
31, 1998 and $266,145,000 at December 31, 1997.

        M&T and its subsidiaries are subject in the normal course of business to
various pending and threatened legal proceedings in which claims for monetary
damages are asserted. Management, after consultation with legal counsel, does
not anticipate that the aggregate ultimate liability, if any, arising out of
litigation pending against M&T or its subsidiaries will be material to the
Company's consolidated financial position, but at the present time is not in a
position to determine whether such litigation will have a material adverse
effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations in any future
reporting period.


                                      -99-





                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED




20. REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT OF M&T

M&T has a revolving credit agreement with an unaffiliated commercial bank
whereby M&T may borrow up to $25,000,000 at its discretion through November 23,
1999. The agreement provides for a facility fee assessed on the entire amount of
the commitment (whether or not utilized) ranging from .08% to .187% depending on
the credit rating of the subordinated notes of M&T Bank. A usage fee equal to
 .10% per annum is assessed whenever the balance of outstanding loans exceeds 50%
of the commitment amount during any quarter. Under the revolving credit
agreement, M&T may borrow at either a variable rate based upon the higher of the
Federal funds rate plus 1/2 of 1% or the lender's prime rate, or a fixed rate
based upon a premium over LIBOR ranging from .15% to .30% depending on the
credit rating of the subordinated notes of M&T Bank. At December 31, 1998 and
1997 there were no outstanding balances under such agreement.

21. SEGMENT INFORMATION

In 1998, the Company adopted SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information." SFAS No. 131 supersedes SFAS No. 14,
"Financial Reporting for Segments of a Business Enterprise," replacing the
"industry segment" approach with the "management" approach. The management
approach focuses on internal financial information that is used by management to
assess performance and to make operating decisions. SFAS No. 131 also requires
disclosures about products, services, geographic areas, and major customers. The
adoption of SFAS No. 131 had no affect on the Company's results of operations or
financial position.

        The Company's reportable segments have been determined based upon the
Company's internal profitability reporting system, which is organized by
strategic business units. Certain strategic business units have been combined
for segment information reporting purposes where the nature of the products and
services, the type of customer and the distribution of those products and
services are similar. The reportable segments are Commercial Banking, Commercial
Real Estate, Discretionary Portfolio, Residential Mortgage Banking and Retail
Banking.

        The financial information of the Company's segments has been compiled
utilizing the accounting policies described in note 1 with certain exceptions.
The more significant of these exceptions are described herein. The Company
allocates interest income or interest expense using a methodology that charges
users of funds (assets) interest expense and credits providers of funds
(liabilities) with income based on the maturity, prepayment and/or repricing
characteristics of the assets and liabilities. The net effect of this allocation
is recorded in the "All Other" category. The provision for possible credit
losses is allocated to segments in an amount based largely on actual net
charge-offs incurred by the segment during the period plus or minus an amount
necessary to adjust the segment's allowance for possible credit losses due to
changes in loan balances. In contrast, the level of the consolidated provision
for possible credit losses is determined using the methodologies described in
note 1 to assess the overall adequacy of the allowance for possible credit
losses. Indirect fixed and variable expenses incurred by certain centralized
support areas are allocated to segments based on actual usage (for example,
volume measurements) and other criteria. Certain types of administrative
expenses and bankwide expense accruals (including amortization of goodwill and
core deposit intangible) are generally not allocated to segments. Income taxes
are allocated to segments




                                     -100-



                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED



21. SEGMENT INFORMATION, CONTINUED

based on the Company's marginal statutory tax rate adjusted for any tax-exempt
income or non-deductible expenses. Equity is allocated to the segments based on
regulatory capital requirements and in proportion to an assessment of the
inherent risks associated with the business of the segment (including interest,
credit and operating risk).

        The management accounting policies and processes utilized in compiling
segment financial information are highly subjective and, unlike financial
accounting, are not based on authoritative guidance similar to generally
accepted accounting principles. As a result, reported segment results are not
necessarily comparable with similar information reported by other financial
institutions. Furthermore, changes in management structure or allocation
methodologies and procedures may result in changes in reported segment financial
data. Information about the Company's segments is presented in the accompanying
table.


                                     -101-





                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



21. SEGMENT INFORMATION, CONTINUED



                                      -102-




                      M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


21. SEGMENT INFORMATION, CONTINUED




(a)  Net interest income is the difference between actual taxable-equivalent
     interest earned on assets and interest paid on liabilities owned by a
     segment and a funding charge (credit) based on the Company's internal funds
     transfer pricing methodology. Segments are charged a cost to fund any
     assets (e.g., loans) and are paid a funding credit for any funds provided
     (e.g., deposits). The taxable-equivalent adjustment aggregated $7,186,000
     in 1998, $5,840,000 in 1997 and $4,487,000 in 1996 and is eliminated in
     "All Other" net interest income and income tax expense (benefit).

(b)  Including the impact in 1998 on the "All Other" category of the
     contribution of appreciated investment securities described in note 15 and
     nonrecurring merger-related expenses described in note 2.


                                      -103-



                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED



21. SEGMENT INFORMATION, CONTINUED

        The Commercial Banking segment provides a wide range of credit products
and banking services for middle-market and large commercial customers, largely
within the markets the Company serves. Among the services provided by this
segment are commercial lending and leasing, deposit products and cash management
services. The Commercial Real Estate segment provides credit services which are
secured by various types of multifamily residential and commercial real estate
and deposit services to its customers. The Discretionary Portfolio segment
includes securities, residential mortgage loans and other assets; short-term and
long-term borrowed funds; brokered certificates of deposit and interest rate
swaps related thereto; and offshore branch deposits. This segment also provides
services to commercial customers and consumers which include foreign exchange,
securities trading and municipal bond underwriting and sales. The Residential
Mortgage Banking segment originates and services residential mortgage loans for
consumers and sells substantially all of those loans in the secondary market to
investors or to banking subsidiaries of M&T. Residential mortgage loans held for
sale are included in the Residential Mortgage Banking segment. The Retail
Banking segment offers a variety of consumer and small business services through
several delivery channels which include traditional and "in-store" banking
offices, automated teller machines, telephone banking and personal computer
banking. The "All Other" category includes other operating activities of the
Company that are not directly attributable to the reported segments as
determined in accordance with SFAS No.131, the difference between the provision
for possible credit losses and the calculated provision allocated to the
reportable segments, goodwill and core deposit intangible resulting from
acquisitions of financial institutions, the net impact of the Company's internal
funds transfer pricing methodology, eliminations of transactions between
reportable segments, certain nonrecurring transactions, the residual effects of
unallocated support systems and general and administrative expenses, and the
impact of interest rate risk management strategies. The amount of intersegment
activity eliminated in arriving at consolidated totals was included in the "All
Other" category as follows:




        The Company conducts substantially all of its operations in the United
States. There are no transactions with a single customer that in the aggregate
result in revenues that exceed ten percent of consolidated total revenues.

22. REGULATORY MATTERS

Payment of dividends by M&T's banking subsidiaries is restricted by various
legal and regulatory limitations. Dividends from any banking subsidiary to M&T
are limited by the amount of earnings of the banking subsidiary in the current
year and the preceding two years. For purposes of this test, at December 31,
1998, approximately $318,161,000 was available for payment of dividends to M&T
from banking subsidiaries without prior regulatory approval.



                                      -104-



                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED



22. REGULATORY MATTERS, CONTINUED

        Banking regulations prohibit extensions of credit by the subsidiary 
banks to M&T unless appropriately secured by assets. Securities of affiliates
are not eligible as collateral for this purpose.

        The banking subsidiaries are required to maintain noninterest-earning
reserves against certain deposit liabilities. During the maintenance periods
that included December 31, 1998 and 1997, cash and due from banks included a
daily average of $158,696,000 and $124,132,000, respectively, for such purpose.

        Federal regulators have adopted capital adequacy guidelines for bank
holding companies and banks. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can
result in certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary, actions by
regulators that, if undertaken, could have a material effect on the Company's
financial statements. Under the capital adequacy guidelines, the so-called "Tier
1 capital" and "Total capital" as a percentage of risk-weighted assets and
certain off-balance sheet financial instruments must be at least 4% and 8%,
respectively. In addition to these risk-based measures, regulators also require
banking institutions that meet certain qualitative criteria to maintain a
minimum "leverage" ratio of "Tier 1 capital" to average total assets, adjusted
for goodwill and certain other items, of at least 3% to be considered adequately
capitalized. As of December 31, 1998, M&T and each of its banking subsidiaries
exceeded all applicable capital adequacy requirements.

        As of December 31, 1998 and 1997, the most recent notifications from
federal regulators categorized each of M&T's banking subsidiaries as well
capitalized under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. To be
considered well capitalized, a banking institution must maintain Tier 1
risk-based capital, total risk-based capital and leverage ratios of at least 6%,
10% and 5%, respectively. Management is unaware of any conditions or events
since the latest notifications from federal regulators that have changed the
capital adequacy category of M&T's banking subsidiaries.



                                     -105-


                     M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED



22. REGULATORY MATTERS, CONTINUED

        The capital ratios and amounts of the Company and its banking 
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997 are presented below:





(a) The ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets, as defined by regulation 
(b) Minimum amount of capital to be considered adequately capitalized, as
    defined by regulation.
(c) The ratio of capital to average assets, as defined by regulation.



                                     -106-



                 M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

23. PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SEE OTHER NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.


CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




CONDENSED STATEMENT OF INCOME
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                      -107-



                         M&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

23.  PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, CONTINUED

CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                      -108-



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE. None.


                                    PART III


Item 10.       DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT. The term in
               office of Wilfred J. Larson as a director of the Registrant will
               end on April 20, 1999, and he will not be a nominee for
               reelection to the Board of Directors at the 1999 Annual Meeting
               of Stockholders.

               The identification of the Registrant's directors is incorporated
               by reference to the caption "NOMINEES FOR DIRECTOR" contained in
               the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its 1999 Annual
               Meeting of Stockholders, which was filed with the Securities
               and Exchange Commission on March 11, 1999. The
               identification of the Registrant's executive officers is
               presented under the caption "Executive Officers of the
               Registrant" contained in Part I of this Annual Report on Form
               10-K.

               Disclosure of compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities
               Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, by the Registrant's directors
               and executive officers, and persons who are the beneficial owners
               of more than 10% of the Registrant's common stock, is
               incorporated by reference to the caption "Section 16(a)
               Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" contained in the
               Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its 1999 Annual
               Meeting of Stockholders which was filed with the Securities
               and Exchange Commission on March 11, 1999.

Item 11.       EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.  Incorporated by reference to the
               Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its 1999 Annual
               Meeting of Stockholders, which was filed with the Securities
               and Exchange Commission on March 11, 1999.

Item 12.       SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
               Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's definitive Proxy
               Statement for its 1999 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which was
               filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 11, 
               1999.

Item 13.       CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.  Incorporated by
               reference to the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its
               1999 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which was filed with the
               Securities and Exchange Commission on March 11, 1999.



                                      -109-



                                     PART IV

Item 14.       EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

     (a)            Financial statements and financial statement schedules filed
                    as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  See Part II, 
                    Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."

                    Financial statement schedules are not required or are
                    inapplicable, and therefore have been omitted.

     (b)            Reports on Form 8-K.

                    On December 17, 1998, the Registrant filed a Current Report
                    on Form 8-K dated December 9, 1998, reporting on its
                    December 9, 1998 public announcement that the Registrant
                    would acquire FNB Rochester Corp.

     (c)            Exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K.

                    The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index on pages 114
                    through 116 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been
                    previously filed, are filed herewith or are incorporated
                    herein by reference to other filings.

     (d)            Additional financial statement schedules.

                    None.



                                      -110-



                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 12th day of March,
1999.

                                           M&T BANK CORPORATION



                                           By: /s/ Robert G. Wilmers
                                               ---------------------------------
                                           Robert G. Wilmers
                                           President and
                                           Chief Executive Officer


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.




                                      -111-



A majority of the board of directors:






                                      -113-






                                      -116-

