
10-K
10-K




 



                                            
                                    UNITED STATES
                          SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                               Washington, D.C.  20549

                                      FORM 10-K

              [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                           SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996
                                          or
            [ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                           SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                            Commission file number 1-9861

                            FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION
              (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              New York                           16-0968385 
      (State of incorporation)         (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

     One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York                    14240   
(Address of principal executive offices)              (Zip Code)

   Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (716)842-5445

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

  Common Stock, $5 par value               American Stock Exchange
     (Title of each class)       (Name of each exchange on which registered)

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
                                           
        8.234% Capital Securities of First Empire Capital Trust I 
     (and the Guarantee of First Empire State Corporation with respect thereto)
                                   (Title of class)
                     8.234% Junior Subordinated Debentures of 
                           First Empire State Corporation 
                                   (Title of class)
                                           
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90 days.  Yes  X  No 
                           ---    ---
                           
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. /X/  

Aggregate market value of the Common Stock, $5 par value, held by non-affiliates
of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price as of the close of
business on March 3, 1997: $1,539,636,841.

Number of shares of the Common Stock, $5 par value, outstanding as of the close
of business on March 3, 1997: 6,690,722 shares.
  
                  Documents Incorporated By Reference:   

(1) Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
    of First Empire State Corporation in Part III.



                            FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION

                                      FORM 10-K

                         For the year ended December 31, 1996

CROSS-REFERENCE SHEET



                                     -2-





                            FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION

                                      FORM 10-K

                         For the year ended December 31, 1996

CROSS-REFERENCE SHEET--continued                                          Form
                                                                          10-K
                                                                          Page

PART I, continued

Item  1. Business, continued

VII.   Short-term borrowings                                             70-71

Item  2. Properties                                                   20,68-69

Item  3. Legal Proceedings                                                  20

Item  4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders                20

         Executive Officers of the Registrant                            21-22

PART II

Item  5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
         Stockholder Matters                                                23

      A.  Principal market                                                  23
          Market prices                                                  37-38

      B.  Approximate number of holders at year-end                         16

      C.  Frequency and amount of dividends declared                        38

      D.  Restrictions on dividends                                      10,85

Item  6. Selected Financial Data

      A.  Selected consolidated year-end balances                           16

      B.  Consolidated earnings, etc.                                    17-18

Item  7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of
         Financial Condition and Results of Operations                   23-52

Item  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

      A.  Report of Independent Accountants                                 54

      B.  Consolidated Balance Sheet -
          December 31, 1996 and 1995                                        55


                                     -3-





                            FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION

                                      FORM 10-K

                         For the year ended December 31, 1996

CROSS-REFERENCE SHEET--continued                                          Form
                                                                          10-K
                                                                          Page

PART II, continued

Item 8, continued

       C.   Consolidated Statement of Income -
            Years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994                    56

       D.   Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows -
            Years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994                    57

       E.   Consolidated Statement of Changes in
            Stockholders' Equity - Years ended December 31,
            1996, 1995 and 1994                                             58

       F.   Notes to Financial Statements                                59-88

       G.   Quarterly Trends                                                38

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
         on Accounting and Financial Disclosure                             89

PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the
         Registrant                                                         89

Item 11. Executive Compensation                                             89

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
         Owners and Management                                              89

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions                     89

PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and
         Reports on Form 8-K                                                90

         Signatures                                                      91-93

Exhibit Index                                                            94-95


                                     -4-






                                PART I

Item 1.  Business.
         ---------

First Empire State Corporation ("Registrant" or "First Empire") is a New York 
business corporation which is registered as a bank holding company under the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended ("BHCA") and under Article III-A 
of the New York Banking Law ("Banking Law").  The principal executive offices 
of the Registrant are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14240.  The 
Registrant was incorporated in November 1969.  The Registrant and its direct 
and indirect subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the 
"Company".  As of December 31, 1996, the Company had consolidated total 
assets of $12.9 billion, deposits of $10.5 billion and stockholders' equity 
of $906 million. The Company had 4,407 full-time and 773 part-time employees 
as of December 31, 1996.

At December 31, 1996, the Registrant had three wholly owned bank 
subsidiaries: Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company ("M&T Bank"), The East 
New York Savings Bank ("East New York") and M&T Bank, National Association 
("M&T Bank, N.A."). Collectively, the banks offer a wide range of commercial 
banking, trust and investment services to their customers.  The Registrant 
currently is in the process of merging M&T Bank and East New York, and it is 
anticipated that the merger will be completed during the first half of 1997.  
At December 31, M&T Bank represented 86% of consolidated assets of the 
Company and, after giving effect to the merger of M&T Bank and East New York, 
would represent 97% of the consolidated total assets of the Company.

The Company from time to time considers acquiring banks, thrift institutions,
branch offices or other businesses within markets currently served or in other
nearby markets.  The Company has pursued acquisition opportunities in the past,
currently continues to actively review different opportunities, including the
possibility of major acquisitions, and intends to continue this practice.


                                Subsidiaries
                                ------------

M&T Bank is a banking corporation which is incorporated under the laws of the 
State of New York.  M&T Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System, the 
FDIC and the Federal Home Loan Bank System.  First Empire acquired all of the 
issued and outstanding shares of the capital stock of M&T Bank in December 
1969.  The stock of M&T Bank represents a major asset of First Empire.  M&T 
Bank operates under a charter granted by the State of New York in 1892, and 
the continuity of its banking business is traced to the organization of the 
Manufacturers and Traders Bank in 1856.  The principal executive offices of 
M&T Bank are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14240.  As of 
December 31, 1996, M&T Bank had 161 banking offices located throughout New 
York State plus a branch in Nassau, The Bahamas.  As of December 31, 1996, 
M&T Bank had consolidated total assets of $11.1 billion, deposits of $8.3 
billion and stockholder's equity of $687 million.  The deposit liabilities of 
M&T Bank are insured by the FDIC through either its Bank Insurance Fund 
("BIF") or its Savings Association Insurance Fund ("SAIF").  Of M&T Bank's   
$8.2 billion in assessable deposits at December 31, 1996, 86% were assessed 
as BIF-insured and the remainder as SAIF-insured deposits.  As a commercial 
bank, M&T Bank offers a broad range of financial services to a diverse base 
of consumers, businesses, professional clients, governmental entities and 
financial institutions located in its markets.  Lending is largely focused on 
consumers residing in New York State and on New York-based small and 
medium-size businesses, however certain of M&T Bank's subsidiaries conduct 
lending activities in markets outside of New York State.  M&T Bank also 
provides other financial services through its operating subsidiaries.

East New York was acquired by First Empire in December 1987.  East New York, 
originally organized in 1868, is a New York-chartered capital stock savings 
bank and a member of the FDIC and of the Federal Home Loan Bank System.  The 




deposit liabilities of East New York are insured by the FDIC through the BIF. 
The stock of East New York represents a major asset of First Empire.  The 
principal executive offices of East New York are located at 2644 Atlantic 
Avenue, Brooklyn, New York 11207.  Its banking business is conducted from 14 
banking offices located in New York City and Nassau County, Long Island.  As 
of December 31, 1996, East New York had consolidated total assets of $2.0 
billion, deposits of $1.8 billion and stockholder's equity of $149 million.  
East New York takes deposits from, and offers other banking services to, a 
diverse base of customers located in its markets.  East New York concentrates 
on marketing on behalf of the Company commercial mortgage loans that are 
secured by income producing properties that are primarily located throughout 
the metropolitan New York City area, especially apartment buildings and 
cooperative apartments.

M&T Bank, N.A.,  a national bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System 
and the FDIC, commenced operations on October 2, 1995.  The deposit 
liabilities of M&T Bank, N.A. are insured by the FDIC through the BIF.  The  
main office of M&T Bank, N.A. is located at 54 Main Street, Oakfield, New 
York 14125.  M&T Bank, N.A. offers selected deposit and loan products on a 
nationwide basis, primarily through direct mail and telephone marketing 
techniques.  As of December 31, 1996, M&T Bank, N.A. had total assets of $510 
million, deposits of $468 million and stockholder's equity of $34 million.  

M&T Capital Corporation ("M&T Capital"), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T 
Bank, was incorporated as a New York business corporation in January 1968.  
M&T Capital is a federally-licensed small business investment company 
operating under the provisions of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, 
as amended ("SBIA").  M&T Capital provides equity capital and long-term 
credit to "small-business concerns", as defined by the SBIA.  M&T Capital had 
assets of $5 million and stockholder's equity of $4 million as of December 
31, 1996, and recorded approximately $1.8 million of revenues in 1996.  The 
headquarters of M&T Capital are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 
14240.

M&T Credit Corporation ("M&T Credit"), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, 
was incorporated as a New York business corporation in April 1994.  M&T 
Credit is a consumer credit company with headquarters at One M&T Plaza, 
Buffalo, New York 14240, and offices in Pennsylvania.  As of December 31, 
1996, M&T Credit had assets of $289 million and stockholder's equity of $0.8 
million.  M&T Credit recorded $17.1 million of revenues during 1996.

M&T Mortgage, the wholly owned mortgage banking subsidiary of M&T Bank, was 
incorporated as a New York business corporation in November 1991.  M&T 
Mortgage's principal activities are comprised of the origination of 
residential mortgage loans and providing residential mortgage loan servicing 
to M&T Bank, East New York, M&T, N.A. and others.  M&T Mortgage operates 
throughout New York State, and also maintains branch offices in Arizona, 
Colorado, Massachusetts, Ohio, Oregon, Utah and Washington.  M&T Mortgage had 
assets of $334 million and stockholder's equity of $88 million as of December 
31, 1996, and recorded approximately $73.6 million of revenues during 1996.  
Residential mortgage loans serviced by M&T Mortgage for non-affiliates 
totaled $5.8 billion at December 31, 1996.  The headquarters of M&T Mortgage 
are located at M&T Center, One Fountain Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203. 

M&T Financial Corporation ("M&T Financial"), a New York business corporation, 
is a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank which specializes in 
capital-equipment leasing.  M&T Financial was formed in October 1985, had 
assets of $81 million and stockholder's equity of $16 million as of December 
31, 1996, and recorded approximately $0.7 million of revenues in 1996.  The 
headquarters of M&T Financial are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 
14240. 

M&T Real Estate, Inc.("M&T Real Estate"), is a subsidiary of M&T Bank which 
was incorporated as a New York business corporation in August 1995.  M&T Bank 




owns all of the outstanding common and 87.3% of the preferred stock of M&T 
Real Estate.  The remaining 12.7% of M&T Real Estate's preferred stock is 
owned by officers or former officers of the Company.  M&T Real Estate engages 
in commercial real estate lending and servicing activities.  As of December 
31, 1996, M&T Real Estate had assets and stockholder's equity of $3.5 
billion.  M&T Real Estate recorded $299 million of revenues in 1996.  The 
headquarters of M&T Real Estate are located at M&T Center, One Fountain 
Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203.

M&T Securities, Inc. ("M&T Securities") is a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T 
Bank which was incorporated as a New York business corporation in November 
1985.  M&T Securities is registered as a broker/dealer under the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and as an investment advisor under the 
Investment Advisors Act of 1940, as amended, and is licensed as an insurance 
agent under the New York State Insurance Law. It provides securities 
brokerage and investment advisory services. As of December 31, 1996, M&T 
Securities had assets of $6 million and stockholder's equity of $.3 million.  
M&T Securities recorded $15 million of revenues during 1996.  The 
headquarters of M&T Securities are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New 
York 14240.

Highland Lease Corporation ("Highland Lease"), a wholly owned subsidiary of 
M&T Bank, was incorporated as a New York business corporation in October 
1994. Highland Lease is a consumer leasing company with headquarters at One 
M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14240.  As of December 31, 1996, Highland Lease 
had assets of $147 million and stockholder's equity of $8 million.  Highland 
Lease recorded $10 million of revenues during 1996.

The Registrant and its banking subsidiaries have a number of other 
special-purpose or inactive subsidiaries.  These other subsidiaries 
represented, individually and collectively, an insignificant portion of the 
Company's consolidated assets, net income and stockholders' equity at 
December 31, 1996.

              Lines of Business, Principal Services, Industry Segments 
              --------------------------------------------------------
                                and Foreign Operations
                                ----------------------

Commercial and retail banking, with activities incidental thereto, represents 
the sole significant line and/or segment of business of the Company.  The 
Company's international activities are discussed in note 15 of Notes to 
Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements 
and Supplementary Data".  The only activities that, as a class, contributed 
10% or more of the sum of consolidated interest income and other income in 
each of the last three years were lending and investment securities 
transactions.  The amount of income from such sources during those years is 
set forth on the Company's Consolidated Statement of Income filed herewith in 
Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".

                              Supervision and Regulation
                              --------------------------

The banking industry is subject to extensive state and federal regulation and 
continues to undergo significant change.  In 1991, the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation Improvement Act ("FDICIA") was enacted.  FDICIA 
substantially amended the Federal Deposit Insurance Act ("FDI Act") and 
certain other statutes.  Since FDICIA's enactment, the federal bank 
regulatory agencies have adopted regulations to implement its statutory 
provisions.  

The following discussion summarizes certain aspects of the banking laws and 
regulations that affect the Company.  Proposals to change the laws and 
regulations governing the banking industry are frequently raised in Congress, 
in state legislatures, and before the various bank regulatory agencies.  The 
likelihood and timing of any changes and the impact such changes might have 
on the Company are impossible to determine with any certainty.  A change in 
applicable laws or regulations, or a change in the way such laws or 
regulations are interpreted by regulatory agencies or courts, may have a 
material impact on the business, operations and earnings of the Company.  To 
the extent that the following information describes statutory or regulatory 




provisions, it is qualified entirely by reference to the particular statutory 
or regulatory provision.

                           Bank Holding Company Regulation
                           -------------------------------

As a registered bank holding company, the Registrant and its nonbank 
subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation under the BHCA by the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ("Federal Reserve Board") 
and the New York State Banking Superintendent ("Banking Superintendent").  
The Federal Reserve Board requires regular reports from the Registrant and is 
authorized by the BHCA to make regular examinations of the Registrant and its 
subsidiaries.

Under the BHCA, the Registrant may not acquire direct or indirect ownership 
or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company, including a 
bank, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, except as 
specifically authorized under the BHCA.  The Registrant is also subject to 
regulation under the Banking Law with respect to certain acquisitions of 
domestic banks.  Under the BHCA, the Registrant, subject to the approval of 
the Federal Reserve Board, may acquire shares of non-banking corporations the 
activities of which are deemed by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely 
related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper 
incident thereto. 

The Federal Reserve Board has enforcement powers over bank holding companies 
and their non-banking subsidiaries, among other things, to interdict 
activities that represent unsafe or unsound practices or constitute 
violations of law, rule, regulation, administrative orders or written 
agreements with a federal bank regulator.  These powers may be exercised 
through the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, civil money penalties or 
other actions.

Under the Federal Reserve Board's statement of policy with respect to bank 
holding company operations, a bank holding company is required to serve as a 
source of financial strength to its subsidiary depository institutions and to 
commit all available resources to support such institutions in circumstances 
where it might not do so absent such policy.  Although this "source of 
strength" policy has been challenged in litigation, the Federal Reserve Board 
continues to take the position that it has authority to enforce it.  For a 
discussion of circumstances under which a bank holding company may be 
required to guarantee the capital levels or performance of its subsidiary 
banks, see Capital Adequacy, below.  The Federal Reserve also has the 
authority to terminate any activity of a bank holding company that 
constitutes a serious risk to the financial soundness or stability of any 
subsidiary depository institution or to terminate its control of any bank or 
nonbank subsidiaries.

On September 29, 1994, the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking Efficiency Act of 
1994 (the "Interstate Banking Act") was enacted into law.  Generally, the 
Interstate Banking Act permits bank holding companies to acquire banks in any 
state as of September 29, 1995, and preempts all state laws restricting the 
ownership by a bank holding company of banks in more than one state.  The 
Interstate Banking Act also permits, prior to June 1, 1997, a bank to merge 
with an out-of-state bank and convert any offices into branches of the 
resulting bank if the home states of both banks expressly permit interstate 
bank mergers; permits, beginning June 1, 1997, a bank to merge with an 
out-of-state bank and convert any offices into branches of the resulting bank 
if both states have not opted out of interstate branching; permits a bank to 
acquire branches from an out-of-state bank, beginning June 1, 1997, if the 
law of the state where the branches are located permits the interstate branch 
acquisition; and permits banks to establish and operate de novo interstate 
branches whenever the host state opts-in to de novo branching.  Bank holding 
companies and banks seeking to engage in transactions authorized by the 
Interstate Banking Act must be adequately capitalized and managed.

On January 29, 1996, New York State enacted into law an interstate branching 
law which enables New York to "opt-in" early to interstate branching by 
merger and acquisition, as permitted under the Interstate Banking Act.  The 




law adopted in New York (the "New York Interstate Branching Law") provides 
for the immediate opt-in of branching by merger or acquisition on a 
reciprocal basis until June 1, 1997, and is thereafter unrestricted.  The New 
York Interstate Branching Law permits the acquisition of a single branch on a 
reciprocal basis until June 1, 1997, and thereafter without restriction, but 
does not provide for de novo interstate branching.

Bank holding companies and their subsidiary banks are also subject to the 
provisions of the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 ("CRA").  Under the 
terms of the CRA, the Federal Reserve Board (or other appropriate bank 
regulatory agency) is required, in connection with its examination of a bank, 
to assess such bank's record in meeting the credit needs of the community 
served by that bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods.  
Furthermore, such assessment is also required of any bank that has applied, 
among other things, to merge or consolidate with or acquire the assets or 
assume the liabilities of a federally-regulated financial institution, or to 
open or relocate a branch office.  In the case of a bank holding company 
applying for approval to acquire a bank or bank holding company, the Federal 
Reserve Board will assess the record of each subsidiary bank of the applicant 
bank holding company in considering the application.  The Banking Law 
contains provisions similar to the CRA which are applicable to New 
York-chartered banks.

                   Supervision and Regulation of Bank Subsidiaries
                   -----------------------------------------------

The Registrant's banking subsidiaries are subject to regulation, and are 
examined regularly, by various bank regulatory agencies:  M&T Bank by the 
Federal Reserve Board and the Banking Superintendent; East New York by the 
FDIC and the Banking Superintendent; and M&T Bank, N.A. by the Comptroller of 
the Currency.  The Registrant and its direct non-banking subsidiaries are 
affiliates, within the meaning of the Federal Reserve Act, of the 
Registrant's subsidiary banks and their subsidiaries.  As a result, the 
Registrant's subsidiary banks and their subsidiaries are subject to 
restrictions on loans or extensions of credit to, purchases of assets from, 
investments in, and transactions with the Registrant and its direct 
non-banking subsidiaries and on certain other transactions with them or 
involving their securities.  

Under the "cross-guarantee" provisions of the FDI Act, insured depository 
institutions under common control are required to reimburse the FDIC for any 
loss suffered by either the BIF or SAIF of the FDIC as a result of the 
default of a commonly controlled insured depository institution or for any 
assistance provided by the FDIC to a commonly controlled insured depository 
institution in danger of default.  Thus, any insured depository institution 
subsidiary of First Empire could incur liability to the FDIC in the event of 
a default of another insured depository institution owned or controlled by 
First Empire.  The FDIC's claim under the cross-guarantee provisions is 
superior to claims of stockholders of the insured depository institution or 
its holding company and to most claims arising out of obligations or 
liabilities owed to affiliates of the institution, but is subordinate to 
claims of depositors, secured creditors and holders of subordinated debt 
(other than affiliates) of the commonly controlled insured depository 
institution.  The FDIC may decline to enforce the cross-guarantee provisions 
if it determines that a waiver is in the best interest of the BIF or SAIF or 
both.

                        Dividends from Bank Subsidiaries
                        --------------------------------

M&T Bank, East New York and M&T Bank, N.A. are subject, under one or more of the
banking laws, to restrictions on the amount and frequency (no more often than
quarterly) of dividend declarations.  Future dividend payments to the Registrant
by its subsidiary banks will be dependent on a number of factors, including the
earnings and financial condition of each such bank, and are 




subject to the limitations referred to in note 19 of Notes to Financial 
Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and 
Supplementary Data," and to other statutory powers of bank regulatory 
agencies.

Under FDICIA, an insured depository institution is prohibited from making any 
capital distribution to its owner, including any dividend, if, after making 
such distribution, the depository institution fails to meet the required 
minimum level for any relevant capital measure, including the risk-based 
capital adequacy and leverage standards discussed below.

                              Capital Adequacy
                              ----------------

The Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the Office of the Comptroller of the 
Currency ("OCC") have adopted risk-based capital adequacy guidelines for bank 
holding companies and banks under their supervision.  Under the guidelines 
the so-called "Tier 1 capital" and "Total capital" as a percentage of 
risk-weighted assets and certain off-balance sheet instruments must be at 
least 4% and 8%, respectively.

The Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the OCC have also imposed a leverage 
standard to supplement their risk-based ratios.  This leverage standard 
focuses on a banking institution's ratio of Tier 1 capital to average total 
assets, adjusted for goodwill and certain other items.  Under these 
guidelines, banking institutions that meet certain criteria, including 
excellent asset quality, high liquidity, low interest rate exposure and good 
earnings, and that have received the highest regulatory rating must maintain 
a ratio of Tier 1 capital to total adjusted average assets of at least 3%.  
Institutions not meeting these criteria, as well as institutions with 
supervisory, financial or operational weaknesses, along with those 
experiencing or anticipating significant growth are expected to maintain a 
Tier 1 capital to total adjusted average assets ratio equal to at least 4 to 
5%.

As reflected in the following table, the risk-based capital ratios and 
leverage ratios of the Registrant, M&T Bank, East New York and M&T Bank, N.A. 
as of December 31, 1996 exceeded the required capital ratios for 
classification as "well capitalized," the highest classification under the 
regulatory capital guidelines.

                  Capital Components and Ratios at December 31, 1996
                                (dollars in millions)

                             Registrant                                M&T Bank
                           (Consolidated)    M&T Bank   East New York     N.A. 
                           -------------     --------   -------------  --------
Capital Components
 Tier 1 capital             $   889          $  673      $  149          $ 34
 Total capital                1,198             966         164            37

Risk-weighted assets
and off-balance sheet
instruments                 $10,590          $9,301      $1,192          $222

Risk-based Capital Ratio
 Tier 1 capital                8.40%           7.24%      12.50%        15.23%
 Total capital                11.32           10.39       13.76         16.49

Leverage Ratio                 6.99            6.22        7.47          6.59



            
FDICIA required each federal banking agency, including the Federal Reserve 
Board, to revise its risk-based capital standards within 18 months of the 
enactment of the statute into law on December 19, 1991 in order to ensure 
that those standards take adequate account of interest rate risk, 
concentration of credit risk and the risk of nontraditional activities, as 
well as reflect the actual performance and expected risk of loss on certain 
multifamily housing loans.  

On December 29, 1993, the Federal Reserve Board amended the risk-based 
capital guidelines, effective December 31, 1993, lowering from 100 percent to 
50 percent the risk weight assigned to certain multifamily housing loans.

On December 7, 1994, the Federal Reserve Board adopted a final rule, 
effective December 31, 1994, providing that institutions regulated by the 
Federal Reserve Board could net for risk-based capital purposes the positive 
and negative market values of interest and exchange rate contracts subject to 
a qualifying, legally enforceable, bilateral netting contract to calculate 
one current exposure for that netting contract.

On December 8, 1994, the Federal Reserve Board amended its risk-based capital 
guidelines effective December 31, 1994, directing institutions to generally 
not include in regulatory capital the "net unrealized holding gains (losses) 
on securities available for sale", determined pursuant to the provisions of 
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, "Accounting for Certain 
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," when preparing financial 
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  Net 
unrealized losses on marketable equity securities (i.e., equity securities 
with readily determinable fair values), however, continue to be deducted from 
Tier 1 capital. This rule has the general effect of valuing available for 
sale securities at amortized cost (i.e., based on historical cost), rather 
than at fair value (i.e., generally at market value), for purposes of 
calculating the risk-based and leverage ratios.

On December 15, 1994, the Federal Reserve Board issued a final rule, 
effective January 17, 1995, addressing concentration of credit risk and risks 
of nontraditional activities.  Accordingly, risk-based capital guidelines 
were amended to explicitly cite concentrations of credit risk and an 
institution's ability to monitor and control them as important factors in 
assessing an institution's overall capital adequacy.  Institutions identified 
through the examination process as having significant exposure to 
concentration of credit risk or as not adequately managing concentration risk 
will be required to hold capital in excess of the regulatory minimums.  The 
risk-based capital guidelines were further amended to explicitly cite the 
risks arising from nontraditional activities and management's ability to 
monitor and control these risks as important factors to consider in assessing 
an institution's overall capital adequacy.  The rule requires that as banking 
institutions begin to engage in, or significantly expand their participation 
in, a nontraditional activity, the risks of that activity be promptly 
analyzed and the activity given appropriate capital treatment by the agencies.

On December 22, 1994, the Federal Reserve Board revised its capital adequacy 
guidelines, effective April 1, 1995, to establish a limitation on the amount 
of certain deferred tax assets that may be included in (that is, not deducted 
from) Tier 1 capital for purpose of risk-based capital and leverage ratios.  
Under the revised guidelines, deferred tax assets that can only be realized 
if an institution earns taxable income in the future are limited for 
regulatory capital purposes to the amount that the institution expects to 
realize, based on projections of taxable income, within one year of each 
quarter-end report date or 10 percent of Tier 1 capital, whichever is less.

On August 2, 1995, the federal banking agencies issued final rules under which
exposure to interest rate risk will be measured as the effect that a change in
interest rates would have on the net economic value of a bank.  This economic
perspective considers the effect that changing interest rates may have on the
value of a bank's assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet positions.  Exposure
estimates collected through a new proposed supervisory measurement process, a
bank's historical financial performance, and it's earnings exposure to interest




rate movements will be quantitative factors used by examiners to determine 
the adequacy of a bank's capital for interest rate risk.  Examiners will also 
consider qualitative factors, including the adequacy of a bank's internal 
interest rate risk management.  As a result, the final supervisory judgement 
on a bank's capital adequacy may differ significantly from conclusions that 
might be drawn solely from the level of the bank's risk-based capital ratio. 

Bank regulators periodically propose amendments to the risk-based capital 
guidelines and related regulatory framework.  While the Company's management 
studies such proposals, the timing of adoption, ultimate form and effect of 
such proposed amendments on the Company's capital requirements and operations 
cannot be predicted.

FDICIA requires the federal banking agencies to take "prompt corrective 
action" in respect of depository institutions and their bank holding 
companies that do not meet minimum capital requirements.  FDICIA established 
five capital tiers: "well capitalized", "adequately capitalized", 
"undercapitalized", "significantly undercapitalized" and "critically 
undercapitalized".  A depository institution's capital tier, or that of its 
bank holding company, depends upon where its capital levels are in relation 
to various relevant capital measures, including a risk-based capital measure 
and a leverage ratio capital measure, and certain other factors.

Under the implementing regulations adopted by the federal banking agencies, a 
bank holding company or bank is considered "well capitalized" if it has (i) a 
total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based 
capital ratio of 6% or greater, (iii) a leverage ratio of 5% or greater and 
(iv) is not subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a 
specific capital level for any capital measure.  An "adequately capitalized" 
bank holding company or bank is defined as one that has (i) a total 
risk-based capital ratio of 8% or greater, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital 
ratio of 4% or greater and (iii) a leverage ratio of 4% or greater (or 3% or 
greater in the case of a bank with a composite CAMEL rating of 1).  A bank 
holding company or bank is considered (A) "undercapitalized" if it has (i)  a 
total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8%, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based 
capital ratio of less than 4% or (iii) a leverage ratio of less than 4% (or 
3% in the case of a bank with a composite CAMEL rating of 1); (B) 
"significantly undercapitalized" if the bank has (i) a total risk-based 
capital ratio of less than 6%, or (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 
less than 3% or (iii) a leverage ratio of less than 3% and (C)"critically 
undercapitalized" if the bank has a ratio of tangible equity to total assets 
equal to or less than 2%.  The Federal Reserve Board may reclassify a "well 
capitalized" bank holding company or bank as "adequately capitalized" or 
subject an "adequately capitalized" or "undercapitalized" institution to the 
supervisory actions applicable to the next lower capital category if it 
determines that the bank holding company or bank is in an unsafe or unsound 
condition or deems the bank holding company or bank to be engaged in an 
unsafe or unsound practice and not to have corrected the deficiency.  First 
Empire, M&T Bank, East New York and M&T Bank, N.A. currently meet the 
definition of "well capitalized" institutions.

"Undercapitalized" depository institutions, among other things, are subject 
to growth limitations, are prohibited, with certain exceptions, from making 
capital distributions, are limited in their ability to obtain funding from a 
Federal Reserve Bank and are required to submit a capital restoration plan.  
The federal banking agencies may not accept a capital plan without 
determining, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic 
assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the depository 
institution's capital.  In addition, for a capital restoration plan to be 
acceptable, the depository institution's parent holding company must 
guarantee that the institution will comply with such capital restoration plan 
and provide appropriate assurances of performance.  If a depository 
institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, including if the holding 
company refuses or is unable to make the guarantee described in the previous 
sentence, it is treated as if it is "significantly undercapitalized". Failure 
to submit or implement an acceptable capital plan also is grounds for the 
appointment of a conservator or a receiver.  "Significantly undercapitalized" 
depository institutions may be subject to a number of additional requirements 
and 




restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become 
adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of 
receipt of deposits from correspondent banks.  Moreover, the parent holding 
company of a significantly undercapitalized depository institution may be 
ordered to divest itself of the institution or of nonbank subsidiaries of the 
holding company.  "Critically undercapitalized" institutions, among other 
things, are prohibited from making any payments of principal and interest on 
subordinated debt, and are subject to the appointment of a receiver or 
conservator.

FDICIA directs, among other things, that each federal banking agency 
prescribe standards for depository institutions and depository institution 
holding companies relating to internal controls, information systems, 
internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest 
rate exposure, asset growth, compensation, a maximum ratio of classified 
assets to capital, minimum earnings sufficient to absorb losses, a minimum 
ratio of market value to book value for publicly traded shares and other 
standards as they deem appropriate. The Federal Reserve Board adopted such 
standards in 1993.

FDICIA also contains a variety of other provisions that may affect the 
operations of the Company, including new reporting requirements, regulatory 
standards for real estate lending, "truth in savings" provisions, limitations 
on the amount of capitalized  mortgage servicing rights and purchased credit 
card relationships includable in Tier 1 capital, and the requirement that a 
depository institution give prior notice to customers and regulatory 
authorities before closing any branch.  FDICIA also contains a prohibition on 
the acceptance or renewal of brokered deposits by depository institutions 
that are not "well capitalized" or are "adequately capitalized" and have not 
received a waiver from the FDIC.

                          FDIC Deposit Insurance Assessments
                          ----------------------------------

As institutions with deposits insured by the BIF and the SAIF, M&T Bank, East 
New York and M&T Bank, N.A. are subject to FDIC deposit insurance 
assessments. Under current law the regular insurance assessments to be paid 
by BIF-insured and SAIF-insured institutions are specified in schedules 
issued by the FDIC that specify, at semiannual intervals, target reserve 
ratios designed to maintain the reserve ratios  of each of those insurance 
funds at 1.25% of their estimated insured deposits.  The FDIC is also 
authorized to impose one or more special assessments.

The FDIC has implemented a risk-based deposit premium assessment system under 
which each depository institution is placed in one of nine assessment 
categories based on the institution's capital classification under the prompt 
corrective action provisions described above, and whether such institution is 
considered by its supervisory agency to be financially sound or to have 
supervisory concerns. The adjusted assessment rates for both BIF-insured and 
SAIF-insured institutions under the current system range from .00% to .31% 
depending upon the assessment category into which the insured institution is 
placed.  None of the Company's banking subsidiaries paid regular insurance 
assessments to the FDIC in 1996. However, the FDIC retains the ability to 
increase regular BIF and SAIF assessments and to levy special additional 
assessments.

On September 30, 1996, President Clinton signed into law legislation that 
required the FDIC to impose a one-time special assessment to recapitalize the 
SAIF and increase its reserve ratio to 1.25% of estimated insured deposits.  
As a result, for the quarter ended September 30, 1996, the Company recorded a 
pre-tax charge of $7.0 million for this assessment that was related to the 
SAIF-insured deposits of M&T Bank.

In addition to deposit insurance fund assessments, in 1997 the FDIC will 
assess BIF-assessable and SAIF-assessable deposits to fund the repayment of 
debt obligations of the Financing Corporation ("FICO").  FICO is a government 
agency-sponsored entity that was formed to borrow the money necessary to 
carry out the closing and ultimate disposition of failed thrift institutions 
by the Resolution Trust Corporation.  Under the September 1996 legislation, 
the FDIC is required to 




set FICO assessments for BIF-assessable deposits at one-fifth the amount for
SAIF-assessable deposits.  The current annualized rates established by the FDIC
for BIF-assessable and SAIF-assessable deposits are 1.30 basis points and 6.48
basis points, respectively.

Any significant increases in assessment rates or additional special 
assessments by the FDIC could have an adverse impact on the results of 
operations and capital of M&T Bank, East New York or M&T Bank, N.A.

                                Governmental Policies
                                ---------------------
                                           
The earnings of the Company are significantly affected by the monetary and 
fiscal policies of governmental authorities, including the Federal Reserve 
Board.  Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve 
Board to implement these objectives are open-market operations in U.S. 
Government securities and Federal funds, changes in the discount rate on 
member bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against member 
bank deposits.  These instruments of monetary policy are used in varying 
combinations to influence the overall level of bank loans, investments and 
deposits, and the interest rates charged on loans and paid for deposits.  The 
Federal Reserve Board frequently uses these instruments of monetary policy, 
especially its open-market operations and the discount rate, to influence the 
level of interest rates and to affect the strength of the economy, the level 
of inflation or the price of the dollar in foreign exchange markets. The 
monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect 
on the operating results of banking institutions in the past and are expected 
to continue to do so in the future.  It is not possible to predict the nature 
of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies, or the effect which they 
may have on the Company's business and earnings.

                                     Competition
                                     -----------

The Company competes in offering commercial and personal financial services 
with other banking institutions and with firms in a number of other 
industries, such as thrift institutions, credit unions, personal loan 
companies, sales finance companies, leasing companies, securities brokers and 
dealers, insurance companies and retail merchandising organizations.  
Furthermore, diversified financial services companies are able to offer a 
combination of these services to their customers on a nationwide basis.  
Compared to less extensively regulated financial services companies, the 
Company's operations are significantly impacted by state and federal 
regulations applicable to the banking industry.  Moreover, the provisions of 
the Interstate Banking Act and the New York State Interstate Branching Law 
may further ease entry into New York State by out-of-state banking 
institutions.  As a result, the number of banking organizations with which 
the Registrant's subsidiary banks compete may grow in the future.

                            Other Legislative Initiatives
                            -----------------------------

From time to time, various proposals are introduced in the United States 
Congress and in the New York Legislature and before various bank regulatory 
authorities which would alter the powers of, and restrictions on, different 
types of banking organizations and which would restructure part or all of the 
existing regulatory framework for banks, bank holding companies and other 
financial institutions.  

Moreover, a number of other bills have been introduced in Congress which 
would further regulate, deregulate or restructure the financial services 
industry.  It is not possible to predict whether these or any other proposals 
will be enacted into law or, even if enacted, the effect which they may have 
on the Company's business and earnings.




                      Statistical Disclosure Pursuant to Guide 3
                      ------------------------------------------

See cross-reference sheet for disclosures incorporated elsewhere in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.  Additional information is included in the following
tables.




    FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                           Item 1, Table 1
SELECTED CONSOLIDATED YEAR-END BALANCES
 

 

 



                         FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
                                                                Item 1, Table 2 
CONSOLIDATED EARNINGS
 




                          FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
                                                               Item 1, Table 3
 
COMMON SHAREHOLDER DATA



 



                        FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
                                                                Item 1, Table 4

CHANGES IN INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE*


 
- ------------------------
 
*   Interest income data are on a taxable-equivalent basis. The apportionment of
    changes resulting from the combined effect of both volume and rate was based
    on the separately determined volume and rate changes.
 



Item 2.  Properties.
         -----------

Both First Empire and M&T Bank maintain their executive offices at One M&T 
Plaza in Buffalo, New York.  This twenty-one story headquarters building, 
containing approximately 276,000 rentable square feet of space, is owned in 
fee by M&T Bank, and was completed in 1967 at a cost of approximately $17 
million.  First Empire, M&T Bank and their subsidiaries occupy approximately 
73% of the building and the remainder is leased to non-affiliated tenants.  
At December 31, 1996, the cost of this property, net of accumulated 
depreciation, was $9.7 million.

In September 1992, M&T Bank acquired an additional facility in Buffalo, New 
York with approximately 365,000 rentable square feet of space at a cost of 
approximately $12 million.  Approximately 84% of this facility, known as M&T 
Center, is occupied by M&T Bank and its subsidiaries, with the remainder 
leased to non-affiliated tenants.  At December 31, 1996, the cost of this 
building, including improvements made subsequent to acquisition and net of 
accumulated depreciation, was $15.8 million.

M&T Bank also owns and occupies two separate facilities in the Buffalo area 
which support certain back-office and operations functions of the Company.  
The total square footage of these facilities approximates 223,000 square feet 
and their combined cost, net of accumulated depreciation, was $12.5 million.

The cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization, of the Company's 
premises and equipment is detailed in note 6 of Notes to Financial Statements 
filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary 
Data".  Of the 175 domestic banking offices of the Registrant's subsidiary 
banks, 56 are owned in fee and 119 are leased.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.
         -----------------

M&T Bank, N.A., is party to a co-branded credit card agreement with Giant of 
Maryland, Inc. ("Giant").  In October 1996, M&T Bank, N.A. notified Giant of 
its intent to terminate the agreement under its termination provisions.  In 
December 1996, Giant filed a complaint against M&T Bank, N.A. in the United 
States District Court for the District of Maryland alleging that M&T Bank, 
N.A. breached the agreement by attempting to terminate and that M&T Bank, 
N.A. negligently misrepresented certain information provided to Giant.  The 
complaint sought interlocutory and permanent injunctive relief, specific 
performance for the five-year term of the agreement, and damages for breach 
of contract and negligent misrepresentation in the amount of $40 million.  
Subsequent to filing of the complaint, Giant withdrew its request for 
injunctive relief, agreed to dismiss the litigation, and consented to 
arbitration of the claims of M&T Bank, N.A. and Giant against each other.  
Management believes that M&T Bank, N.A. has meritorious defenses to Giant's 
claims and is vigorously defending against them.

First Empire and its subsidiaries are subject in the normal course of 
business to various other pending and threatened legal proceedings in which 
claims for monetary damages are asserted.  Management, after consultation 
with legal counsel, does not anticipate that the aggregate ultimate 
liability, if any, arising out of litigation pending against First Empire or 
its subsidiaries will be material to First Empire's consolidated financial 
position, but at the present time is not in a position to determine whether 
such litigation will have a material adverse effect on First Empire's 
consolidated results of operations in any future reporting period.

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.  Not applicable.
          ----------------------------------------------------








                         Executive Officers of the Registrant
                         ------------------------------------

Information concerning the Registrant's executive officers is presented below 
as of March 3, 1997.  Shown parenthetically is the year since which the 
officer has held the indicated position with the Registrant or its 
subsidiaries.  In the case of each such corporation, officers' terms run 
until the first meeting of the board of directors after such corporation's 
annual meeting, and until their successors are elected and qualified.

        Robert G. Wilmers, age 62, is chairman of the board (1994),
            president (1988), chief executive officer (1983) and a
            director (1982) of the Registrant.  He is chairman of the
            board, chief executive officer (1983) and a director (1982)
            of M&T Bank, and served as president of M&T Bank from March
            1984 to June 1996.  Mr. Wilmers is a director of East New
            York (1988) and M&T Financial (1985).  He is chairman of the
            board and a director of M&T Bank, N.A.(1995).


        Atwood Collins, III, age 50, is president, chief executive
            officer and a director (1995) of East New York.  Previously, 
            Mr. Collins served as executive vice president and chief
            operating officer of East New York (1988).  Mr. Collins is
            an executive vice president of the Registrant (1997) and of
            M&T Bank (1996).  He is a director of M&T Real Estate
            (1995).  Mr. Collins held a number of management positions
            with Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York from 1972 to
            1988, including the position of senior vice president and
            manager of treasury operations which he held immediately
            prior to joining East New York.


        Mark J. Czarnecki, age 41, is an executive vice president of M&T Bank 
            (1997) and is in charge of M&T Bank's Trust and Investment
            Services Division.  Mr. Czarnecki is president of M&T Securities,
            Inc. (1996).  Mr. Czarnecki has held a number of management
            positions with M&T Bank since 1977, most recently as senior vice
            president of the private client services group of the Trust and
            Investment Services Division (1994) and prior thereto as an
            administrative vice president and regional manager for the Retail
            Banking Division.


        Brian E. Hickey, age 44, is president (1994) of the Rochester
            Division of M&T Bank and is an executive vice president of
            the Registrant (1997) and of M&T Bank (1996).  In addition
            to managing all of M&T Bank's business segments in the
            Rochester market, Mr. Hickey has responsibility for managing
            the Company's Western New York Commercial Banking Division. 
            Before joining M&T Bank, Mr. Hickey served as regional
            president, Rochester/Southern Region of Marine Midland Bank,
            which he joined as a regional executive in 1989. Mr. Hickey
            is a director of M&T Financial (1996).


        James L. Hoffman, age 57, is president (1992) of the Hudson
            Valley Division of M&T Bank, and is an executive vice
            president of the Registrant (1997) and of M&T Bank (1996). 
            Mr. Hoffman served as chairman of the board, president,
            chief executive officer and a director (1983) of The First
            National Bank of Highland, which had been a wholly owned
            subsidiary of the Registrant prior to its merger with and
            into M&T Bank on February 29, 1992. He served as an
            executive vice president of M&T Bank from 1974 to 1984.






        Barbara L. Laughlin, age 52, is an executive vice president of
            the Registrant (1993) and of M&T Bank (1990), and is in
            charge of the Company's Technology and Banking Operations
            Division.  Ms. Laughlin is an executive vice president and a
            director of M&T Bank, N.A.(1995).  Ms. Laughlin was
            executive vice president of retail banking and technology at
            The Seamen's Bank for Savings from June 1986 to April 1990
            before joining M&T Bank.  


        John L. Pett, age 49, is an executive vice president (1997) and
            chief credit officer (1995) of the Registrant and is an
            executive vice president and chief credit officer of
            M&T Bank (1996).  Mr. Pett is chairman of the board and
            a director of Highland Lease(1997) and M&T Credit
            (1997).  He is a director of M&T Bank, N.A. (1996). 
            Mr. Pett served as senior vice president of the
            Registrant from 1991 to 1997.


        Michael P. Pinto, age 41, is an executive vice president and
            chief financial officer of the Registrant (1997) and M&T
            Bank (1996), and is in charge of the Company's Finance
            Division.  Mr. Pinto is a director of M&T Capital (1996),
            M&T Financial (1996), M&T  Mortgage (1996) and M&T Real
            Estate (1996).  He is an executive vice president and chief
            financial officer of M&T Bank, N.A. (1996).  Mr. Pinto
            served as senior vice president and controller of the
            Registrant from 1993 to 1997.


        William C. Rappolt, age 51, is an executive vice president and
            treasurer of the Registrant (1993) and M&T Bank (1984), and
            executive vice president of East New York (1994).  Mr.
            Rappolt is in charge of the Company's Treasury Division. 
            Mr. Rappolt is a director of M&T Financial (1985), M&T
            Securities (1985), and is an executive vice president and a
            director of M&T Bank, N.A.(1995). 


        Robert E. Sadler, Jr., age 51, is an executive vice president of
            the Registrant (1990), president and a director of M&T Bank
            (1996), and executive vice president of East New York
            (1996), and is in charge of the Company's Commercial Banking
            Division.  Mr. Sadler is chairman of the board (1987) and a
            director of M&T Capital (1983); chairman of the board (1989)
            and a director of M&T Financial (1985); chairman of the
            board and a director of M&T Mortgage (1991); chairman of the
            board and a director of M&T Securities (1994); president,
            chief executive officer and a director of M&T Bank,
            N.A.(1995); and chairman of the board, president and a
            director of M&T Real Estate (1995). 


        Harry R. Stainrook, age 60, is an executive vice president of the
            Registrant (1993) and of M&T Bank (1985), and was in charge
            of M&T Bank's Trust and Investment Services Division from
            1985 until February 1997.  Mr. Stainrook is a director of
            M&T Securities (1994), and is an executive vice president of
            M&T Bank, N.A. (1996).  Mr. Stainrook has announced his
            retirement from the Registrant and all of its subsidiaries,
            effective March 31, 1997.






                                       PART II


Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters. 
         ---------------------------------------------------------------------
         The Registrant's common stock is traded under the symbol FES on the
         American Stock Exchange.  See cross-reference sheet for disclosures
         incorporated elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for market
         prices of the Registrant's common stock, approximate number of common
         stockholders at year-end, frequency and amounts of dividends on common
         stock and restrictions on the payment of dividends.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data.  See cross-reference sheet for disclosures
         -----------------------
         incorporated elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
         ---------------------------------------------------------------
         Results of Operations.
         ---------------------


Corporate Profile and Significant Developments

First Empire State Corporation ("First Empire") is a bank holding company
headquartered in Buffalo, New York with consolidated assets of $12.9 billion at
December 31, 1996.  First Empire and its consolidated subsidiaries are
hereinafter referred to collectively as "the Company."  First Empire's banking
subsidiaries are Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company ("M&T Bank"), The East
New York Savings Bank ("East New York") and M&T Bank, National Association ("M&T
Bank, N.A."), all of which are wholly owned.  M&T Bank, with total assets of
$11.1 billion at December 31, 1996, is a New York-chartered commercial bank with
161 offices throughout  New York State and an office in Nassau, The Bahamas. 
East New York, with $2.0 billion in assets at December 31, 1996, is a New
York-chartered savings bank with 14 offices in metropolitan New York City.  M&T
Bank, N.A., with $510 million in assets at December 31, 1996, is a national bank
with an office in Oakfield, New York. 

         M&T Bank's subsidiaries include M&T Mortgage Corporation, a
residential mortgage banking company; M&T Securities, Inc., a broker/dealer; M&T
Real Estate, Inc., a commercial mortgage lender; M&T Financial Corporation, a
commercial leasing company; M&T Capital Corporation, a venture capital company;
M&T Credit Corporation, a consumer credit company; and Highland Lease
Corporation, a consumer leasing company.
    
         On March 29, 1996, National Indemnity Company, a subsidiary of
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the holder of all outstanding shares of First Empire's
9% convertible preferred stock, converted such shares into 506,930 shares of
First Empire common stock.  The 40,000 shares of preferred stock had been issued
on March 15, 1991 for $40 million and were converted into shares of common stock
at a contractual price of $78.90625 per share.  As of December 31, 1996, common
shares outstanding totaled 6,686,186, up from 6,433,166 and 6,610,503 at
December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

         In December 1996, First Empire announced plans to merge East New York
with and into M&T Bank.  The merger is subject to regulatory approvals and is
expected to be completed in the second quarter of 1997.  Following the merger,
East New York's business activities will operate as the New York City Division
of M&T Bank.

         During 1996 M&T Bank opened 20 branches in supermarkets, bringing the
total number of supermarket branches opened in 1996 and 1995 to 27.  Supermarket
banking provides convenient access for customers to the banking services of M&T
Bank.


                                     -23-





Overview

Net income in 1996 was $151.1 million or $21.31 per common share, increases of
15% and 13%, respectively, from  $131.0 million or $18.79 per common share in
1995.  Fully diluted earnings per common share rose 18% to $20.97 in 1996 from
$17.78 in 1995.  In 1994, net income was $117.3 million while primary and fully
diluted earnings per common share were $16.35 and $15.71, respectively.  The
1995 results include $4.5 million of gains from sales of investment securities. 
The impact from sales of securities in 1996 and 1994 was negligible.  Excluding
the after-tax impact of gains from sales of investment securities, net income
for 1995 was $128.4 million, representing primary and fully diluted earnings per
share of  $18.41 and $17.43, respectively.

    The Company achieved a return on average assets in 1996 of 1.21%, compared
with 1.14% in 1995 and 1.17% in 1994.  The return on average common
stockholders' equity was 17.60% in 1996, 17.16% in 1995 and 16.64% in 1994. 
Excluding the effects of the 1995 securities gains, the return on average assets
in 1995 was 1.12%  and the return on average common stockholders' equity was
16.81%. 

    Taxable-equivalent net interest income increased 9% in 1996 to $536 million
from $491 million in 1995.  The chief factor contributing to improved net
interest income was 14% growth in average loans, which resulted in a 9% increase
in average earning assets from 1995 to 1996.  A 15% increase in average earning
assets, primarily loans, in 1995 was also the most significant factor for the
rise in that year's net interest income from $472 million in 1994.  Average
earning assets totaled $12.0 billion in 1996, up from $11.1 billion in 1995 and
$9.7 billion in 1994.  Net interest margin, or taxable-equivalent net interest
income expressed as a percentage of average earning assets, in 1996 was 4.45%,
little changed from 4.43% in 1995, but down 44 basis points (hundredths of one
percent) from 4.89% in 1994. 

    The provision for possible credit losses was $43.3 million in 1996,
compared with $40.4 million in 1995 and $60.5 million in 1994.  Net charge-offs
in 1996 were $35.2 million, compared with  $21.3 million in 1995 and $16.6
million in 1994.  The increase from prior years reflects a higher level of
consumer loan charge-offs.  

    In December 1994, First Empire transferred appreciated investment
securities with a fair value of $15.7 million to an affiliated, tax-exempt
charitable foundation.  As a result of the transfer, in 1994 the Company
recognized charitable contributions expense and tax-exempt other income of $13.8
million and $10.4 million, respectively, resulting in an after-tax increase in
1994 net income of $2.4 million. 

    Noninterest income for 1996 totaled $170 million, 17% above the $145
million in 1995 (excluding gains from sales of investment securities) and 50%
above the $113 million in 1994 (excluding $10.4 million related to the December
1994 transfer of securities to the affiliated foundation).  Higher revenues
associated with mortgage banking and credit card activities were significant
factors contributing to the growth of noninterest income.  Noninterest expense
was $409 million in 1996, up 9% from $374 million in 1995 and 27% from $323
million in 1994 (excluding $13.8 million related to the December 1994 transfer
of investment securities).  Expenses associated with expansion of businesses
providing mortgage banking services, indirect automobile loans, credit cards and
the sale of mutual funds and annuities, as well as the impact of acquisitions
completed in 1995 and 1994, contributed to the rise in noninterest expense.


                                    -24-





Net Interest Income/Lending and Funding Activities

Growth in average earning assets, which rose $966 million or 9% to $12.0 billion
in 1996, was the primary factor contributing to  a corresponding 9% increase in
taxable-equivalent net interest income to $536 million in 1996 from $491 million
in 1995.  Taxable-equivalent net interest income and average earning assets in
1994 were $472 million and $9.7 billion, respectively.  The growth in average
earning assets in 1996 and 1995 was predominately attributable to increased
demand for loans offered by the Company, including the effects of expansion of
the Company's businesses which provide residential mortgage loans, indirect
automobile loans and credit cards.  The accompanying table summarizes average
loans and leases outstanding in 1996 and percentage changes in the major
components of the loan and lease portfolio over the past two years.

    Loans secured by real estate, excluding $610 million of outstanding home
equity loans and lines of credit which are classified as consumer loans,
represented approximately 58% of the loan and lease portfolio during 1996, down
from 60% in 1995 and 61% in 1994.  At December 31, 1996, the Company held
approximately $4.0 billion of commercial real estate loans and $2.2 billion of
consumer real estate loans.

    Commercial real estate loans originated by the Company are predominately
secured by properties in the New York City metropolitan area, including areas in
neighboring states generally considered to be within commuting distance of New
York City, and Western New York, which includes Buffalo, Niagara Falls,
Rochester and surrounding areas.  Commercial real estate loans are also
originated in the Hudson Valley and Southern Tier regions of New York State. 
Most commercial real estate loans originated by the Company are fixed-rate
instruments with monthly payments and a balloon payment of the remaining
principal at maturity, usually five years after loan origination.  For borrowers
in good standing, the customer may extend the terms of the loan agreement for an
additional five years at the then-current market rate of interest.  The
accompanying table presents commercial real estate loans at December 31, 1996 by
geographic area, type of collateral and size of the loans outstanding.  Of the
$2.1 billion of commercial real estate loans in the New York City metropolitan
area, approximately 60% were secured by multi-family residential properties, 13%
by office space and 15% by retail space.  The Company's experience has been that
office space and retail properties tend to demonstrate more volatile
fluctuations in value through economic cycles and changing economic conditions
than do multi-family residential properties.  Approximately 52% of the aggregate
dollar amount of New York City area loans were for $3 million or less, while
loans of more than $10 million were approximately 13% of the total.  Commercial
real estate loans secured by properties elsewhere in New York State, mostly in
Western New York, tend to have a greater diversity of collateral types and
include a significant amount of lending to customers who use the mortgaged
property in their trade or business.  Approximately 70% of the aggregate dollar
amount of loans in this segment of the portfolio were for $3 million or less. 
Commercial real estate loans secured by properties located outside of New York
State and outside of areas of neighboring states considered to be part of the
New York City metropolitan area comprised less than 5% of total commercial real
estate loans.  

    The Company normally refrains from commercial construction lending, except
when the borrower has obtained a commitment for permanent financing upon project
completion.  As a result, the portfolio of commercial construction loans for
which the Company has not committed to provide permanent financing totaled only
$51 million, or .5% of total loans and leases at December 31, 1996.

    The Company's portfolio of real estate loans secured by one-to-four family
residential properties totaled $2.0 billion at December 31, 1996, approximately
70% of which were secured by properties located in New York


                                    -25-





State.  In addition, the Company's mortgage banking subsidiary, M&T Mortgage
Corporation, had $194 million of residential real estate loans held for sale at
December 31, 1996.

    Consumer loans and leases represented approximately 22% of the loan
portfolio during 1996, compared with 20% in 1995 and 19%  in 1994.  Beginning in
1994 and, to a greater extent, continuing in 1995 and 1996, the Company began 
to market automobile loans and leases and credit cards in areas outside of New
York State.  At December 31, 1996, 28% of the automobile loan portfolio was to
borrowers outside of New York State, primarily in Pennsylvania.  Automobile
loans and leases are generally originated through dealers, however, all
applications submitted by dealers are subject to the Company's normal
underwriting and loan approval procedures.  During 1996, automobile loans and
leases represented approximately 10% of the Company's average loan portfolio,
while no other consumer loan product represented more than 6%.  Credit card
accounts are marketed through mail campaigns and co-branding initiatives.  Such
initiatives involve developing relationships with retailers and other
enterprises and issuing co-branded credit cards that provide cardholders the
ability to earn rebates on purchases made with the cards.  The Company bears the
cost of these rebates.  At December 31, 1996, 46% of outstanding credit card
balances were with customers outside of New York State.

    The Company's portfolio of investment securities averaged $1.8 billion in
1996, $2.0 billion in 1995 and $2.1 billion in 1994. Factors influencing the
size of the investment securities portfolio include demand for loans, which
generally yield more than investment securities, ongoing repayments, the level
of deposits, and management of balance sheet size and resulting capital ratios. 
The investment securities portfolio is largely comprised of adjustable-rate
mortgage-backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations, and
shorter-term U.S. Treasury notes.  When purchasing investment securities, the
Company considers its overall interest-rate risk profile as well as the adequacy
of expected returns relative to prepayment and other risks assumed. As a result
of changes in interest rates, actual or anticipated prepayments, or credit risk
associated with a particular security, the Company occasionally sells investment
securities.  Realized gains or losses from sales of investment securities were
negligible in 1996 and 1994, but during 1995, the Company realized a pre-tax
gain of approximately $4.5 million from sales of approximately $445 million of
investment securities.  Furthermore, to enhance flexibility in managing the
investment securities portfolio, and as allowed by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board ("FASB"), in December 1995 the Company transferred approximately
$220 million of U.S. Treasury notes from "held-to-maturity" to "available for
sale" classification.  No gain or loss was realized at the time of such
transfer.

    Money-market assets, which are comprised of interest-bearing deposits at
banks, trading account assets, Federal funds sold and agreements to resell
securities, averaged $124 million in 1996, compared with $186 million in 1995
and $166 million in 1994.  The decline in money market assets from 1995 and 1994
resulted largely from increased demand for loans. 

    Core deposits represent a significant source of funding to the Company and
generally carry lower interest rates than wholesale funds of comparable
maturities. Such deposits include noninterest-bearing demand deposits,
interest-bearing transaction accounts, savings deposits and nonbrokered domestic
time deposits under $100,000.  The principal source of core deposits for the
Company is its New York State branch network.  Certificates of deposit under
$100,000 generated on a nationwide basis by M&T Bank, N.A. are also included in
core deposits.  In 1996, average core deposits rose to $8.0 billion from $7.4
billion in 1995.  Core deposits averaged $6.8 billion in 1994.  Average core
deposits of M&T Bank, N.A., which began operations in the


                                    -26-





fourth quarter of 1995, were $261 million in 1996 and $3 million in 1995. 
Funding provided by core deposits totaled 66% of average earning assets in 1996,
compared with 67% in 1995 and 70% in 1994.  An analysis of changes in the
components of core deposits is presented in the accompanying table.

    The Company also obtains funding through domestic time deposits of $100,000
or more, deposits originated through the Company's offshore branch office, and
brokered certificates of deposit.  Domestic time deposits over $100,000,
excluding brokered certificates of deposit, averaged $892 million in 1996
compared with $625 million in 1995 and $357 million in 1994.  Offshore deposits,
comprised primarily of accounts with balances of $100,000 or more, averaged $239
million in 1996, compared with $133 million and $156 million in 1995 and 1994,
respectively.  Brokered deposits averaged $1.1 billion in 1996, $874 million in
1995, and $45 million in 1994, and totaled  $1.1 billion at December 31, 1996. 
Brokered deposits are used to reduce short-term borrowings and lengthen the
average maturity of interest-bearing liabilities.  The weighted-average
remaining term to maturity of brokered deposits as of December 31, 1996 was 1.5
years.  Additional amounts of brokered deposits may be solicited in the future
depending on market conditions and the cost of funds available from alternative
sources at the time. 

    In addition to deposits, the Company uses short-term borrowings from banks,
securities dealers, the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York ("FHLB") and others
as sources of funding.  Short-term borrowings averaged $1.1 billion in 1996,
$1.4 billion in 1995 and $1.8 billion in 1994.  In general, short-term
borrowings have been used to fund the Company's discretionary investments in
money-market assets and investment securities, and, if necessary, to replace
deposit outflows.  Additionally, M&T Bank has issued $175 million of
subordinated capital notes, of which $75 million mature in 2002 and $100 million
mature in 2005.  Although issued primarily to enhance regulatory capital ratios,
such notes also provided funding to the Company.

    Net interest income is impacted by changes in the composition of the
Company's earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, as described herein,
as well as changes in interest rates and spreads.  Net interest spread, or the
difference between the yield on earning assets and the rate paid on
interest-bearing liabilities,  was 3.80% in 1996, compared with 3.77% in 1995. 
A greater proportion of loans, which typically yield more than money-market
assets and investment securities, in the composition of the earning asset
portfolio somewhat mitigated a general decrease in market interest rates in 1996
compared with 1995.  As a result,  the yield on earning assets decreased
slightly to 8.32% in 1996 from 8.42% in 1995.  Similarly, the cost of
interest-bearing liabilities also declined, to 4.52% in 1996 from 4.65% in 1995.
The net interest spread, yield on earning assets and rate paid on
interest-bearing liabilities in 1994 were 4.37%, 7.77% and 3.40%, respectively.
In 1995, the increase in net interest income resulting from growth in average
earning assets was partially offset by the narrowing of the net interest spread.
Rising market interest rates throughout much of 1995 and 1994 had the effect of
increasing the cost of the Company's interest-bearing liabilities more than the
yield on earning assets.  Largely due to the changes in the net interest spread
described herein, the Company's net interest margin was 4.45% in 1996, compared
with 4.43% in 1995 and 4.89% in 1994.

    The contribution to net interest margin of interest-free funds, consisting
largely of noninterest-bearing demand deposits and stockholders' equity, was
 .65% in 1996, .66% in 1995 and .52% in 1994.  The improvement from 1994 resulted
largely from increases in the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities
used to value these funds, supplemented by increases in average interest-free
funds.  Average interest-free funds were $1.7 billion in 1996, $1.6 billion in
1995 and $1.5 billion in 1994.


                                    -27-





    Changing interest rates and spreads affect the Company's net interest
income and net interest margin.  Management believes that future changes in
market interest rates or the composition of the Company's portfolios of earning
assets and interest-bearing liabilities that result in reductions in spreads
could adversely impact the Company's net interest margin and net interest
income.  Management assesses the potential impact of future changes in interest
rates and spreads by projecting net interest income under a number of different
interest rate scenarios.  As part of the management of interest rate risk, the
Company utilizes interest rate swap agreements to modify the repricing
characteristics of certain portions of the loan and deposit portfolios.  Revenue
and expense arising from these agreements are reflected in either the yields
earned on loans or, as appropriate, the rates paid on interest-bearing deposits.
The notional amount of interest rate swaps entered into for interest rate risk
management purposes as of December 31, 1996 was approximately $2.4 billion.  In
general, under the terms of these swaps, the Company receives payments based on
the outstanding notional amount of the swaps at a fixed rate of interest and
makes payments at a variable rate.  However, under terms of a $34 million swap,
the Company pays a fixed rate of interest and receives a variable rate.  The
effect of interest rate swaps on the Company's net interest income and margin as
well as average notional amounts and rates are presented in the accompanying
table. 

    The Company estimates that as of December 31, 1996 it would have received
approximately $5.5 million if all interest rate swap agreements entered into for
interest rate risk management purposes were terminated.  This estimated fair
value of the interest rate swap portfolio results from the effects of changing
interest rates and should be considered in the context of the entire balance
sheet and the Company's overall interest rate risk profile.  Changes in the
estimated fair value of interest rate swaps entered into for interest rate risk
management purposes are not reflected in the consolidated financial statements. 
Additional information about interest rate swaps is included in note 16 of Notes
to Financial Statements.

    During 1996, the FASB issued a Proposed Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards that would significantly change generally accepted accounting for
interest rate swaps, other derivative financial instruments and hedging
activities.  While it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the
FASB deliberations regarding the proposal, it is possible that changes in
generally accepted accounting principles for these types of transactions and
activities could have a material impact on the Company's consolidated balance
sheet and consolidated statement of income in future years.


Provision for Possible Credit Losses

The provision for possible credit losses was $43.3 million in 1996, compared
with $40.4 million in 1995 and $60.5 million in 1994.  Net charge-offs in 1996
were $35.2 million, compared with $21.3 million in 1995 and $16.6 million in
1994.  Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans outstanding were .35% in
1996, .24% in 1995 and .22% in 1994.  Nonaccrual loans totaled $58.2 million or
 .54% of loans outstanding at December 31, 1996, compared with $75.2 million or
 .79% a year earlier and $62.8 million or .76% at December 31, 1994.  Loans past
due ninety days or more and accruing interest totaled $39.7 million at December
31, 1996, up from $17.8 million a year earlier and $11.8 million at December 31,
1994.  The increase in such past due loans from 1995 to 1996 resulted primarily
from the inclusion at December 31, 1996 of $16.3 million of one-to-four family
residential mortgage loans serviced by the Company and repurchased during 1996
from the Government National Mortgage Association.  These loans are covered by
guarantees of government agencies.  The costs associated with servicing these
loans were reduced as a result of the repurchases.  The total of all
nonperforming loan categories was $97.9 million or .91% of loans outstanding at
December 31,


                                    -28-





1996, compared with  $93.1 million or .97% a year earlier and $77.5 million 
or .94% at December 31, 1994.  The allowance for possible credit losses was  
$270.5 million or 2.52% of net loans and leases at the end of 1996, compared 
with $262.3 million or 2.75% at December 31, 1995 and $243.3 million or 2.96% 
at December 31, 1994.  The ratio of the allowance to nonperforming loans was 
276%, 282% and 314% at year-end 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

    Management regularly assesses the adequacy of the allowance for possible
credit losses and records a provision to replenish or build the allowance to a
level necessary to maintain an adequate reserve position.  In making such
assessment, management performs an ongoing evaluation of the loan and lease
portfolio, including such factors as the differing economic risks associated
with each loan category, the current financial condition of specific borrowers,
the economic environment in which borrowers operate, the level of delinquent
loans and the value of any collateral.  Based upon the results of such review,
management believes that the allowance for possible credit losses at December
31, 1996 was adequate to absorb credit losses from existing loans and leases.

    A comparative allocation of the allowance for possible credit losses for
each of the past five year-ends is presented in the accompanying table.  Amounts
were allocated to specific loan categories based upon management's
classification of loans under the Company's internal loan grading system and
estimates of potential charge-offs inherent in each category.  However, as the
total reserve is available to absorb losses from any loan category, amounts
assigned do not necessarily indicate future losses within these categories.  The
unallocated portion of the reserve represents management's assessment of the
overall level of credit risk inherent in the loan and lease portfolio over a
longer time frame.

    The Company's credit loss experience is influenced by many factors,
including overall economic conditions, in general, and, due to the size of the
Company's commercial real estate loan portfolio, real estate valuations, in
particular.  Nonperforming commercial real estate loans totaled $27.1 million,
$42.3 million and $47.5 million at December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.  At December 31, 1996, $10.3 million of nonperforming commercial
real estate loans were secured by properties located in the New York City
metropolitan area, compared with $16.8 million and $27.1 million at December 31,
1995 and 1994, respectively.  Net charge-offs of commercial real estate loans
were $1.5 million in 1996, $6.6 million in 1995 and $12.8 million in 1994. 
Included in these totals are net charge-offs of commercial real estate loans
secured by properties in the New York City metropolitan area of $.6 million,
$3.2 million and $11.1 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. 

    Net charge-offs of consumer loans in 1996 were $28.5 million, or 1.30% of
average consumer loans outstanding, compared with $11.3  million or .65% in 1995
and $5.6 million or .40% in 1994.  Higher charge-offs of credit card balances
and indirect automobile loans were the most significant factors contributing to
the increased level of consumer loan charge-offs in 1996 and 1995.  Net credit
card and indirect automobile loan charge-offs in 1996 were $15.9 million and
$9.6 million, respectively, compared with $6.1 million and $3.1 million,
respectively, in 1995.  In 1994, net credit card and indirect automobile loan
charge-offs totaled $3.1 million and $1.5 million, respectively.  Nonperforming
consumer loans totaled $17.6 million or .73% of outstanding consumer loans at
December 31, 1996, compared with $13.7 million or .70% at December 31, 1995 and
$8.4 million or .54% at December 31, 1994.

    Commercial real estate loans secured by multi-family properties in the New
York City metropolitan area were 12% of loans outstanding at December 31, 1996. 
The Company, however, had no concentrations of credit extended to any specific
industry that exceeded 10% of total loans outstanding at December 31, 1996. 
Furthermore, the Company had no exposure to less developed countries and only $2
million of foreign loans in total.  


                                    -29-





    Assets taken in foreclosure of defaulted loans totaled $8.5 million at
December 31, 1996, compared with $7.3 million and $10.1 million at the end of
1995 and 1994, respectively.


Other Income

Excluding the effect from sales of bank investment securities, other income
increased 17% to $170 million in 1996 from $145 million in 1995 and 50% from
$113 million (excluding the previously noted $10.4 million of tax-exempt income
resulting from the transfer of appreciated investment securities to an
affiliated, tax-exempt charitable foundation) in 1994.  

    Mortgage banking revenues, which consist of residential mortgage loan
servicing fee income, gains from sales of residential mortgage loans and loan
servicing rights, and other residential mortgage loan-related fees, increased to
$44.5 million in 1996 from $37.1 million in 1995 and $16.0 million in 1994.
Revenues from servicing residential mortgage loans for others were $20.9 million
in 1996, $19.3 million in 1995 and $13.6 million in 1994.  Gains from sales of
residential mortgage loans and loan servicing rights increased to $21.6 million
in 1996, compared with $16.4 million and $1.4 million in 1995 and 1994,
respectively.  The $21.1 million improvement in mortgage banking revenue in 1995
from 1994 was attributable to growth in the Company's residential mortgage
servicing business, as well as the January 1, 1995 adoption of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 122 "Accounting for Mortgage
Servicing Rights."  The effect of implementing SFAS No. 122 was to increase 1995
mortgage banking revenue and noninterest expense by $10.0 million and $1.8
million, respectively.  The Company originates residential mortgage loans in New
York State, as well as in Arizona, Colorado, Massachusetts, Ohio, Oregon, Utah
and Washington.  Residential mortgage loans serviced for others totaled $5.8
billion, $5.7 billion and $4.0 billion at December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.  Capitalized mortgage servicing rights and excess servicing
receivables were $37.8 million and $6.5 million, respectively, at December 31,
1996, compared with  $34.5 million and $6.9 million, respectively, at December
31, 1995 and $10.0 million and $7.6 million, respectively, at December  31,
1994.

    Service charges on deposit accounts increased 6% to $40.7 million in 1996
from $38.3 million in 1995, and 16% from $35.0 million in 1994.  Trust income of
$27.7 million increased 9% from $25.5 million in 1995, and 23% from $22.6
million in 1994.  Merchant discount and other credit card fees in 1996 totaled
$18.3 million, compared with $10.7 million in 1995 and $8.7 million in 1994. 
Expansion of the Company's credit card business was the primary factor in the
improvement.  Trading account and foreign exchange activity resulted in gains of
$2.4 million in 1996, $2.8 million in 1995 and $.7 million in 1994.  Other
revenues from operations totaled $36.8 million in 1996, compared with $30.7
million in 1995 and $30.2 million in 1994 (excluding the $10.4 million of
tax-exempt income related to the 1994 transfer of securities to the affiliated
foundation).  Such amounts include revenues from the sales of mutual funds and
annuities of $13.0 million, $9.4 million and $6.2 million in 1996, 1995 and
1994, respectively.


Other Expense

Other expense totaled $409 million in 1996, compared with $374 million in 1995
and $337 million in 1994.  

    Salaries and employee benefits expenses were $208 million in 1996, an
increase of $20 million or 11% from $188 million in 1995.  Factors contributing
to the higher personnel expenses were  merit salary increases, costs associated
with the opening of 27 supermarket banking locations in 1996 and the second half
of 1995,  and the expansion of subsidiaries providing residential mortgage
banking services, indirect automobile loans and sales of


                                    -30-





mutual funds and annuities.  Personnel costs in 1995 increased $27 million or 
17% from $161 million in 1994.  Such increase was due largely to 
acquisitions, expansion of the residential mortgage banking and securities 
businesses, and incentive-based compensation arrangements.  The number of 
full-time equivalent employees was 4,832 at December 31, 1996, up from 4,546 
and 4,149 at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

    Nonpersonnel expenses for 1996 totaled $201 million, up 8% from $186
million in 1995.  The increase was largely caused by higher expenses associated
with the expansion of businesses providing mortgage banking services, indirect
automobile loans, credit cards and the sale of mutual funds and annuities,
partially offset by lower deposit insurance expense.

    During 1995, the assessment to the Company from the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") for deposit insurance provided by the Bank
Insurance Fund ("BIF") was reduced and effective January 1, 1996 was
substantially eliminated.  Changes in the federal deposit insurance laws were
enacted in 1996 that required the FDIC to impose a one-time special assessment
to recapitalize the Savings Association Insurance Fund ("SAIF") of the FDIC on
SAIF members.  Although First Empire's bank  subsidiaries are BIF-insured
institutions, the Company has approximately $1.1 billion of deposits obtained in
so-called "Oakar" acquisitions for which deposit insurance premiums are paid to
the SAIF.  Included in nonpersonnel expense in 1996 is a $7.0 million charge for
the special assessment to recapitalize the SAIF.  Following the
recapitalization, the FDIC established the SAIF's 1997 assessment rates, which
are currently the same as the rates established for BIF members.  In addition to
deposit insurance fund assessments, in 1997 the FDIC will assess BIF- and
SAIF-assessable deposits to fund the repayment of debt obligations of the
Financing  Corporation ("FICO").  FICO is a government agency-sponsored entity
that was formed to borrow the money necessary to carry out the closing and
ultimate disposition of failed thrift institutions by the Resolution Trust
Corporation.  Under the law, the FDIC is required to set FICO assessments for
BIF-assessable deposits at one-fifth the amount for SAIF-assessable deposits. 
The annualized rates established by the FDIC for the first half of 1997 for BIF-
and SAIF-assessable deposits are 1.30 basis points and 6.48 basis points,
respectively.  

    As previously noted, during 1994 the Company incurred $13.8 million of
charitable contributions expense related to the transfer of securities to a
charitable foundation affiliated with the Company.  Excluding the impact of such
contributions expense, which is included in 1994's other costs of operations,
nonpersonnel expenses in 1995 increased $24.3 million from 1994.  Higher
mortgage banking-related expenses and expenses associated with operating
entities acquired in late-1994 and 1995 contributed to the increase. 
Additionally, in February 1995, the Company wrote off $2.3 million of
non-marketable securities of Nationar, a bank that provided services to
financial institutions, which was seized by banking regulators. 


Income Taxes

The provision for income taxes in 1996 was $97.9 million, up from $90.1 million
in 1995 and $77.2 million in 1994.  The effective tax rates were 39% in 1996,
41% in 1995, 40% in 1994.  A reconciliation of income tax expense to the amount
computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate to pre-tax income is
provided in note 13 of Notes to Financial Statements.


International Activities

The Company's investment in international assets was $55 million and $87 million
at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  Total offshore deposits 


                                    -31-





were $193 million and $155 million at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.


Liquidity and Interest Rate Sensitivity 

As a financial intermediary, the Company is exposed to liquidity risk whenever
the maturities of financial instruments included in assets and liabilities
differ.  Accordingly, a critical element in managing a financial institution is
ensuring that sufficient cash flow and liquid assets are available to satisfy
demands for loans and deposit withdrawals, to fund operating expenses, and to be
used for other corporate purposes.  The Company's core deposits have
historically provided a significant source of funds.  Such deposits are
generated from a large base of consumer, corporate and institutional customers,
which over the past several years has become more geographically diverse as a
result of acquisitions and expansion of the Company's businesses.  Nevertheless,
in recent years the Company has faced increased competition in offering services
and products from a large array of financial market participants, including
banks, thrifts, mutual funds, securities dealers and others.  As a result, and
consistent with banking industry experience in general, the Company has
experienced a reduction in the percentage of average earning assets funded by
core deposits.  Core deposits financed 65% of the Company's earning assets at
December 31, 1996, compared with 67% and 71% at December 31, 1995 and 1994,
respectively. 

    The Company supplements funding from core deposits with various wholesale
borrowings, such as Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements
to repurchase, and brokered  certificates of deposit.  Additionally, M&T Bank
and East New York have credit facilities with the FHLB aggregating $942 million,
with any borrowings secured by loans and investment securities.  Borrowings
outstanding under such credit facilities totaled $2 million at December 31, 1996
and $17 million at December 31, 1995.  Although informal and sometimes
reciprocal, sources of funding are also available to the Company through various
arrangements for unsecured short-term borrowings from a wide group of banks and
other financial institutions.  In addition to deposits and borrowings, other
sources of liquidity include maturities of money-market assets, repayments of
loans and investment securities, and cash generated from operations, such as
fees collected for services.

    First Empire's source of funds to pay for operating expenses,  dividends
and treasury stock repurchases has largely been the receipt of dividends from
its banking subsidiaries, which are subject to various regulatory limitations. 
First Empire also maintains a $25 million line of credit with an unaffiliated
commercial bank, all of which was available for borrowing at December 31, 1996. 

    Management does not anticipate engaging in any activities,  either
currently or in the long-term, which would cause a significant strain on
liquidity at either First Empire or its subsidiary banks.  Furthermore,
management closely monitors the Company's liquidity position for compliance with
internal policies and believes that available sources of liquidity are adequate
to meet anticipated funding needs.

    Net interest income earned by the Company is subject to the effects of
changing interest rates.  The Company measures interest rate risk by calculating
the variability of net interest income under various interest rate scenarios
using projected balances for earning assets, interest-bearing liabilities and
off-balance sheet financial instruments.  Management's philosophy toward
positioning the Company for interest rate movements is to attempt to limit such
variability.  Management supplements the modeling technique described above with
analyses of market values of on- and off-balance sheet financial instruments. 
As part of managing interest rate risk, the Company has entered into interest
rate swap agreements having an aggregate notional amount of approximately $2.4
billion at December 31, 1996.


                                    -32-





Information about interest rate swaps entered into for interest rate risk 
management purposes is included herein under "Net Interest Income/Lending and 
Funding Activities" and in note 16 of Notes to Financial Statements. 

    In accordance with industry practice, the accompanying table presents
cumulative totals of net assets (liabilities) repricing on a contractual basis
within the specified time frames, as adjusted for the impact of interest rate
swap agreements entered into for interest rate risk management purposes. 
Management believes this measure does not appropriately depict interest rate
risk since changes in interest rates do not necessarily affect all categories of
earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities equally nor, as assumed in the
table, on the contractual maturity or repricing date.  Furthermore, this static
presentation of interest rate risk fails to consider the effect of ongoing
lending and deposit gathering activities, projected changes in balance sheet
composition or any subsequent interest rate risk management activities the
Company is likely to implement.

    The Asset-Liability Committee, which includes members of senior management,
monitors the Company's interest rate sensitivity with the aid of a computer
model which considers the impact of ongoing lending and deposit gathering
activities, as well as statistically derived interrelationships in the magnitude
and timing of the repricing of financial instruments, including the effect of
changing interest rates on expected prepayments and maturities.  When deemed
prudent, management has taken action, and intends to do so in the future, to
mitigate exposure to interest rate risk through the use of on- or off-balance
sheet financial instruments.  Possible actions include, but are not limited to,
changes in the pricing of loan and deposit products, modifying the composition
of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and entering into or
modifying existing interest rate swap agreements. Giving consideration to
interest rate swaps in place at December 31, 1996 and utilizing the model
described above, management's  assessment is that the variability of net
interest income in the next two years may be largely unaffected by changes in
interest rates, but that additional interest rate risk management actions may be
necessary to counter any detrimental effect which a sustained decrease in
interest rates would likely have on net interest income in later years. 


Capital

Total stockholders' equity at December 31, 1996 was $906 million or 7.00% of
total assets, compared with $846 million or 7.08% at December 31, 1995 and $721
million or 6.85% at December 31, 1994.  On a per share basis, common
stockholders' equity was $135.45 at December 31, 1996, an increase of 8% from
$125.33 at December 31, 1995 and 31% from $103.02 at December 31, 1994.  The
ratio of average total stockholders' equity to average total assets was 6.92%,
6.81% and 7.21% in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

    Stockholders' equity at December 31, 1996 was reduced by $2.5 million, or
$.37 per common share, for the net after-tax impact of unrealized losses on
investment securities classified as available for sale, compared with a
reduction of $3.2 million, or $.49 per common share, at December 31, 1995.  Such
unrealized losses represent the amount by which amortized cost exceeded the fair
value of investment securities classified as available for sale, net of
applicable income taxes.  The market valuation of investment securities should
be considered in the context of the entire balance sheet of the Company.  With
the exception of investment securities classified as available for sale, trading
account assets and liabilities, and residential mortgage loans held for sale,
the carrying values of financial instruments in the balance sheet are generally
not adjusted for appreciation or depreciation in market value resulting from
changes in interest rates.

    Cash dividends on common stock of $18.6 million were paid in 1996, compared
with $16.2 million in 1995 and $14.7 million in 1994.  The quarterly


                                    -33-





common stock  dividend rate remained at $.70 per share throughout 1996.  In 
total, dividends per common share increased to $2.80 in 1996 from $2.50 in 
1995 and $2.20 in 1994. Dividends of $.9 million were paid to the preferred 
stockholder in 1996, compared with $3.6 million in 1995 and 1994.  As 
previously noted, on March 29, 1996, all shares of First Empire's 9% 
convertible preferred stock were converted by the holder of such stock into 
506,930 shares of First Empire common stock at a contractual conversion price 
of $78.90625 per share.  

    In November 1995, First Empire announced a plan to repurchase and hold as
treasury stock up to 380,582 shares of common stock for reissuance upon the
possible future exercise of outstanding stock options.  As of December 31, 1996,
First Empire had repurchased 351,520 common shares pursuant to such plan at an
average cost of $239.09 per share.  The number of shares repurchased under this
plan and another repurchase plan that was completed in 1995 were 336,220 in
1996, 223,530 in 1995 and 298,700 in 1994.

    Federal regulators generally require banking institutions to maintain "core
capital" and "total capital" ratios of at least 4% and 8%, respectively, of
risk-adjusted total assets.  In addition to the risk-based measures, Federal
bank regulators have also implemented a minimum "leverage" ratio guideline of 3%
of the quarterly average of total assets.  Under regulatory guidelines, 
unrealized gains or losses on investment securities classified as available for
sale are not recognized in determining regulatory capital.  Regulatory capital,
however, does include subordinated notes issued by First Empire or its
subsidiaries.  The capital ratios of the Company and its banking subsidiaries,
M&T Bank, East New York and M&T Bank, N.A., as of December 31, 1996 are
presented in note 19 of Notes to Financial Statements.

    On January 31, 1997, First Empire completed an offering of  trust preferred
securities that raised $150 million of capital.  The 30-year offering of 8.234%
fixed-rate cumulative trust preferred securities was sold through First Empire
Capital Trust I ("the Trust"), a Delaware  business trust that was formed by
First Empire to facilitate the transaction.  The preferred securities provide
investors with call protection for ten years.  The Trust was formed solely to
issue the trust preferred securities and advance the proceeds to First Empire by
purchasing First Empire's junior subordinated debt.  The proceeds of the trust
preferred securities qualify as Tier 1 or core capital for First Empire under
the Federal Reserve Board's risk-based capital guidelines.  Payments on the
junior subordinated debt of First Empire, which are in turn passed through the
Trust to the holders of the preferred securities, will be serviced through
existing liquidity and cash flow sources of First Empire.  Under current federal
tax law, First Empire will be permitted to deduct interest payments on the
junior subordinated debt in computing taxable income.

    The Company has historically maintained capital ratios well in excess of
minimum regulatory guidelines largely through a high rate of internal capital
generation.  The rate of internal capital generation, or net income (excluding
the after-tax effects of gains from sales of investment securities) less
dividends paid expressed as a percentage of average total stockholders' equity,
was 15.25% in 1996, 13.88% in 1995 and 13.67% in 1994.  


Fourth Quarter Results

First Empire earned $40.4 million or $5.70 per common share in the fourth
quarter of 1996, increases of 10% and 8%, respectively, from the fourth quarter
of 1995 when net income was $36.8 million or $5.29 per common share.  On a
fully-diluted basis, net income per common share was $5.68 in 1996's final
quarter, up 13% from $5.03 in the year-earlier quarter.  Taxable-equivalent net
interest income increased to $137.9 million in the fourth quarter of 1996, up
$11.9 million from $126.0 million in the fourth quarter of 1995.  Growth in
average loans outstanding was the primary factor


                                    -34-





contributing to the improvement in net interest income.  Average loans for 
the fourth quarter of 1996 totaled $10.5 billion, a 12% increase from the 
$9.4 billion average during the fourth quarter of 1995.  In total, earning 
assets averaged $12.3 billion in the final quarter of 1996, up 7% from $11.5 
billion in the corresponding 1995 quarter. The yield on earning assets 
decreased to 8.31% in the final 1996 quarter from 8.41% in the year-earlier 
period, while the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities decreased to 
4.54% from 4.74%.  The resulting net interest spread was 3.77% in the recent 
quarter, compared with 3.67% in the fourth quarter of 1995.  Similarly, net 
interest margin increased, to 4.46% in the fourth quarter of 1996 from 4.36% 
in the year-earlier quarter. 

    The provision for possible credit losses was $11.5 million in the final
1996 quarter, compared with $12.0 million in the fourth quarter of 1995.  Net
charge-offs totaled $11.5 million in 1996's fourth quarter, up from $8.8 million
in the year-earlier quarter, largely due to higher net charge-offs of consumer
loans, which increased to $9.5 million in the final 1996 quarter from $4.1
million in the fourth quarter of 1995.  Net charge-offs as an annualized
percentage of average loans and leases were .43% in the recent quarter, up from
 .37% in the corresponding 1995 quarter.  Excluding the effects of investment
securities transactions, other income rose 6% to $48.1 million in the fourth
quarter of 1996 from $45.3 million in the year-earlier quarter.  Higher revenues
associated with credit card activities and the sales of mutual funds and
annuities contributed to this increase.  Other expense was $107.1 million in the
fourth quarter of 1996, compared with $97.0 million in the fourth quarter of
1995.  Expansion of businesses providing credit cards, indirect automobile loans
and the sale of mutual funds and annuities were factors contributing to the rise
in expenses over the comparable prior-year period.


Recently Issued Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted

In June 1996, the FASB issued SFAS No. 125, "Accounting for Transfers and
Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities."  SFAS No. 125
provides accounting and reporting standards for transfers and servicing of
financial assets and extinguishments of liabilities based on consistent
application of a financial-components approach that focuses on control.  SFAS
No. 125 provides standards for distinguishing transfers of financial assets that
are sales from transfers that are secured borrowings.  Under the
financial-components approach of SFAS No. 125, after a transfer of financial
assets, an entity recognizes all financial and servicing assets it controls and
liabilities it has incurred and derecognizes financial assets it no longer
controls and liabilities that have been extinguished. 

    SFAS No. 125 provides implementation guidance for accounting for a broad
range of financial transactions including securitizations, transfers of partial
interests, servicing of financial assets, securities lending transactions,
repurchase agreements including "dollar rolls," wash sales, loan syndications 
and participations, risk participations in banker's acceptances, factoring
arrangements, transfers of receivables with recourse, transfers of sales-type
and direct financing lease receivables and extinguishments of liabilities.  As
originally issued, SFAS No. 125 is effective for all transfers and servicing of
financial assets and extinguishments of liabilities occurring after December 31,
1995.  SFAS No. 127, "Deferral of the Effective Date of Certain Provisions of
FASB Statement No. 125," was issued in December 1996 and defers for one year the
effective date for certain provisions of SFAS No. 125 specifically relating to
repurchase agreement, dollar roll, securities lending, and similar transactions.
All provisions of SFAS No. 125, as amended by SFAS No. 127, are to be applied
prospectively, and  earlier or retroactive application is not permitted.  The
Company will adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 125 that were not deferred by SFAS
No. 127 in the first quarter of 1997.  When 


                                    -35-





adopted, SFAS No. 125 is not expected to have an adverse impact on the Company's
results of operations.


Forward-Looking Statements

This financial review and other sections of this Annual Report contain
forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates and
projections about the Company's business, management's beliefs and assumptions
made by management.  Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans,"
"believes," "seeks," "estimates," variations of such words and similar
expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.  These
statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks,
uncertainties and assumptions ("Future Factors") which are difficult to predict.
Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is
expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements.  First Empire
undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements,
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

    Future Factors include changes in interest rates, spreads on earning assets
and interest-bearing liabilities, and interest rate sensitivity; credit losses;
sources of liquidity; regulatory supervision and oversight, including required
capital levels; increasing price and product/service competition by competitors,
including new entrants; rapid technological developments and changes; the
ability to continue to introduce competitive new products and services on a
timely, cost-effective basis; the mix of products/services; containing costs and
expenses; governmental and public policy changes, including environmental
regulations; protection and validity of intellectual property rights; reliance
on large customers; technological, implementation and cost/financial risks in
large, multi-year contracts; the outcome of pending and future litigation and
governmental proceedings; continued availability of financing; and financial
resources in the amounts, at the times and on the terms required to support the
Company's future businesses.  These are representative of the Future Factors
that could affect the outcome of the forward-looking statements.  In addition,
such statements could be affected by general industry and market conditions and
growth rates, general economic conditions, including interest rate and currency
exchange rate fluctuations, and other Future Factors.





                                    -36-





    FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

                                                              Table 1 

FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 

 




FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
   
                                                                     Table 2

QUARTERLY TRENDS



                                      -38-



              FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  

                                                                     Table 3 

EARNINGS SUMMARY
Dollars in millions



*   Changes were calculated from unrounded amounts.

**  Interest income data are on a taxable-equivalent basis. The 
    taxable-equivalent adjustment represents additional income taxes that 
    would be due if all interest income were subject to income taxes. This 
    adjustment is primarily to interest received on qualified municipal 
    securities and industrial revenue financings and is based on a composite 
    income tax rate of approximately 42% for 1996, 1995 and 1993, 43% for 
    1994, and 41% for 1992. 

                                       -39-




                 FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                                                                      Table 4
INTEREST RATE SWAPS



*   Computed as an annualized percentage of average earning assets or
    interest-bearing liabilities.

**  Excludes forward-starting interest rate swaps. 

*** Weighted-average rate paid or received on interest rate swaps in effect 
    during year.
 
                                       -40-


                FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                                                     TABLE 5

AVERAGE LOANS AND LEASES
(NET OF UNEARNED DISCOUNT)
 

 
                                       -41-




    FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

                                                              Table 6
 
COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE LOANS
(net of unearned discount)
December 31, 1996



                                       -42-



    FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

                                                             Table 7

AVERAGE BALANCE SHEETS AND TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT RATES



*   Includes nonaccrual loans.

**  Includes available for sale securities at amortized cost.

                                       -43-


 
                FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                                                          Table 7 (continued)

AVERAGE BALANCE SHEETS AND TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT RATES



*   Includes nonaccrual loans. 

**  Includes available for sale securities at amortized cost.
 

                                       -44-



                FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                                                   Table 8

AVERAGE CORE DEPOSITS
 

 
                                       -45-



FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                                                   Table 9
 
LOAN CHARGE-OFFS, PROVISION AND ALLOWANCE FOR POSSIBLE CREDIT LOSSES
 

 
                                       -46-



FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                                              Table 10
 
ALLOCATION OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR POSSIBLE CREDIT LOSSES TO LOAN CATEGORIES
 

 
                                       -47-



               FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

                                                                Table 11
 
NONPERFORMING ASSETS
 

 
- ------------------------
 
*   Included in total nonperforming loans.
 
                                       -48-



             FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                                                 Table 12
 
MATURITY DISTRIBUTION OF LOANS*
December 31, 1996
 

 
- ------------------------
 
*   The data do not include nonaccrual loans.
 
                                       -49-



             FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 

                                                                    Table 13

MATURITY OF DOMESTIC CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT AND TIME DEPOSITS
WITH BALANCES OF $100,000 OR MORE
 

 
                                       -50-



               FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                                                Table 14
 
MATURITY AND TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT YIELD OF INVESTMENT SECURITIES
 


*   Investment securities available for sale are presented at estimated fair
    value. Yields on such securities are based on amortized cost.

**  Maturities are reflected based upon contractual payments due. Actual 
    maturities are expected to be significantly shorter as a result of loan 
    repayments in the underlying mortgage pools.
 
                                       -51-





               FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                                                    Table 15
 
INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY
DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS BY REPRICING DATE
 

 
                                       -52-




Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  Financial Statements and
         Supplementary Data consist of the financial statements as indexed and
         presented below and table 2 "Quarterly Trends" presented in Part II,
         Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
         and Results of Operations".

         Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules

              Report of Independent Accountants

              Consolidated Balance Sheet -
              December 31, 1996 and 1995              

              Consolidated Statement of Income -
              Years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 

              Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows -  
              Years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
    
              Consolidated Statement of Changes in
              Stockholders' Equity - Years ended December 31,   
              1996, 1995 and 1994                

              Notes to Financial Statements      

                                         -53-




                          REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
First Empire State Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of First Empire
State Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the
related consolidated statements of income, cash flows and changes in
stockholders' equity for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 1996.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements audited by us present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of First Empire State
Corporation and subsidiaries at December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 122 in 1995, which
changed its method of accounting for mortgage servicing rights.


/s/ PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP           

Buffalo, New York
January 9, 1997

                                      -54-
 


                FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 

 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 
                                       -55-



                FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 

 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 
                                       -56-




                FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 

 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 
                                       -57-


                FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 

 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 
                                       -58-



                FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                         Notes to Financial Statements


1.  Significant accounting policies

First Empire State Corporation ("First Empire") is a bank holding company 
headquartered in Buffalo, New York.  Through subsidiaries, First Empire 
provides individuals, corporations and institutions with commercial and 
retail banking services, including loans and deposits, trust, mortgage 
banking, asset management and other financial services.  The preparation of 
financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting 
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect 
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent 
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the 
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  
Actual results could differ from those estimates.  The accounting and 
reporting policies of First Empire State Corporation and subsidiaries ("the 
Company") conform to generally accepted accounting principles and to general 
practices within the banking industry.  The more significant accounting 
policies are as follows:

Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include First Empire and all of its 
subsidiaries.  All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have 
been eliminated in consolidation.  The financial statements of First Empire 
included in note 20 report investments in subsidiaries under the equity 
method.

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

For purposes of this statement, cash and due from banks, Federal funds sold 
and agreements to resell securities are considered cash and cash equivalents.

Trading account

Financial instruments used for trading purposes are stated at fair value. 
Realized gains and losses and unrealized changes in fair value are included 
in trading account and foreign exchange gains in the Consolidated Statement 
of Income.

Investment securities

Investments in debt securities are classified as held to maturity and stated 
at amortized cost when management has the positive intent and ability to hold 
such securities to maturity.  Investments in other debt securities and equity 
securities having readily determinable fair values are classified as 
available for sale and stated at estimated fair value.  Unrealized gains or 
losses related to investment securities available for sale are reflected in 
stockholders' equity, net of applicable income taxes.

     Other securities include stock of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
and the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York and are stated at cost.

     Amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts for investment 
securities available for sale and held to maturity are included in interest 
income.  The cost basis of individual securities is written down to estimated 
fair value through a charge to earnings when declines in value below 
amortized cost are considered to be other than temporary.  Realized gains and 
losses on the sales of investment securities are determined using the 
specific identification method.

                                     -59-



                FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Financial Statements, continued


1.  Significant accounting policies, continued

Loans

Interest income on loans is accrued on a level yield method.  Loans are 
placed on nonaccrual status and previously accrued interest thereon is 
charged against income when principal or interest is delinquent 90 days, 
unless management determines that the loan status clearly warrants other 
treatment.  Loan balances are charged off when it becomes evident that such 
balances are not fully collectible.  Loan fees and certain direct loan 
origination costs are deferred and recognized as an interest yield adjustment 
over the life of the loan.  Net deferred fees have been included in unearned 
discount as a reduction of loans outstanding.  Loans held for sale are 
carried at the lower of aggregate cost or fair market value.  Valuation 
adjustments made on these loans are included in mortgage banking revenues.

     Effective January 1, 1995, the Company adopted Statement of Financial 
Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 114, "Accounting by Creditors for 
Impairment of a Loan," as amended.  Except for consumer and residential 
mortgage loans that are considered smaller balance homogenous loans and are 
evaluated collectively, the Company considers a loan to be impaired when, 
based on current information and events, it is probable that the Company will 
be unable to collect all amounts according to the contractual terms of the 
loan agreement or the loan is delinquent 90 days.  Impaired loans are 
classified as either nonaccrual or as loans renegotiated at below market 
rates.  Loans less than 90 days delinquent are deemed to have a minimum delay 
in payment and are generally not considered impaired.  Impairment of a loan 
is measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows 
discounted at the loan's effective interest rate, the loan's observable 
market price, or the fair value of collateral if the loan is collateral 
dependent.  Interest received on impaired loans placed on nonaccrual status 
is applied to reduce the carrying value of the loan or, if principal is 
considered fully collectible, recognized as interest income.  

Allowance for possible credit losses

The allowance for possible credit losses represents the amount which, in 
management's judgment, will be adequate to absorb credit losses from existing 
loans and leases.  The adequacy of the allowance is determined by 
management's evaluation of the loan portfolio based on such factors as the 
differing economic risks associated with each loan category, the current 
financial condition of specific borrowers, the economic environment in which 
borrowers operate, any delinquency in payments, and the value of any 
collateral.

Premises and equipment

Premises and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. 
Depreciation expense is computed principally using the straight-line method 
over the estimated useful lives of the assets.

Capitalized mortgage servicing rights

In the second quarter of 1995, the Company adopted SFAS No. 122, "Accounting 
for Mortgage Servicing Rights," retroactive to January 1, 1995.  As a result, 
the Company recognizes as separate assets rights to service mortgage loans 
for others, whether those servicing rights are originated or purchased.   
Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 122, only purchased mortgage servicing 

                                     -60-



                FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Financial Statements, continued


1.   Significant accounting policies, continued
                                          
rights were recorded as assets.  Retroactive application of the provisions of 
SFAS No. 122 to prior years is not permitted.  

     The total cost of mortgage loans sold with servicing rights retained is 
allocated to the mortgage servicing rights and the loans (without the 
mortgage servicing rights) based on their relative fair values.  Mortgage 
servicing rights purchased separately from loans are recorded at cost.  
Capitalized mortgage servicing rights are included in other assets and 
amortized in proportion to and over the period of estimated net servicing 
income.

     To estimate the fair value of mortgage servicing rights, the Company 
considers market prices for similar assets and the present value of expected 
future cash flows associated with the servicing rights calculated using 
assumptions that market participants would use in estimating future servicing 
income and expense. Such assumptions include estimates of the cost of 
servicing loans, loan default rates, an appropriate discount rate, and 
prepayment speeds.  For purposes of evaluating and measuring impairment of 
capitalized mortgage servicing rights, the Company stratifies such rights 
based on predominant risk characteristics of underlying loans that are 
expected to have the most impact on projected prepayments, cost of servicing 
and other factors affecting future cash flows associated with the servicing 
rights.  Such factors include loan type, note rate and term. The amount of 
impairment recognized is the amount by which the capitalized mortgage 
servicing rights for a stratum exceed estimated fair value. Impairment is 
recognized through a valuation allowance.  

Stock-based compensation

Compensation expense is not recognized for stock option awards to employees 
under the Company's stock option plan since the exercise price of options is 
equal to the market price of the underlying stock at the date of grant. 
Compensation expense for stock appreciation rights issued separately from 
stock options is recognized based upon changes in the quoted market value of 
First Empire's common stock.  The pro forma effects of stock-based 
compensation arrangements are based on the estimated grant date fair value of 
stock options that are expected to vest calculated pursuant to the provisions 
of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation."  Pro forma 
compensation expense, net of applicable income tax effect, is recognized over 
the vesting period, which is generally four years.

Income taxes

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax effects 
attributable to differences between the financial statement value of existing 
assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and carryforwards. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates and 
laws.  Investment tax credits related to leveraged leasing property are 
amortized into income tax expense over the life of the lease agreement.

Financial futures

Outstanding financial futures contracts represent future commitments and are 
not included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  Futures contracts used in 
securities trading operations are marked to market and the resulting gains or 
losses are recognized in trading account and foreign exchange gains.  On 
occasion the Company uses interest rate futures contracts as part of its 

                                     -61-



                FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Financial Statements, continued


1.   Significant accounting policies, continued

management of interest rate risk. Gains and losses on futures contracts 
designated as hedges are amortized as an adjustment to interest income or 
expense over the life of the item hedged.

Interest rate swap agreements

For interest rate swap agreements used to manage interest rate risk arising 
from financial assets and liabilities, amounts receivable or payable are 
recognized as accrued under the terms of the agreement and the net interest 
differential, including any amortization of premiums paid or accretion of 
discounts received, is recorded as an adjustment to interest income or 
expense of the related asset or liability.  To qualify for such accounting 
treatment, an interest rate swap must (i) be designated as having been 
entered into for interest rate risk management purposes and linked to a 
specific financial instrument or pool of similar financial instruments in the 
Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet and (ii) have interest rate and 
repricing characteristics that have a sufficient degree of correlation with 
the corresponding characteristics of the designated on-balance sheet 
financial instrument.  Gains or losses resulting from early termination of 
interest rate swap agreements used to manage interest rate risk are amortized 
over the shorter of the remaining term or estimated life of the agreement or 
the on-balance sheet financial instrument to which the swap had been linked.  
Agreements and commitments that do not satisfy the requirements noted above, 
including those entered into for trading purposes, are marked to market with 
resulting gains or losses recorded in trading account and foreign exchange 
gains.  

Earnings per common share

Earnings per common share data are computed on the basis of the weighted 
average number of shares outstanding during the year, plus shares issuable 
upon the assumed exercise of outstanding common stock options.  Proceeds 
assumed to have been received on such exercise are treated as if applied 
toward the repurchase of outstanding common shares in the open market during 
the year, as required under the "treasury stock" method of accounting.  

2.  Acquisitions

On March 6, 1995, the Company's mortgage banking subsidiary, M&T Mortgage 
Corporation, acquired Statewide Funding Corporation ("Statewide"), a 
privately-owned mortgage banking company based near Albany, New York, in a 
cash transaction.  As of the acquisition date, Statewide serviced residential 
mortgage loans owned by other investors having an outstanding principal 
balance of approximately $1.0 billion.  On October 2, 1995, in another cash 
transaction, M&T Mortgage Corporation acquired the mortgage servicing rights 
and origination franchise of Exchange Mortgage Corporation ("Exchange"), a 
mortgage banking company based in Huntington Station, New York.  As of the 
acquisition date, Exchange serviced residential mortgage loans owned by other 
investors having an outstanding principal balance of approximately $370 
million.  The combined purchase price of the Statewide and Exchange 
transactions was approximately $25 million.

     In separate cash transactions, on July 21, 1995, Manufacturers and 
Traders Trust Company ("M&T Bank"), a wholly owned subsidiary of First 
Empire, acquired four banking offices from The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A., 
including approximately $84 million of deposits, and on December 10, 1994 
purchased approximately $146 million of deposits from Chemical Bank, along 

                                     -62-




                FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Financial Statements, continued

2.  Acquisitions, continued

with seven banking offices.  Ten of the banking offices obtained in these 
transactions were in the Hudson Valley region of New York State and one 
office was in Western New York.  

     On December 1, 1994, First Empire acquired Ithaca Bancorp, Inc. ("Ithaca 
Bancorp"), Ithaca, New York, in exchange for cash consideration of $19 per 
common share, or approximately $44.2 million.  Simultaneously with the 
acquisition, Ithaca Bancorp's savings bank subsidiary, Citizens Savings Bank, 
F.S.B., was merged into M&T Bank bringing twelve banking offices in New 
York's Southern Tier into M&T Bank's branch network.  As of December 1, 1994, 
assets acquired totaled $470 million, including $369 million of loans; at 
that date, liabilities assumed totaled $425 million, including $330 million 
of deposits.

     These acquisitions have been accounted for as purchase transactions and, 
accordingly, the operating results of the acquired entities have been 
included in the Company's results of operations since the respective 
acquisition dates.  The excess of the cost of the acquired entities over the 
fair value of identifiable assets acquired less liabilities assumed was 
recorded as goodwill and amounted to approximately $11 million and $24 
million for acquisitions completed in 1995 and 1994, respectively.  Such 
goodwill is being amortized on a straight-line basis over five years. 

     The aggregate amount of goodwill included in other assets was 
$18,923,000 and $28,234,000 at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  
Amortization of goodwill was $6,292,000 in 1996, $6,294,000 in 1995 and 
$358,000 in 1994. During 1996, recognition of income tax credits and 
resolution of other preacquisition contingencies associated with acquired 
entities resulted in a reduction of previously recorded goodwill of 
$3,019,000.

     Presented below is certain pro forma information as if Statewide,   
Exchange and Ithaca had been acquired on January 1, 1994.  These results 
combine the historical results of the acquired businesses into the Company's 
Consolidated Statement of Income and, while certain adjustments were made for 
the estimated impact of purchase accounting adjustments and other 
acquisition-related activity, they are not necessarily indicative of what 
would have occurred had the acquisitions taken place at that time.

                                             Pro forma
                                      Year ended December 31
                                          1995      1994
                                        --------   -------
                                          (in thousands,
                                         except per share)
                                          
Interest income                         $929,382   782,259
Other income                             156,306   149,852
Net income                               129,442   112,738
Earnings per common share               $  18.56     15.70
                                        --------   -------
                                        --------   -------

                                     -63-


                  FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     Notes to Financial Statements, continued

3.  Investment securities
                                          
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of investment securities were as
follows:


                                              Gross        Gross      Estimated 
                                 Amortized   unrealized   unrealized     fair
                                  cost         gains       losses       value  
                                 ---------   -----------  ----------- ----------
                                                   (in thousands)

December 31, 1996
Investment securities
  available for sale:
U.S. Treasury and federal
  agencies                       $  458,570      1,751         867     459,454
Mortgage-backed securities
  Government issued
   or guaranteed                    494,515      3,801      11,408     486,908
  Privately issued                  400,216        758       2,961     398,013
Other debt securities                 1,311         21           -       1,332
Equity securities                    46,364      4,625          24      50,965
                                 ----------    -------      ------    --------
                                  1,400,976     10,956      15,260   1,396,672
                                 ----------    -------      ------   ---------

Investment securities
  held to maturity:
U.S. Treasury and
  federal agencies                   76,676        429           -      77,105
Obligations of states and
  political subdivisions             41,445        302          31      41,716
Other debt securities                   495          -           -         495
                                 ----------    -------      ------   ---------
                                    118,616        731          31     119,316
                                 ----------    -------      ------   ---------
Other securities                     56,410          -           -      56,410
                                 ----------    -------      ------   ---------
                                                  
Total                            $1,576,002     11,687      15,291   1,572,398
                                 ----------    -------      ------   ---------
                                 ----------    -------      ------   ---------





                  FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     Notes to Financial Statements, continued


3.  Investment securities, continued


                                          
                                              Gross         Gross     Estimated 
                                 Amortized   unrealized   unrealized    fair
                                  cost         gains       losses       value  
                                 ----------  -----------  ---------- -----------
                                                  (in thousands)
December 31, 1995
Investment securities
  available for sale:
U.S. Treasury and federal
  agencies                       $  235,986     3,983          488     239,481
Mortgage-backed securities
  Government issued 
    or guaranteed                   705,523     3,505       11,504     697,524 
  Privately issued                  580,275       806        4,962     576,119
Other debt securities                 3,454        76            -       3,530 
Equity securities                    12,155     3,084            -      15,239
                                 ----------   -------       ------  ----------
                                  1,537,393    11,454       16,954   1,531,893
                                 ----------   -------       ------  ----------

Investment securities
  held to maturity:
U.S. Treasury and
  federal agencies                  150,000     1,199            -     151,199
Obligations of states and
  political subdivisions             35,250       446            3      35,693
Other debt securities                   584         -            -         584
                                 ----------   -------       ------  ----------
                                    185,834     1,645            3     187,476
                                 ----------   -------       ------  ----------

Other securities                     51,568         -            -      51,568
                                 -----------  -------       ------  ----------
Total                            $1,774,795    13,099       16,957   1,770,937
                                 -----------  -------       ------  ----------
                                 -----------  -------       ------  ----------

     No investment in securities of a single non-U.S. Government or 
government a gency issuer exceeded ten percent of stockholders' equity at 
December 31, 1996.
                                          
     As permitted by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, in December 
1995 the Company reclassified U.S. Treasury securities with an amortized cost 
and estimated fair value at that time of $220,185,000 and $223,309,000, 
respectively, from held to maturity to available for sale to enhance 
flexibility in managing the investment securities portfolio.
                                          
     As of December 31, 1996, the latest available investment ratings of all 
privately issued mortgage-backed securities were AA or better.
                                          
     Investment securities issued by U.S. Treasury and federal agencies and 
classified as held to maturity at December 31, 1996 and 1995 consisted of 
structured notes issued by the Federal Home Loan Banks. 
                                          


                           FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                               Notes to Financial Statements, continued

3.  Investment securities, continued
                                          
    The amortized cost and estimated fair value of collateralized mortgage 
obligations included in mortgage-backed securities were as follows:

                                                December 31
                                           1996            1995  
                                           ----            ----
                                              (in thousands)
                                          
    Amortized cost                       $406,498         673,476
    Estimated fair value                  396,808         662,785
                                         --------         -------
                                         --------         -------

    Gross realized gains on the sale of investment securities available for 
sale were $820,000 in 1996, $5,113,000 in 1995 and $128,000 in 1994.  Gross 
realized losses on the sale of investment securities available for sale were 
$857,000 in 1996 and $624,000 in 1995. There were no such losses in 1994.  
                                          
    During 1995, the Company sold a municipal bond with an amortized cost of 
$1,000,000 that had been classified as held to maturity.  Such bond was sold 
for an insignificant loss immediately following the downgrading of the 
municipality's credit rating by several rating agencies.

    At December 31, 1996, the amortized cost and estimated fair value of debt 
securities by contractual maturity were as follows:

                                                                   Estimated
                                                  Amortized          fair
                                                    cost             value
                                                  ----------       ---------
                                                       (in thousands)
Debt securities available for sale:
Due in one year or less                          $    2,782           2,829
Due after one year through five years               457,099         457,957
Due after five years through ten years                    -               -
Due after ten years                                       -               -
                                                 ----------       ---------
                                                    459,881         460,786
Mortgage-backed securities available
  for sale                                          894,731         884,921
                                                 ----------       ---------
                                                 $1,354,612       1,345,707
                                                 ----------       ---------
                                                 ----------       ---------
Debt securities held to maturity: 
Due in one year or less                          $   55,949          56,014
Due after one year through five years                61,310          61,844
Due after five years through ten years                1,277           1,367
Due after ten years                                      80              91
                                                 ----------       ---------
                                                 $  118,616         119,316
                                                 ----------       ---------
                                                 ----------       ---------
    At December 31, 1996, investment securities with a carrying value of
$973,930,000, including $880,682,000 of investment securities available for 
sale, were pledged to secure demand notes issued to the U.S. Treasury,
borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, repurchase agreements,
governmental deposits and interest rate swap agreements.





                           FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                               Notes to Financial Statements, continued


4.  Loans and leases

    Total gross loans and leases outstanding were comprised of the following:

                                           December 31
                                       1996            1995
                                       ----            ----
                                         (in thousands)
Loans 
Commercial, financial,
  agricultural, etc.              $ 2,122,903      1,928,969
Real estate:
  Residential                       2,267,174      2,061,342
  Commercial                        3,932,757      3,587,248
  Construction                         90,563         77,604
Consumer                            2,465,856      2,017,099
                                 ------------     ----------
  Total loans                      10,879,253      9,672,262
                                 ------------     ----------
Leases
  Commercial                           83,379         84,968
  Consumer                            157,589        116,493
                                 ------------     ----------
  Total leases                        240,968        201,461
                                 ------------     ----------
    Total loans and leases        $11,120,221      9,873,723
                                 ------------     ----------
                                 ------------     ----------


    One-to-four family residential mortgage loans held for sale were $193.6 
million at December 31, 1996 and $185.0 million at December 31, 1995.  
One-to-four family residential mortgage loans serviced for others totaled 
approximately $5.8 billion and $5.7 billion at December 31, 1996 and 1995, 
respectively.  As of December 31, 1996, approximately $16.6 million of 
one-to-four family residential mortgage loans serviced for others have been 
sold with recourse.  The total credit loss exposure resulting from loans sold 
with recourse was considered negligible.

    Included in the table above are nonperforming loans (loans on which interest
was not being accrued, or which were ninety days or more past due or had been
renegotiated at below-market interest rates) of $97,884,000 at December 31, 1996
and $93,066,000 at December 31, 1995.  If nonaccrual and renegotiated loans had
been accruing interest at their originally contracted terms, interest income on
these loans would have amounted to $6,854,000 in 1996 and $9,931,000 in 1995. 
The actual amount included in interest income during 1996 and 1995 on these
loans was $1,506,000 and $2,178,000, respectively.
                                          
    The recorded investment in loans considered impaired under SFAS No. 114 was
$40,218,000 and $60,778,000 at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  The
recorded investment in loans for which there was a related allowance for
possible credit losses determined in accordance with SFAS No. 114 and the amount
of such allowance were $35,608,000 and $4,652,000, respectively, at December 31,
1996 and $41,654,000 and $4,775,000, respectively, at December 31, 1995.  The
recorded investment in loans for which there was no related SFAS No. 114
allowance for possible credit losses was $4,610,000 and $19,124,000 at December
31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  The average recorded investment in impaired
loans during 1996 and 1995 was $48,146,000 and $52,357,000, respectively. 
Interest income recognized on impaired loans totaled $1,571,000 and $1,151,000
for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.




                           FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                               Notes to Financial Statements, continued



4. Loans and leases, continued

    Borrowings by directors and certain officers of First Empire and its banking
subsidiaries, and by associates of such persons, exclusive of loans aggregating
less than $60,000, amounted to $51,603,000 and $52,613,000 at 
December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  During 1996, new borrowings by such
persons amounted to $7,661,000 (including borrowings of new directors or
officers that were outstanding at the time of their election) and repayments and
other reductions equaled $8,671,000.

    At December 31, 1996, approximately $3 million of one-to-four family 
residential mortgage loans were pledged to secure borrowings.

5.  Allowance for possible credit losses

   Changes in the allowance for possible credit losses were as follows:

                                         1996         1995         1994
                                         ----         ----         ----
                                                 (in thousands)

Beginning balance                      $262,344      243,332      195,878
Provision for possible
  credit losses                          43,325       40,350       60,536
Allowance for possible 
  credit losses acquired                      -            -        3,538
Net charge-offs
  Charge-offs                           (49,546)     (31,207)     (32,443)
  Recoveries                             14,343        9,869       15,823
                                       --------      -------      -------
  Net charge-offs                       (35,203)     (21,338)     (16,620)
                                       --------      -------      -------
Ending balance                         $270,466      262,344      243,332
                                       --------      -------      -------
                                       --------      -------      -------

6.  Premises and equipment

    The detail of premises and equipment was as follows:

                                                             December 31
                                                         1996           1995
                                                         ----           ----
                                                            (in thousands)

Land                                                  $ 12,741         12,791
Buildings-owned                                         91,406         89,062
Buildings-capital leases                                 1,773          1,773
Leasehold improvements                                  29,349         29,098
Furniture and equipment-owned                          128,317        114,007
Furniture and equipment-capital leases                     429            429
                                                       -------        -------
                                                       264,015        247,160
Less:  accumulated depreciation
 and amortization
  Owned assets                                         133,695        116,954
  Capital leases                                         1,799          1,690
                                                       -------        -------
                                                       135,494        118,644
                                                       -------        -------
Premises and equipment, net                           $128,521        128,516
                                                       -------        -------
                                                       -------        -------




                        FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           Notes to Financial Statements, continued



6.   Premises and equipment, continued

     Net lease expense for all operating leases totaled $12,223,000 in 1996, 
$13,091,000 in 1995 and $13,329,000 in 1994. The Company occupies certain 
banking offices and uses certain equipment under noncancellable operating 
lease agreements expiring at various dates over the next 21 years. Minimum 
lease payments under noncancellable operating leases are summarized as 
follows:



     Payments required under capital leases are not material.
                                          
7.   Capitalized mortgage servicing rights

     Changes in capitalized mortgage servicing rights were as follows:




          As a result of impairment of certain strata of capitalized mortgage 
servicing rights, a valuation allowance totaling $1,100,000 was recorded 
during 1995. There were no additions or reductions to the valuation allowance 
recorded during 1996.  The estimated fair value of capitalized mortgage 
servicing was approximately $59 million at December 31, 1996 and $44 million 
at December 31, 1995. Such amounts were estimated using discounted cash flows 
that reflect current prepayment and discount rate assumptions as of each 
year-end.



                        FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           Notes to Financial Statements, continued
8.  Borrowings
                                          
       The amount and interest rate of short-term borrowings were as follows:







                        FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           Notes to Financial Statements, continued


8.   Borrowings, continued

     In general, federal funds purchased and repurchase agreements outstanding
at December 31, 1996 mature within two days following year-end.

     At December 31, 1996, First Empire, M&T Bank and The East New York Savings
Bank ("East New York"), a wholly owned subsidiary of First Empire, had lines of
credit under formal agreements as follows:



     Long-term borrowings were as follows:





     The subordinated notes of M&T Bank are unsecured and are subordinate to 
the claims of depositors and other creditors of M&T Bank.  Advances from the 
Federal Home Loan Bank of New York had fixed rates of interest ranging from 
7.72% to 8.45% and 4.74% to 8.60% at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
Such advances mature at various dates through 2006 and are secured by 
residential mortgage loans.

     Long-term borrowings at December 31, 1996 mature as follows:







                  FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     Notes to Financial Statements, continued



9. Preferred stock
                                          
On March 29, 1996, the holder of all of the then outstanding shares of 
First Empire's 9% convertible preferred stock converted such shares into 
506,930 shares of First Empire common stock at a contractual conversion price 
of $78.90625 per common share.  The 40,000 shares of preferred stock, which 
had been issued on March 15, 1991 for $40 million, were not considered common 
stock equivalents for purposes of calculating primary earnings per common 
share. Accordingly, preferred stock dividends were deducted from net income 
in such calculations.  Calculations of fully diluted earnings per common 
share for periods prior to the conversion reflect the assumption that the 
preferred stock had been converted to 506,930 shares of common stock at 
issuance and that no preferred stock dividends were paid.
                                          
10. Disclosures about fair value of financial instruments
                                          
SFAS No. 107, "Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments," 
requires disclosure of the estimated "fair value" of financial instruments.  
"Fair value" is generally defined as the price a willing buyer and a willing 
seller would exchange for a financial instrument in other than a distressed 
sale situation. Disclosures related to fair value presented herein are as of 
December 31, 1996 and 1995.
                                          
     With the exception of marketable securities, certain off-balance sheet 
financial instruments and one-to-four family residential mortgage loans 
originated for sale, the Company's financial instruments are not readily 
marketable and market prices do not exist.  The Company, in attempting to 
comply with the provisions of SFAS No. 107, has not attempted to market its 
financial instruments to potential buyers, if any exist.  Since negotiated 
prices in illiquid markets depend greatly upon the then present motivations 
of the buyer and seller, it is reasonable to assume that actual sales prices 
could vary widely from any estimate of fair value made without the benefit of 
negotiations.  Additionally, changes in market interest rates can 
dramatically impact the value of financial instruments in a short period of 
time.
                                          
     The estimated fair value of investments in readily marketable debt and 
equity securities were based on quoted market prices at the respective 
year-end.  In arriving at estimated fair value of other financial 
instruments, the Company generally used calculations based upon discounted 
cash flows of the related financial instruments.  In general, discount rates 
used for loan products were based on the Company's pricing at the respective 
year-end.  A higher discount rate was assumed with respect to estimated cash 
flows associated with nonaccrual loans.  
                                          
     As more fully described in note 3, the carrying value and estimated fair 
value of investment securities were as follows:

                                      Carrying      Estimated
                                       value       fair value
                                      --------     -----------
                                           (in thousands)
                                          
    December 31                           
       1996                         $1,571,698      1,572,398
       1995                          1,769,295      1,770,937
                                    ----------      ---------
                                    ----------      ---------





                  FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     Notes to Financial Statements, continued


10. Disclosures about fair value of financial instruments, continued
                                          
     The following table presents the carrying value and calculated estimates 
of fair value of loans and commitments related to loans originated for sale:
                                          
                                                    Carrying      Calculated
                                                      value        estimate 
                                                   -----------   ------------
                                                           (in thousands)
December 31, 1996                           
Commercial loans and leases                        $ 2,182,034      2,178,530
Commercial real estate loans                         3,956,184      3,975,921
Residential real estate loans                        2,185,749      2,182,508
Consumer loans and leases                            2,398,156      2,424,384
                                                   -----------    -----------
                                                   $10,722,123     10,761,343
                                                   -----------    -----------
                                                   -----------    -----------
December 31, 1995                           
Commercial loans and leases                        $ 1,992,325      1,989,483
Commercial real estate loans                         3,599,202      3,615,964
Residential real estate loans                        1,999,540      2,030,175
Consumer loans and leases                            1,964,782      1,980,559
                                                   -----------    -----------
                                                   $ 9,555,849      9,616,181
                                                   -----------    -----------
                                                   -----------    -----------
                                             
                                          
     As described in note 17, in the normal course of business, various 
commitments and contingent liabilities are outstanding, such as loan 
commitments, credit guarantees and letters of credit.  The Company's pricing 
of such financial instruments is based largely on credit quality and 
relationship, probability of funding and other requirements.  Commitments 
generally have fixed expiration dates and contain termination and other 
clauses which provide for relief from funding in the event of significant 
deterioration in the credit quality of the customer.  The rates and terms of 
the Company's loan commitments, credit guarantees and letters of credit are 
competitive with other financial institutions operating in markets served by 
the Company.  The Company believes that the carrying amounts are reasonable 
estimates of the fair value of these financial instruments.  Such carrying 
amounts, which are comprised principally of unamortized fee income and are 
included in other liabilities, totaled $3,619,000 and $2,757,000 at December 
31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
                                          
     SFAS No. 107 requires that the estimated fair value ascribed to 
noninterest-bearing deposits, savings deposits and NOW accounts be 
established at carrying value because of the customers' ability to withdraw 
funds immediately.  Additionally, time deposit accounts are required to be   
revalued based upon prevailing market interest rates for similar maturity 
instruments.  The following summarizes the results of these calculations:
                                          
                                                    Carrying     Calculated
                                                      value       estimate 
                                                   ----------    -----------
                                                           (in thousands)
December 31, 1996
Noninterest-bearing deposits                       $1,352,929      1,352,929
Savings deposits and NOW accounts                   3,615,575      3,615,575
Time deposits                                       5,352,749      5,367,028
Deposits at foreign office                            193,236        193,236
                                                   ----------      ---------
                                                   ----------      ---------
December 31, 1995
Noninterest-bearing deposits                       $1,184,359      1,184,359
Savings deposits and NOW accounts                   3,533,860      3,533,860
Time deposits                                       4,596,053      4,611,060
Deposits at foreign office                            155,303        155,303
                                                   ----------      ---------
                                                   ----------      ---------




                  FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     Notes to Financial Statements, continued


10. Disclosures about fair value of financial instruments, continued
                                          
     The Company believes that deposit accounts have a value greater than 
that prescribed by SFAS No. 107.  The Company feels, however, that the value 
associated with these deposits is greatly influenced by characteristics of 
the buyer, such as the ability to reduce the costs of servicing the deposits, 
and the expected deposit attrition which is customary in acquisitions.  
Accordingly, estimating the fair value of deposits with any degree of 
certainty is not practical.
                                          
     As more fully described in note 16, the Company had entered into 
interest rate swap agreements for purposes of managing the Company's exposure 
to changing interest rates.  The estimated fair value of interest rate swap 
agreements represents the amount the Company would have expected to receive 
or pay to terminate such swaps.  The following table includes information 
about the estimated fair value of interest rate swaps entered into for 
interest rate risk management purposes:
                                          
                                Gross          Gross         Estimated
                Notional     unrealized     unrealized     fair value -
                 amount        gains          losses        gain (loss)
                ---------    -----------    -----------    -------------
                                (in thousands)
                                          
December 31
  1996        $2,362,389       15,013         (9,489)           5,524
  1995         2,378,358       38,682         (1,645)          37,037
              ----------       ------         --------         ------
              ----------       ------         --------         ------
                                          

     As described in note 16, the Company also uses certain derivative 
financial instruments as part of its trading activities.  Interest rate swaps 
entered into for trading purposes had  notional values and estimated fair 
value gains (losses) of $50 million and $(42,000), respectively, at December 
31, 1996 and $50 million and $80,000, respectively, at December 31, 1995. The 
Company also entered into foreign exchange and other option and futures 
contracts totaling approximately $1.6 billion and $539 million at December 
31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  Such contracts were valued at gains of 
$1,561,000 and $2,603,000 at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  All 
trading account assets and liabilities are recorded in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet at estimated fair value.
                                          
     Due to the near maturity of other money-market assets and short-term 
borrowings, the Company estimates that the carrying value of such instruments 
approximates estimated fair value.  The carrying value and estimated fair 
value of long-term borrowings were $178,002,000 and $180,793,000, 
respectively, at December 31, 1996 and $192,791,000 and $202,746,000, 
respectively, at December 31, 1995.
                                          
     The Company does not believe that the estimated fair value information 
presented herein is representative of the earnings power or value of the 
Company.  The preceding analysis, which is inherently limited in depicting 
fair value, also does not consider any value associated with existing 
customer relationships nor the ability of the Company to create value through 
loan origination, deposit gathering or fee generating activities.
                                          
     Many of the fair value estimates presented herein are based upon the use 
of highly subjective information and assumptions and, accordingly, the 
results may not be precise.  Management believes that fair value estimates 
may not be comparable between financial institutions due to the wide range of 
permitted valuation techniques and numerous estimates which must be made.  




                  FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     Notes to Financial Statements, continued
                                          
                                          
10. Disclosures about fair value of financial instruments, continued
                                          
Furthermore, since the disclosed fair value amounts were estimated as of the 
balance sheet date, the amounts actually realized or paid upon maturity or 
settlement of the various financial instruments could be significantly 
different.  
                                          
11. Stock option plan
                                          
The stock option plan allows the grant of stock options and stock appreciation
rights (either in tandem with options or independently) at prices which may not
be less than the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant. 
Awards granted under the stock option plan generally vest over four years and
are exercisable over terms not exceeding ten years and one day.  When
exercisable, the stock appreciation rights issued in tandem with stock options
entitle grantees to receive cash, stock or a combination equal to the amount of
stock appreciation between the dates of grant and exercise.  Stock appreciation
rights issued independently of stock options contain similar terms as the stock
options, although upon exercise the holder is only entitled to receive cash
instead of purchasing shares of First Empire's common stock.  Of the stock
options outstanding at December 31, 1996, 683,609 were granted with limited
stock appreciation rights attached thereto.  A summary of related activity
follows:
                                     
                                                           Weighted-average
                                                            exercise price 
                                                        -----------------------
                                          Cash-only
                                Stock    appreciation              Cash-only
                              options      rights        Stock   appreciation
                             outstanding  outstanding    options     rights   
                             ----------- -------------  -------- --------------
  Beginning balance           507,232        113,200    $ 80.22      $60.08
  Granted                     142,449              -     139.96           -
  Exercised                   (33,944)       (22,600)     47.58       59.70
  Cancelled                    (4,500)             -     131.24           -
                              -------       --------   --------    --------
  At year-end                 611,237         90,600      95.58       60.17
                                          
  Granted                     165,185              -     143.39           -
  Exercised                   (47,175)       (29,000)     66.57       60.69
  Cancelled                    (9,250)             -     133.82           -
                              -------       --------  ---------   ---------
  At year-end                 719,997         61,600     107.96       59.93
                                          
  Granted                     173,246              -     211.42           -
  Exercised                  (115,378)        (6,650)    109.14       56.48
  Cancelled                    (8,650)             -     155.86           -
                              -------       --------  ---------   ---------
  At year-end                 769,215         54,950     130.54       60.34
                              -------       --------  ---------   ---------
                              -------       --------  ---------   ---------

Exercisable at:
  December 31, 1996           352,571         54,950      86.17       60.34
                              -------       --------  ---------   ---------
                              -------       --------  ---------   ---------

  December 31, 1995           315,612         61,600      71.02       59.93
                              -------       --------  ---------   ---------
                              -------       --------  ---------   ---------

  December 31, 1994           274,392         68,800      57.70       61.25
                              -------       --------  ---------   ---------
                              -------       --------  ---------   ---------
                                          
     At December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively, there were 317,190 and 481,786
shares available for future grant.  During 1995, the number of shares authorized
for issuance under the stock option plan was increased to 2,000,000 shares from
1,500,000.


                                          


                        FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           Notes to Financial Statements, continued

11. Stock option plan, continued

    A summary of stock options at December 31, 1996 follows:


                                                              
                                   Weighted average                    Weighted
                        Stock      ----------------       Stock        average
    Range of           options     Exercise    Life       options      exercise
 exercise price      outstanding    price   (in years)  exercisable     price
- ------------------   -----------   -------- ---------     -----------  ---------
                                

$ 36.00 to $ 65.25     174,436     $ 47.61     2.0       174,436     $ 47.61
 105.13 to  151.00     425,682      132.77     6.8       177,235      123.57
 175.00 to  259.13     169,097      210.50     9.1           900      193.61
                       -------     -------     ---       -------     -------
                       769,215     $130.54     6.2       352,571     $ 86.17
                       -------     -------     ---       -------     -------
                       -------     -------     ---       -------     -------

    The Company used a binominal option pricing model to estimate the grant date
present value of stock options granted in 1996 and 1995.  The estimated value
per option was $49.75 in 1996 and $44.36 in 1995.  The values were calculated
using the following assumptions: an option term of 6.5 years (representing the
estimated period between grant date and exercise date based on historical data
since inception of the plan), a risk-free interest rate of 5.48% in 1996 and
7.70% in 1995 (representing the yield on a U.S. Treasury security with a
remaining term equal to the expected option term), expected volatility of 15% in
1996 and 16% in 1995, and estimated dividend yields of 1.28% in 1996 and 1.70%
in 1995 (representing the approximate annualized cash dividend rate paid with
respect to a share of common stock at or near the grant date).  The Company also
deducted 10% to reflect an estimate of the probability of forfeiture prior to
vesting. The estimated forfeiture rate was based on historical data since
inception of the stock option plan.

    The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, 
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations in 
accounting for the stock option plan.  Accordingly, no compensation expense 
was recognized in 1996, 1995 and 1994 for stock option awards since the 
exercise price of stock options granted under the stock option plan was not 
less than the fair market value of the common stock at date of grant.  
Compensation expense recognized for cash-only stock appreciation rights was 
$3,974,000 in 1996, $6,002,000 in 1995 and $370,000 in 1994.  Had 
compensation expense for stock option awards granted in 1996 and 1995 been 
determined consistent with SFAS No. 123, net income and earnings per share 
would be reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:
                                          
                                    Year ended December 31
                                      1996           1995 
                                    -------         -------
                                       (in thousands,
                                      except per share)

Net income:             
  As reported                      $151,103         131,036     
  Pro forma                         146,394         128,776    
                                          
Primary earnings per share:
  As reported                        $21.31           18.79     
  Pro forma                           20.76           18.54    
                                          
Fully diluted earnings per share:
  As reported                        $20.97           17.78     
  Pro forma                           20.42           17.54    




                   FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       Notes to Financial Statements, continued

                                        
11. Stock option plan, continued
                                          
     The pro forma effects presented above are in accordance with the 
requirements of SFAS No. 123, however, such effects are not representative of 
the effects to be reported in future years due to the fact that options vest 
over several years and additional awards generally are made each year.
                                          
                                          
12.  Pension plans and other postretirement benefits
                                          
The Company has a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan covering 
substantially all full-time employees.  Pension benefits accrue to 
participants based on their level of compensation and number of years of 
service.  With respect to employees added as a result of acquisitions 
completed in 1995 and 1994, service with the acquired entities was counted in 
the pension formula for vesting, but not for benefit accrual purposes.  The 
Company contributes to the pension plan amounts sufficient to meet Internal 
Revenue Code funding standards.
                                          
     Net periodic pension cost consisted of the following:
                                          
                                                 1996        1995         1994  
                                               --------     -------      ------
                                                   (in thousands)
                                           
Service cost                                   $  4,298       3,304       4,148 
Interest cost on projected benefit
  obligation                                      6,491       6,026       5,823 
Actual return on assets                         (16,865)    (19,666)      1,487 
Net amortization and deferral                     7,886      11,390      (9,541)
                                               --------     -------      ------
Net periodic pension cost                      $  1,810       1,054       1,917 
                                               --------     -------      ------
                                               --------     -------      ------

     Data relating to the funding position of the pension plan were as 
follows:

                                                      1996          1995  
                                                    -------        -------
                                                        (in thousands)
                                          
Vested accumulated benefit obligation               $(71,915)      (72,377)
Total accumulated benefit obligation                 (76,448)      (74,635)
Projected benefit obligation                         (93,526)      (91,222)
Plan assets at fair value                            120,856       108,316 
                                                    --------      --------
Plan assets in excess of projected
  benefit obligation                                  27,330        17,094 
Unrecognized net asset                                (1,202)       (2,059)
Unrecognized past service cost                          (448)         (493)
Unrecognized net gain                                (15,265)       (2,317)
                                                    --------     ---------
Pension asset                                       $ 10,415        12,225 
                                                    --------     ---------
                                                    --------     ---------
                                          
     Plan assets included common stock of First Empire with a fair value of 
$8,096,000 and $6,128,000 at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
                                          
     The assumed rates used in the actuarial computations were as follows:
                                          
                                                          1996        1995
                                                          ----        ----
                                          
Discount rate                                             7.25%       7.00%
Rate of increase in future                      
  compensation levels                                     5.00%       5.00%
Long-term rate of return on assets                        9.00%       8.00%
                                                          ----        ----
                                                          ----        ----




                  FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     Notes to Financial Statements, continued


12. Pension plans and other postretirement benefits, continued
                                          
    In addition, the Company has an unfunded supplemental pension plan for 
certain key executives.  Net periodic pension cost was $253,000, $290,000 and 
$341,000 in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
                                          
    The Company also provides health care and life insurance benefits for 
qualified retired employees who reached the age of 55 while working for the 
Company. Substantially all salaried employees are covered in the plan.
                                          
     Net postretirement benefit cost consisted of the following:
                                          
                                                        1996     1995     1994
                                                       ------    ------   ------
                                                            (in thousands)
                                          
Service cost                                           $  147       94      136 
Interest cost on projected benefit obligation           1,062    1,022    1,059 
Actual return on assets                                  (360)    (547)      (1)
Net amortization and deferral                             (50)      16     (452)
                                                       ------    -----   ------
Net postretirement benefit cost                        $  799      585      742
                                                       ------    -----   ------
                                                       ------    -----   ------
                                          
     Data relating to the funding position of the plan were as follows:
                                          
                                                             1996       1995  
                                                            -------    -------
                                                              (in thousands)
Accumulated benefit obligation:
  Retirees                                                  $13,038    12,732
  Active employees
    Fully eligible                                            1,043     1,261
    Other                                                     1,263       996
Plan assets at fair value                                    (6,325)   (7,046)
                                                            -------    ------
Accumulated benefit obligation in
  excess of plan assets                                       9,019     7,943
Unrecognized net loss                                        (2,151)   (2,009)
Unrecognized past service cost                                2,243     2,447 
                                                            -------    ------
Accrued postretirement benefit cost                         $ 9,111     8,381 
                                                            -------    ------
                                          
     The Company on occasion funds a portion of these postretirement benefit 
obligations through contributions to a Voluntary Employee Benefit 
Association trust account.  
                                          
     The assumed rates used in the actuarial computations were as follows:
                                          
                                                              1996       1995
                                                              ----       ----
                                          
Discount rate                                                 7.25%      7.00%
Long-term rate of return on assets                            8.00%      8.00%
Medical inflation rate                                       11.00%     11.50%
                                                             -----      -----
                                                             -----      -----

     The medical inflation rate was assumed to gradually reduce to 5% over 
twelve years.

                                          


                FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     Notes to Financial Statements, continued
                                          
                                          
12.  Pension plans and other postretirement benefits, continued
                                          
     The Company's 1996 service cost, interest cost and accumulated benefit
obligation assuming a 1% increase in the medical inflation rate assumption are
as follows:
                                                           (in thousands)
                                          
Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation                 $16,367
Service cost                                                      147
Interest cost                                                   1,131
                                                              -------
                                                              -------
                                          
                                          
13.  Income taxes
                                          
The components of income tax expense were as follows:
                                          
                                               1996         1995          1994
                                             --------      ------        ------
                                                      (in thousands)
Current
   Federal                                   $ 85,220      79,194        58,801
   State and city                              16,547      18,303        21,251
                                             --------      ------        ------
     Total current                            101,767      97,497        80,052
                                             --------      ------        ------
Deferred
   Federal                                     (3,155)     (7,875)       (3,424)
   State and city                                (746)        515           558
                                             --------      ------        ------
     Total deferred                            (3,901)     (7,360)       (2,866)
                                             --------      ------        ------
     Total income taxes        
       applicable to pre-tax income          $ 97,866      90,137        77,186
                                             --------      ------        ------
                                             --------      ------        ------
                                          
          The Company files a consolidated federal income tax return 
reflecting taxable income earned by all subsidiaries. Prior to 1996, 
applicable federal tax law allowed qualified savings banks, such as East New 
York, the option of deducting as bad debt expense for tax purposes, under the 
reserve method, 8% of taxable income.  Effective January 1, 1996, the reserve 
method is no longer available and deductions for bad debts for federal income 
tax purposes are now limited to actual losses.  Failure to maintain bank 
status as defined by the Internal Revenue Code or charges to the reserve 
established by prior bad debt deductions for other than bad debt losses by 
East New York (or its successor) would cause recapture of bad debt reserves, 
subject to the applicable tax rates in effect at that time.  At December 31, 
1996 East New York's bad debt reserve for which no federal income taxes have 
been provided was $46,717,000.  No actions are planned which would cause this 
reserve to become wholly or partially taxable.
                                          
          The portion of income tax expense attributable to gains on sales of 
bank investment securities was $1,872,000 in 1995 and $53,000 in 1994.  The 
effect on income tax expense from sales of bank investment securities was 
insignificant in 1996.  No alternative minimum tax expense was recognized in 
1996, 1995 or 1994.
                                          
                                          
                                          


                FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     Notes to Financial Statements, continued

                                          
13.  Income taxes, continued
                                          
     Total income taxes differed from the amount computed by applying the 
statutory federal income tax rate to pre-tax income as follows:
                                                              
                                             1996        1995        1994    
                                            ------      ------      ------
                                                   (in thousands)
                                          
Income taxes at statutory rate             $87,139      77,411      68,068 
Increase (decrease) in taxes:
  Tax-exempt income                         (2,000)     (2,195)     (5,758) 
  State and city income taxes,
    net of federal income
    tax effect                              10,271      12,232      14,176 
  Other                                      2,456       2,689         700 
                                           -------      ------      ------
                                           $97,866      90,137      77,186
                                           -------      ------      ------
                                           -------      ------      ------
                                          
     Deferred tax assets (liabilities) were comprised of the following at 
December 31:
                                                                                
                                             1996        1995        1994 
                                            ------       ------     ------
                                                   (in thousands)
                                          
Interest on loans                        $   5,603        5,335      6,513
Gain on sales of loans                         -            -        1,041
Depreciation and amortization                7,900        5,943      4,367
Losses on loans and other assets           105,338      102,183     97,502
Postretirement and other       
  supplemental employee benefits             7,434        7,041      6,382
Incentive compensation plans                 9,090       10,932      9,242
Unrealized investment losses                 1,819        2,343     37,966
Other                                       10,060        6,990      7,781
                                           -------      -------    -------
  Gross deferred tax assets                147,244      140,767    170,794
                                           -------      -------    -------
                                          
Retirement benefits                         (4,457)      (5,194)    (3,801) 
Leasing transactions                       (81,300)     (71,717)   (69,469)
Restructured interest rate 
  swap agreements                           (8,564)     (13,746)   (16,950)
Capitalized servicing rights                (7,597)      (7,981)         -
Other                                          (46)        (226)    (5,159)
                                          --------      -------    -------
  Gross deferred tax liabilities          (101,964)     (98,864)   (95,379)
                                          --------      -------    -------
Net deferred asset                       $  45,280       41,903     75,415
                                          --------      -------    -------
                                          --------      -------    -------
                                          
     The Company believes that it is more likely than not that the net 
deferred tax asset will be realized through taxable earnings or alternative 
tax strategies.
                                          
     The income tax credits shown in the Statement of Income of First Empire 
in note 20 arise principally from operating losses before dividends from 
subsidiaries.
                                          
                                          
                                          



                FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     Notes to Financial Statements, continued

                                          
14.  Other income and other expense
                                          
The following items, which exceeded 1% of total revenues in the respective 
period, were included in either other revenues from operations or other costs 
of operations in the Consolidated Statement of Income:
                                          
                                              1996       1995       1994  
                                             ------     ------     ------
                                                   (in thousands)
                                          
Other income:
 Mutual fund and annuity sales               $13,000
 Transfer of investment securities   
    to charitable foundation                                         10,439
                                          
                                          
Other expense:
 Professional services
   Data processing                             9,819      6,893
   Other                                       7,625     10,748 
Advertising                                   11,933                 11,067 
Charitable contributions                                             15,652
                                              ------     -------     ------
                                              ------     -------     ------
                                
15.  International activities
                                          
The Company engages in certain international activities consisting primarily 
of purchasing Eurodollar placements, collecting Eurodollar deposits and 
engaging in a limited amount of foreign currency trading.  Assets identified 
with international activities amounted to $55,420,000 and $86,580,000 at 
December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
                                          
16.  Derivative financial instruments
                                          
As part of managing interest rate risk, the Company has entered into several 
interest rate swap agreements.  The swaps modify the repricing 
characteristics of certain portions of the Company's loan and deposit 
portfolios.  Under terms of most of the agreements the Company receives a 
fixed rate of interest and pays a variable rate based on London Inter-Bank 
Offered Rates ("LIBOR").  Interest rate swap agreements are generally entered 
into with counterparties that meet established credit standards and most 
contain collateral provisions protecting the at-risk party.  The Company 
considers the credit risk inherent in these contracts to be negligible.  
Information about interest rate swaps entered into for interest rate risk 
management purposes summarized by type of financial instrument the swaps were 
intended to modify follows:




                    FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       Notes to Financial Statements, continued

16.  Derivative financial instruments, continued



(a) Under the terms of this swap, the Company receives interest at a variable
    rate and pays at a fixed rate.  Under all other swap agreements, the
    Company receives interest at a fixed rate and pays at a variable rate.

    The estimated fair value of interest rate swap agreements represents the 
amount the Company would have expected to receive (pay) to terminate such 
contracts.  Since these swaps have been entered into for interest rate risk 
management purposes, the estimated market appreciation or depreciation should 
be considered in the context of the entire balance sheet of the Company.  The 
estimated fair value of interest rate swaps entered into for interest rate 
risk management purposes is not recognized in the consolidated financial 
statements.

    The notional amount of the amortizing swap linked to fixed rate loans 
declines by the amount of scheduled principal payments of the loans.  The 
notional amounts of other amortizing swaps may, following an initial lock-out 
period, vary depending on the level of interest rates or the repayment 
behavior of mortgage-backed securities to which individual swaps are indexed. 
The notional amount of a non-amortizing swap does not change during the term 
of an agreement.

                                    -82-




                    FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       Notes to Financial Statements, continued


16.  Derivative financial instruments, continued

     At December 31, 1996 the notional amount of interest rate swaps 
outstanding was expected to mature as follows:

                                     Amortizing      Non-amortizing
                                     ----------      --------------
                                            (in thousands)

Year ending December 31:
       1997                          $ 98,168              538,845
       1998                           141,436              324,731
       1999                               930              544,000
       2000                             1,016              435,000
       2001                             1,110              128,000
       Later years                     29,153              120,000
                                     --------            ---------
                                     $271,813            2,090,576
                                     --------            ---------
                                     --------            ---------

     The net effect of interest rate swaps was to increase net interest 
income by $15,454,000 in 1996, $884,000 in 1995 and $12,481,000 in 1994.  The 
average notional amount of interest rate swaps impacting net interest income 
which were entered into for interest rate risk management purposes were 
$2,410,547,000, $2,536,329,000 and $1,627,454,000 in 1996, 1995 and 1994, 
respectively.

     During 1995 and 1994, the Company restructured several interest rate 
swap agreements with notional amounts of $260 million and $500 million, 
respectively, from amortizing to non-amortizing.  The purpose of the 
restructurings was to enhance the effectiveness of the swaps in managing the 
Company's exposure to changing interest rates in future years.  Losses 
resulting from the early termination of the amortizing swaps and equal 
amounts of purchase discount received on the restructured non-amortizing 
swaps were recognized as a result of these transactions and included in the 
carrying amount of loans which the swaps modified.  The deferred losses and 
purchase discounts totaled $20.8 million and $25.4 million, respectively, at 
December 31, 1996 and $32.9 million and $35.2 million, respectively, at 
December 31, 1995.  The deferred losses are being amortized and the purchase 
discounts accreted to interest income over the remaining terms of the 
original swaps and restructured swaps, respectively. Such amortization and 
accretion were $12.1 million and $9.8 million, respectively, in 1996 and 
$11.1 million and $8.8 million, respectively, in 1995. The restructuring 
transactions did not have a significant effect on interest income in 1994.

     The net increase (decrease) in interest income in future years from 
amortization and accretion of balances resulting from interest rate swap 
restructurings is as follows:

Year ending December 31:                   (in thousands)

       1997                                   $(1,674)
       1998                                      (104)
       1999                                     5,960
       2000                                       403

     Derivative financial instruments used for trading purposes included 
foreign exchange and other option contracts, foreign exchange forward and 
spot contracts, interest rate swap agreements and financial futures.  The 
following 

                                    -83-




                    FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       Notes to Financial Statements, continued



16. Derivative financial instruments, continued

table includes information about the estimated fair value of derivative 
financial instruments used for trading purposes:

                                        1996          1995
                                      -------         -----
                                          (in thousands)

December 31:
 Gross unrealized gains               $23,780         5,867
 Gross unrealized losses               22,261         3,184

Year ended December 31:
 Average gross unrealized gains       $13,565         8,356
 Average gross unrealized losses       10,983         7,374
                                      -------         -----
                                      -------         -----

     Net gains (losses) arising from derivative financial instruments used 
for trading purposes were $2,689,000, $1,375,000 and $(336,000) in 1996, 1995 
and 1994, respectively.

17.  Commitments and contingencies

In the normal course of business, various commitments and contingent 
liabilities are outstanding, such as commitments to extend credit guarantees 
and "standby" letters of credit (approximately $171,420,000 and $185,667,000 
at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively) which are not reflected in the 
consolidated financial statements.  No material losses are expected as a 
result of these transactions.  Additionally, the Company had outstanding loan 
commitments of approximately $2.7 billion and $2.1 billion at December 31, 
1996 and 1995, respectively.  Because many loan commitments and almost all 
credit guarantees and "standby" letters of credit expire without being funded 
in whole or part, the contract amounts are not estimates of future cash 
flows.  Commitments to sell one-to-four family residential mortgage loans 
totaled $251,110,000 at December 31, 1996 and $222,772,000 at December 31, 
1995.

     M&T Bank, National Association ("M&T Bank, N.A."), a wholly owned 
subsidiary of First Empire, is party to a co-branded credit card agreement 
with Giant of Maryland, Inc. ("Giant").  In October 1996, M&T Bank, N.A. 
notified Giant of its intent to terminate the agreement under its termination 
provisions.  In December 1996, Giant filed a complaint against M&T Bank, N.A. 
alleging that M&T Bank, N.A. breached the agreement by attempting to 
terminate and that M&T Bank, N.A. negligently misrepresented certain 
information provided to Giant.  The complaint sought injunctive relief, 
specific performance for the five-year term of the agreement and damages of 
$40 million.  Subsequent to filing of the complaint, Giant withdrew its 
request for injunctive relief, agreed to dismiss the litigation, and 
consented to arbitration of the claims of M&T Bank, N.A. and Giant against 
each other.  Management believes that M&T Bank, N.A. has meritorious defenses 
to Giant's claims and is vigorously defending against them.

     First Empire and its subsidiaries are subject in the normal course of 
business to various other pending and threatened legal proceedings in which 
claims for monetary damages are asserted.  Management, after consultation 
with legal counsel, does not anticipate that the aggregate ultimate 
liability, if any, arising out of litigation pending against First Empire or 
its subsidiaries will be material to the Company's consolidated financial 
position, but at the present time is not in a position to determine whether 
such litigation will have a material adverse effect on the Company's 
consolidated results of operations in any future reporting period.

                                    -84-


                    FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       Notes to Financial Statements, continued

18.  Revolving credit agreement of First Empire  
                                          
First Empire has a revolving credit agreement with an unaffiliated commercial 
bank whereby First Empire may borrow up to $25,000,000 at its discretion 
through November 24, 1998.  The agreement provides for a facility fee 
assessed on the entire amount of the commitment (whether or not utilized) 
ranging from .08% to .187% depending on the credit rating of the subordinated 
notes of M&T Bank.  A usage fee equal to .10% per annum is assessed if the 
balance of outstanding loans exceeds 50% of the commitment amount during any 
quarter. Under the revolving credit agreement, First Empire may borrow at 
either a variable rate based upon the higher of the Federal funds rate plus 
1/2 of 1% or the lender's prime rate, or a fixed rate based upon a premium 
over LIBOR ranging from .15% to .30% depending on the credit rating of the 
subordinated notes of M&T Bank.  At December 31, 1996 and 1995, there were no 
outstanding balances under such agreement.
                                          
19.  Regulatory matters
                                          
Payment of dividends by First Empire's banking subsidiaries is restricted 
by various legal and regulatory limitations.  Dividends from any banking 
subsidiary to First Empire are limited by the amount of earnings of the 
banking subsidiary in the current year and the preceding two years.  For 
purposes of this test, at December 31, 1996, approximately $136,685,000 was 
available for payment of dividends to First Empire from banking subsidiaries 
without prior regulatory approval.  
                                          
     Banking regulations prohibit extensions of credit by the subsidiary 
banks to First Empire unless appropriately secured by assets.  Securities of 
affiliates are not eligible as collateral for this purpose.
                                          
     The banking subsidiaries are required to maintain noninterest-earning 
reserves against deposit liabilities.  During the maintenance periods that 
included December 31, 1996 and 1995, cash and due from banks included a daily 
average of $128,398,000 and $174,028,000, respectively, for such purpose.
                                          
     Federal regulators have adopted capital adequacy guidelines for bank 
holding companies and banks.  Failure to meet minimum capital requirements 
can result in certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary, 
actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a material effect on 
the Company's financial statements.  Under the capital adequacy guidelines, 
the so-called "Tier 1 capital" and "Total capital" as a percentage of 
risk-weighted assets and certain off-balance sheet financial instruments must 
be at least 4% and 8%, respectively.  In addition to these risk-based 
measures, regulators also require banking institutions that meet certain 
qualitative criteria to maintain a minimum "leverage" ratio of "Tier 1 
capital" to average total assets, adjusted for goodwill and certain other 
items, of at least 3% to be considered adequately capitalized.  As of 
December 31, 1996, First Empire and each of its banking subsidiaries exceeded 
all applicable capital adequacy requirements.
                                          
     As of December 31, 1996 and 1995, the most recent notifications from 
federal regulators categorized each of First Empire's banking subsidiaries as 
well capitalized under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. 
 To be considered well capitalized, a banking institution must maintain Tier 
1 risk-based capital, total risk-based capital and leverage ratios of at 
least 6%, 10% and 5%, respectively.  As of December 31, 1996, management is 
unaware of any conditions or events since the latest notifications from 
federal regulators that have changed the capital adequacy category of any of 
First Empire's banking subsidiaries.

                                     -85-



                    FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       Notes to Financial Statements, continued

19.  Regulatory matters, continued
                                          
The capital ratios and amounts of the Company and its banking subsidiaries as 
of December 31, 1996 and 1995 are presented below:
                                          
                                          
                                First Empire    M&T        East        M&T
                               (Consolidated)   Bank     New York     Bank,N.A.
                               --------------  -----     --------    ----------
                                            (dollars in thousands)
As of December 31, 1996:
Tier 1 capital
  Amount                         $889,221     673,294    149,025      33,754
  Ratio(a)                           8.40%       7.24%     12.50%      15.23%
  Minimum required amount(b)      423,594     372,028     47,685       8,864
                                          
Total capital   
  Amount                        1,198,299     966,069    164,078      36,542
  Ratio(a)                          11.32%      10.39%     13.76%      16.49%
   Minimum required amount(b)     847,188     744,056     95,369      17,727
                                          
Leverage
  Amount                          889,221     673,294    149,025      33,754
  Ratio(c)                           6.99%       6.22%      7.47%       6.59%
  Minimum required amount(b)      381,394     324,763     59,880      15,370
                                          
                                          
As of December 31, 1995:
Tier 1 capital
  Amount                       $  821,174     645,864    133,307      22,214
  Ratio(a)                           8.53%       7.70%     11.41%       9.46%
  Minimum required amount(b)      384,965     335,691     46,717       9,388
                                          
Total capital Amount            1,118,229     927,252    148,040      25,256
  Ratio(a)                          11.62%      11.05%     12.68%      10.76%
  Minimum required amount(b)      769,930     671,382     93,434      18,777
                                          
Leverage
 Amount                           821,174     645,864    133,307      22,214
 Ratio(c)                            6.91%       6.38%      7.33%      10.08%
 Minimum required amount(b)       356,376     303,550     54,573       6,613   

 (a) The ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets, as defined by regulation.

 (b) Minimum amount of capital to be considered adequately capitalized, as 
     defined by regulation.

 (c) The ratio of capital to average assets, as defined by regulation.
                             
                               -86-



               FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    Notes to Financial Statements, continued


20. Parent company financial statements
 
    See other notes to financial statements.
 
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
 


CONDENSED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 

 
                                       -87-




               FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    Notes to Financial Statements, continued


20. Parent company financial statements, continued
 
CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 

 
    In connection with reorganizing certain lines of business in 1995, loans and
other assets aggregating $11,858,000 were transferred among First Empire's
banking subsidiaries. To accomplish such transfers, the loans and other assets
were distributed to First Empire in the form of dividends-in-kind. First Empire,
in turn, contributed those assets to other banking subsidiaries.
 
                                       -88-



Item 9.   Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
          ---------------------------------------------------------------
          Financial Disclosure.  None.
          ---------------------       

                                          
                                      PART III
                                          


Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.  The terms in
          ---------------------------------------------------
          office of the following two directors of the Registrant will end on
          April 15, 1997, and neither one of them is a nominee for reelection
          to the Board of Directors at the 1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders:
                                          
             James A. Carrigg, age 63, has been a director since 1992, and is 
               chairman of the Executive Committee and a director of New York
               State Electric & Gas Corporation. He served as the chairman of
               the Directors Advisory Council of the Southern Division of M&T
               Bank from July 1992 through December 1996.  Mr. Carrigg is a 
               director of Security Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York.
                                                 
             Barber B. Conable, Jr., age 74, has been a director since 1991,
               and retired as the president of The World Bank in September
               1991, a position which he had held since 1986.  He represented
               the 30th District of New York in the U.S. House of
               Representatives from 1965 to 1985, and served as a New York
               State senator in 1963 and 1964.  Mr. Conable is a director of
               M&T Bank, and serves as chairman of the Directors Advisory
               Council of its Rochester Division.  He is a director of
               American International Group, Inc.
    
             The identification of the Registrant's directors is incorporated
             by reference to the caption "NOMINEES FOR DIRECTOR" contained in
             the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its 1997 Annual
             Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed with the Securities
             and Exchange Commission on or about March 13, 1997.  The 
             identification of the Registrant's executive officers is presented
             under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant" contained
             in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
                           
             Disclosure of compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities
             Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, by the Registrant's directors
             and executive officers, and persons who are the beneficial owners
             of more than 10% of the Registrant's common stock, is incorporated
             by reference to the caption "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
             Reporting Compliance" contained in the Registrant's 
             definitive Proxy Statement for its 1997 Annual Meeting of
             Stockholders.
                                          
Item 11.  Executive Compensation.  Incorporated by reference to the
          -----------------------
          Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its 1997 Annual Meeting
          of Stockholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange
          Commission on or about March 13, 1997.
                                          
Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.
          ---------------------------------------------------------------
          Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's definitive Proxy
          Statement for its 1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will 
          be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or about 
          March 13, 1997.  
                                          
Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.  Incorporated by
          -----------------------------------------------
          reference to the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its 1997
          Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed with the
          Securities and Exchange Commission on or about March 13, 1997.  
                                          
                                          -89-


                                           


                                        PART IV
                                          
Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.
          ----------------------------------------------------------------
  (a)       Financial statements and financial statement schedules filed as
            part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  See Part II, Item 8.
            "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data".
                                          
            Financial statement schedules are not required or are inapplicable,
            and therefore have been omitted.
                    
  (b)       Reports on Form 8-K.     
                                          
            On January 2, 1997, the Registrant filed a Current Report on Form
            8-K dated December 27, 1996, reporting on its December 27, 1996
            public announcement of the intended merger of East New York with
            and into M&T Bank. 
          
  (c)       Exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K.
                                          
            The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index on pages 94 and 95 of this
            Annual Report on Form 10-K have been previously filed, are filed
            herewith or are incorporated herein by reference to other filings.
                                          
  (d)       Additional financial statement schedules.
                                          
            None.
                                          
                                          
                                         -90-



                                          
                                          
                                     SIGNATURES
                                          
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 
12th day of March, 1997.
                                          
                                          FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION
                                                           
                                          
                                                     
                                          By: /s/ Robert G. Wilmers 

                                          Robert G. Wilmers
                                          Chairman of the Board, 
                                          President and
                                          Chief Executive Officer
                                          
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
                                          
                                          
Signature                             Title                            Date
                                          
Principal Executive
Officer:
                                          
                                          
                                          
/s/ Robert G. Wilmers                 Chairman of the Board,
Robert G. Wilmers                     President and
                                      Chief Executive Officer          3/12/97
                                          
                                          
                                          
Principal Financial
and Accounting Officer:
                                          
                                          
/s/ Michael P. Pinto                   Executive Vice President  
Michael P. Pinto                       and Chief Financial Officer     3/12/97
                                          
                                           
                                          
                                          -91-



                                          
A majority of the board of directors:
                                          
                                          
                                          
/s/ Brent D. Baird                                         3/12/97
Brent D. Baird
                                          

/s/ John H. Benisch                                        3/12/97
John H. Benisch  
                                          
                                          
/s/ C. Angela Bontempo                                     3/12/97
C. Angela Bontempo
                                          
                                          
/s/ Robert T. Brady                                        3/12/97
Robert T. Brady
                                          
                                          
/s/ Patrick J. Callan                                      3/12/97
Patrick J. Callan
                                          
                                          
/s/ James A. Carrigg                                       3/12/97
James A. Carrigg 
                                          
                                          
/s/ Barber B. Conable, Jr.                                 3/12/97
Barber B. Conable, Jr.
                                          
                                          
/s/ Richard E. Garman                                      3/12/97
Richard E. Garman
                                          
                                          
/s/ James V. Glynn                                         3/12/97
James V. Glynn
                                          
                                          
Roy M. Goodman
                                          
                                            
/s/ Patrick W.E. Hodgson                                   3/12/97
Patrick W.E. Hodgson
                                          
                                          
Samuel T. Hubbard, Jr.
                                          
                                          
/s/ Lambros J. Lambros                                     3/12/97
Lambros J. Lambros
                                          
                                          
/s/ Wilfred J. Larson                                      3/12/97
Wilfred J. Larson
                                          
                                          
/s/ Jorge G. Pereira                                       3/12/97
Jorge G. Pereira
                                          
                                          
/s/ Raymond D. Stevens, Jr.                                3/12/97
Raymond D. Stevens, Jr.
                                          

                                          -92-




                                          
/s/ Herbert L. Washington                                  3/12/97
Herbert L. Washington                     
                                          
                                          
/s/ John L. Wehle, Jr.                                     3/12/97
John L. Wehle. Jr.
                                          
                                          
/s/ Robert G. Wilmers                                      3/12/97
Robert G. Wilmers



                                         -93- 




                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
                                 -------------


    3.1    Restated Certificate of Incorporation of First Empire State 
           Corporation dated April 19, 1989, filed by the Secretary of State 
           of New York on April 20, 1989.  Incorporated by reference to 
           Exhibit No. 19 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 
           1989  (File No. 1-9861).
                                          
    3.2    Certificate of Amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation of 
           First Empire State Corporation dated March 13, 1991, filed by the 
           Secretary of State of New York on March 14, 1991.  Incorporated by 
           reference to Exhibit No. 19 to the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
           March 31, 1991 (File No. 1-9861).            
                                                       
    3.3    By-Laws of First Empire State Corporation as last amended on July 
           16, 1991.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 3.2 to the 
           Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991 (File No.  1-9861).
                                          
    4.1    Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including     
           indentures.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit Nos. 3.1, 
           3.2, 3.3, 10.1 and 10.2 hereof. 
                                            
    4.2    Amended and Restated Trust Agreement dated as of January 31,  1997 
           by and among First Empire State Corporation, Bankers Trust 
           Company, Bankers Trust (Delaware), and the Administrators named 
           therein.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 4.1 to the Form 
           8-K dated January 31, 1997 (File No. 1-9861).
                                          
    4.3    Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of January 31, 1997 by and  
           between First Empire State Corporation and Bankers Trust Company.   
           Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 4.2 to the Form 8-K dated  
           January 31, 1997 (File No. 1-9861).
                                          
    4.4    Guarantee Agreement dated as of January 31, 1997 by and between 
           First Empire State Corporation and Bankers Trust Company.  
           Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 4.3 to Form 8-K dated 
           January 31, 1997 (File No. 1-9861).      
                                          
   10.1    Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of November 24, 1995, between 
           First Empire State Corporation and The First National Bank of 
           Boston.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.1 to the Form 
           10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995 (File No. 1-9861).
                                           
   10.2    First Empire State Corporation 1983 Stock Option Plan as amended 
           and restated.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10 to the 
           Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1995 (File No. 1-9861).
           
   10.3    First Empire State Corporation Annual Executive Incentive Plan.    
           Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.4 to the Form 10-K for 
           the year ended December 31, 1992 (File No. 1 - 9861).
                                          
           Supplemental Deferred Compensation Agreements between 
           Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company and: 
                                          
   10.4    Robert E. Sadler, Jr. dated as of March 7, 1985. Incorporated by   
           reference to Exhibit Nos. (10)(d) (A) and (B), respectively, to 
           the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1984 (File No. 0-4561);
                                          
   10.5    Harry R. Stainrook dated as of December 12, 1985. Incorporated by 
           reference to Exhibit No. (10)(e)(ii) to the Form 10-K for the year 
           ended December 31, 1985 (File No. 0-4561);

                                     -94-




   10.6    William C. Rappolt dated as of March 7, 1985. Incorporated by 
           reference to Exhibit No. (10)(e)(iv) to the Form 10-K for the year 
           ended December 31, 1987 (File No. 1-9861); 
                                          
   10.7    Brian E. Hickey dated as of July 21, 1994.  Incorporated by 
           reference to Exhibit No. 10.7 to the Form 10-K for the year ended 
           December 31, 1995 (File No. 1-9861).
                                          
   10.8    Supplemental Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated July 17, 1989, 
           between The East New York Savings Bank and Atwood Collins, III.  
           Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.11 to the Form 10-K 
           for the year ended December 31, 1991 (File No. 1-9861).
                                          
   10.9    First Empire State Corporation Supplemental Pension Plan.  
           Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.12 to the Form 10-K 
           for the year ended December 31, 1994.  (File No. 1-9861).
                                          
  10.10    First Empire State Corporation Supplemental Retirement Savings 
           Plan.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 10.13 to the Form 
           10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994. (File No. 1-9861).
                                          
  10.11    First Empire State Corporation Nonqualified Deferred Bonus Plan.  
           Filed herewith.
                                          
   11.1    Statement re:  Computation of Earnings Per Common Share.  Filed 
           herewith.
                                          
   21.1    Subsidiaries of the Registrant.  Incorporated by reference to the 
           caption "Subsidiaries" contained in Part I, Item 1 hereof.
                                          
   23.1    Consent of Price Waterhouse re: Registration Statement No. 
           33-32044 and 333-16077.  Filed herewith. 
                                          
   23.2    Consent of Price Waterhouse re: Registration Statements Nos. 
           33-12207, 33-58500 and 33-63917.  Filed herewith. 
                                          
   27.1    Article 9 Financial Data Schedule for the year ended December 31, 
           1996.  Filed herewith.
                                           
   99.1    First Empire State Corporation Retirement Savings Plan and Trust 
           Financial Statements and Additional Information for the years 
           ended December 31, 1996 and 1995.  Filed herewith.

                                     -95-

