
10-K405
ANNUAL REPORT





                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[X]     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
        ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997

                                       OR

[_]     TRANSITION  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO SECTION  13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES
        EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the transition period from _________ to ____________

Commission file number 1-10899

                            Kimco Realty Corporation
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        Maryland                                         13-2744380
  (State of incorporation)                  (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

3333 New Hyde Park Road, New Hyde Park, NY               11042-0020
(Address of principal executive offices)                  Zip Code

Registrant's telephone number, including area code (516)869-9000 Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                        Name of each exchange on
       Title of each class                                 which registered
Common Stock, par value $.01 per share                  New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares, each representing
one-tenth of a share of 7-3/4% Class A
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
par value $1.00 per share.                               New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares, each representing
one-tenth of a share of 8-1/2% Class B
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
par value $1.00 per share.                               New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares, each representing
one-tenth of a share of 8-3/8% Class C
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
par value $1.00 per share.                               New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                          
                                      None

                                (Title of class)

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [_]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant was approximately $1.14 billion based upon the closing price on the
New York Stock Exchange for such stock on February 27, 1998.

                   (APPLICABLE ONLY TO CORPORATE REGISTRANTS)

     Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's
classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.

                   40,416,795 shares as of February 27, 1998.



                                    1 of 135


                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part II incorporates certain information by reference to the following exhibits
to this annual report on Form 10-K: Exhibit 3.4, Articles Supplementary relating
to the Registrant's 8-3/8% Class C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock;
Exhibit 3.3, Articles Supplementary relating to the Registrant's 8 1/2% Class B
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock; Exhibit 4.4, Certificate of Designations
relating to the Registrant's 7 3/4% Class A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Stock; Exhibits 4.5, 4.6 and 4.7, Indenture, First Supplemental Indenture and
Second Supplemental Indenture, respectively, each relating to the Registrant's
public bond issues, and Exhibit 10.4, Credit Agreement relating to the
Registrant's revolving credit facility.

Part III incorporates certain information by reference to the Registrant's
definitive proxy statement to be filed with respect to the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders expected to be held on May 28, 1998.

Index to Exhibits begins on page 34.



                                
                                                                           Form 
                                                                           10-K
                                                                          Report
Item No.                                                                   Page
- --------                                                                   ----
                                     PART I                             
                                                                     
 1. Business ...........................................................    4

 2. Properties .........................................................   13

 3. Legal Proceedings ..................................................   15

 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders ................   15

    Executive Officers of the Registrant ...............................   24

                                     PART II

 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity
      and Related Shareholder Matters ..................................   25

 6. Selected Financial Data ............................................   26

 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
      Condition and Results of Operations ..............................   28

 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ........................   31

 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
      Accounting and Financial Disclosure ..............................   31

                                    PART III

10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant .................   32

11. Executive Compensation .............................................   32

12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
      Management .......................................................   32

13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions .....................   32

                                     PART IV

14. Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports on
      Form 8-K .........................................................   33






                                     PART I

Item 1. Business

General Kimco Realty Corporation (the "Company") is one of the nation's largest
owners and operators of neighborhood and community shopping centers. As of
February 1, 1998, the Company's portfolio was comprised of 339 property
interests including 273 neighborhood and community shopping center properties,
two regional malls, 62 retail store leases, one leased parcel of undeveloped
land and one distribution center comprising a total of approximately 41.7
million square feet of leasable space located in 37 states. The Company believes
its portfolio of neighborhood and community shopping center properties is the
largest (measured by gross leasable area, "GLA") currently held by any
publicly-traded real estate investment trust ("REIT"). The Company is a
self-administered REIT and manages its properties through present management,
which has owned and operated neighborhood and community shopping centers for
more than 30 years. The Company has not engaged, nor does it expect to retain,
any REIT advisors in connection with the operation of its properties.

The Company's executive offices are located at 3333 New Hyde Park Road, New Hyde
Park, New York 11042-0020 and its telephone number is (516)869-9000. Unless the
context indicates otherwise, the term the "Company" as used herein is intended
to include subsidiaries of the Company.

History The Company began operations through its predecessor, The Kimco
Corporation, which was organized in 1966 upon the contribution of several
shopping center properties owned by its principal stockholders. In 1973, these
principals formed the Company as a Delaware corporation, and in 1985, the
operations of The Kimco Corporation were merged into the Company. The Company
completed its initial public stock offering (the "IPO") in November 1991, and
reorganized as a Maryland corporation during 1994.

The Company's growth through its first fifteen years resulted primarily from the
ground-up development and construction of its shopping centers. By 1981, the
Company had assembled a portfolio of 77 properties that provided an established
source of income and positioned the Company for an expansion of its asset base.
At that time, the Company revised its strategy to focus on the acquisition of
existing shopping centers because it believed generally that available financial
returns did not justify the risks of continued ground-up development of
properties. Furthermore, the Company's management believed that existing
properties with below market-rate leases were available in the market at
attractive prices. The Company considers such properties to offer greater
leasing flexibility in the event space becomes available or should there be an
overcapacity of space in the local economy. The Company also believes that
opportunities exist to create value through the redevelopment and re-tenanting
of existing shopping centers. As a result of this change in strategy, the
Company has developed only two of the 262 property interests added to its
portfolio since 1981, as compared with 68 of the 77 properties owned prior to
that time.

Investment and Operating Strategy The Company's investment objective has been to

increase cash flow, current income and consequently the value of its existing
portfolio of properties, and to seek continued growth through (i) the strategic
re-tenanting, renovation and expansion of its existing centers, and (ii) the
selective acquisition of established income-producing real estate properties,
and properties requiring significant re-tenanting and redevelopment, primarily
in neighborhood and community shopping centers in geographic regions in which
the Company presently operates. The Company intends to consider investments in
other real estate sectors and in geographic markets where it does not presently
operate should suitable opportunities arise.

The Company's neighborhood and community shopping center properties are designed
to attract local area customers and typically are anchored by a supermarket,
discount department store or drugstore tenant offering day-to-day 






necessities rather than high-priced luxury items. The Company may either
purchase or lease income-producing properties in the future, and may also
participate with other entities in property ownership through partnerships,
joint ventures or similar types of co-ownership. Equity investments may be
subject to existing mortgage financing and other indebtedness or such financing
or indebtedness may be incurred in connection with acquiring such investments.
Any such financing or indebtedness will have priority over the Company's equity
interest in such property. The Company may make loans to joint ventures in which
it may or may not participate in the future.

While the Company has historically held its properties for long-term investment,
and accordingly has placed strong emphasis on its ongoing program of regular
maintenance, periodic renovation and capital improvement, it is possible that
properties in the portfolio may be sold, in whole or in part, as circumstances
warrant, subject to REIT qualification rules.

The Company emphasizes equity real estate investments, but may, in its
discretion, invest in mortgages, other real estate interests and other
investments. The mortgages in which the Company may invest may be either first
mortgages, junior mortgages or other mortgage-related securities.

The Company may legally invest in the securities of other issuers, for the
purpose, among others, of exercising control over such entities, subject to the
gross income and asset tests necessary for REIT qualification. The Company may
acquire all or substantially all of these securities or assets of other REITs or
similar entities where such investments would be consistent with the Company's
investment policies. In any event, the Company does not intend that its
investments in securities will require it to register as an "investment company"
under the Investment Company Act of 1940.

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through
diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its properties and a
large tenant base. At December 31, 1997, the Company's single largest
neighborhood and community shopping center accounted for only approximately 1.9%

of the Company's annualized base rental revenues and only 1% of the Company's
total shopping center GLA. At December 31, 1997, the Company's five largest
tenants include Venture, Kmart Corporation, Kohl's, Walmart and TJX Companies,
which represent approximately 11.7%, 4.1%, 3.4%, 2.7% and 2.2%, respectively, of
the Company's annualized base rental revenues.

The Company intends to maintain a conservative debt capitalization with a ratio
of debt to total market capitalization of approximately 50% or less. As of
December 31, 1997, the Company had a debt to total market capitalization ratio
of approximately 24%.

The Company has authority to offer shares of capital stock or other senior
securities in exchange for property and to repurchase or otherwise reacquire its
common stock or any other securities and may engage in such activities in the
future. At all times, the Company intends to make investments in such a manner
as to be consistent with the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended (the "Code"), to qualify as a REIT unless, because of circumstances
or changes in the Code (or in Treasury Regulations), the Board of Directors
determines that it is no longer in the best interests of the Company to qualify
as a REIT.

The Company's policies with respect to the aforementioned activities may be
reviewed and modified from time to time by the Company's Board of Directors
without the vote of the stockholders.

Competition As one of the original participants in the growth of the shopping
center industry and one of the nation's largest owners and operators of
neighborhood and community shopping centers, the Company has established close
relationships with a large number of major national and regional retailers and
maintains a broad network of industry contacts. Management is associated with
and/or actively participates in many shopping center and REIT industry
organizations. Notwithstanding these relationships, there are numerous
commercial developers and real estate companies that compete with the Company in
seeking properties for acquisition and tenants who will lease space in 






these properties.

Capital Resources Completion of the Company's IPO, which resulted in net cash
proceeds of approximately $116 million, permitted the Company to significantly
deleverage its real estate portfolio and has made available the public debt and
equity markets as the Company's principal source of capital for the future. A
$100 million, unsecured revolving credit facility established in June 1994,
which is scheduled to expire in June 2000 and an additional $150 million interim
unsecured revolving credit facility, established in March 1998, scheduled to
expire in June 1998, have made available funds to both finance the purchase of
properties and meet any short-term working capital requirements. It is the
Company's intention to extend the term of the $150 million interim revolving
credit facility and establish it as a continuing part of the Company's total

unsecured revolving credit availability. The Company has also implemented a $150
million medium-term notes program (the "MTN program") pursuant to which it may
from time to time offer for sale its senior unsecured debt for any general
corporate purposes, including (i) funding specific liquidity requirements in its
business, including property acquisitions and redevelopment costs, and (ii)
better managing the Company's debt maturities. (See Note 7 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional offerings of its public
unsecured debt and equity raising in the aggregate over $1.15 billion for the
purposes of repaying indebtedness, acquiring interests in neighborhood and
community shopping centers and for expanding and improving properties in the
portfolio.

It is management's intention that the Company continually have access to the
capital resources necessary to expand and develop its business. Accordingly, the
Company may seek to obtain funds through additional equity offerings or debt
financings, including an increase in the Company's unsecured revolving credit
facility, in a manner consistent with its intention to operate with a
conservative debt capitalization policy.

The Company anticipates that cash flows from operations will continue to provide
adequate capital to fund its operating and administrative expenses, regular debt
service obligations and all dividend payments in accordance with REIT
requirements in both the short-term and long-term. In addition, the Company
anticipates that cash on hand, borrowings under its revolving credit facilities,
issuance of equity and public debt, as well as other debt and equity
alternatives, will provide the necessary capital required by the Company.

Inflation and Other Business Issues Many of the Company's leases contain
provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation. Such provisions
include clauses enabling the Company to receive payment of additional rent
calculated as a percentage of tenants' gross sales above predetermined
thresholds ("Percentage Rents"), which generally increase as prices rise, and/or
escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the terms of
the leases. Such escalation clauses include increases in the consumer price
index or similar inflation indices. In addition, many of the Company's leases
are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits the Company to seek to
increase rents upon renewal to market rates. Most of the Company's leases
require the tenant to pay an allocable share of operating expenses, including
common area maintenance costs, real estate taxes and insurance, thereby reducing
the Company's exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting
from inflation. The Company periodically evaluates its exposure to short-term
interest rates and will, from time to time, enter into interest rate protection
agreements which mitigate, but do not eliminate, the effect of changes in
interest rates on its floating-rate loans.

As an owner of real estate, the Company is subject to risks arising in
connection with the underlying real estate, including defaults or nonrenewal of
tenant leases, environmental matters, financing availability and changes in real
estate and zoning laws. The success of the Company also depends upon trends in
the economy, including interest rates, income tax laws, governmental 







regulations and legislation and population trends.

Operating Practices Nearly all operating functions, including leasing, legal,
construction, data processing, maintenance, finance and accounting, are
administered by the Company from its executive offices in New Hyde Park, New
York. The Company believes it is critical to have a management presence in its
principal areas of operation; accordingly, the Company also maintains regional
offices in Boca Raton and Orlando, Florida; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and
Dayton and Cleveland, Ohio. A total of 107 persons are employed at the Company's
executive and regional offices.

The Company's regional offices are generally staffed by a manager and the
support personnel necessary to both function as local representatives for
leasing and promotional purposes and to complement the corporate office efforts
to ensure that property inspection and maintenance objectives are achieved. The
regional offices are important in reducing the time necessary to respond to the
needs of the Company's tenants. Leasing and maintenance personnel from the
corporate office also conduct regular inspections of each shopping center.

The Company also employs a total of 61 persons at several of its larger
properties in order to more effectively administer its maintenance and security
responsibilities.

Management Information Systems Virtually all operating activities are supported
by a sophisticated computer software system designed to provide management with
operating data necessary to make informed business decisions on a timely basis.
These proprietary systems are continually expanded and enhanced by the Company
and reflect a commitment to quality management and tenant relations. The Company
has integrated an advanced mid-range computer with personal computer technology,
creating a management information system that facilitates the development of
property cash flow budgets, forecasts and related management information.

Qualification as a REIT The Company has elected, commencing with its taxable
year which began January 1, 1992, to qualify as a REIT under Sections 856
through 860 of the Code. If, as the Company believes, it is organized and
operates in such a manner so as to qualify and remain qualified as a REIT under
the Code, the Company generally will not be subject to Federal income tax,
provided that distributions to its stockholders equal at least the amount of its
REIT taxable income as defined under the Code.

Recent Developments

Shopping Center Acquisitions -

     In January 1997, the Company purchased the Target Shopping Center located
on Sagamore Parkway North in Lafayette, IN. This 177,000 square foot center is
anchored by Target Stores and was acquired for approximately $4.1 million.

     In April 1997, the Company acquired the Carrollwood Commons shopping center

located at Ehrlich Road and North Dale Mabry Highway, in Tampa, FL for
approximately $14.1 million. This shopping center has 110,000 square feet of GLA
and is anchored by Staples and Ross Stores.

     In June 1997, the Company purchased Shady Oaks Shopping Center, Woodforest
Shopping Center and Hammond Aire Plaza located in Ocala, FL, Houston, TX, and
Baton Rouge, LA, respectively. These properties were acquired in separate
transactions for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $34.6 million.
Shady Oaks Shopping Center, located at the intersection of S.R. 200 and Shady
Oaks Road comprises 251,000 square feet of GLA and is anchored by Kmart
Corporation, Service Merchandise and Kash N' Karry. Woodforest Shopping Center,
which comprises 113,000 square feet of GLA at the intersection of Wood Forest
Boulevard and Uvalde Road, is anchored by HEB Pantry Food and Palais Royal.
Tenants at Hammond Aire Plaza, which comprises 264,000 square feet of GLA at the
intersection of Old Hammond Highway and Airline Highway, include Marshalls,
Steinmart and Taylor Office Supply.





     In September 1997, the Company acquired the Crossroads Center located on
Frontage Road in Florence, SC for approximately $7.3 million. This 114,000
square foot shopping center is anchored by Staples and Hamricks.

     In October 1997, the Company purchased Mountainside Plaza and Maplewood
Plaza located in Phoenix, AZ and Coral Springs, FL, respectively. These
properties were acquired in separate transactions for an aggregate purchase
price of approximately $20.5 million, including the assumption of approximately
$8.1 million of mortgage debt encumbering the Mountainside Plaza property.
Mountainside, which comprises 124,000 square feet of GLA at the intersection of
Chandler Boulevard and 40th Street, is anchored by Safeway and Walgreens.
Tenants at Maplewood Plaza, which comprises 86,000 square feet of GLA at the
intersection of Ramblewood Drive and University Drive, include TJ Maxx and
Blockbuster Video.

     In November 1997, the Company acquired the Festival at Manassas and
Acadiana Square shopping centers located in Manassas, VA and Lafeyette, LA,
respectively, in separate transactions for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately $19.5 million. The Festival at Manassas is a 118,000 square foot
center located at the intersection of Sudley Road and Portsmouth Drive and is
anchored by Super Fresh Grocery and Blockbuster Video. Acadiana Square shopping
center is a 148,000 square foot center located at the intersection of U.S.
Highway 167 and Ambassador Caffery Parkway and is anchored by SteinMart, TJ Maxx
and Office Max.

     In December 1997, the Company acquired The Gallery Shopping Center,
Tri-Cities Square Shopping Center, Greenridge Shopping Center and North Rivers
Market located in Greenville, SC, Mount Dora, FL, Staten Island, NY and North
Charleston, SC, respectively. These properties were acquired in separate
transactions for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $41.6 million,
including the assumption of approximately $5.9 million of mortgage debt
encumbering the Greenridge Shopping Center property. The Gallery Shopping

Center, which comprises 91,000 square feet of GLA on Haywood Road, is anchored
by Baby Superstore. Tri-Cities Square Shopping Center, located on Eurora Road
and US Highway 441, comprises 111,000 square feet of GLA and is anchored by
Kmart. The Greenridge Shopping Center, which comprises 101,000 square feet of
GLA at the intersection of Arthur Kill Road and Richmond Avenue, is anchored by
Waldbaums Supermarket and CVS Drug Stores. North Rivers Market, which comprises
196,000 square feet of GLA at the intersection of Rivers Avenue and Northbrook
Boulevard, is anchored by TJ Maxx, Marshalls and Phar-Mor.

Retail Properties Acquisition -

     In August 1997, certain subsidiaries of the Company acquired certain real
estate assets from Venture Stores, Inc. ("Venture") consisting of interests in
49 fee and leasehold properties totaling approximately 5.9 million square feet
of leasable area located in Illinois, Missouri, Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Indiana
and Iowa (collectively, the "Venture Properties Acquisition"). The aggregate
price was approximately $130 million, consisting of $70.5 million in cash and
the assumption of approximately $59.5 million of existing mortgage debt on
certain of these properties. The mortgage debt bears interest at 10.54% per
annum and cannot be repaid without penalty, until its maturity on July 1, 2000.
In addition, the Company was granted (i)an option to acquire two other
properties for $4.5 million, (ii) an option to acquire up to 11 additional
properties should certain conditions be satisfied and (iii) rights of first
refusal, for a period of five years, to acquire 31 additional properties
containing 4.2 million square feet of leasable area. The transaction also
included approximately 573,000 square feet of retail space substantially
occupied by other retailers and approximately 165,000 square feet of available
non-Venture retail space. Simultaneously with this transaction, the Company
entered into a long-term unitary net lease with Venture covering all premises
occupied by Venture on these properties. As a result of this transaction,
Venture was the primary or sole tenant at 60 of the Company's locations
representing approximately 11.7% of the Company's annualized base rental
revenues as of December 31, 1997.

     In January 1998, Venture filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the






United States Bankruptcy Code. The Company has not received notice that Venture
will be delinquent in the payment of any rents due. There can be, however, no
assurance that Venture will continue to pay rents as they become due or that the
trustee in bankruptcy will not reject the leases under which Venture is bound.

Irrespective of Venture's current financial status, management believes that the
Venture Properties Acquisition represents a unique strategic opportunity for the
Company, based on the significant intrinsic value in the underlying real estate
assets as a result of (i) attractive geographic locations, (ii) current below
market-rate leases and (iii)the opportunity to lease-up the remaining 165,000
square feet of vacant non-Venture retail space. In addition to its intrinsic
real estate value, the Venture Properties Acquisition also provides the Company

with (i) strong initial yields, (ii) increased geographic diversification and
(iii) options to acquire additional properties. Accordingly, the Company
believes that it could replace any defaulted or discharged leases with leases
that are on no less favorable terms than the leases currently in place.

The Company, as a regular part of its business operations, will continue to
actively seek properties for acquisition which have below market-rate leases or
other cash flow growth potential.

Property Redevelopments -

The Company has an ongoing program to reformat and re-tenant its properties to
maintain or enhance its competitive position in the marketplace. During 1997,
the Company substantially completed the redevelopment of 7 shopping centers in
its portfolio, including properties located in Plainview, NY; Lexington, KY;
Charles Town, WV; Norriton, PA; Westmont, NJ; Coral Springs, FL and Dayton, OH
at a total cost of approximately $26.3 million. The Company is currently
involved in redeveloping several other shopping centers, most notably its
properties in N. Miami, FL, Richboro, PA, Winston-Salem, NC, and Grove Gate, FL.
Approximately $3.7 million was expended during 1997 related to these
ongoing projects. Each redevelopment represents an opportunity for the Company
to capitalize on its leasing, site planning, design and construction expertise.
The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these and other
redevelopments during 1998 will be approximately $30 million. These projects,
which are currently proceeding on schedule and in line with the Company's
budgeted costs, are expected to contribute to growth in the Company's funds from
operations in the future.

Property Disposition -

During June 1997, the Company disposed of a property in Troy, OH. Proceeds from
the disposition totaling approximately $1.6 million, together with an additional
$8.3 million cash investment, were used to acquire an exchange shopping center
property located in Ocala, FL.

Kimco Select Investments -

Kimco Select Investments, a New York general partnership ("Kimco Select"), was
formed in 1997 to provide the Company, through its 90% ownership interest, the
opportunity to make investments outside of its core neighborhood and community
shopping center business. Although potential investments may be largely
retail-focused, Kimco Select may invest in other asset categories. Kimco Select
will focus on investments where the intrinsic value in the underlying assets may
provide potentially superior returns relative to the inherent risk. These
investments may be in the form of direct ownership of real estate, mortgage
loans, public and private debt and equity securities that Kimco Select believes
are undervalued, unoccupied properties, properties leased to weak or bankrupt
tenants and other assets.

Kimco Select is managed by David M. Samber, formerly President and Chief
Operating Officer of the Company, who owns the remaining 10% ownership interest
in Kimco Select. The Company has made an initial commitment of $35 million
towards investments by Kimco Select and may increase its commitment as
management deems appropriate.






During 1997, Kimco Select through a joint venture investment, acquired an
interest in a multi-story building in Eastwick, PA. This 39,000 square foot
property, and a 53,000 square foot property in Upper Darby, PA previously
acquired, have been redeveloped as ambulatory care facilities, anchored by Mercy
Health Corporation, a leading regional health care system and contain
complementary retail space. The acquisition and redevelopment costs related to
these two properties totaled approximately $10 million.

Kimco Select also acquired (i) various first mortgage loan participations, (ii)
certain public bonds, and (iii) a joint venture interest in an entity which owns
an office building in Miami, FL. The aggregate acquisition cost 
related to these investments was approximately $4.6 million.

Financings -

Debt. During 1997, the Company issued an aggregate principal amount of $100
million of unsecured notes under its MTN program. These unsecured notes are
comprised of (i) a $30 million ten-year note bearing interest at 7.46% and
maturing in May 2007, (ii) a $20 million twelve-year note bearing interest at
7.56% and maturing in May 2009, (iii) a $20 million ten-year note bearing
interest at 6.96% and maturing in July 2007 and (iv) a $30 million twelve-year
note bearing interest at 7.06% and maturing in July 2009. (See Note 7 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report
on Form 10-K.)

In June 1997, the Company amended its $100 million, unsecured revolving credit
facility with a group of banks to provide, for a reduction (i) by .25% (25 basis
points) in the spread above the LIBOR rate or money-market rate, whichever is
applicable, paid on borrowings under the facility and (ii) by .02% (2 basis
points) in the annual fee payable on a certain portion of the facility which
remains unused from time to time. In addition, certain administrative and
extension fees were also reduced. The facility term was also extended one year
and is now scheduled to expire on June 30, 2000.

Equity. During September 1997, the Company completed a primary public stock
offering of 4,000,000 shares of common stock at $35.50 per share. The net
proceeds from this sale of common stock, totaling approximately $134.5 million
(after related transaction costs of approximately $7.5 million) have been used
primarily for the acquisition of neighborhood and community shopping centers.
(See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
annual report on Form 10-K.)

Subsequent Events

Property Acquisitions / Disposition -

In January 1998, the Company acquired seven neighborhood and community shopping
center properties comprising approximately 632,000 square feet of GLA in the

Denver, CO market for approximately $43.6 million, including the assumption of
$4.2 million of mortgage debt. These properties are primarily anchored by
supermarket or drugstore tenants, including Safeway, Cub Foods and Phar-Mor.

In addition, the Company, through its affiliate Kimco Select, acquired interests
in three retail properties in the Chicago, IL market comprising approximately
516,000 square feet of GLA for an aggregate purchase price of approximately
$23.7 million. These properties include approximately 70,000 square feet of
showroom space and adjoining warehouses of approximately 100,000 square feet at
each location. Simultaneous with this transaction, the Company leased to
Heilig-Meyers, the country's largest furniture retailer, the showroom portion of
each property under individual long-term leases. The Company is currently
planning the redevelopment of the warehouse portion of each property.

The Company disposed of a property in Pinellas Park, FL during January 1998.
Cash proceeds from the disposition totaling $2.3 million will be used to acquire
an exchange shopping center property.







Price REIT Merger -

On January 13, 1998, the Company and The Price REIT, Inc., a Maryland
corporation ("Price REIT") signed a definitive agreement to merge, (the
"Merger"). Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated
January 13, 1998, as amended March 5, 1998 (the "Merger Agreement"), Price REIT
will be merged into a newly formed wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.

The transaction is intended, for financial accounting purposes, to be accounted
for as a purchase. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement each share of Price
REIT common stock will be exchanged for a combination of the Company's common
stock and Kimco depositary shares (the "Class D Depositary Shares"), each
depositary share representing a 1/10 of a share interest in a new issue of
Kimco 7.5% Class D Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (the "Class D
Convertible Preferred Stock") having an aggregate value of at least $45 based
on the "Kimco Average Price" (as defined herein) and the liquidation preference
of the Class D Depositary Shares (collectively, the "Merger Consideration"). 
The Merger, which is expected to be completed in mid-1998, is subject to
customary closing conditions, including certain regulatory approvals and the
approval of the issuance of the Merger Consideration by the stockholders of the
Company and the approval of the Merger by the Stockholders of Price REIT.

The Merger Agreement provides for a pre-closing adjustment to the number of
shares of the Company's common stock and Class D Depositary Shares issuable per
share of Price REIT common stock in order to ensure that Price REIT stockholders
will receive at least, and possibly more than, $45 in the Company's securities
per Price REIT share. Specifically, in the event that the average closing price
of the Company's common stock (the "Kimco Average Price" as defined herein)
ending on and including the seventh trading day immediately preceding the date

of the Company's 1998 annual meeting of stockholders plus $10 is less than 
$45, the amount of Class D Depositary Shares will be increased up to a maximum
of $11.25 of Class D Depositary Shares (based on a liquidation preference of $25
per Class D Depositary Share) to arrive at a value of $45. To the extent that
the issuance of $11.25 of Class D Depositary Shares would still result in less
than $45 of combined value, the number of shares of the Company's common stock
issuable per Price REIT share will be increased in order to arrive at a total of
$45 delivered in the Company's securities. However, the Company may elect to
terminate the Merger Agreement in the event its Average Price (the "Average
Price", as defined herein) during a specified calculation period or the closing
price on the scheduled closing date or on either of the two days prior to the
scheduled closing date is less than $32.

In the event that the "Kimco Average Price" (as defined herein) plus $10 is
greater than $45, each share of Price REIT common stock would continue to be
converted into one share of the Company's common stock and the amount of Class D
Depositary Shares will be decreased by 50% of the amount by which the Kimco
Average Price referred to above plus $10 exceeds $45. However, Price REIT
stockholders will never receive less than $9 of Class D Depositary Shares. Thus,
as a result of the merger, Price REIT stockholders will obtain the benefit of
50% of the increase in value of the Company's common stock as reflected in the
Kimco Average Price between $35 and $37, and 100% of any increase above $37.

As used herein, the "Kimco Average Price" shall be the average of Average Prices
(as defined herein) of the Company's common stock for fifteen (15) randomly
selected trading days within the thirty (30) consecutive trading days ending on
and including the seventh trading day immediately preceding the date of the
Company's 1998 annual meeting of stockholders. As used herein, the "Average
Price" for any date means the average of the daily high and low prices of the
Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") as reported
in The Wall Street Journal, or if not reported thereby, by another authoritative
source. The random selection of trading days shall be made under the joint
supervision of the financial advisors retained by the Company and Price REIT in
connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.

The dividend rate on the Class D Depositary Shares will be 7.5 % per annum, or,
if greater, the dividend on the shares of the Company's common stock into which
a Class D Depositary Share is convertible plus $0.0275 quarterly. The Class D
Depositary Shares will be convertible into the Company's common stock 





at a conversion price of $40.25 per share at any time by the holder and may be
redeemed by the Company at the conversion price in shares of the Company's
common stock at any time after the third anniversary of the Merger if for any 20
trading days during a rolling 30 day consecutive trading-day period the
Company's common stock closing price exceeds $48.30, subject to certain
adjustments. The Class D Depositary Shares are expected to be listed on the
NYSE.

The Merger Agreement also provides that each party will be entitled to a

Break-Up Fee in the amount of $12,500,000 or reimbursement of expenses up to
$2,000,000 in the event the agreement is terminated under various circumstances.
The Company has also agreed that if it elects to terminate the Merger Agreement
because its common stock price closes below $32, Price REIT will be entitled 
to receive $6,250,000.

Financings -

In March 1998, the Company obtained an additional $150 million interim unsecured
revolving credit facility to both finance the purchase of properties and meet
any short-term working capital requirements. This facility is scheduled to
expire in June 1998, however, it is the Company's intention to extend the term
of this facility and establish it as a continuing part of the Company's total
unsecured revolving credit availability.

KC Holdings, Inc.

To facilitate the Company's November 1991 IPO, forty-six shopping center
properties and certain other assets, together with indebtedness related thereto,
were transferred to subsidiaries of KC Holdings, Inc. ("KC Holdings") a newly
formed corporation that is owned by the stockholders of the Company prior to the
IPO. The Company, although having no ownership interest in KC Holdings or its
subsidiary companies, was granted ten-year, fixed-price options to reacquire the
real estate assets owned by KC Holdings' subsidiaries, subject to any
liabilities outstanding with respect to such assets at the time of an option
exercise. As of February 27, 1998, KC Holdings' subsidiaries had conveyed
fourteen shopping center properties back to the Company and had disposed of ten
additional centers in transactions with third parties. The members of the
Company's Board of Directors who are not also shareholders of KC Holdings
unanimously approved the purchase of each of the fourteen shopping centers that
have been reacquired by the Company from KC Holdings. (See Notes 9 and 13 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on
Form 10-K.)

The Company manages 18 of KC Holdings' 22 shopping center properties pursuant to
a management agreement. KC Holdings' other four shopping center properties are
managed by unaffiliated joint venture partners.

Acquisition Option -

The Company holds 10-year acquisition options which expire in November 2001 to
reacquire interests in the 22 shopping center properties owned by KC Holdings'
subsidiaries. The option exercise prices are fixed and payable in shares of the
Company's common stock or, in the event payment in the form of common stock
could jeopardize the Company's status as a REIT, an equivalent value in cash. If
the Company exercises its options to acquire all the remaining shopping center
properties, the maximum aggregate amount payable to KC Holdings would be
approximately $11.1 million, or approximately 316,000 shares of the Company's
common stock (assuming shares valued at the closing price on the NYSE of $35.13
per share as of February 27, 1998). The Company would acquire the properties
subject to any existing mortgage indebtedness and other liabilities on the
properties. The acquisition options enable the Company to obtain any
appreciation in the value of these properties over the option exercise prices,
while eliminating the Company's interim exposure to leverage and operating

risks.

The option exercise prices for the shopping center properties are generally
equal to 10% of KC Holdings' share of the mortgage debt which was outstanding 






on the properties at the date of the IPO. If, however, the market value of the
Company's common stock at the time an option is exercised is less than $13.33
per share (the IPO price), then the option exercise price will decline
proportionately (subject to maximum reduction of 50%).

The 22 shopping center properties subject to the acquisition options are held in
8 subsidiaries of KC Holdings. Thirteen of these properties are subject to a
single lease and/or a single cross-collateralized mortgage and are therefore
held by a single subsidiary. Four of the properties, which are owned in two
separate joint ventures and managed by unaffiliated joint venture partners, are
held by two additional subsidiaries, and the remaining five shopping center
properties are each held by separate subsidiaries. The Company may exercise its
acquisition options separately with respect to each subsidiary.

The acquisition options may be exercised by either (i) a majority of the
Company's directors who are not also stockholders of KC Holdings, provided that
the pro forma annualized net cash flows of the properties to be acquired exceed
the dividend yield on the shares issued to exercise each option, or (ii) a
majority of the Company's stockholders who are not also stockholders of KC
Holdings.

KC Holdings' subsidiaries may sell any of the properties subject to the
acquisition options to any third party unaffiliated with KC Holdings or its
stockholders, provided that KC Holdings provides the Company with a 30-day right
of first refusal notice with regard to such sale. KC Holdings may cause such a
selling subsidiary to distribute any sale proceeds to KC Holdings or its
stockholders, provided that the option exercise price with respect to such
subsidiary is reduced by the amount that is distributed, and further provided
that no amount may be distributed so as to cause the option exercise price for
any subsidiary to be reduced to less than $1.

Each of KC Holdings' subsidiaries may pay dividends to KC Holdings to the extent
of net operating cash flow. In addition, any KC Holdings subsidiary may make
distributions to KC Holdings in excess of net operating cash flow, provided that
the option exercise price with respect to such subsidiary is reduced by the
amount of such distribution, and further provided that no amount may be
distributed so as to cause the option exercise price for any subsidiary to be
reduced to less than $1. KC Holdings may increase the indebtedness in its
subsidiaries for the purpose of improving, maintaining, refinancing or operating
the related shopping center properties. Such indebtedness may include borrowings
from the stockholders of KC Holdings.

In the event of a complete casualty or a condemnation of a property held by any

of KC Holdings' subsidiaries, the acquisition option will terminate with respect
to such property and the option shall continue to be effective with respect to
any other properties held by such subsidiary.

Each of KC Holdings' subsidiaries has agreed with the Company that it will
engage in no activities other than in connection with the ownership, maintenance
and improvement of the properties that it owns and only to the extent that the
Company could engage in such activities without receiving or earning
non-qualifying income (in excess of certain limits) under the REIT provisions of
the Code or without otherwise impairing the Company's status as a REIT. In
addition, KC Holdings has covenanted not to engage in any other real estate
activity. The Company has agreed not to make loans to KC Holdings or its
subsidiaries.

Exchange Listings

The Company's common stock, Class A Depositary Shares, Class B Depositary Shares
and Class C Depositary Shares are traded on the NYSE under the trading symbols
"KIM", "KIMprA", "KIMprB" and "KIMprC", respectively.

Item 2.  Properties

Real Estate Portfolio As of February 1, 1998 the Company's shopping center
portfolio was comprised of approximately 35.8 million square feet of GLA in 273
neighborhood and community shopping center properties and two regional malls,
located in 30 states. Neighborhood and community shopping centers 






comprise the primary focus of the Company's current portfolio, representing
approximately 97% of the Company's total shopping center GLA. As of February 1,
1998 approximately 90% of the Company's neighborhood and community shopping
center space was leased, and the average annualized base rent per leased square
foot was $6.37.

The Company's neighborhood and community shopping center properties, generally
owned and operated through subsidiaries or joint ventures, had an average size
of approximately 126,000 square feet as of February 1, 1998. The Company retains
its shopping centers for long-term investment and consequently pursues a program
of regular physical maintenance together with major renovations and refurbishing
to preserve and increase the value of its properties. These projects usually
include renovating existing facades, installing uniform signage, resurfacing
parking lots and enhancing parking lot lighting. During 1997, the Company
capitalized approximately $3.7 million in connection with these property
improvements.

The Company's neighborhood and community shopping centers are usually "anchored"
by a national or regional discount department store, supermarket or drugstore.
As one of the original participants in the growth of the shopping center
industry and one of the nation's largest owners and operators of shopping

centers, the Company has established close relationships with a large number of
major national and regional retailers. National and regional companies that are
tenants in the Company's shopping center properties include Venture, Kmart
Corporation, Kohl's, WalMart, TJX Companies, Toys/Kids `R Us and Schottenstein
Stores.

A substantial portion of the Company's income consists of rent received under
long-term leases. Most of the leases provide for the payment of fixed base
rentals monthly in advance and for the payment by tenants of an allocable share
of the real estate taxes, insurance, utilities and common area maintenance
expenses incurred in operating the shopping centers. Although a majority of the
leases require the Company to make roof and structural repairs as needed, a
number of tenant leases place that responsibility on the tenant, and the
Company's standard small store lease provides for roof repairs to be reimbursed
by the tenant as part of common area maintenance. The Company's management
places a strong emphasis on sound construction and safety at its properties.

Approximately 1,100 of the Company's 2,680 leases also contain provisions
requiring the payment of additional rent calculated as a percentage of tenants'
gross sales above predetermined thresholds. Percentage rents accounted for
approximately 2% of the Company's revenues from rental property for the year
ended December 31, 1997.

Minimum base rental revenues and operating expense reimbursements accounted for
approximately 98% of the Company's total revenues from rental property for the
year ended December 31, 1997. The Company's management believes that the average
base rent per square foot for the Company's existing leases is generally lower
than the prevailing market rate base rents in the geographic regions where the
Company operates, reflecting the potential for future growth.

The Company has been able to capitalize on the below market-rate leases in its
existing shopping center portfolio to obtain increases in rental revenues
through the renewal of leases or strategic re-tenanting of space. From January
1, 1997 to December 31, 1997, excluding the effect of 1997 acquisitions, the
Company increased the average base rent per leased square foot on its portfolio
of neighborhood and community shopping centers from $6.21 to $6.50, an increase
of $.29 per square foot, or approximately 5%, which was attributable to leasing
activity within the existing portfolio. The effect of 1997 acquisitions reduced
the overall rent per leased square foot by $.19, thus bringing the average rent
per leased square foot to $6.31 as of December 31, 1997. The average annual base
rent per leased square foot for new leases executed in 1997 was $9.07.

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through geographic
and tenant diversity. No single neighborhood and community shopping center






accounted for more than 1.0% of the Company's total shopping center GLA or more
than 1.9% of total annualized base rental revenues as of December 31, 1997. The
five largest tenants of the Company include Venture, Kmart Corporation, Kohl's,

WalMart and TJX Companies, which represent approximately 11.7%, 4.1%, 3.4%, 2.7%
and 2.2%, respectively, of the annualized base rental revenues at December 31,
1997. The Company maintains an active leasing and capital improvement program
that, combined with the high quality of the locations, has made, in management's
opinion, the Company's properties attractive to tenants.

The Company's management believes its experience in the industry and its
relationships with numerous national and regional tenants gives it an advantage
in an industry where ownership is fragmented among a large number of property
owners.

Retail Store Leases In addition to its neighborhood and community shopping
center portfolio and two regional malls, the Company holds interests in various
retail store leases relating to approximately 5.6 million square feet of anchor
store premises in 62 neighborhood and community shopping centers located in 24
states. As of February 1, 1998 approximately 98% of these premises had been
sublet to retailers which lease the stores pursuant to net lease agreements
providing for average annualized base rental payments to the Company of $3.73
per square foot. The Company's average annualized base rental obligation
pursuant to its retail store leases with the fee owners of such subleased
premises is approximately $2.74 per square foot. The average remaining primary
term of the Company's retail store leases (and similarly the remaining primary
terms of its sublease agreements with the tenants currently leasing such space)
is approximately 4.8 years, excluding options to renew such leases for terms
which generally range from 5-25 years.

Ground-Leased Properties The Company has 45 shopping center properties that are
subject to long-term ground leases where a third party owns and has leased the
underlying land to the Company (or an affiliated joint venture) to construct
and/or operate a shopping center. The Company or the joint venture pays rent for
the use of the land and generally is responsible for all costs and expenses
associated with the building and improvements. At the end of these long-term
leases, unless extended, the land together with all improvements revert to the
land owner.

Undeveloped Land Although the Company does not own any unimproved land tracts
that it intends to develop as new shopping centers, the Company does own parcels
of land adjacent to certain of its existing shopping centers that are held for
possible expansion and a parcel of undeveloped land leased to a retailer. At
times, should circumstances warrant, the Company may develop or dispose of these
parcels.

The table on pages 16 to 23 sets forth more specific information with respect to
each of the Company's shopping center properties as of December 31, 1997.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

The Company is not presently involved in any litigation nor to its knowledge is
any litigation threatened against the Company or its subsidiaries that, in
management's opinion, would result in any material adverse effect on the
Company's ownership, management or operation of its properties, or which is not
covered by the Company's liability insurance.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders


None





                                 PROPERTY CHART







                                 PROPERTY CHART







                                 PROPERTY CHART






                                 PROPERTY CHART








                                 PROPERTY CHART








                                 PROPERTY CHART







                                 PROPERTY CHART


                                                 







                                 PROPERTY CHART



(1)  PERCENT LEASED INFORMATION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1997 OR LATER DATE OF
     ACQUISITION.
(2)  THE TERM "JOINT VENTURE" INDICATES THAT THE COMPANY OWNS THE PROPERTY IN
     CONJUNCTION WITH ONE OR MORE JOINT VENTURE PARTNERS. THE DATE INDICATED IS
     THE EXPIRATION DATE OF ANY GROUND LEASE AFTER GIVING AFFECT TO ALL RENEWAL
     PERIODS.
(3)  DENOTES REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(4)  THE COMPANY HOLDS INTEREST IN VARIOUS RETAIL STORE LEASES RELATED TO THE
     ANCHOR STORE PREMISES IN NEIGHBORHOOD AND COMMUNITY SHOPPING CENTERS.
(5)  SOLD OR TERMINATED SUBSEQUENT TO DECEMBER 31,1997
(6)  LEASED PARCEL OF UNDEVELOPED LAND






                      Executive Officers of the Registrant


The following table sets forth information with respect to the six executive
officers of the Company as of February 27, 1998.



Michael J. Flynn has been President and Chief Operating Officer since January 2,
1997, Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors since January 2, 1996 and a
Director of the Company since December 1, 1991. Mr. Flynn was Chairman of the
Board and President of Slattery Associates, Inc. for more than five years prior
to joining the Company.

Joseph V. Denis has been a Vice President of the Company since October 1993. Mr.
Denis was President and Chief Operating Officer of Konover Construction Company,
and previously held various positions with such company as a project and
construction manager, for more than five years prior to joining the Company in
June 1993.

Bruce M. Kauderer has been a Vice President of the Company since June 1995 and
since December 15, 1997, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company. Mr.
Kauderer was a founder of and partner with Kauderer & Pack P.C. from 1992 to
June 1995 and a Partner with Fink Weinberger, P.C. for more than five years
prior to 1992.

Michael V. Pappagallo has been a Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
the Company since May 27, 1997. Mr. Pappagallo was Chief Financial Officer of GE
Capital's Commercial Real Estate Financial and Services business from September
1994 to May 1997 and held various other positions within GE Capital for more
than five years prior to joining the Company.

The executive officers of the Company serve in their respective capacities for
approximate one-year terms and are subject to re-election by the Board of
Directors, generally at the time of the Annual Meeting of the Board of Directors
following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.






                                     PART II

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Shareholder
        Matters

Market Information The Company completed its IPO on November 22, 1991. Shares of
the Company's common stock were sold for cash or exchanged for mortgage debt and
equity interests in certain of the Company's shopping center properties based
upon an initial public offering price of $13.33 per share. Additional primary
public common stock offerings were completed in June 1992, April 1993, January
1995, February 1996 and September 1997, wherein shares of the Company's common
stock were sold for cash or exchanged for equity interests in shopping center
properties based upon $16.92, $22.83, $24.17, $26.50 and $35.50 per share
offering prices, respectively.

The table below sets forth, for the quarterly periods indicated, the high and
low sales prices per share reported on the NYSE Composite Tape for the Company's
common stock. The Company's common stock is traded under the trading symbol
"KIM".

                                                               Stock Price
                                                             --------------
               Period                                        High       Low
               ------                                        ----       ---
        1996:
        First Quarter                                       $28.00      $25.25
        Second Quarter                                      $28.50      $25.63
        Third Quarter                                       $30.25      $26.50
        Fourth Quarter                                      $34.88      $28.38
        1997:
        First Quarter                                       $34.63      $31.75
        Second Quarter                                      $33.38      $30.25
        Third Quarter                                       $36.19      $31.75
        Fourth Quarter                                      $35.50      $30.50

Holders The approximate number of holders of record of the Company's common
stock, par value $.01 per share, was 572 as of February 27, 1998.

Dividends Since the IPO, the Company has paid regular quarterly dividends to its
stockholders.

Quarterly dividends at the rate of $.39 per share were declared and paid on
November 30, 1995 and January 16, 1996, March 15, 1996 and April 15, 1996, June
17, 1996 and July 15, 1996 and September 16, 1996 and October 15, 1996
respectively. Quarterly dividends at the increased rate of $.43 per share were
declared and paid on December 2, 1996 and January 15, 1997, March 17, 1997 and
April 15, 1997, June 16, 1997, and July 15, 1997, September 15, 1997 and October
15, 1997. On December 1, 1997 the Company declared its dividend payable during
the first quarter of 1998 at the increased rate of $.48 per share payable
January 15, 1998 to shareholders of record on January 2, 1998. This $.48 per
share dividend, if annualized, would equal $1.92 per share, or an annual yield

of approximately 5.5% based on the closing price of $35.13 of the Company's
common stock on the NYSE as of February 27, 1998.

The Company has determined that 100% of the dividends totaling $1.72 and $1.56
per share, paid during 1997 and 1996, respectively, represented ordinary
dividend income to its stockholders.

While the Company intends to continue paying regular quarterly dividends, future
dividend declarations will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and
will depend on the actual cash flow of the Company, its financial condition,
capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT
provisions of the Code and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems
relevant. The actual cash flow available to pay dividends will be affected by a
number of factors, including the revenues received from rental properties, the
operating expenses of the Company, the interest expense on its borrowings, the
ability of lessees to meet their obligations to the Company and any
unanticipated capital expenditures.





In addition to its common stock offerings, the Company has capitalized the
growth in its business through the issuance of unsecured fixed and floating-rate
medium-term notes, underwritten bonds and perpetual preferred stock. Borrowings
under the Company's revolving credit facility have also been an interim source
of funds to both finance the purchase of properties and meet any short-term
working capital requirements. The various instruments governing the Company's
issuance of its unsecured public debt, bank debt and preferred stock impose
certain restrictions on the Company with regard to dividends, voting,
liquidation and other preferential rights available to the holders of such
instruments. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations" and Notes 7 and 11 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.  Reference
should also be made to the documents incorporated by reference into Part II of
this annual report listed in "Documents Incorporated by Reference" above for
further information with respect to such restrictions.

The Company does not believe that the preferential rights available to the
holders of its Class A, Class B and Class C Preferred Stock, the financial
covenants contained in its public bond Indenture or its revolving credit
agreements will have any adverse impact on the Company's ability to pay
dividends in the normal course to its common stockholders or to distribute
amounts necessary to maintain its qualification as a REIT.

The Company maintains a dividend reinvestment program pursuant to which common
and preferred stockholders may elect to automatically reinvest their dividends
to purchase shares of the Company's common stock. The Company may, from time to
time, either (i) repurchase shares of its common stock in the open market, or
(ii) issue new shares of its common stock, for the purpose of fulfilling its
obligations under this dividend reinvestment program.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data


The following table sets forth selected, historical consolidated financial data
for the Company and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
Financial Statements of the Company and Notes thereto included in this
annual report on Form 10-K.

The Company believes that the book value of its real estate assets, which
reflects the historical costs of such real estate assets less accumulated
depreciation, is not indicative of the current market value of its properties.
Historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating
performance.









(1)  Does not include revenues from rental property relating to unconsolidated
     joint ventures or revenues relating to the investment in retail store
     leases.

(2)  Most industry analysts and equity REITs, including the Company, generally
     consider funds from operations ("FFO") to be an appropriate supplemental
     measure of the performance of an equity REIT. In March 1995, the National
     Assocation of Real Estate Invesment Trusts ("NAREIT") modified the
     definition of FFO, among other things, to eliminate adding back
     amortization of deferred financing costs and depreciation of non-real
     estate items to net income when computing FFO. The Company adopted this new
     method as of January 1, 1996. FFO is defined as net income applicable to
     common shares before depreciation and amortization, extraordinary items,
     gains or losses on sales of real estate, plus FFO of unconsolidated joint
     ventures determined on a consistent basis. FFO does not represent cash
     generated from operating activities in accordance with generally accepted
     accounting principles and therefore should not be considered an alternative
     for net income as a measure of results of operations, or for cash flows
     from operations calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting
     principles as a measure of liquidity. In addition, the comparability of the
     Company's FFO with the FFO reported by other REITs may be affected by the
     differences that may exist regarding certain accounting policies relating
     to expenditures for repairs and other recurring items.

(3)  Includes $.2 million or $.01 per share in 1997 and $.8 million or $.02 per
     share in 1996 relating to non-recurring gains from the disposition of a
     shopping center property in each year.

(4)  Includes approximately $3.4 million, or $.12 per share, in non-recurring
     gains related to the sale of a shopping center and a casualty claim related
     to a joint venture property.

(5)  Does not include the Company's investment in retail store leases.










Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this annual report
on Form 10-K. Historical results and percentage relationships set forth in the
Consolidated Statements of Income contained in the Consolidated Financial
Statements, including trends which might appear, should not be taken as
indicative of future operations.

Results of Operations

     Comparison of 1997 to 1996

Revenues from rental property increased approximately $30.8 million, or 18.3% to
$198.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1997, as compared with $168.1
million for the year ended December 31, 1996. This increase resulted primarily
from the combined effect of (i) the acquisition of 14 shopping center properties
and 49 retail properties during 1997 providing revenues from rental property of
$6.1 million and $14.0 million, respectively (ii) the full year impact related
to the 39 property interests acquired in 1996 and (iii) new leasing and
re-tenanting within the portfolio at improved rental rates providing an increase
in the overall occupancy level from 87% at December 31, 1996 to 90% at December
31, 1997.

Rental property expenses, including depreciation and amortization, increased
approximately $18.2 million, or 18.8%, to $115.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 1997, as compared with $97.0 million for the preceding calendar
year. Rent, real estate taxes and depreciation and amortization charges
contributed significantly to this net increase in rental property expenses
(increasing $3.5 million, $6.5 million and $3.0 million, respectively, for the
year ended December 31, 1997 as compared to the preceding year) primarily due to
the 14 shopping center properties and 49 retail properties acquired during 1997
and the 39 property interests acquired during 1996. Interest expense increased
approximately $4.7 million between the respective periods reflecting higher
average outstanding borrowings during calendar year 1997 resulting from (i) the
issuance of an aggregate $100 million unsecured medium-term notes during 1997
and (ii) the assumption of approximately $73.2 million of mortgage debt in
connection with the acquisition of certain property interests during 1997, as
compared to the preceding year.

The Company has interests in various retail store leases relating to the anchor
store premises in neighborhood and community shopping centers. These premises
have been substantially sublet to retailers which lease the stores pursuant to

net lease agreements. Income from the investment in retail store leases during
the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996 was $3.6 million in each year.

General and administrative expenses increased approximately $1.3 million to
$11.6 million for the year ended December 31, 1997, as compared to $10.3 million
for the preceding calendar year. This increase is primarily attributable to
increased senior management and staff levels during 1997 and 1996.

During 1997, the Company disposed of a property in Troy, OH. Cash proceeds from
the disposition totaling $1.6 million, together with an additional $8.3 million
cash investment, were used to acquire an exchange shopping center property
located in Ocala, FL.

Net income for the year ended December 31, 1997 of approximately $85.8 million
represented an improvement of approximately $12.0 million, as compared with net
income of approximately $73.8 million for the preceding calendar year. After
adjusting for the gains on the sale of shopping center properties during both
periods, net income for 1997 increased by $12.6 million, or $.20 per share,
compared to 1996. This substantially improved performance was primarily
attributable to property acquisitions and redevelopments and increased leasing
activity which strengthened operating profitability.






     Comparison of 1996 to 1995

Revenues from rental property increased approximately $25.0 million, or 17.5% to
$168.1 million for the year ended December 31, 1996, as compared with $143.1
million for the year ended December 31, 1995. This increase resulted primarily
from the combined effect of shopping center acquisitions during the respective
periods (39 property interests in 1996 and 18 property interests in 1995) as
well as new leasing and re-tenanting within the portfolio at improved rental
rates.

Rental property expenses, including depreciation and amortization, increased
approximately $8.1 million, or 9.1%, to $97.0 million for the year ended
December 31, 1996, as compared with $88.9 million for the preceding calendar
year. This increase is primarily due to property acquisitions and renovations
within the existing portfolio during the respective periods which gave rise to
an overall increase in real estate taxes and depreciation and amortization
expenses, as well as increased snow removal costs during 1996. Interest charges
increased approximately $1.4 million between the respective periods reflecting
higher average outstanding borrowings during calendar year 1996 as compared to
the preceding year.

During July 1995, certain subsidiaries of the Company obtained interests in
retail store leases relating to the anchor store premises in neighborhood and
community shopping centers. These premises have been substantially sublet to
retailers which lease the stores pursuant to net lease agreements. Income from
the investment in retail store leases during the years ended December 31, 1996

and 1995 were $3.6 and $1.8 million, respectively.

General and administrative expenses increased approximately $1.5 million to
$10.3 million for the year ended December 31, 1996, as compared to $8.8 million
for the preceding calendar year. This increase is primarily attributable to
increased senior management and staff levels during 1996 and 1995.

Other income, net increased approximately $3.3 million for the year ended
December 31, 1996 as compared with the preceding year. This increase is
primarily attributable to interest earned on funds raised through public equity
offerings during 1996 and held in short-term income producing investments
pending the acquisition of interests in neighborhood and community shopping
center properties.

During September 1996, the Company disposed of a property in Watertown, NY. Cash
proceeds from the disposition totaling $1.8 million, together with an additional
$2.2 million cash investment, were used to acquire an exchange shopping center
property during January 1997.

Net income for the year ended December 31, 1996 of approximately $73.8 million
represented an improvement of approximately $21.9 million, as compared with net
income of approximately $51.9 million for the preceding calendar year. After
adjusting for the gain on the sale of a shopping center property during 1996,
net income for 1996 increased by $21.1 million, or $.26 per share, compared to
1995. This substantially improved performance was primarily attributable to
property acquisitions and redevelopments, the investment in retail store leases
and sustained leasing activity which strengthened operating profitability.

Liquidity and Capital Resources  Completion of the Company's IPO, which resulted
in net cash proceeds of  approximately  $116  million,  permitted the Company to
significantly  deleverage  its real estate  portfolio and has made available the
public debt and equity markets as the Company's  principal source of capital for
the future. A $100 million,  unsecured revolving credit facility  established in
June 1994,  which is scheduled to expire in June 2000,  and an  additional  $150
million interim unsecured  revolving credit facility  established in March 1998,
scheduled to expire in June 1998,  have made available funds to both finance the
purchase of properties and meet any short-term working capital requirements.  It
is the  Company's  intention  to  extend  the term of the $150  million  interim
revolving credit facility and establish it as a continuing part of the Company's
total unsecured  revolving  credit  availability.  As of December 31, 1997 there
were no borrowings under the revolving





credit  facility.  The Company has also  implemented  a $150 million MTN program
pursuant  to which it may from time to time offer for sale its senior  unsecured
debt  for  any  general  corporate  purposes,  including  (i)  funding  specific
liquidity  requirements in its business,  including  property  acquisitions  and
redevelopment costs and (ii) better managing the Company's debt maturities. (See
Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual
report on Form 10-K.)



Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional offerings of its public
unsecured debt and equity raising in the aggregate over $1.15 billion for the
purposes of repaying indebtedness, acquiring neighborhood and community shopping
centers and for expanding and improving properties in the portfolio.

In connection with its intention to continue to qualify as a REIT for Federal
income tax purposes, the Company expects to continue paying regular dividends to
its stockholders. These dividends will be paid from operating cash flows which
are expected to increase due to property acquisitions and growth in rental
revenues in the existing portfolio and from other sources. Since cash used to
pay dividends reduces amounts available for capital investment, the Company
generally intends to maintain a conservative dividend payout ratio, reserving
such amounts as it considers necessary for the expansion and renovation of
shopping centers in its portfolio, debt reduction, the acquisition of interests
in new properties as suitable opportunities arise, and such other factors as the
Board of Directors considers appropriate.

Cash dividends paid increased to $82.6 million in 1997, compared to $69.8
million in 1996 and $53.9 million in 1995. The Company's dividend payout ratio,
based on funds from operations on a per common share basis, for 1997, 1996 and
1995 was approximately 65.4%, 65.8%, and 66.7%, respectively.

Although the Company receives most of its rental payments on a monthly basis, it
intends to continue paying dividends quarterly. Amounts accumulated in advance
of each quarterly distribution will be invested by the Company in short-term
money market or other suitable instruments.

The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward redevelopment projects
during 1998 will be approximately $30 million. It is management's intention that
the Company continually have access to the capital resources necessary to expand
and develop its business. Accordingly, the Company may seek to obtain funds
through additional equity offerings or debt financings, including an increase in
the Company's unsecured revolving credit facility, in a manner consistent with
its intention to operate with a conservative debt capitalization policy.

The Company anticipates that cash flows from operations will continue to provide
adequate capital to fund its operating and administrative expenses, regular debt
service obligations and all dividend payments in accordance with REIT
requirements in both the short-term and long-term. In addition, the Company
anticipates that cash on hand, borrowings under its revolving credit facilities,
issuance of equity and public debt, as well as other debt and equity
alternatives, will provide the necessary capital required by the Company. Cash
flows from operations as reported in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
increased to $125.1 million for 1997 from $101.9 million for 1996 and $74.2
million for 1995.

Effects of Inflation Many of the Company's leases contain provisions designed to
mitigate the adverse impact of inflation. Such provisions include clauses
enabling the Company to receive Percentage Rents, which generally increase as
prices rise, and/or escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates
during the terms of the leases. Such escalation clauses include increases in the
consumer price index or similar inflation indices. In addition, many of the

Company's leases are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits the Company
to seek to increase rents upon renewal to market rates. Most of the Company's
leases require the tenant to pay an allocable share of operating expenses,
including common area maintenance costs, real estate taxes and insurance,
thereby reducing the Company's exposure to increases in costs and operating
expenses resulting from inflation. The Company 






periodically evaluates its exposure to short-term interest rates and will, from
time to time, enter into interest rate protection agreements which mitigate, but
do not eliminate, the effect of changes in interest rates on its floating-rate
loans.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In 1997 the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 130 - "Reporting Comprehensive Income" which
established standards for reporting and displaying comprehensive income and its
components. In 1997 the Financial Accounting Standards Board also issued
statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131 "Disclosures about Segments
of an Enterprise and Related Information" which established standards for
reporting information about operating segments. The Company is required to adopt
these two standards with its December 31, 1998 financial statements. The Company
is currently evaluating the effect, if any, these statements will have on the
Company's financial presentation.

Forward-looking statements

This annual report on Form 10-K includes certain forward-looking statements
reflecting the Company's and management's intentions and expectations, however,
many factors which may affect the actual results are difficult to predict.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from current
expectations include general economic conditions, local real estate conditions,
increases in interest rates and increases in operating costs. Accordingly, there
is no assurance that the Company's expectations will be realized.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The response to this Item 8 is included as a separate section of this annual
report on Form 10-K.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
        Financial Disclosure

None.







                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held
on May 28, 1998.

Information with respect to the Executive Officers of the Registrant follows
Part I, Item 4 of this annual report on Form 10-K.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held
on May 28, 1998.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held
on May 28, 1998.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held
on May 28, 1998.







                                     PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)  1.   Financial Statements -                                       Form 10-K
              The following consolidated financial information           Report
              is included as a separate section of this annual            Page 
              report on Form 10-K.                                     ---------
                                                         

          Report of Independent Accountants                                   38

          Consolidated Financial Statements

              Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1997 and 1996    39

              Consolidated Statements of Income for the years
                  ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                      40

              Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
                  for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995        41

              Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
                  December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                            42

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                      43

     2.   Financial Statement Schedules -

              Schedule II -  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                58
              Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation         59

              All other schedules are omitted since the required information is
              not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require
              submission of the schedule.

     3.   Exhibits

              The exhibits listed on the accompanying Index to
              Exhibits are filed as part of this report.                      34

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

          No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company for the quarter ended
          December 31, 1997.

A current report on Form 8-K was filed on January 21, 1998 to disclose the
signing of a definitive agreement to merge The Price REIT, Inc.
("Price REIT") into a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ("Merger Sub") and
to disclose the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated January 13, 1998 (the 
"Original Agreement") among the Company, Merger Sub and Price REIT. A current

report on Form 8-K was filed on January 30, 1998 to disclose certain historical
and pro forma financial information relating to the Company and Price REIT as if
the Merger had occurred as of January 1, 1996 and September 30, 1997. A current
report on Form 8-K was filed on March 12, 1998 to disclose that the Company,
Merger-Sub and Price REIT entered into a first Amendment, dated March 5, 1998,
to the Original Agreement.

A current report on Form 8-K was filed on January 22, 1998 to disclose certain
historical financial information for certain properties acquired during 1997 and
pro forma financial information for all shopping center acquisitions during 
1997.







                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS
                                                                        Form 10K
Exhibits                                                                    Page
- --------                                                                --------

2.1  --     Form of Plan of Reorganization of Kimco Realty
               Corporation [Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's Registration
               Statement on Form S-11 No. 33-42588].

2.2  --     Agreement and Plan of Merger dated July 29, 1994
               between Kimco Realty Corporation, a Delaware
               corporation and Kimco Realty Corporation of
               Maryland, a Maryland corporation
               [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to
               the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
               the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 (the
               "1994 10-K")].

2.3  --     Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of 
               January 13, 1998, among Kimco Realty
               Corporation, REIT Sub, Inc. and The Price
               REIT (the "Merger Agreement). [Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Company's
               Current Report on form 8-K filed January 21,
               1998].

2.4  --     First Amendment to the Merger Agreement, dated
               as of March 5, 1998, among Kimco Realty
               Corporation, REIT Sub, Inc. and The Price
               REIT, Inc. [Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's Current Report
               on Form 8-K filed March 12, 1998].
                
3.1  --     Articles of Amendment and Restatement of the
               Company, dated August 4, 1994 [Incorporated
               by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the 1994
               10-K].

3.2  --     By-laws of the Company, as amended to August 4,
               1994.

3.3  --     Articles Supplementary relating to the 8 1/2%
               Class B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
               Stock, par value $1.00 per share, of the
               Company, dated July 25, 1995. [Incorporated
               by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the Company's
               Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
               December 31, 1995 (file #1-10899) (the "1995
               Form 10-K")].

3.4  --     Articles Supplementary relating to the 8 3/8%

               Class C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
               Stock, par value $1.00 per share, of the
               Company, dated April 9, 1996 [Incorp- orated
               by reference to Exhibit 3.4 to the 1996 Form
               10-K].

4.1  --     Agreement of the Company pursuant to Item
               601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K
               [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
               Amendment No. 3 to the Company's Registration
               Statement on Form S-11 No. 33-42588].

4.2  --     Form of $100 million 6-1/2% Senior Notes due
               2003 [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
               4.2 to the Company's Annual Report on Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993,
               (file #1-10899) (the "1993 Form 10-K")].

4.3  --     Form of $100 million Floating Rate Senior Notes
               due 1999 [Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 4.3 to the 1993 Form 10-K].

4.4  --     Certificate of Designations [Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 4(d) to Amendment No. 1
               to the Registration Statement on Form S-3
               dated September 10, 1993 (the "Registration
               Statement", Commission File No. 33-67552)].

4.5  --     Indenture dated September 1, 1993 between Kimco
               Realty Corporation and IBJ Schroder Bank and
               Trust Company [Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 4(a) to the Registration Statement].

4.6  --     First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August
               4, 1994. [Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 4.6 to the 1995 Form 10-K.]

4.7  --     Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April
               7, 1995 [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
               4(a) to the Company's Current Report on Form
               8-K dated April 7, 1995 (the "April 1995
               8-K")].




INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)
                                                                       Form 10K
                                                                         Page 
                                                                       --------
Exhibits
- --------


4.8  --     Form of Medium-Term Note (Fixed Rate)
               [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to
               the April 1995 8-K].

4.9  --     Form of Medium-Term Note (Floating Rate)
               [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to
               the April 1995 8-K].

10.1 --     Form of Acquisition Option Agreement between the
               Company and the subsidiary named therein
               [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
               Amendment No. 3 to the Company's Registration
               Statement on Form S-11 No. 33-42588].

10.2 --     Management Agreement between the Company and KC
               Holdings, Inc. [Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Registration
               Statement on Form S-11 No. 33-47915].

10.3 --     Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan
               [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
               the 1995 Form 10-K.]

10.4 --     Credit Agreement among Kimco Realty Corporation,
               The Several Lenders from Time to Time Parties
               Hereto, Chemical Bank and The First National
               Bank of Chicago, as Co-Managers and Chemical
               Bank, as Administrative Agent, dated as of
               June 30, 1994. [Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's Quarterly
               Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period
               ended June 30, 1994].

10.5 --     Employment Agreement, Restricted Equity
               Agreement, Non-Qualified and Incentive Stock
               Option Agreement, and Price Condition
               Non-Qualified and Incentive Stock Option
               Agreement between Kimco Realty Corporation
               and Michael J. Flynn, each dated November 1,
               1995 [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
               10.5 to the 1995 Form 10-K].

10.6 --     Employment Agreement between Kimco Realty
               Corporation and Bruce M. Kauderer, dated May
               5, 1995 [Incorporated by Reference to Exhibit
               10.6 to the 1996 Form 10-K].

*10.7 --    Employment Agreement between Kimco Realty
               Corporation and Michael V. Pappagallo, dated
               April 30, 1997.                                                63

*10.8 --    Credit Agreement among Kimco Realty Corporation,
               The Several Lenders from Time to Time,
               Parties Hereto, The Chase Manhattan Bank and

               The First National Bank of Chicago, as
               Co-Managers and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as
               Administrative Agent, dated as of March 2,
               1998.                                                          69

*12.1 --    Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined
               Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.                  127

*12.2 --    Computation of Ratio of Funds from Operations to
               Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock
               Dividends.                                                    128

*21.1 --    Subsidiaries of the Company                                      129

*23.1 --    Consent of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.                              135

99.1 --    Prospectus of Kimco Realty Corporation
               [Incorporated by reference to the Prospectus
               dated November 4, 1997, filed pursuant to
               Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act of 1933,
               as amended].

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
*    Filed herewith.






                                   SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                  KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION
                                                       (Registrant)


                                                  By:  /s/ Milton Cooper
                                                     -----------------------
                                                       Milton Cooper
                                                  Chief Executive Officer

Dated: March 26, 1998


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature                           Title                           Date
- ---------                           -----                           ----

/s/ Martin S. Kimmel                Chairman (Emeritus) of        March 26, 1998
- ---------------------------         the Board of Directors
    Martin S. Kimmel  

/s/ Milton Cooper                   Chairman of the Board         March 26, 1998
- ---------------------------         of Directors and Chief
    Milton Cooper                   Executive Officer
                             

/s/ Michael J. Flynn                Vice Chairman of the          March 26, 1998
- ---------------------------         Board of Directors,
    Michael J. Flynn                President and
                                    Chief Operating Officer

/s/ Richard G. Dooley               Director                      March 26, 1998
- --------------------------
    Richard G. Dooley

/s/ Joe Grills                      Director                      March 26, 1998
- --------------------------
    Joe Grills

/s/ Frank Lourenso                  Director                      March 26, 1998
- --------------------------
    Frank Lourenso


/s/ Michael V. Pappagallo           Chief Financial Officer       March 26, 1998
- --------------------------
    Michael V. Pappagallo

/s/ Glenn G. Cohen                  Treasurer                     March 26, 1998
- ---------------------------
    Glenn G. Cohen

/s/ Toni Calandrino                 Controller                    March 26, 1998
- ---------------------------
    Toni Calandrino







                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                         ITEM 8, ITEM 14 (a) (1) and (2)

                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                       AND

                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                                     -------

                                                                       FORM 10-K
                                                                        Page No.
                                                                       ---------

   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES          



   Report of Independent Accountants                                       38

   Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules:

     Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1997 and 1996          39

     Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
         December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                                  40

     Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
         for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995              41

     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
         December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995                                  42

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                            43

     Financial Statement Schedules:

         II.      Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                        58
         III.     Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation                 59







                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS



To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
     Kimco Realty Corporation:

     We have audited the consolidated financial statements and the financial
statement schedules of Kimco Realty Corporation (the "Company") and Subsidiaries
listed in the index on the preceding page of this annual report on Form 10-K.
These financial statements and the financial statement schedules are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and the financial statement schedules
based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and the significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Kimco Realty
Corporation and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1997, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles. In addition, in our opinion, the financial
statement schedules referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects,
the information required to be included therein.


                                                        COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.

New York, New York 
February 27, 1998, except for Note 17, 
   for which the date is March 5, 1998.







                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                    -----------------------------------------



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.






                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                                ----------------



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                   statements.







                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
              For the Years Ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

                                -----------------




   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                   statements.






                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                    -----------------------------------------
                                                                               


        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.







                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                     -------


1.   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies:

     Business

     Kimco Realty Corporation (the "Company"), its subsidiaries, affiliates and
       related real estate joint ventures are engaged principally in the
       operation of neighborhood and community shopping centers which are
       anchored generally by discount department stores, supermarkets or
       drugstores. Additionally, the Company provides management services for
       shopping centers owned by affiliated entities and various real estate
       joint ventures.

     The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through
       diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its
       properties, avoiding dependence on any single property, and a large
       tenant base. At December 31, 1997, the Company's single largest
       neighborhood and community shopping center accounted for only 1.9% of the
       Company's annualized base rental revenues and only 1.0% of the Company's
       total shopping center gross leasable area ("GLA"). At December 31, 1997,
       the Company's five largest tenants include Venture, Kmart Corporation,
       Kohl's, WalMart and TJX Companies, which represent approximately 11.7%,
       4.1%, 3.4%, 2.7% and 2.2%, respectively, of the Company's annualized base
       rental revenues.

     Principles of Consolidation and Estimates

     The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of
       the Company, its subsidiaries, all of which are wholly-owned, and all
       majority-owned partnerships. All significant intercompany balances and
       transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

     Generally accepted accounting principles require the Company's management
       to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
       assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and
       liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during a
       reporting period. Actual results may differ from such estimates.

     Real Estate

     Real estate assets are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and
       amortization. Such carrying amounts would be adjusted, if necessary, to
       reflect an impairment in the value of the assets. Depreciation and
       amortization are provided on the straight-line method over the estimated

       useful lives of the assets, as follows:

            Buildings                                15 to 39 years
            Fixtures and leasehold improvements      Terms of leases or useful
                                                       lives, whichever is 
                                                       shorter

     Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as
       incurred. Significant renovations are capitalized.





                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                   ----------

     Investments in Real Estate Joint Ventures

     Investments in real estate joint ventures are accounted for on the equity
       method.

     Deferred Leasing and Financing Costs

     Costs incurred in obtaining tenant leases and long-term financing, included
       in deferred charges and prepaid expenses in the accompanying Consolidated
       Balance Sheets, are amortized over the terms of the related leases or
       debt agreements, as applicable.

     Revenue Recognition

     Minimum revenues from rental property are recognized on a straight-line
       basis over the terms of the related leases.

     Income Taxes

     The Company and its subsidiaries file a consolidated Federal income tax
       return. The Company has made an election to qualify, and believes it is
       operating so as to qualify, as a Real Estate Investment Trust (a "REIT")
       for Federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, the Company generally will
       not be subject to Federal income tax, provided that distributions to its
       stockholders equal at least the amount of its REIT taxable income as
       defined under the Code.

     Per Share Data

     In 1997 the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Financial
       Accounting Standards No. 128 - "Earnings Per Share". Statement 128
       replaces the presentation of primary and fully diluted earnings per share
       ("EPS") pursuant to Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 15 with the

       presentation of basic and diluted EPS. Basic EPS excludes dilution and is
       computed by dividing net income available to common shareholders by the
       weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period.
       Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that could occur if
       securities or other contracts to issue common shares were exercised or
       converted into common shares and then shared in the earnings of the
       Company.

     The following table sets forth the reconciliation between basic and diluted
       weighted average number of shares outstanding for each period:

                                               1997         1996         1995
                                            ----------   ----------   ----------
Basic EPS - weighted average number
of common shares outstanding                37,387,984   35,906,029   33,388,004

Effect of dilutive securities -
Stock options                                  462,076      312,993      244,633
                                            ----------   ----------   ----------
Diluted EPS - weighted average number
of common shares                            37,850,060   36,219,022   33,632,637
                                            ==========   ==========   ==========





                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                   ----------

     New Accounting Pronouncements

     In 1997 the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued statement of
       Financial Accounting Standards No. 130 "Reporting Comprehensive Income"
       which established standards for reporting and displaying comprehensive
       income and its components. In 1997 the Financial Accounting Standards
       Board also issued statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131 -
       "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information"
       which established standards for reporting information about operating
       segments. The Company is required to adopt these two standards with its
       December 31, 1998 financial statements. The Company is currently
       evaluating the effect, if any, these statements will have on the
       Company's financial presentation.

     Reclassifications

     Certain account balances in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as
       of December 31, 1996, have been reclassified to conform with the current
       year presentation.


2.   Shopping Center Acquisitions:

     During the years 1997, 1996 and 1995 certain subsidiaries of the Company
       acquired real estate interests in various shopping center properties at
       aggregate costs of approximately $146 million, $39 million and $83
       million, respectively. These acquisitions have been funded principally
       through the application of proceeds from the Company's public unsecured
       debt and equity offerings. (See Notes 7 and 11.)

3.   Retail Property Acquisitions:

     In August 1997, certain subsidiaries of the Company acquired certain real
       estate assets from a retailer consisting of interests in 49 fee and
       leasehold properties totaling approximately 5.9 million square feet of
       leasable area located in Illinois, Missouri, Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas,
       Indiana and Iowa. The aggregate price was approximately $130 million,
       consisting of $70.5 million in cash and the assumption of approximately
       $59.5 million of existing mortgage debt on certain of these properties.
       The mortgage debt bears interest at 10.54% per annum and cannot be repaid
       without penalty, until its maturity on July 1, 2000. In addition, the
       Company was granted (i) an option to acquire two other properties for
       $4.5 million, (ii) an option to acquire up to 11 additional properties
       should certain conditions be satisfied and (iii) rights of first refusal,
       for a period of five years, to acquire 31 additional properties
       containing 4.2 million square feet of leasable area. The transaction also
       included approximately 573,000 square feet of retail space substantially
       occupied by other retailers and approximately 165,000 square feet of
       available retail space. Simultaneously with this transaction, the Company
       entered into a long-term unitary net lease covering all premises occupied
       by this retailer pursuant to which this seller/tenant may remain in
       occupancy and continue to conduct business in these premises.





                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                   ----------

     During August 1996, certain subsidiaries of the Company acquired interests
       in 16 retail properties, including 2 properties to which the Company and
       its affiliates already held fee title, for $21.8 million in cash. These
       property interests were acquired from a retailer which had elected to
       discontinue operation of its discount department store division.

     During January 1996, certain subsidiaries of the Company entered into two
       sale-leaseback transactions pursuant to which it acquired fee title to 16
       retail properties located in Texas, Iowa, Oklahoma, Illinois and Kansas
       for a purchase price of $40 million. Simultaneously, the Company executed
       two long-term unitary net leases covering the 16 locations pursuant to

       which the seller/tenant may remain in occupancy and continue to conduct
       business in these premises. During July 1997, the Company consented to
       the modification of these two unitary net lease agreements whereby the
       Company entered into two unitary net lease agreements with another
       retailer on 9 of the retail properties and a new unitary lease with the
       seller/tenant on the remaining 7 locations.

     These retail property acquisitions have been funded principally through the
       the application of proceeds from the Company's public unsecured debt and
       equity offerings. (See Notes 7 and 11.)

4.   Investment in Retail Store Leases:

     The Company has interests in various retail store leases relating to the
       anchor store premises in neighborhood and community shopping centers.
       These premises have been substantially sublet to retailers which lease
       the stores pursuant to net lease agreements. Income from the investment
       in these retail store leases during the years ended December 31, 1997 and
       1996 was approximately $3.6 million in each year. These amounts represent
       sublease revenues during the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996 of
       approximately $20.9 million and $21.0 million, respectively, less related
       expenses of $15.2 million and $15.2 million, respectively, and an amount,
       which in management's estimate, reasonably provides for the recovery of
       the investment over a period representing the expected remaining term of
       the retail store leases. The Company's future minimum revenues under the
       terms of all noncancellable tenant subleases and future minimum
       obligations through the remaining terms of its retail store leases are as
       follows (in millions of dollars): 1998, $20.3 and $15.4; 1999, $19.3 and
       $14.2; 2000, $16.5 and $12.3; 2001, $13.1 and $9.8; 2002, $9.5 and $7.2;
       and thereafter, $26.3 and $18.4, respectively.





                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                   ----------

5.   Investments and Advances in Real Estate Joint Ventures:

     The Company and its subsidiaries have investments in and advances to
       various real estate joint ventures. These joint ventures are engaged in
       the operation of shopping centers which are either owned or held under
       long-term operating leases. Summarized financial information for the
       recurring operations of these real estate joint ventures is as follows
       (in millions of dollars):

                                                               December 31,
                                                        ------------------------
                                                           1997             1996

                                                        -------          -------
          Assets:
               Real estate, net                           $58.3            $41.5
               Other assets                                 7.8              4.0
                                                        -------          -------
                                                          $66.1            $45.5
                                                        =======          =======
          
          Liabilities and Partners'
          Capital/(Deficit):
               Mortgages payable                          $63.5            $30.3
               Other liabilities                           19.7             15.1
               Partners' Capital/(Deficit)                (17.1)              .1
                                                        -------          -------
                                                          $66.1            $45.5
                                                        =======          =======

                                                  Years Ended December 31,
                                                  ------------------------

                                             1997           1996           1995
                                          -------        -------        -------
      Revenues from rental
         property                           $14.8          $11.2           $8.3
      Operating expenses                     (3.6)          (2.9)          (2.1)
      Mortgage interest                      (3.1)          (2.5)          (2.4)
      Depreciation and
         amortization                        (2.2)          (2.2)          (2.0)
      Other, net                             (1.8)          (1.3)          (1.2)
                                          -------        -------        -------
      
         Net income                          $4.1           $2.3            $.6
                                          =======        =======        =======
      
     Other liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets include
       accounts with certain real estate joint ventures totaling approximately
       $5.1 and $4.1 million at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The
       Company and its subsidiaries have varying equity interests in these real
       estate joint ventures which may differ from their proportionate share of
       net income or loss recognized in accordance with generally accepted
       accounting principles.

6.   Cash and Cash Equivalents:

     Cash and cash equivalents (demand deposits in banks, commercial paper and
       certificates of deposit with original maturities of three months or less)
       includes tenants' security deposits, escrowed funds and other restricted
       deposits approximating $10.1 million and $2.4 million at December 31,
       1997 and 1996, respectively.





                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                   ----------

     Cash and cash equivalent balances may, at a limited number of banks and
       financial institutions, exceed insurable amounts. The Company believes it
       mitigates its risks by investing in or through major financial
       institutions. Recoverability of investments is dependent upon the
       performance of the issuers.

7.   Notes Payable:

     The Company has implemented a $150 million unsecured medium-term notes
       ("MTN") program pursuant to which it may from time to time offer for sale
       its senior unsecured debt for any general corporate purposes, including
       (i) funding specific liquidity requirements in its business, including
       property acquisition and redevelopment costs, and (ii) better managing
       the Company's debt maturities.

     During May and July 1997, the Company issued under its MTN program $100
       million in fixed-rate senior unsecured medium-term notes (the "1997
       Notes"). These notes have maturities ranging from ten to twelve years,
       and bear interest ranging from 6.96% to 7.56%. Interest on these notes is
       payable semi-annually in arrears.

     As of December 31, 1997, a total principal amount of $160.25 million,
       including the 1997 notes, in fixed-rate senior unsecured notes had been
       issued under the MTN program primarily for the acquisition of
       neighborhood and community shopping centers and the expansion and
       improvement of properties in the Company's portfolio. These notes have
       maturities ranging from ten to twelve years and bear interest at rates
       ranging from 6.70% to 7.91%. Interest on these fixed-rate senior
       unsecured notes is payable semi-annually in arrears.

     As of December 31, 1997, the Company had $100 million in Floating Rate
       Senior Notes due 1999 bearing interest at LIBOR plus .50% (6.3% at
       December 31, 1997). Interest on these floating-rate, senior unsecured
       notes resets and is payable quarterly in arrears.

     As of December 31, 1997, the Company had $100 million in 6.5% fixed-rate
       unsecured Senior Notes due 2003. Interest on these senior unsecured notes
       is paid semi-annually in arrears.

     During August 1996, the Company redeemed its $50 million unsecured Floating
       Rate Senior Notes due in 1998. These Floating Rate Senior Notes,
       redeemable at par at the option of the Company after May 11, 1996 and
       bearing interest at LIBOR plus .50%, were refinanced with a $50 million
       floating-rate unsecured medium-term note issued under the Company's MTN
       program. This floating-rate medium-term note is due in 1998 and bears
       interest at LIBOR plus .12% (6.0% at December 31, 1997). Interest on this
       floating-rate, senior unsecured medium-term note resets and is payable
       quarterly in arrears.


     In accordance with the terms of the Indenture pursuant to which the
       Company's senior, unsecured notes have been issued, the Company is (a)
       subject to maintaining certain maximum leverage ratios on both unsecured



                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                   ----------

       senior corporate and secured debt, minimum debt service coverage ratios
       and minimum equity levels, and (b) restricted from paying dividends in
       amounts that exceed by more than $26 million the funds from operations,
       as defined, generated through the end of the calendar quarter most
       recently completed prior to the declaration of such dividend; however,
       this dividend limitation does not apply to any distributions necessary to
       maintain the Company's qualification as a REIT providing the Company is
       in compliance with its total leverage limitations.

     The Company maintains a $100 million, unsecured revolving credit agreement
       with a group of banks. Borrowings under this facility are available for
       general corporate purposes, including property acquisitions and
       redevelopment. Interest on borrowings accrues at a spread (currently
       .50%) to LIBOR or money-market rates, as applicable, which fluctuates in
       accordance with changes in the Company's senior debt ratings. A fee
       approximating .14% per annum is payable on that portion of the facility
       which remains unused. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, the
       Company, among other things, is (a) subject to maintaining certain
       maximum leverage ratios on both unsecured senior corporate and secured
       debt, a minimum debt service coverage ratio and minimum unencumbered
       asset and equity levels, and (b) restricted from paying dividends in
       amounts that exceed 90% of funds from operations, as defined, plus 10% of
       the Company's stockholders' equity determined in accordance with
       generally accepted accounting principles. There were no borrowings
       outstanding under this facility at December 31, 1997. This revolving
       credit facility is scheduled to expire in June 2000.

8.   Mortgages Payable:

     Mortgages payable, collateralized by certain shopping center properties and
       related tenants' leases, are generally due in monthly installments of
       principal and/or interest which mature at various dates through 2008.
       Interest rates range from approximately 6.8% to 12.9% (weighted average
       interest rate of 9.5% as of December 31, 1997). The scheduled maturities
       of all mortgages payable as of December 31, 1997, are approximately as
       follows (in millions of dollars): 1998, $7.9; 1999, $22.6; 2000, $61.6;
       2001, $5.7; 2002, $1.2; and thereafter, $22.4.

     Three of the Company's properties are encumbered by approximately $13.5
       million in floating-rate, tax-exempt mortgage bond financing. The rates

       on the bonds are reset annually, at which time bondholders have the right
       to require the Company to repurchase the bonds. The Company has engaged a
       remarketing agent for the purpose of offering for resale those bonds that
       are tendered to the Company. All bonds tendered for redemption in the
       past have been remarketed and the Company has arrangements, including
       letters of credit, with banks to both collateralize the principal amount
       and accrued interest on such bonds and to fund any repurchase
       obligations.

9.   KC Holdings, Inc.:

     To facilitate the Company's November 1991 initial public stock offering
       (the "IPO"), forty-six shopping center properties and certain other
       assets, together with indebtedness related thereto, were transferred to
       subsidiaries of KC Holdings, Inc. ("KC Holdings"), a newly-formed
       corporation that is owned by the stockholders of the Company prior to the





                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                   ----------

       IPO. The Company continues to manage eighteen of these shopping center
       properties and was granted ten-year, fixed-price options to reacquire the
       real estate assets owned by KC Holdings' subsidiaries, subject to any
       liabilities outstanding with respect to such assets at the time of an
       option exercise. As of December 31, 1997, KC Holdings' subsidiaries had
       conveyed 14 shopping centers back to the Company and had disposed of ten
       additional centers in transactions with third parties. The members of the
       Company's Board of Directors who are not also shareholders of KC Holdings
       unanimously approved the purchase of each of the 14 shopping centers that
       have been reacquired by the Company from KC Holdings.

     Selected financial information for the twenty-two properties owned by KC
       Holdings' subsidiaries as of and for the year ended December 31, 1997, is
       as follows: Real estate, net of accumulated depreciation and
       amortization, $55.0 million; Notes and mortgages payable, $61.2 million;
       Revenues from rental property, $11.2 million; Loss from rental
       operations, $.2 million, after depreciation and amortization deductions
       of $2.1 million; Income adjustment for real estate joint ventures, net,
       $.3 million.

10.  Fair Value Disclosure of Financial Instruments:

     All financial instruments of the Company are reflected in the accompanying
       Consolidated Balance Sheets at amounts which, in management's estimation
       based upon an interpretation of available market information and
       valuation methodologies (including discounted cash flow analyses with

       regard to fixed rate debt) considered appropriate, reasonably approximate
       their fair values. Such fair value estimates are not necessarily
       indicative of the amounts that would be realized upon disposition of the
       Company's financial instruments.

11.  Preferred and Common Stock Offerings:

     On September 30, 1997, the Company completed a primary public stock
       offering of 4,000,000 shares of common stock at $35.50 per share. The net
       proceeds from this sale of common stock, totaling approximately $134.5
       million (after related transaction costs of approximately $7.5 million),
       have been used primarily for the acquisition of neighborhood and
       community shopping centers.

     On February 2, 1996, the Company completed a primary public stock offering
       of 2,200,000 shares of common stock at $26.50 per share. The net proceeds
       from this sale of common stock, totaling approximately $55.0 million
       (after related transaction costs of approximately $3.4 million), have
       been used primarily for the acquisition of neighborhood and community
       shopping centers.

     On April 10, 1996, the Company completed a public offering of 4,000,000
       Depositary Shares (the "Class C Depositary Shares") at $25.00 per share,
       each such Class C Depositary Share representing 1/10 of a share of the
       Company's 8-3/8% Class C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (the
       "Class C Preferred Stock"), par value $1.00 per share. The cash proceeds
       to the Company, net of related transaction costs of approximately $3.6
       million, totaling approximately $96.4 million, were used for the
       acquisition of interests in neighborhood and community shopping centers,
       and the redevelopment, expansion and improvement of properties in the
       Company's portfolio.





                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                   ----------

     Dividends on the Class C Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable
       quarterly in arrears at the rate of 8-3/8% per annum based on the $25 per
       share initial offering price, or $2.0938 per depositary share. The Class
       C Depositary Shares are redeemable, in whole or in part, for cash on or
       after April 15, 2001 at the option of the Company at a redemption price
       of $25 per depositary share, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends
       thereon. The redemption price of the Class C Preferred Stock may be paid
       solely from the sale proceeds of other capital stock of the Company,
       which may include other classes or series of preferred stock. The Class C
       Depositary Shares are not convertible or exchangeable for any other
       property or securities of the Company. The Class C Preferred Stock

       (represented by the Class C Depositary Shares outstanding) ranks pari
       passu with the Company's 7-3/4% Class A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
       Stock and 8-1/2% Class B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock as to
       voting rights, priority for receiving dividends and liquidation
       preferences as set forth below.

     The Company has outstanding 3,000,000 Depositary Shares (the "Class A
       Depositary Shares"), each such Class A Depositary Share representing 1/10
       of a share of the Company's 7-3/4% Class A Cumulative Redeemable
       Preferred Stock (the "Class A Preferred Stock"), par value $1.00 per
       share, and 2,000,000 Depositary Shares (the "Class B Depositary Shares"),
       each such Class B Depositary Share representing 1/10 of a share of the
       Company's 8-1/2% Class B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (the
       "Class B Preferred Stock"), par value $1.00 per share.

     Dividends on the Class A Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable
       quarterly in arrears at the rate of 7-3/4% per annum based on the $25 per
       share initial offering price, or $1.9375 per depositary share. The Class
       A Depositary Shares are redeemable, in whole or in part, for cash on or
       after September 23, 1998 at the option of the Company, at a redemption
       price of $25 per depositary share, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends
       thereon. The Class A Depositary Shares are not convertible or
       exchangeable for any other property or securities of the Company. The
       Class A Preferred Stock (represented by the Class A Depositary Shares
       outstanding) ranks pari passu with the Company's Class B Preferred Stock
       and Class C Preferred Stock as to voting rights, priority for receiving
       dividends and liquidation preferences as set forth below.

     Dividends on the Class B Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable
       quarterly in arrears at the rate of 8-1/2% per annum based on the $25 per
       share initial offering price, or $2.125 per depositary share. The Class B
       Depositary Shares are redeemable, in whole or in part, for cash on or
       after July 15, 2000 at the option of the Company at a redemption price of
       $25 per depositary share, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon.
       The redemption price of the Class B Preferred Stock may be paid solely
       from the sale proceeds of other capital stock of the Company, which may
       include other classes or series of preferred stock. The Class B
       Depositary Shares are not convertible or exchangeable for any other
       property or securities of the Company. The Class B Preferred Stock
       (represented by the Class B Depositary Shares outstanding) ranks pari
       passu with the Company's Class A Preferred Stock and Class C Preferred
       Stock as to voting rights, priority for receiving dividends and
       liquidation preferences as set forth below.





                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                   ----------


     Voting Rights - As to any matter on which the Class A Preferred Stock,
       Class B Preferred Stock and Class C Preferred Stock (collectively, the
       "Preferred Stock") may vote, including any action by written consent,
       each share of Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 10 votes, each of
       which 10 votes may be directed separately by the holder thereof. With
       respect to each share of Preferred Stock, the holder thereof may
       designate up to 10 proxies, with each such proxy having the right to vote
       a whole number of votes (totaling 10 votes per share of Preferred Stock).
       As a result, each Class A, each Class B and each Class C Depositary Share
       is entitled to one vote.

     Liquidation Rights - In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or
       winding up of the affairs of the Company, the Preferred Stock holders are
       entitled to be paid, out of the assets of the Company legally available
       for distribution to its stockholders, a liquidation preference of $250.00
       per share ($25 per Class A, Class B and Class C Depositary Share,
       respectively), plus an amount equal to any accrued and unpaid dividends
       to the date of payment, before any distribution of assets is made to
       holders of the Company's common stock or any other capital stock that
       ranks junior to the Preferred Stock as to liquidation rights.

12.  Dispositions of Real Estate:

     During June 1997, the Company disposed of a property in Troy, OH. Proceeds
       from the disposition totaling approximately $1.6 million, together with
       an additional $8.3 million cash investment, were used to acquire an
       exchange shopping center property located in Ocala, FL.

     During September 1996, the Company disposed of a property in Watertown, NY.
       Proceeds from the disposition totaling approximately $1.8 million in
       cash, together with an additional $2.2 million cash investment, were used
       to acquire an exchange shopping center property located in Lafayette, IN
       during January 1997.

13.  Transactions with Related Parties:

     The Company provides management services for shopping centers owned
       principally by affiliated entities and various real estate joint ventures
       in which certain stockholders of the Company have economic interests.
       Such services are performed pursuant to management agreements which
       provide for fees based upon a percentage of gross revenues from the
       properties and other direct costs incurred in connection with management
       of the centers. The Consolidated Statements of Income include management
       fee income from KC Holdings of approximately $.6 million, $.6 million,
       and $.6 million during years 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

     Reference should be made to Notes 5 and 9 for further information regarding
       transactions with related parties.

14.  Commitments and Contingencies:

     The Company and its subsidiaries are engaged in the operation of shopping
       centers which are either owned or held under long-term leases which

       expire at various dates through 2076. The Company and its subsidiaries, 
       in turn, lease premises in these centers to tenants pursuant to lease
       agreements which provide for terms ranging generally from 5 to 25 years
       and for annual   





                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                   ----------

       minimum rentals plus incremental rents based on operating expense levels
       and tenants' sales volumes. Annual minimum rentals plus incremental rents
       based on operating expense levels comprised approximately 98%, 97% and
       97% of total revenues from rental property for the years ended December
       31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

     The future minimum revenues from rental property under the terms of all
       noncancellable tenant leases, assuming no new or renegotiated leases are
       executed for such premises, for future years are approximately as follows
       (in millions of dollars): 1998, $175.1; 1999, $165.8; 2000, $153.1; 2001,
       $139.2; 2002, $126.1; and thereafter, $1,206.9.

     Minimum rental payments under the terms of all noncancellable operating
       leases pertaining to its shopping center portfolio for future years are
       approximately as follows (in millions of dollars): 1998, $9.8; 1999,
       $9.4; 2000, $8.8; 2001, $7.5; 2002, $6.6; and thereafter, $79.6.

15.  Incentive Plans:

     The Company maintains a stock option plan (the "Plan") pursuant to which a
       maximum 3,000,000 shares of the Company's common stock may be issued for
       qualified and non-qualified options. Options granted under the Plan
       generally vest ratably over a three-year term, expire ten years from the
       date of grant and are exercisable at the market price on the date of
       grant, unless otherwise determined by the Board in its sole discretion.

     Information with respect to stock options under the Plan for years 1997,
       1996 and 1995 is as follows:



       

     The exercise prices for options outstanding as of December 31, 1997 range
       from $13.33 to $34.19 per share. The weighted average remaining
       contractual life for options outstanding as of December 31, 1997 was
       approximately 7.6 years. Options to purchase 329,673, 800,373 and





                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                   ----------

       1,115,873 shares of the Company's common stock were available for
       issuance under the Plan at December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995,
       respectively.

     The Company has elected to adopt the disclosure-only provisions of
       Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 "Accounting for
       Stock-Based Compensation". Accordingly, no compensation cost has been
       recognized with regard to options granted under the Plan in the
       accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income. If stock-based
       compensation costs had been recognized based on the estimated fair values

       at the dates of grant for options awarded during 1997, 1996 and 1995, net
       income and net income per common share for these calendar years would
       have been reduced by approximately $.7 million, or $.02 per share, $.4
       million, or $.01 per share, and $.1 million, or less than $.01 per share,
       respectively.

     These pro forma adjustments to net income and net income per common share
       assume fair values of each option grant estimated using the Black-Scholes
       option pricing formula. The more significant assumptions underlying the
       determination of such fair values for options granted during 1997, 1996
       and 1995 include: (i) weighted average risk-free interest rates of 6.18%,
       6.24% and 6.02%, respectively; (ii) weighted average expected option
       lives of 8.2 years, 7.25 years and 6.13 years, respectively; (iii) an
       expected volatility of 15.65%, 15.79% and 15.79%, respectively, and (iv)
       an expected dividend yield of 6.44%, 6.82% and 6.82%, respectively. The
       per share weighted average fair value at the dates of grant for options
       awarded during 1997, 1996 and 1995 was $3.02, $2.50 and $2.14,
       respectively.

     The Company maintains a 401(k) retirement plan covering substantially all
       officers and employees which permits participants to defer up to a
       maximum 10% of their eligible compensation. This deferred compensation,
       together with Company matching contributions which generally equal
       employee deferrals up to a maximum of 5%, is fully vested and funded as
       of December 31, 1997. Company contributions to the plan totaled less than
       $.3 million for each of years 1997, 1996 and 1995.

16.  Supplemental Financial Information:

     The following summary represents the results of operations, expressed in
       thousands except per share amounts, for each quarter during years 1997
       and 1996.

                                                1997 (Unaudited)
                                  ---------------------------------------------
                                  Mar. 31      June 30      Sept. 30    Dec. 31
                                  -------      -------      ---------   -------
Revenues from
   rental property                $45,195      $45,276      $50,823      $57,635

Net income                        $20,604      $21,045      $20,641      $23,546

Net income, per common share:
      Basic                          $.44         $.45         $.44         $.47
      Diluted                        $.44         $.45         $.43         $.46






                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES


              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                   ----------

                                                  1996 (Unaudited)
                                  Mar. 31      June 30     Sept. 30     Dec. 31
                                  -------      -------     --------     -------
Revenues from
   rental property                $41,662      $42,444      $40,837      $43,201

Net income                        $15,928      $18,439      $19,833      $19,627

Net income, per common share:
      Basic                          $.38         $.39         $.42         $.42
      Diluted                        $.38         $.39         $.41         $.41

     Interest paid during years 1997, 1996 and 1995 approximated $29.9 million,
       $26.9 million and $25.0 million, respectively.

     Accounts and notes receivable in the accompanying Consolidated Balance
       Sheets are net of estimated unrecoverable amounts of approximately $1.8
       million and $1.4 million, respectively, at December 31, 1997 and 1996.

17.  Subsequent Events:

     Property Acquisitions / Disposition

     In January 1998, the Company acquired seven neighborhood and community
       shopping center properties comprising approximately 632,000 square feet
       of GLA in the Denver, CO market for approximately $43.6 million,
       including the assumption of $4.2 million of mortgage debt. These
       properties are primarily anchored by supermarket or drugstore tenants.

     In addition, the Company, through an affiliated entity, acquired interests
       in three retail properties in the Chicago, IL market comprising
       approximately 516,000 square feet of GLA for an aggregate purchase price
       of approximately $23.7 million. These properties include approximately
       70,000 square feet of showroom space and adjoining warehouses of
       approximately 100,000 square feet at each location. Simultaneous with
       this transaction, the Company leased, to a national furniture retailer,
       the showroom portion of each property under individual long-term leases.
       The Company is currently planning the redevelopment of the warehouse
       portion of each property.

     The Company disposed of a property in Pinellas Park, FL during January
       1998. Cash proceeds from the disposition totaling $2.3 million will be
       used to acquire an exchange shopping center property.

     Price REIT Merger

     On January 13, 1998, the Company and The Price REIT, Inc., a Maryland
       corporation ("Price REIT") signed a definitive agreement to merge, (the
       "Merger"). Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger
       dated January 13, 1998, as amended March 5, 1998 (the "Merger

       Agreement"), Price REIT will be merged into a newly formed wholly-owned
       subsidiary of the Company.

     The transaction is intended, for financial accounting purposes, to be
       accounted for as a purchase. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement each
       share of Price REIT common stock will be exchanged for a combination of
       the Company's common stock and Kimco depositary shares (the "Class D
       Depository Shares"), each




       depositary share representing a 1/10  of a share interest in a new issue
       of Kimco 7.5% Class D Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (the "Class
       D Convertible Preferred Stock") having an aggregate value of at least $45
       based on the "Kimco Average Price" (as defined herein) and the
       liquidation preference of the Class D Depositary Shares (collectively,
       the "Merger Consideration"). The Merger, which is expected to be
       completed in mid-1998, is subject to customary closing conditions,
       including certain regulatory approvals and the approval of the issuance
       of the Merger Consideration by the stockholders of the Company and the
       approval of the Merger by the stockholders of Price REIT.

     The Merger Agreement provides for a pre-closing adjustment to the number of
       shares of the Company's common stock and Class D Depositary Shares
       issuable per share of Price REIT common stock in order to ensure that
       Price REIT stockholders will receive at least, and possibly more than,
       $45 in the Company's securities per Price REIT share. Specifically, in
       the event that the average closing price of the Company's common stock
       (the "Kimco Average Price" as defined herein) ending on and including the
       seventh trading day immediately preceding the date of the Company's
       1998 annual meeting of stockholders plus $10 is less than $45, the 
       amount of Class D Depositary Shares will be increased up to a maximum of 
       $11.25 of Class D Depositary Shares (based on a liquidation preference 
       of $25 per Class D Depositary Share) to arrive at a value of $45. To the 
       extent that the issuance of $11.25 of Class D Depositary Shares would 
       still result in less than $45 of combined value, the number of shares of 
       the Company's common stock issuable per Price REIT share will be 
       increased in order to arrive at a total of $45 delivered in the 
       Company's securities. However, the Company may elect to terminate the 
       Merger Agreement in the event its Average Price (the "Average Price", as 
       defined herein) during a specified calculation period or the closing 
       price on the scheduled closing date or on either of the two days prior 
       to the scheduled closing date is less than $32.

     In the event that the "Kimco Average Price" (as defined herein)  plus $10
       is greater than $45, each share of Price REIT common stock would continue
       to be converted into one share of the Company's common stock and the
       amount of Class D Depositary Shares will be decreased by 50% of the
       amount by which the Kimco Average Price referred to above plus $10
       exceeds $45. However, Price REIT stockholders will never receive less
       than $9 of Class D Depositary Shares. Thus, as a result of the merger,
       Price REIT stockholders will obtain the benefit of 50% of the increase in

       value of the Company's common stock as reflected in the Kimco Average
       Price between $35 and $37, and 100% of any increase above $37.

     As used herein, the "Kimco Average Price" shall be the average of Average
       Prices (as defined herein) of the the Company's common stock for fifteen
       (15) randomly selected trading days within the thirty (30) consecutive
       trading days ending on and including the seventh trading day immediately
       preceding the date of the Company's 1998 annual meeting of stockholders.
       As used herein, the "Average Price" for any date means the average of the
       daily high and low prices of the Company's common stock on the New York
       Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") as reported in The Wall Street Journal, or if
       not reported thereby, by another authoritative source. The random
       selection of trading days shall be made under the joint supervision of
       the financial advisors retained by the Company and Price REIT in
       connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.




     The dividend rate on the Class D Depositary Shares will be 7.5 % per annum,
       or, if greater, the dividend on the shares of the Company's common stock
       into which a Class D Depositary Share is convertible plus $0.0275
       quarterly. The Class D Depositary Shares will be convertible into the
       Company's common stock at a conversion price of $40.25 per share at any
       time by the holder and may be redeemed by the Company at the conversion
       price in shares of the Company's common stock at any time after the third
       anniversary of the Merger if for any 20 trading days during a rolling 30
       day consecutive trading-day period the Company's common stock closing
       price exceeds $48.30, subject to certain adjustments. The Class D
       Depositary Shares are expected to be listed on the NYSE.

     The Merger Agreement also provides that each party will be entitled to a
       Break-Up Fee in the amount of $12,500,000 or reimbursement of expenses up
       to $2,000,000 in the event the agreement is terminated under various
       circumstances. The Company has also agreed that if it elects to terminate
       the Merger Agreement because its common stock price closes below $32
       Price REIT will be entitled to receive $6,250,000.

     Financings

     On March 2, 1998, the Company obtained an additional $150 million interim
       unsecured credit facility to both finance the purchase of properties and
       meet any short-term working capital requirements. The terms of this
       interim facility are substantially the same as those under the Company's
       $100 million revolving credit facility (See Note 7). This facility is
       scheduled to expire in June 1998, however, it is the Company's intention
       to extend the term of this facility and establish it as a continuing part
       of the Company's total unsecured revolving credit availability.

18.  Pro Forma Financial Information (Unaudited):

     The Company and certain of its subsidiaries acquired and disposed of
       interests in shopping center properties during 1997. The pro forma

       financial information set forth below is based upon the Company's
       historical Consolidated Statements of Income for years 1997 and 1996,
       adjusted to give effect to these transactions as of January 1, 1996.

     The pro forma financial information is presented for informational purposes
       only and may not be indicative of what actual results of operations would
       have been had the transactions occurred on January 1, 1996, nor does it
       purport to represent the results of operations for future periods.
       (Amounts presented in millions of dollars, except per share figures.)

     Years Ended December 31,                               1997    1996
     ------------------------                               ----    ----

     Revenues from rental property                         $212.5  $187.8
     Net Income                                             $90.8   $80.5
     Net Income, per common share                           $1.94   $1.79





                                                                     Schedule II

                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1996 AND 1995








                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    REAL ESTATE ANJD ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1997

                                                                    SCHEDULE III
























                         

Depreciation and amortization of the Company's investment in buildings and
improvements reflected in the statements of income is calculated over the
estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:

      Buildings....................15 to 39 years

      Improvements.................Terms of leases or useful lives, whichever 
                                   is shorter

The aggregate cost for Federal income tax purposes was approximately $1,394
million at December 31, 1997.

The changes in total real estate assets for the years ended December 31, 1997,
1996, and 1995 are as follows: 



The changes in accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 1997,
1996, and 1995 are as follows:





