
10-K405
ANNUAL REPORT




                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

 X           ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
- ---          EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]   

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996

                                     OR

             TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
             EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the transition period from                 to

Commission file number 1-10899

                            Kimco Realty Corporation
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        Maryland                                      13-2744380
  (State of incorporation)             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

3333 New Hyde Park Road, New Hyde Park NY               11042-0020
(Address of principal executive offices)                Zip Code

Registrant's telephone number, including area code (516)869-9000 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                      Name of each exchange on
             Title of each class                          which registered
             -------------------                      ------------------------
Common Stock, par value $.01 per share                New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares, each representing one-
tenth of a share of 7-3/4% Class A
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
par value $1.00 per share.                            New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares, each representing one-
tenth of a share of 8-1/2% Class B
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
par value $1.00 per share.                            New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares, each representing one-
tenth of a share of 8-3/8% Class C
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
par value $1.00 per share.                            New York Stock Exchange


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      None
                                (Title of class)

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  X

   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No

   The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant was approximately $947 million based upon the closing price on the
New York Stock Exchange for such stock on February 28, 1997.

                   (APPLICABLE ONLY TO CORPORATE REGISTRANTS)

   Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes
of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.

                   36,232,385 shares as of February 28, 1997.

                                    -1 of 89-



                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part II incorporates certain information by reference to the following exhibits
to this annual report on Form 10-K: Exhibit 3.4, Articles Supplementary relating
to the Registrant's 8-3/8% Class C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock;
Exhibit 3.3, Articles Supplementary relating to the Registrant's 8 1/2% Class B
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock; Exhibit 4.4, Certificate of Designations
relating to the Registrant's 7 3/4% Class A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Stock; Exhibits 4.5, 4.6 and 4.7, Indenture, First Supplemental Indenture and
Second Supplemental Indenture, respectively, each relating to the Registrant's
public bond issues, and Exhibit 10.4, Credit Agreement relating to the
Registrant's revolving credit facility.

Part III incorporates certain information by reference to the Registrant's
definitive proxy statement to be filed with respect to the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on May 28, 1997.

Index to Exhibits begins on page 29.

                                       -2-



                                                                                                   Form
                                                                   10-K
                                                                  Report
Item No.                                                           Page
- --------                                                          -------
                                     PART I

 1. Business . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4

 2. Properties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10

 3. Legal Proceedings. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12

 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  . . . .   12

    Executive Officers of the Registrant . . . . . . . . . . . .   20

                                     PART II

 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity

      and Related Shareholder Matters  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21

 6. Selected Financial Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22

 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
      Condition and Results of Operations  . . . . . . . . . . .   24

 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  . . . . . . . .   26

 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
      Accounting and Financial Disclosure  . . . . . . . . . . .   26

                                    PART III

10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant . . . . .   27

11. Executive Compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27

12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
      Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27

13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions . . . . . . .   27

                                     PART IV

14. Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports on
      Form 8-K . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28

                                       -3-





                                     PART I

Item 1.  Business

General Kimco Realty Corporation (the "Company") is one of the nation's largest
owners and operators of neighborhood and community shopping centers. As of
February 28, 1997, the Company's portfolio was comprised of interests in 208
neighborhood and community shopping center properties, 2 regional malls and 57
retail store leases comprising a total of approximately 32.6 million square feet
of leasable space located in 37 states. The Company believes its portfolio of
neighborhood and community shopping center properties is the largest (measured
by gross leasable area, "GLA") currently held by any publicly-traded real estate
investment trust ("REIT"). The Company is a self-administered REIT and manages
its properties through present management which has owned and operated
neighborhood and community shopping centers for over 30 years. The Company has
not engaged, nor does it expect to retain, any REIT advisors in connection with
the operation of its properties.

The Company's executive offices are located at 3333 New Hyde Park Road, New Hyde
Park, New York 11042-0020 and its telephone number is (516)869-9000. Unless the
context indicates otherwise, the term the "Company" as used herein is intended
to include subsidiaries of the Company.

History The Company began operations through its predecessor, The Kimco
Corporation, which was organized in 1966 upon the contribution of several
shopping center properties owned by its principal stockholders. In 1973, these
principals formed the Company as a Delaware corporation, and in 1985, the
operations of The Kimco Corporation were merged into the Company. The Company
completed its initial public stock offering (the "IPO") in November 1991, and
reorganized as a Maryland corporation during 1994.

The Company's growth through its first fifteen years resulted primarily from the
ground-up development and construction of its shopping centers. By 1981, the
Company had assembled a portfolio of 77 properties that provided an established
source of income and positioned the Company for an expansion of its asset base.
At that time, the Company revised its strategy to focus on the acquisition of
existing shopping centers because it believed generally that available financial
returns did not justify the risks of continued ground-up development of
properties. Furthermore, the Company's management believed that existing
properties with below market-rate leases were available in the market at
attractive prices. The Company considers such properties to offer greater
leasing flexibility in the event space becomes available or should there be an
overcapacity of space in the local economy. The Company also believes that
opportunities exist to create value through the redevelopment and re-tenanting
of existing shopping centers. As a result of this change in strategy, the
Company has developed only 2 of the 190 property interests added to its
portfolio since 1981, as compared with 68 of the 77 properties owned prior to
that time.

Investment and Operating Strategy The Company's investment objective has been to

increase cash flow, current income and consequently the value of its existing
portfolio of properties, and to seek continued growth through (i) the strategic
re-tenanting, renovation and expansion of its existing centers, and (ii) the
selective acquisition of established income-producing real estate properties,
and properties requiring significant re-tenanting and redevelopment - all
primarily neighborhood and community shopping centers in geographic regions
where the Company presently operates. The Company intends to consider
investments in other real estate sectors and in geographic markets where it does
not presently operate should suitable opportunities arise.

The Company's neighborhood and community shopping center properties are designed
to attract local area customers and typically are anchored by a supermarket,
discount department store or drugstore tenant offering day-to-day necessities
rather than high-priced luxury items. The Company may either purchase or lease
income-producing properties in the future, and may also participate with other
entities in property ownership through partnerships, joint ventures or similar
types of co-ownership. While the Company has historically held its properties
for long-term investment, and accordingly has placed strong emphasis on its
ongoing program of regular maintenance, periodic
 
                                      -4-





renovation and capital improvement, it is possible that properties in the
portfolio may be sold, in whole or in part, as circumstances warrant. The
Company emphasizes equity real estate investments but may, in its discretion,
invest in mortgages, other real estate interests and other investments.

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through
diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its properties and a
large tenant base, avoiding dependence on any single property or tenant. At
December 31, 1996, the Company's single largest neighborhood and community
shopping center and tenant accounted for only approximately 2.3% and 4.2%,
respectively, of the Company's annualized base rental revenues.

The Company intends to maintain a conservative debt capitalization with a ratio
of debt to total market capitalization of approximately 50% or less. As of
December 31, 1996, the Company had a debt to total market capitalization ratio
of approximately 20%.

The Company has authority to offer shares of capital stock or other senior
securities in exchange for property and to repurchase or otherwise reacquire its
Common Stock or any other securities and may engage in such activities in the
future. At all times, the Company intends to make investments in such a manner
as to be consistent with the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended (the "Code"), to qualify as a REIT unless, because of circumstances
or changes in the Code (or in Treasury Regulations), the Board of Directors
determines that it is no longer in the best interests of the Company to qualify
as a REIT. The Company's policies with respect to such activities may be
reviewed and modified from time to time by the Company's Board of Directors
without the vote of the stockholders.


Competition As one of the original participants in the growth of the shopping
center industry and one of the nation's largest owners and operators of
neighborhood and community shopping centers, the Company has established close
relationships with a large number of major national and regional retailers and
maintains a broad network of industry contacts. Management is associated with
and/or actively participates in many shopping center and REIT industry
organizations. Notwithstanding these relationships, there are numerous
commercial developers and real estate companies that compete with the Company in
seeking properties for acquisition and tenants who will lease space in these
properties.

Capital Resources Completion of the Company's IPO, which resulted in net cash
proceeds of approximately $116 million, permitted the Company to significantly
deleverage its real estate portfolio and has made available the public debt and
equity markets as the Company's principal source of capital for the future. A
$100 million, unsecured revolving credit facility established in June 1994,
which is scheduled to expire in June 1999, has made available funds to both
finance the purchase of properties and meet any short-term working capital
requirements. The Company has also implemented a $150 million medium-term notes
program pursuant to which it may from time to time offer for sale its senior
unsecured debt for any general corporate purposes, including (i) funding
specific liquidity requirements in its business, including property acquisitions
and redevelopment costs, and (ii) better managing the Company's debt maturities.
(See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
annual report.)

Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional offerings of its public
unsecured debt and equity raising in the aggregate over $900 million for the
purposes of repaying indebtedness, acquiring interests in neighborhood and
community shopping centers and for expanding and improving properties in the
portfolio.

It is management's intention that the Company continually have access to the
capital resources necessary to expand and develop its business. Accordingly, the
Company may seek to obtain funds through additional equity offerings or debt
financing in a manner consistent with its intention to operate with a
conservative debt capitalization policy.

                                      -5-


The Company anticipates that adequate cash will be available from operations to
fund its operating and administrative expenses, regular debt service obligations
and the payment of dividends in accordance with REIT requirements in both the
short-term and long-term.

Inflation and Other Business Issues Substantially all of the Company's leases
contain provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation. Such
provisions include clauses enabling the Company to receive payment of additional
rent calculated as a percentage of tenants' gross sales above predetermined
thresholds ("percentage rents"), which generally increase as prices rise, and/or
escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the terms of
the leases. Such escalation clauses are often related to increases in the

consumer price index or similar inflation indices. In addition, many of the
Company's leases are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits the Company
to seek to increase rents upon renewal to market rates. Most of the Company's
leases require the tenant to pay an allocable share of operating expenses,
including common area maintenance costs, real estate taxes and insurance,
thereby reducing the Company's exposure to increases in costs and operating
expenses resulting from inflation. The Company periodically evaluates its
exposure to short-term interest rates and will, from time to time, enter into
interest rate protection agreements which mitigate, but do not eliminate, the
effect of changes in interest rates on its floating-rate loans.

As an owner of real estate, the Company is subject to risks arising in
connection with the underlying real estate, including defaults or nonrenewal of
tenant leases, environmental matters, financing availability and changes in real
estate and zoning laws. The success of the Company also depends upon trends in
the economy, including interest rates, income tax laws, governmental regulations
and legislation and population trends.

Operating Practices Nearly all operating functions, including leasing, legal,
construction, data processing, maintenance, finance and accounting, are
administered by the Company from its executive offices in New Hyde Park, New
York. The Company believes it is critical to have a management presence in its
principal areas of operation; accordingly, the Company also maintains regional
offices in Boca Raton and Orlando, Florida; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and
Dayton and Cleveland, Ohio. A total of 91 persons are employed at the Company's
executive and regional offices.

The Company's regional offices are generally staffed by a manager and the
support personnel necessary to both function as local representatives for
leasing and promotional purposes and to complement the corporate office efforts
to ensure that property inspection and maintenance objectives are achieved. The
regional offices are important in reducing the time necessary to respond to the
needs of the Company's tenants. Leasing and maintenance personnel from the
corporate office also conduct regular inspections of each shopping center.

The Company employs a total of 63 persons at several of its larger properties in
order to more effectively administer its maintenance and security
responsibilities.

Management Information Systems Virtually all operating activities are supported
by a sophisticated computer software system designed to provide management with
operating data necessary to make informed business decisions on a timely basis.
These proprietary systems have been developed by the Company over the last
fifteen years and reflect a commitment to quality management and tenant
relations. The Company has integrated an advanced mid-range computer with
personal computer technology, creating a management information system that
facilitates the development of property cash flow budgets, forecasts and related
management information.

Qualification as a REIT The Company has elected, commencing with its taxable
year which began January 1, 1992, to qualify as a REIT under Sections 856
through 860 of the Code. If, as the Company believes, it is organized and
operates in such a manner so as to qualify and remain qualified as a REIT


                                      -6-


under the Code, the Company generally will not be subject to Federal income tax,
provided that distributions to its stockholders equal at least the amount of its
REIT taxable income as defined under the Code.

Recent Developments

Shopping Center Acquisitions -

In January 1996, the Company acquired Vine Street Square shopping center,
located on West Vine Street in Kissimmee, FL for approximately $6.6 million. The
property comprises approximately 134,000 square feet of GLA and has been
redeveloped to accommodate occupancy by Office Max and Kash N' Karry.

In March 1996, the Company acquired the Century Plaza and Oakcreek Village
shopping centers, located in Orlando, FL and Durham, NC, respectively. These
properties were purchased in separate transactions for an aggregate purchase
price of approximately $12.2 million. Century Plaza is a 129,000 square foot
shopping center located on South Semoran Boulevard anchored by Ross Stores and
Big Lots. Tenants at Oakcreek Village, which comprises 116,000 square feet of
GLA on Chapel Hill Boulevard, include TJ Maxx and Durham Sporting Goods.

In April 1996, the Company acquired a free-standing 41,000 square foot facility
occupied by the Kroger Company. This property, located on North Garland Avenue
in Garland, TX, was purchased for approximately $1 million.

In May 1996, the Company joint ventured the acquisition of fee title to Hayden
Plaza, a community shopping center located on North Cave Creek Road in Phoenix,
AZ. The Company's interest in this property, comprising 187,000 square feet of
GLA and anchored by Home Depot, was acquired for $1.7 million. The Company had
previously acquired a leasehold estate in the anchor store premises at this
shopping center.

In August 1996, the Company acquired White Lake Commons shopping center located
in Clarkston, MI. This 157,000 square foot shopping center, located on Dixie
Highway, was acquired for approximately $11.5 million and is anchored by A&P
Supermarkets and Franks Nursery.

Retail Property Acquisitions-

In January 1996, the Company entered into two sale-leaseback transactions
pursuant to which it acquired fee title to 16 retail properties from Venture
Stores ("Seller/Tenant"), a family value department store operator. These
properties, which comprise approximately 1.6 million square feet of GLA in
Texas, Iowa, Oklahoma, Illinois, and Kansas, were acquired by the Company for an
aggregate purchase price of $40 million. Simultaneously, the Company executed
two long-term net leases with the Seller/Tenant covering the 16 locations
pursuant to which this Seller/Tenant may remain in occupancy and continue to
conduct business in these premises.

In August 1996, the Company acquired interests in 16 retail properties,
including 2 properties to which the Company and its affiliates already held fee

title, for an aggregate price of approximately $21.8 million. These property
interests, located in Pennsylvania (12) and New Jersey (4), and aggregating
approximately 1.6 million square feet of GLA, were acquired from a retailer
which had elected to discontinue operations of its discount department store
division. The Company has executed a long-term net lease with Kohl's Department
Stores covering 6 of these locations and has signed leases with Value City and
J.C. Penney for two additional locations. The Company is actively involved in
negotiations concerning the re-tenanting and redevelopment of the remaining
properties.

Other Property Acquisitions-

In December 1996, the Company acquired a joint venture interest in a 53,000
square foot building located on Market Street in Upper Darby, PA for
approximately $.9 million. The upper floors of this multi-story facility will

                                      -7-


be redeveloped for occupancy by Mercy Health Corporation, a leading healthcare
system in the Philadelphia market, while the ground floor will be redesigned for
complementary retail tenants.

The Company, as a regular part of its business operations, will continue to
actively seek properties for acquisition which have below market-rate leases or
other cash flow growth potential.

Property Redevelopments -

The Company has an ongoing program to reformat and re-tenant its properties to
maintain or enhance its competitive position in the marketplace. During 1996,
the Company substantially completed the redevelopment of 7 shopping centers in
its portfolio, including properties located in Great Barrington, MA; Coral
Springs, FL; West Mifflin, PA; Centerville, OH; Jennings, MO; Springfield, MO
and Kissimmee, FL, at a total cost of approximately $15 million. The Company is
currently involved in redeveloping several other shopping centers, most notably
its properties in Charles Town, WV; North Miami, FL; Philadelphia, PA; Richboro,
PA; Westmont, NJ and Plainview, NY. Each redevelopment represents an opportunity
for the Company to capitalize on its leasing, site planning, design and
construction expertise. The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward
these and other redevelopments during 1997 will be approximately $40 million.
These projects, which are currently proceeding on schedule and in line with the
Company's budgeted costs, are expected to contribute to growth in the Company's
funds from operations in the future.

Property Dispositions -

In September 1996, the Company disposed of a property in Watertown, NY. Cash
proceeds from the disposition totaling approximately $1.8 million, together with
an additional $2.2 million cash investment, were used to acquire an exchange
shopping center property located in Lafayette, IN during January 1997.

Financings -


Debt. In June 1996, the Company amended its $100 million, unsecured revolving
credit facility with a group of banks to provide, among other things, for a
reduction in the annual fee payable on that portion of the facility which
remains unused from time to time. The facility term was also extended one year
and is now scheduled to expire on June 30, 1999.

In August 1996, the Company redeemed $50 million unsecured floating-rate bonds
bearing interest at LIBOR plus .50% with the proceeds of a $50 million unsecured
medium-term note priced at LIBOR plus .12%. (See Note 7 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report.)

Equity. On February 2, 1996 the Company completed a primary public stock
offering of 2,200,000 shares of Common Stock at $26.50 per share. The proceeds
from this sale of Common Stock, net of related transaction costs of
approximately $3.4 million, totaled approximately $55 million. Such proceeds
have been used primarily for the acquisition of neighborhood and community
shopping centers.

On April 10, 1996, the Company completed a public offering of 4,000,000
Depositary Shares, each representing 1/10 of a share of the Company's 8-3/8%
Class C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share (the
"Depositary Shares"), at $25.00 per Depositary Share. The proceeds from this
sale of Depositary Shares, net of related transaction costs of approximately
$3.6 million, totaled approximately $96.4 million. Such proceeds have been used
primarily for shopping center and retail property acquisitions and the property
redevelopments described above.

See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
annual report.

                                      -8-


KC Holdings, Inc.

To facilitate the Company's November 1991 IPO, forty-six shopping center
properties and certain other assets, together with indebtedness related thereto,
were transferred to subsidiaries of KC Holdings, a newly formed corporation that
is owned by the stockholders of the Company prior to the IPO. The Company,
although having no ownership interest in KC Holdings or its subsidiary
companies, was granted ten-year, fixed-price options to reacquire the real
estate assets owned by KC Holdings' subsidiaries, subject to any liabilities
outstanding with respect to such assets at the time of an option exercise. As of
February 28, 1997, KC Holdings' subsidiaries had conveyed fourteen shopping
center properties back to the Company and had disposed of ten additional centers
in transactions with third parties. The members of the Company's Board of
Directors who are not also shareholders of KC Holdings have unanimously approved
the purchase of each of the fourteen shopping centers that have been reacquired
by the Company from KC Holdings. (See Notes 10 and 14 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report.)

The Company manages 18 of KC Holdings' 22 shopping center properties pursuant to
a management agreement. KC Holdings' other four shopping center properties are
managed by unaffiliated joint venture partners.


Acquisition Option -

The Company holds 10-year acquisition options which expire in November 2001, to
reacquire interests in the 22 shopping center properties owned by KC Holdings'
subsidiaries. The option exercise prices are fixed and payable in shares of
Common Stock or, in the event payment in the form of Common Stock could
jeopardize the Company's status as a REIT, an equivalent value in cash. If the
Company exercises its options to acquire all the remaining shopping center
properties, the maximum aggregate amount payable to KC Holdings would be
approximately $11.1 million, or approximately 330,000 shares of Common Stock
(assuming shares valued at the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange of
$33.63 per share as of February 28, 1997). The Company would acquire the
properties subject to any existing mortgage indebtedness and other liabilities
on the properties. The acquisition options enable the Company to obtain any
appreciation in the value of these properties over the option exercise prices,
while eliminating the Company's interim exposure to leverage and operating
risks.

The option exercise prices for the shopping center properties are generally
equal to 10% of KC Holdings' share of the mortgage debt which was outstanding on
the properties at the date of the IPO. If, however, the market value of the
Company's Common Stock at the time an option is exercised is less than $13.33
per share (the IPO price), then the option exercise price will decline
proportionately (subject to maximum reduction of 50%).

The 22 shopping center properties subject to the acquisition options are held in
8 subsidiaries of KC Holdings. Thirteen of these properties are subject to a
single lease and/or a single cross-collateralized mortgage and are therefore
held by a single subsidiary. Four of the properties, which are owned in two
separate joint ventures and managed by unaffiliated joint venture partners, are
held by two additional subsidiaries, and the remaining five shopping center
properties are each held by separate subsidiaries. The Company may exercise its
acquisition options separately with respect to each subsidiary.

The acquisition options may be exercised by either (i) a majority of the
Company's directors who are not also stockholders of KC Holdings, provided that
the pro forma annualized net cash flows of the properties to be acquired exceed
the dividend yield on the shares issued to exercise each option, or (ii) a
majority of the Company's stockholders who are not also stockholders of KC
Holdings.

KC Holdings' subsidiaries may sell any of the properties subject to the
acquisition options to any third party unaffiliated with KC Holdings or its
stockholders, provided that KC Holdings provides the Company with a 30-day right
of first refusal notice with regard to such sale. KC Holdings may cause such a
selling subsidiary to distribute any sale proceeds to KC Holdings or

                                      -9-



its stockholders, provided that the option exercise price with respect to such
subsidiary is reduced by the amount that is distributed, and further provided

that no amount may be distributed so as to cause the option exercise price for
any subsidiary to be reduced to less than $1.

Each of KC Holdings' subsidiaries may pay dividends to KC Holdings to the extent
of net operating cash flow. In addition, any KC Holdings subsidiary may make
distributions to KC Holdings in excess of net operating cash flow, provided that
the option exercise price with respect to such subsidiary is reduced by the
amount of such distribution, and further provided that no amount may be
distributed so as to cause the option exercise price for any subsidiary to be
reduced to less than $1. KC Holdings may increase the indebtedness in its
subsidiaries for the purpose of improving, maintaining, refinancing or operating
the related shopping center properties. Such indebtedness may include borrowings
from the stockholders of KC Holdings.

In the event of a complete casualty or a condemnation of a property held by any
of KC Holdings' subsidiaries, the acquisition option will terminate with respect
to such property and the option shall continue to be effective with respect to
any other properties held by such subsidiary.

Each of KC Holdings' subsidiaries has agreed with the Company that it will
engage in no activities other than in connection with the ownership, maintenance
and improvement of the properties that it owns and only to the extent that the
Company could engage in such activities without receiving or earning
non-qualifying income (in excess of certain limits) under the REIT provisions of
the Code or without otherwise impairing the Company's status as a REIT. In
addition, KC Holdings has covenanted not to engage in any other real estate
activity. The Company has agreed not to make loans to KC Holdings or its
subsidiaries.

Exchange Listings

The Company's Common Stock, Class A Depositary Shares, Class B Depositary Shares
and Class C Depositary Shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under
the trading symbols "KIM", "KIMprA", "KIMprB" and "KIMprC", respectively.

Item 2.  Properties

Real Estate Portfolio As of February 28, 1997 the Company's shopping center
portfolio was comprised of approximately 27.5 million square feet of GLA in 208
neighborhood and community shopping center properties and 2 regional malls,
located in 29 states. Neighborhood and community shopping centers comprise the
primary focus of the Company's current portfolio, representing approximately 96%
of the Company's total shopping center GLA. As of February 28, 1997
approximately 87% of the Company's neighborhood and community shopping center
space was leased, and the average annualized base rent per leased square foot
was $6.21 ($6.42 as adjusted to eliminate the effect of 1996 property
acquisitions). Such occupancy percentage would approximate 90%, as adjusted to
eliminate the effect of the Company's August 1996 retail properties acquisition
as discussed in Recent Developments - Retail Property Acquisitions.

The Company's neighborhood and community shopping center properties, generally
owned and operated through subsidiaries or joint ventures, had an average size
of approximately 126,000 square feet as of February 28, 1997. The Company
retains its shopping centers for long-term investment and consequently pursues a

program of regular physical maintenance together with major renovations and
refurbishing to preserve and increase the value of its properties. These
projects usually include renovating existing facades, installing uniform
signage, resurfacing parking lots and enhancing parking lot lighting.

The Company's neighborhood and community shopping centers are usually "anchored"
by a national or regional discount department store, supermarket or drugstore.
As one of the original participants in the growth of the shopping center
industry and one of the nation's largest owners and operators of shopping
centers, the Company has established close relationships with a large number of
major national and regional retailers. National and regional companies that are
tenants in the Company's shopping center properties include

                                     -10-


Kohls Department Stores, Venture Stores, WalMart, Toys/Kids 'R Us, Hills
Department Stores, TJX Companies, Schottenstein Stores and KMart Corp.

A substantial portion of the Company's income consists of rent received under
long-term leases. Most of the leases provide for the payment of fixed base
rentals monthly in advance and for the payment by tenants of an allocable share
of the real estate taxes, insurance, utilities and common area maintenance
expenses incurred in operating the shopping centers. Although a majority of the
leases require the Company to make roof and structural repairs as needed, a
number of tenant leases place that responsibility on the tenant, and the
Company's standard small store lease provides for roof repairs to be reimbursed
by the tenant as part of common area maintenance. The Company's management
places a strong emphasis on sound construction and safety at its properties.

Approximately 1,000 of the Company's 2,364 leases also contain provisions
requiring the payment of additional "percentage rents" should the tenants' gross
sales levels exceed predetermined thresholds. Percentage rents accounted for
approximately 3% of the Company's revenues from rental property for the year
ended December 31, 1996.

Minimum base rental revenues and operating expense reimbursements accounted for
approximately 97% of the Company's total rental revenues for the year ended
December 31, 1996. The Company's management believes that the average base rent
per square foot for the Company's existing leases is generally lower than the
prevailing market rate base rents in the geographic regions where the Company
operates, reflecting the potential for future growth.

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through geographic
and tenant diversity. No single neighborhood and community shopping center
accounted for more than 1.5% of the Company's total shopping center gross
leasable area or more than 2.3% of total annualized base rental revenues as of
December 31, 1996. No single tenant accounted for more than 4.2% of total
annualized base rental revenues as of December 31, 1996. The Company maintains
an active leasing and capital improvement program that, combined with the high
quality of the locations, has made, in management's opinion, the Company's
properties attractive to tenants.

The Company's management believes its experience in the industry and its

relationships with numerous national and regional tenants gives it an advantage
in an industry where ownership is fragmented among a large number of property
owners.

Given its intention to primarily focus its portfolio on neighborhood and
community shopping centers, the Company may, if suitable opportunities arise,
sell its regional malls or exchange them for a portfolio of neighborhood and
community shopping centers.

Retail Store Leases In addition to its neighborhood and community shopping
center portfolio and two regional malls, the Company holds interests in retail
store leases relating to approximately 5.1 million square feet of anchor store
premises in 57 neighborhood and community shopping centers located in 23 states.
As of February 28, 1997 approximately 99% of these premises had been sublet to
retailers which lease the stores pursuant to net lease agreements providing for
average annualized base rental payments to the Company of $3.84 per square foot.
The Company's average annualized base rental obligation pursuant to its retail
store leases with the fee owners of such subleased premises is approximately
$2.78 per square foot. The average remaining primary term of the Company's
retail store leases (and similarly the remaining primary terms of its sublease
agreements with the tenants currently leasing such space) is approximately 4.3
years, excluding options to renew such leases for terms which generally range
from 10-30 years.

Ground-Leased Properties The Company has 21 shopping center properties that are
subject to long-term ground leases where a third party owns and has leased the
underlying land to the Company (or an affiliated joint venture) to construct
and/or operate a shopping center. The Company or the joint venture pays rent for
the use of the land and generally is responsible for all costs and expenses
associated with the building and improvements. At the end of

                                     -11-


these long-term leases, unless extended, the land together with all improvements
revert to the land owner.

Undeveloped Land Although the Company does not own any unimproved land tracts
that it intends to develop as new shopping centers, the Company does own parcels
of land adjacent to certain of its existing shopping centers that are held for
possible expansion. At times, should circumstances warrant, the Company may
develop or dispose of these parcels.

The table on pages 13 to 19 sets forth more specific information with respect to
each of the Company's shopping center properties as of December 31, 1996.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

The Company is not presently involved in any litigation nor to its knowledge is
any litigation threatened against the Company or its subsidiaries that, in
management's opinion, would result in any material adverse effect on the
Company's ownership, management or operation of its properties, or which is not
covered by the Company's liability insurance.


Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None

                                     -12-



                                                          Property Chart


                                     -13-




                                     -14-





                                     -15-





                                     -16-





                                     -17-





                                     -18-



(1)  Percent leased information as of December 31, 1996 or later of
     acquisition/disposition.

(2)  The term "joint" venture indicates that the  Company owns the property in

     conjunction with one or more joint venture partners. The date indicated is
     the expiration date of any ground lease after giving effect to all renewal
     periods.

(3)  Denotes redevelopment project.

(4)  The Company holds interests in various retail store leases related to the
     anchor store premises in neighborhood and community shopping centers.

                                     -19-



                     Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth information with respect to the seven executive
officers of the Company as of March 17, 1997.

   Name                  Age     Position                      Since
   ----                  ---     --------                      ----- 
Milton Cooper            68      Chairman of the Board of       1991
                                 Directors and Chief
                                 Executive Officer

Michael J. Flynn         61      Vice Chairman of the           1996
                                 Board of Directors.
                                 President and Chief            1997
                                 Operating Officer

Joseph V. Denis          45      Vice President -               1993
                                 Construction

Bruce M. Kauderer        50      Vice President -               1995
                                 Legal

Louis J. Petra           43      Chief Financial Officer        1984
                                 and Treasurer

Robert P. Schulman       69      Senior Vice President          1978
                                 and Secretary

Alex Weiss               39      Vice President -               1988
                                 Management Information
                                 Systems

Michael J. Flynn has been President and Chief Operating Officer since January
2, 1997, Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors since January 2, 1996 and a
Director of the Company since December 1, 1991.  Mr. Flynn was Chairman of the
Board and President of Slattery Associates, Inc. for more than five years
prior to joining the Company.

Joseph V. Denis has been a Vice President of the Company since October 1993. Mr.
Denis was President and Chief Operating Officer of Konover Construction Company,
and previously held various positions with such company as a project and

construction manager, for more than five years prior to joining the Company in
June 1993.

Bruce M. Kauderer has been a Vice President of the Company since June 1995.
Mr. Kauderer was a founder of and partner with Kauderer & Pack P.C. from 1992
to June 1995 and a Partner with Fink Weinberger, P.C. for more than five years
prior to 1992.

The executive officers of the Company serve in their respective capacities for
approximate one-year terms and are subject to re-election by the Board of
Directors, generally at the time of the Annual Meeting of the Board of Directors
following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

                                     -20-


                                    PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Shareholder
         Matters

Market Information The Company completed its IPO on November 22, 1991. Shares of
Common Stock were sold for cash or exchanged for mortgage debt and equity
interests in certain of the Company's shopping center properties based upon an
initial public offering price of $13.33 per share. Additional primary public
common stock offerings were completed in June 1992, April 1993, January 1995 and
February 1996, wherein shares of Common Stock were sold for cash or exchanged
for equity interests in shopping center properties based upon $16.92, $22.83,
$24.17 and $26.50 per share offering prices, respectively.

The high and low closing sales prices for the Company's Common Stock, which is
currently traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol "KIM",
for each quarter during the two years ended December 31, 1996, were as follows:

                                                       Stock Price
                                                       -----------
               Period                                High       Low
               ------                                ----       ---
        Jan. 1,  1995 - Mar. 31,  1995              26.00      23.75
        Apr. 1,  1995 - June 30,  1995              26.67      24.83
        July 1,  1995 - Sept 30,  1995              27.50      25.25
        Oct. 1,  1995 - Dec. 31,  1995              28.17      23.92
        Jan. 1,  1996 - Mar. 31,  1996              27.88      25.50
        Apr. 1,  1996 - June 30,  1996              28.50      25.75
        July 1,  1996 - Sept.30,  1996              30.25      26.63
        Oct. 1,  1996 - Dec. 31,  1996              34.88      28.38

Holders The approximate number of holders of record of the Company's Common
Stock, par value $.01 per share, was 498 as of February 28, 1997.

Dividends Since the IPO, the Company has paid regular quarterly dividends to its
stockholders.

Quarterly dividends at the rate of $.36 per share were declared and paid on

November 29, 1994 and January 17, 1995, March 15, 1995 and April 17, 1995, June
15, 1995 and July 17, 1995 and September 15, 1995 and October 16, 1995,
respectively. Quarterly dividends at the increased rate of $.39 per share were
declared and paid on November 30, 1995 and January 16, 1996, March 15, 1996 and
April 15, 1996, June 17, 1996 and July 15, 1996 and September 16, 1996 and
October 15, 1996 respectively. On December 2, 1996 the Company declared its
dividend payable during the first quarter of 1997 at the increased rate of $.43
per share payable January 15, 1997 to shareholders of record on January 2, 1997.
This $.43 per share dividend, if annualized, would equal $1.72 per share, or an
annual yield of approximately 5.1% based on the closing price of the Company's
Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange as of February 28, 1997.

The Company has determined that 100% of the total $1.56 and $1.44 per share in
dividends paid during 1996 and 1995, respectively, represented ordinary dividend
income to its stockholders.

While the Company intends to continue paying regular quarterly dividends, future
dividend declarations will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and
will depend on the actual cash flow of the Company, its financial condition,
capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT
provisions of the Code and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems
relevant. The actual cash flow available to pay dividends will be affected by a
number of factors, including the revenues received from rental properties, the
operating expenses of the Company, the interest expense on its borrowings, the
ability of lessees to meet their obligations to the Company and any
unanticipated capital expenditures.

In addition to its Common Stock offerings, the Company has capitalized the
growth in its business through the issuance of unsecured fixed and floating-rate
medium-term notes and underwritten bonds and perpetual preferred stock.
Borrowings under the Company's revolving credit facility have also been an
interim source of funds to both finance the purchase of properties and meet any
short-term working capital

                                     -21-


requirements. The various instruments governing the Company's issuance of its
unsecured public debt, bank debt and preferred stock impose certain restrictions
on the Company with regard to dividends, voting, liquidation and other
preferential rights available to the holders of such instruments. See
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" and Notes 7 and 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in this annual report. Reference should also be made to the documents
incorporated by reference into Part II of this annual report listed in
"Documents Incorporated by Reference" above for further information with respect
to such restrictions.

The Company does not believe that the preferential rights available to the
holders of its Class A, Class B and Class C Preferred Stock, the financial
covenants contained in its public bond Indenture or its revolving credit
agreement will have any adverse impact on the Company's ability to pay dividends
in the normal course to its common stockholders or to distribute amounts
necessary to maintain its qualification as a REIT.


The Company maintains a dividend reinvestment program pursuant to which common
and preferred stockholders may elect to automatically reinvest their dividends
to purchase shares of Common Stock. The Company may, from time to time, either
(i) repurchase shares of Common Stock in the open market, or (ii) issue new
shares of Common Stock, for the purpose of fulfilling its obligations under this
dividend reinvestment program.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

The following table sets forth selected, historical consolidated financial data
for the Company and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
Financial Statements of the Company and Notes thereto included elsewhere in this
annual report on Form 10-K.

The Company believes that the book value of its real estate assets, which
reflects the historical costs of such real estate assets less accumulated
depreciation, is not indicative of the current market value of its properties.
Historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating
performance.

                                     -22-







(1) Does not include revenues from rental property relating to
    unconsolidated joint ventures or revenues related to the investment in 
    retail store leases.

(2) Industry analysts generally consider funds from operations to be an
    appropriate measure of the performance of an equity REIT. Funds from
    operations is defined as net income applicable to common shares before
    depreciation and amortization, extraordinary items, gains or losses on sales
    of real estate, plus funds from operations of unconsolidated joint ventures
    determined on a consistent basis. Funds from operations does not represent
    cash generated from operating activities in accordance with generally
    accepted accounting principles and therefore should not be considered a
    substitute for net income as a measure of results of operations, or for cash
    flows from operations calculated in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles as a measure of liquidity.


(3) Includes approximately $3.4 million, or $.12 per share, in non-recurring
    gains related to the sale of a shopping center and a casualty claim related
    to a joint venture property.

                                     -23-




Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
            and Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
Financial Statements and Notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this annual report
on Form 10-K. Historical results and percentage relationships set forth in the
Consolidated Statements of Income contained in the Consolidated Financial
Statements, including trends which might appear, should not be taken as
indicative of future operations.

Results of Operations

  Comparison of 1996 to 1995

Revenues from rental property increased approximately $25.0 million, or 17.5% to
$168.1 million for the year ended December 31, 1996, as compared with $143.1
million for the year ended December 31, 1995. This increase resulted primarily
from the combined effect of shopping center acquisitions during the respective
periods (39 property interests in 1996 and 18 property interests in 1995) as
well as new leasing and re-tenanting within the portfolio at improved rental
rates.

Rental property expenses, including depreciation and amortization, increased
approximately $8.1 million, or 9.1%, to $97.0 million for the year ended
December 31, 1996, as compared with $88.9 million for the preceding calendar
year. This increase is primarily due to property acquisitions and renovations
within the existing portfolio during the respective periods which gave rise to
an overall increase in real estate taxes and depreciation and amortization
expenses, as well as increased snow removal costs during 1996. Interest charges
increased approximately $1.4 million between the respective periods reflecting
higher average outstanding borrowings during calendar year 1996 as compared to
the preceding year.

During July 1995, certain subsidiaries of the Company obtained interests in
retail store leases relating to the anchor store premises in neighborhood and
community shopping centers. These premises have been substantially sublet to
retailers which lease the stores pursuant to net lease agreements. Income from
the investment in retail store leases during the years ended December 31, 1996
and 1995 were $3.6 and $1.8 million, respectively.

General and administrative expenses increased approximately $1.5 million to
$10.3 million for the year ended December 31, 1996, as compared to $8.8 million
for the preceding calendar year. This increase is primarily attributable to
increased senior management and staff levels during 1996 and 1995.


Other income, net increased approximately $3.3 million for the year ended
December 31, 1996 as compared with the preceding year. This increase is
primarily attributable to interest earned on funds raised through public equity
offerings during 1996 and held in short-term income producing investments
pending the acquisition of interests in neighborhood and community shopping
center properties.

During September 1996, the Company disposed of a property in Watertown, New
York. Cash proceeds from the disposition totaling $1.8 million, together with an
additional $2.2 million cash investment, were used to acquire an exchange
shopping center property during January 1997.

Net income for the year ended December 31, 1996 of approximately $73.8 million
represented an improvement of approximately $21.9 million, as compared with net
income of approximately $51.9 million for the preceding calendar year. After
adjusting for the gain on the sale of a shopping center property during 1996,
net income for 1996 increased by $21.1 million, or $.26 per share, compared to
1995. This substantially improved performance was primarily attributable to
property acquisitions and redevelopments, the investment in retail store leases
and sustained leasing activity which strengthened operating profitability.

                                     -24-



  Comparison of 1995 to 1994

Revenues from rental property increased approximately $17.8 million, or 14.3% to
$143.1 million for the year ended December 31, 1995, as compared with $125.3
million for the year ended December 31, 1994. This increase resulted primarily
from the combined effect of shopping center acquisitions during the respective
periods (18 property interests in 1995 and 11 property interests in 1994) as
well as new leasing and re-tenanting within the portfolio at improved rental
rates.

Rental property expenses, including depreciation and amortization, increased
approximately $8.4 million, or 10.3% to $88.9 million for the calendar year
ended December 31, 1995, as compared with $80.5 million for the preceding
calendar year. This increase is primarily due to property acquisitions and
renovations within the existing portfolio during the periods which gave rise to
an overall increase in real estate taxes and depreciation and amortization
expenses. Interest charges increased approximately $5.1 million between periods
reflecting the higher average outstanding borrowings and the rise in short-term
interest rates during 1995 as compared with 1994.

During July 1995, certain subsidiaries of the Company obtained interests in
various retail store leases relating to the anchor store premises in
neighborhood and community shopping centers. These premises have been
substantially sublet to retailers which lease the stores pursuant to net lease
agreements. Income from the investment in retail store leases during the year
ended December 31, 1995 was $1.8 million.

During 1994, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries repaid various mortgage
loans outstanding with banks and other financial institutions resulting in an

extraordinary loss of approximately $.8 million. This loss represents the net
amount of discounts received, premiums paid and deferred financing and other
costs written off in connection with the early satisfaction of these mortgage
loans.

Net income for the year ended December 31, 1995 of approximately $51.9 million,
represented an improvement of approximately $11.6 million, as compared with net
income of approximately $40.3 million for the preceding calendar year. Adjusting
for the effect of the extraordinary item during 1994, net income for 1995
increased by $10.8 million, or $.16 per share, compared to 1994. This
substantially improved performance was primarily attributable to property
acquisitions and redevelopments, the investment in retail store leases and
sustained leasing activity which strengthened operating profitability.

Liquidity and Capital Resources  Completion of the Company's IPO, which resulted
in net cash proceeds of approximately $116 million, permitted the Company to
significantly deleverage its real estate portfolio and has made available the
public debt and equity markets as the Company's principal source of capital for
the future. A $100 million, unsecured revolving credit facility established in
June 1994, which is scheduled to expire in June 1999, has made available funds
to both finance the purchase of properties and meet any short-term working
capital requirements. As of December 31, 1996 there were no borrowings under
this credit facility. (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this annual report.) The Company has also implemented a
$150 million medium-term notes program pursuant to which it may from time to
time offer for sale its senior unsecured debt for any general corporate
purposes, including (i) funding specific liquidity requirements in its business,
including property acquisitions and redevelopment costs and (ii) better managing
the Company's debt maturities.

Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional offerings of its public
unsecured debt and equity raising in the aggregate over $900 million for the
purposes of repaying indebtedness, acquiring neighborhood and community shopping
centers and for expanding and improving properties in the portfolio.

In connection with its intention to continue to qualify as a REIT for Federal
income tax purposes, the Company expects to continue paying regular dividends to
its stockholders. These dividends will be paid from operating cash flows which
are

                                     -25-


expected to increase due to property acquisitions and growth in rental revenues
in the existing portfolio and from other sources. Since cash used to pay
dividends reduces amounts available for capital investment, the Company
generally intends to maintain a conservative dividend payout ratio, reserving
such amounts as it considers necessary for the expansion and renovation of
shopping centers in its portfolio, debt reduction, the acquisition of interests
in new properties as suitable opportunities arise, and such other factors as the
Board of Directors considers appropriate.

Although the Company receives most of its rental payments on a monthly basis, it
intends to continue paying dividends quarterly. Amounts accumulated in advance

of each quarterly distribution will be invested by the Company in short-term
money market or other suitable instruments.

It is management's intention that the Company continually have access to the
capital resources necessary to expand and develop its business. Accordingly, the
Company may seek to obtain funds through additional equity offerings or debt
financing in a manner consistent with its intention to operate with a
conservative debt capitalization policy.

The Company anticipates that adequate cash will be available from operations to
fund its operating and administrative expenses, regular debt service obligations
and the payment of dividends in accordance with REIT requirements in both the
short-term and long-term.

Effects of Inflation  Substantially all of the Company's leases contain
provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation. Such provisions
include clauses enabling the Company to receive percentage rents based on
tenants' gross sales, which generally increase as prices rise, and/or escalation
clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the terms of the leases.
Such escalation clauses are often related to increases in the consumer price
index or similar inflation indices. In addition, many of the Company's leases
are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits the Company to seek to
increase rents upon renewal to market rates. Most of the Company's leases
require the tenant to pay an allocable share of operating expenses, including
common area maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance, thereby reducing the
Company's exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from
inflation. The Company periodically evaluates its exposure to short-term
interest rates and will, from time to time, enter into interest rate protection
agreements which mitigate, but do not eliminate, the effect of changes in
interest rates on its floating-rate loans.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The response to this Item 8 is included as a separate section of this annual
report on Form 10-K.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and

         Financial Disclosure

None.

                                     -26-



                                   PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May
28, 1997.


Information with respect to the Executive Officers of the Registrant follows
Part I, Item 4 of this annual report on Form 10-K.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May
28, 1997.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May
28, 1997.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May
28, 1997.

                                     -27-



                                     PART IV


                                     -28-




                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS


*   Filed herewith.

                                     -30-


                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                            KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION
                                                  (Registrant)

                                            By:  /s/ Milton Cooper
                                            ---------------------------- 
                                                   Milton Cooper
                                             Chief Executive Officer

Dated:  March 17, 1997

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature                         Title                       Date

/s/  Martin S. Kimmel             Chairman (Emeritus) of    March 17, 1997
- ---------------------------       the Board of Directors  
         Martin S. Kimmel         


/s/  Milton Cooper                Chairman of the Board     March 17, 1997
- --------------------------        of Directors and Chief
         Milton Cooper            Executive Officer

/s/  Michael J. Flynn             Vice Chairman of the      March 17, 1997
- --------------------------        Board of Directors, 
         Michael J. Flynn         President and
                                  Chief Operating Officer

/s/  Richard G. Dooley            Director                  March 17, 1997
- --------------------------
         Richard G. Dooley

/s/  Joe Grills                   Director                  March 17, 1997
- --------------------------
         Joe Grills

/s/  Frank Lourenso               Director                  March 17, 1997
- --------------------------
         Frank Lourenso

/s/  Louis J. Petra               Chief Financial Officer   March 17, 1997
- --------------------------        and Treasurer
         Louis J. Petra           



/s/  Glenn G. Cohen               Director of Accounting    March 17, 1997
- ---------------------------       and Taxation
      Glenn G. Cohen              


/s/  Toni Calandrino              Controller                March 17, 1997
- --------------------------
     Toni Calandrino

                                     -31-



                          ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                        ITEM 8, ITEM 14 (a) (1) and (2)

                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                      AND

                         FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                                    -------



                                     -32-




                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
  Kimco Realty Corporation:

         We have audited the consolidated financial statements and the financial
statement schedules of Kimco Realty Corporation (the "Company") and Subsidiaries
listed in the index on the preceding page of this annual report on Form 10-K.
These financial statements and the financial statement schedules are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and the financial statement schedules
based on our audits.

         We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and the significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

         In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Kimco
Realty Corporation and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1996 in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles. In addition, in our opinion, the financial
statement schedules referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects,
the information required to be included therein.

                                         COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.

New York, New York
February 28, 1997.

                                     -33-


                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

 


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial 
statements.

                                     -34-


                                       
                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                               ________________


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated 
financial statements.


                                     -35-





                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
             For the Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                    
                    ---------------------------------------






The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated 
financial statements.
                                     -36-



                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                           _________________________
      



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated 
financial statements.

                                     -37-





                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                    -------
                                       

1.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies:

        Business

         Kimco Realty Corporation (the "Company") its subsidiaries, affiliates
            and related real estate joint ventures are engaged principally in
            the operation of neighborhood and community shopping centers which
            are anchored generally by discount department stores, supermarkets
            or drugstores. Additionally, the Company provides management
            services for shopping centers owned by affiliated entities and
            various real estate joint ventures.

         The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through
            diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its
            properties and a large tenant base, avoiding dependence on any
            single property or tenant. At December 31, 1996, the Company's
            single largest neighborhood and community shopping center and tenant
            accounted for only 2.3% and 4.2%, respectively, of the Company's
            annualized base rental revenues.

         Principles of Consolidation and Estimates

         The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts
            of the Company, its subsidiaries, all of which are wholly-owned, and
            all majority-owned partnerships. All significant intercompany
            balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

         Generally accepted accounting principles require the Company's
            management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
            reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of
            contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of
            revenues and expenses during a reporting period. Actual results 
            may differ from such estimates.

         Real Estate

         Real estate assets are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation
            and amortization. Such carrying amounts would be adjusted, if
            necessary, to reflect an impairment in the value of the assets.
            Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight-line
            method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as follows:

            Buildings                                15 to 39 years
            Fixtures and leasehold improvements      Terms of leases or useful
                                                     lives, whichever is shorter


        Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as
            incurred. Significant renovations are capitalized.

        Investments in Real Estate Joint Ventures

        Investments in real estate joint ventures are accounted for on the
            equity method.

        Deferred Leasing and Financing Costs

        Costs incurred in obtaining tenant leases and long-term financing,
            included in deferred charges and prepaid expenses in the
            accompanying

                                     -38-


                                       
                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                       
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued
                                       
                                    -------


            Consolidated Balance Sheets, are amortized over the terms of the
            related leases or debt agreements, as applicable.

         Revenue Recognition

         Minimum revenues from rental property are recognized on a straight-line
            basis over the terms of the related leases.

         Income Taxes

         The Company and its subsidiaries file a consolidated Federal income tax
            return. The Company has made an election to qualify, and believes it
            is operating so as to qualify, as a Real Estate Investment Trust (a
            "REIT") for Federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, the Company
            generally will not be subject to Federal income tax, provided that
            distributions to its stockholders equal at least the amount of its
            REIT taxable income as defined under the Code.

         Per Share Data

         Income per share of common stock is based upon 35,906,029, 33,388,004
            and 30,072,486 weighted average numbers of common shares outstanding
            during years 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

2.       Shopping Center Acquisitions:

         During the years 1996, 1995 and 1994 certain subsidiaries of the
            Company acquired real estate interests in various shopping center

            properties at aggregate costs of approximately $39 million, $83
            million and $89 million, respectively. These acquisitions have been
            funded principally through the application of proceeds from the
            Company's public unsecured debt and equity offerings. (See Notes 12
            and 14.)

3.       Retail Property Acquisitions:

         During January 1996, certain subsidiaries of the Company entered into
            two sale-leaseback transactions pursuant to which it acquired fee
            title to 16 retail properties located in Texas, Iowa, Oklahoma,
            Illinois and Kansas for a purchase price of $40 million.
            Simultaneously, the Company executed two long-term net leases
            covering the 16 locations pursuant to which the seller/tenant may
            remain in occupancy and continue to conduct business in these
            premises.

         During August 1996, certain subsidiaries of the Company acquired
            interests in 16 retail properties, including 2 properties to which
            the Company and its affiliates already held fee title, for $21.8
            million in cash. These property interests were acquired from a
            retailer which had elected to discontinue operation of its discount
            department store division. The Company has executed long-term net
            leases with tenants covering 8 of the properties and is actively
            involved in negotiations concerning the re-tenanting and
            redevelopment of the remaining locations.

         These retail property acquisitions have been funded principally through
            the the application of proceeds from the Company's 1996 equity
            offerings.
            (See Note 12.)

                                     -39-

                                       
                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                    -------

4.       Investment in Retail Store Leases:

         During July 1995, certain subsidiaries of the Company obtained
            interests in various retail store leases relating to the anchor
            store premises in neighborhood and community shopping centers. These
            premises have been substantially sublet to retailers which lease the
            stores pursuant to net lease agreements. Income from the investment
            in these retail store leases during the years ended December 31,
            1996 and 1995 was approximately $3.6 million and $1.8 million,
            respectively. These amounts represent sublease revenues during the
            years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995 of approximately $21.0
            million and $8.7 million, respectively, less related expenses of
            $15.2 million and $6.0 million, respectively, and an amount, which

            in management's estimate, reasonably provides for the recovery of
            the investment over a ten-year period. The Company's future minimum
            revenues under the terms of all noncancellable tenant subleases and
            future minimum obligations through the remaining terms of its retail
            store leases are as follows (in millions of dollars): 1997, $19.2
            and $14.4; 1998, $19.4 and $14.2; 1999, $17.1 and $12.7; 2000, $13.5
            and $10.0; 2001, $10.1 and $7.1; and thereafter, $15.6 and $10.6,
            respectively.

5.    Investments and Advances in Real Estate Joint Ventures:

         The Company and its subsidiaries have investments in and advances to
            various real estate joint ventures. These joint ventures are engaged
            in the operation of shopping centers which are either owned or held
            under long-term operating leases. Summarized financial information
            for the recurring operations of these real estate joint ventures is
            as follows (in millions of dollars):

                                               December 31,
                                         -----------------------
                                         1996               1995
                                         ----               ----
            Assets:

               Real estate, net          $41.5             $40.0
               Other assets                4.0               5.3
                                         -----             -----

                                         $45.5             $45.3
                                         =====             =====

            Liabilities and Partners'
             Capital:

               Mortgages payable         $30.3             $31.2
               Other liabilities          15.1              13.2
               Partners' capital            .1                .9
                                         -----             -----
                                         $45.5             $45.3
                                         =====             =====

                                        Years Ended December 31,

                                         1996     1995    1994
                                         ----     ----    ----
            Revenues from rental
               property                 $11.2     $8.3    $7.5
            Operating expenses           (2.9)    (2.1)   (1.7)
            Mortgage interest            (2.5)    (2.4)   (1.8)
            Depreciation and
               amortization              (2.2)    (2.0)   (1.6)
            Other, net                   (1.3)    (1.2)   (1.3)
                                        -----    -----   -----


               Net income                $2.3      $.6    $1.1
                                        =====    =====    ====

                                     -40-

                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                    -------

         Other liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets
            include accounts with certain real estate joint ventures totaling
            approximately $4.1 and $4.7 million at December 31, 1996 and 1995,
            respectively. The Company and its subsidiaries have varying equity
            interests in these real estate joint ventures which may differ from
            their proportionate share of net income or loss recognized in
            accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

6.    Cash and Cash Equivalents:

         Cash and cash equivalents (demand deposits in banks, commercial paper
            and certificates of deposit with original maturities of three months
            or less) includes tenants' security deposits, escrowed funds and
            other restricted deposits approximating $2.4 million and $.1 million
            at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

         Cash and cash equivalent balances may, at a limited number of banks and
            financial institutions, exceed insurable amounts. The Company
            believes it mitigates its risks by investing in or through major
            financial institutions. Recoverability of investments is dependent
            upon the performance of the issuers.

7.       Notes Payable:

         The Company has implemented a $150 million unsecured medium-term notes
            ("MTN") program pursuant to which it may from time to time offer for
            sale its senior unsecured debt for any general corporate purposes,
            including (i) funding specific liquidity requirements in its
            business, including property acquisition and redevelopment costs,
            and (ii) better managing the Company's debt maturities.

         During August 1996, the Company redeemed its $50 million unsecured
            Floating Rate Senior Notes due in 1998. These Floating Rate Senior
            Notes, redeemable at par at the option of the Company after May 11,
            1996 and bearing interest at LIBOR plus .50%, were refinanced with a
            $50 million floating-rate unsecured medium-term note. This
            medium-term note is due in 1998 and bears interest at LIBOR plus
            .12% (5.6% at December 31, 1996). Interest on this floating-rate,
            senior unsecured medium-term note resets and is payable quarterly in
            arrears.

         As of December 31, 1996, an additional principal amount of $60.25
            million in fixed-rate senior unsecured notes had been issued under

            the MTN program for the acquisition of neighborhood and community
            shopping centers and the expansion and improvement of properties in
            the Company's portfolio. These notes have maturities ranging from
            ten to twelve years and bear interest at rates ranging from 6.70% to
            7.91%. Interest on these fixed-rate senior unsecured notes is
            payable semi-annually in arrears.

         As of December 31, 1996, the Company had $100 million in Floating Rate
            Senior Notes due 1999 bearing interest at LIBOR plus .50% (6.0% at
            December 31, 1996). Interest on these floating-rate, senior
            unsecured notes resets and is payable quarterly in arrears.

         As of December 31, 1996, the Company had $100 million in 6.5%
            fixed-rate unsecured Senior Notes due 2003. Interest on these senior
            unsecured notes is paid semi-annually in arrears.

                                     -41-


                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                    -------


         In accordance with the terms of the Indenture pursuant to which the
            Company's senior, unsecured notes have been issued, the Company is
            (a) subject to maintaining certain maximum leverage ratios on both
            unsecured senior corporate and secured debt, minimum debt service
            coverage ratios and minimum equity levels, and (b) restricted from
            paying dividends in amounts that exceed by more than $26 million the
            funds from operations, as defined, generated through the end of the
            calendar quarter most recently completed prior to the declaration of
            such dividend; however, this dividend limitation does not apply to
            any distributions necessary to maintain the Company's qualification
            as a REIT providing the Company is in compliance with its total
            leverage limitations.

         The Company maintains a $100 million, unsecured revolving credit
            agreement with a group of banks. Borrowings under this facility are
            available for general corporate purposes, including property
            acquisitions and redevelopment. Interest on borrowings accrues at a
            spread (currently .75%) to LIBOR which fluctuates in accordance with
            changes in the Company's senior debt ratings. A fee approximating
            .16% per annum is payable on that portion of the facility which
            remains unused. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, the Company,
            among other things, is (a) subject to maintaining certain maximum
            leverage ratios on both unsecured senior corporate and secured debt,
            a minimum debt service coverage ratio and minimum unencumbered asset
            and equity levels, and (b) restricted from paying dividends in
            amounts that exceed 90% of funds from operations, as defined, plus
            10% of the Company's stockholders' equity determined in accordance
            with generally accepted accounting principles. There were no

            borrowings outstanding under this facility at December 31, 1996.
            This revolving credit facility is scheduled to expire in June 1999.

8.       Mortgages Payable:

         Mortgages payable, collateralized by certain shopping center properties
            and related tenants' leases, are generally due in monthly
            installments of principal and/or interest which mature at various
            dates through 2007. Interest rates range from approximately 6.8% to
            12.9% (weighted average interest rate of 8.7% as of December 31,
            1996). The scheduled maturities of all mortgages payable as of
            December 31, 1996, are approximately as follows (in millions of
            dollars): 1997, $5.6; 1998, $5.3; 1999, $19.6; 2000, $6.9; 2001,
            $5.3; and thereafter, $11.7.

         Three of the Company's properties are encumbered by approximately $13.8
            million in floating-rate, tax-exempt mortgage bond financing. The
            rates on the bonds are reset annually, at which time bondholders
            have the right to require the Company to repurchase the bonds. The
            Company has engaged a remarketing agent for the purpose of offering
            for resale those bonds that are tendered to the Company. All bonds
            tendered for redemption in the past have been remarketed and the
            Company has arrangements, including letters of credit, with banks to
            both collateralize the principal amount and accrued interest on such
            bonds and to fund any repurchase obligations.

9.       Extraordinary Item:

         The Consolidated Statement of Income for the calendar year ended 1994
            includes approximately $.8 million, or $.02 per share, representing
            the net amount of discounts received, premiums paid and deferred
            financing and other costs written-off in connection with the early
            satisfaction of mortgage debt.

                                     -42-


                                       
                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                       
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                    -------
10.      KC Holdings, Inc.:

         To facilitate the Company's November 1991 initial public stock offering
            (the "IPO"), forty-six shopping center properties and certain other
            assets, together with indebtedness related thereto, were transferred
            to subsidiaries of KC Holdings, Inc. ("KC Holdings"), a newly-formed
            corporation that is owned by the stockholders of the Company prior
            to the IPO. The Company continues to manage eighteen of these
            shopping center properties and was granted ten-year, fixed-price
            options to reacquire the real estate assets owned by KC Holdings'
            subsidiaries, subject to any liabilities outstanding with respect to

            such assets at the time of an option exercise. As of December 31,
            1996, KC Holdings' subsidiaries had conveyed 14 shopping centers
            back to the Company and had disposed of ten additional centers in
            transactions with third parties. The members of the Company's Board
            of Directors who are not also shareholders of KC Holdings have
            unanimously approved the purchase of each of the 14 shopping centers
            that have been reacquired by the Company from KC Holdings. (See Note
            14.)

         Selected financial information for the twenty-two properties owned by
            KC Holdings' subsidiaries as of and for the year ended December 31,
            1996, is as follows: Real estate, net of accumulated depreciation
            and amortization, $55.5 million; Notes and mortgages payable, $64.0
            million; Revenues from rental property, $11.2 million; Loss from
            rental operations, $.3 million, after depreciation and amortization
            deductions of $2.1 million; Income adjustment for real estate joint
            ventures, net, $.4 million.

11.   Fair Value Disclosure of Financial Instruments:

      All financial instruments of the Company are reflected in the accompanying
         Consolidated Balance Sheets at amounts which, in management's
         estimation based upon an interpretation of available market information
         and valuation methodologies (including discounted cash flow analyses
         with regard to fixed rate debt) considered appropriate, reasonably
         approximate their fair values. Such fair value estimates are not
         necessarily indicative of the amounts that would be realized upon
         disposition of the Company's financial instruments.

12.   Preferred and Common Stock:

      On April 10, 1996, the Company completed a public offering of 4,000,000
         Depositary Shares (the "Class C Depositary Shares") at $25.00 per
         share, each such Class C Depositary Share representing 1/10 of a share
         of the Company's 8-3/8% Class C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock
         (the "Class C Preferred Stock"), par value $1.00 per share. The cash
         proceeds to the Company, net of related transaction costs of
         approximately $3.6 million, totaling approximately $96.4 million, have
         been used for the acquisition of interests in neighborhood and
         community shopping centers, and the redevelopment, expansion and
         improvement of properties in the Company's portfolio.

      Dividends on the Class C Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable
         quarterly in arrears at the rate of 8-3/8% per annum based on the $25
         per share initial offering price, or $2.0938 per share. The Class C
         Depositary Shares are redeemable, in whole or in part, for cash on or
         after April 15, 2001 at the option of the Company at a redemption price
         of $25 per share, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon. The
         redemption price of the Class C Preferred Stock may be paid solely from
         the sale proceeds of other capital stock of the Company, which may
         include other classes or series of preferred stock. The Class C
         Depositary Shares are not convertible or exchangeable for any other
         property or securities of the Company. The Class C Preferred Stock
         (represented by the Class C Depositary Shares outstanding)


                                     -43-


                                       
                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                    -------


         ranks pari passu with the Company's 7-3/4% Class A Cumulative
         Redeemable Preferred Stock and 8-1/2% Class B Cumulative Redeemable
         Preferred Stock as to voting rights, priority for receiving dividends
         and liquidation preferences as set forth below.

      On July 26, 1995, the Company completed a public offering of 2,000,000
         Depositary Shares (the "Class B Depositary Shares") at $25.00 per
         share, each such Class B Depositary Share representing 1/10 of a share
         of the Company's 8-1/2% Class B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock
         (the "Class B Preferred Stock"), par value $1.00 per share. The cash
         proceeds to the Company, net of related transaction costs of
         approximately $1.8 million, totaling approximately $48.2 million, have
         been used for the acquisition of interests in neighborhood and
         community shopping centers, and the redevelopment, expansion and
         improvement of properties in the Company's portfolio.

      Dividends on the Class B Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable
         quarterly in arrears at the rate of 8-1/2% per annum based on the $25
         per share initial offering price, or $2.125 per share. The Class B
         Depositary Shares are redeemable for cash, in whole or in part, on or
         after July 15, 2000 at the option of the Company at a redemption price
         of $25 per share, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon. The
         redemption price of the Class B Preferred Stock may be paid solely from
         the sale proceeds of other capital stock of the Company, which may
         include other classes or series of preferred stock. The Class B
         Depositary Shares are not convertible or exchangeable for any other
         property or securities of the Company. The Class B Preferred Stock
         (represented by the Class B Depositary Shares outstanding) ranks pari
         passu with the Company's 7-3/4% Class A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
         Stock and 8-3/8% Class C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock as to
         voting rights, priority for receiving dividends and liquidation
         preferences as set forth below.

      The Company also has outstanding 3,000,000 Depositary Shares (the "Class A
         Depositary Shares"), each such Class A Depositary Share representing
         1/10 of a share of the Company's 7-3/4% Class A Cumulative Redeemable
         Preferred Stock (the "Class A Preferred Stock"), par value $1.00 per
         share. Dividends on the Class A Depositary Shares are cumulative and
         payable quarterly in arrears at the rate of 7-3/4% per annum based on
         the $25 per share initial offering price, or $1.9375 per share. The
         Class A Depositary Shares are redeemable for cash, in whole or in part,
         on or after September 23, 1998 at the option of the Company, at a

         redemption price of $25 per share, plus any accrued and unpaid
         dividends thereon. The Class A Depositary Shares are not convertible or
         exchangeable for any other property or securities of the Company. The
         Class A Preferred Stock (represented by the Class A Depositary Shares
         outstanding) ranks pari passu with the Company's Class B Preferred
         Stock and Class C Preferred Stock as to voting rights, priority for
         receiving dividends and liquidation preferences as set forth below.

      Voting Rights - As to any matter on which the Class A Preferred Stock,
         Class B Preferred Stock and Class C Preferred Stock (collectively, the
         "Preferred Stock") may vote, including any action by written consent,
         each share of Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 10 votes, each of
         which 10 votes may be directed separately by the holder thereof. With
         respect to each share of Preferred Stock, the holder thereof may
         designate up to 10 proxies, with each such proxy having the right to
         vote a whole number of votes (totaling 10 votes per share of Preferred
         Stock). As a result, each Class A, each Class B and each Class C
         Depositary Share is entitled to one vote.

                                     -44-


                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                    -------


      Liquidation Rights - In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or
         winding up of the affairs of the Company, the Preferred Stock holders
         are entitled to be paid, out of the assets of the Company legally
         available for distribution to its stockholders, a liquidation
         preference of $250.00 per share ($25 per Class A, Class B and Class C
         Depositary Share, respectively), plus an amount equal to any accrued
         and unpaid dividends to the date of payment, before any distribution of
         assets is made to holders of Common Stock or any other capital stock
         that ranks junior to the Preferred Stock as to liquidation rights.

      On February 2, 1996, the Company completed a primary public stock offering
         of 2,200,000 shares of Common Stock at $26.50 per share. The proceeds
         from this sale of Common Stock, net of related transaction costs of
         approximately $3.4 million, totaling approximately $55.0 million, have
         been used primarily for the acquisition of neighborhood and community
         shopping centers.

      On January 24, 1995, the Company completed a primary public stock offering
         with the sale of 2,700,000 shares of Common Stock at $24.17 per share.
         Effective January 31 and February 16, 1995, the Company sold an
         additional 225,000 and 129,300 shares, respectively, of Common Stock at
         $24.17 per share pursuant to elections by the underwriters to exercise,
         in part, their over-allotment option. The cash proceeds to the Company
         from these sales of Common Stock, net of related transaction costs of
         approximately $4.3 million, totaling approximately $69.5 million, have

         been used to (a) repay $20.8 million in debt assumed in connection with
         the acquisition of nine shopping centers from a subsidiary of KC
         Holdings, (See Note 14.) (b) temporarily repay borrowings under the
         Company's revolving credit facility, and (c) expand and improve
         properties in the Company's portfolio.

13.   Dispositions of Real Estate:

      During September 1996, the Company disposed of a property in Watertown,
         New York. Proceeds from the disposition totaling approximately $1.8
         million in cash, together with an additional $2.2 million cash
         investment, were used to acquire an exchange shopping center property
         located in Lafayette, IN during January 1997.

      During March 1995, a subsidiary of the Company disposed of a property in
         Vernon, Connecticut. Cash proceeds from the disposition totaled
         approximately $5.0 million, and the purchaser acquired the property
         subject to approximately $3.0 million in mortgage debt. The cash
         proceeds, together with approximately $4.7 million in cash, have been
         used to acquire exchange shopping centers located in Richmond, VA and
         South Miami, FL.

14.   Transactions with Related Parties:

      The Company provides management services for shopping centers owned
         principally by affiliated entities and various real estate joint
         ventures in which certain stockholders of the Company have economic
         interests. Such services are performed pursuant to management
         agreements which provide for fees based upon a percentage of gross
         revenues from the properties and other direct costs incurred in
         connection with management of the centers. The Consolidated Statements
         of Income include management fee income from KC Holdings of
         approximately $.6 million, $.6 million, and $.8 million during years
         1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively.

                                     -45-



                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                    -------

      During January 1995, the Company exercised its option to acquire nine
         shopping center properties from a subsidiary of KC Holdings. These
         shopping centers, comprising approximately 1.2 million square feet of
         gross leasable area, were acquired for an aggregate option purchase
         price of approximately $39 million, paid $9.3 million in shares of the
         Company's Common Stock (valued at $24.17 per share) and $29.7 million
         through the assumption of debt encumbering the properties.
         Approximately $20.8 million of the debt assumed in connection with the
         acquisition of these properties was repaid by the Company immediately

         following the purchase with proceeds from its January 1995, Common
         Stock offering. The members of the Company's Board of Directors who are
         not also shareholders of KC Holdings have unanimously approved the
         Company's purchase of these nine shopping centers.

      Reference should be made to Notes 5 and 10 for further information
         regarding transactions with related parties.

15.   Commitments and Contingencies:

      The Company and its subsidiaries are engaged in the operation of shopping
         centers which are either owned or held under long-term leases which
         expire at various dates through 2076. The companies in turn lease
         premises in these centers to tenants pursuant to lease agreements which
         provide for terms ranging generally from 5 to 25 years and for annual
         minimum rentals plus incremental rents based on operating expense
         levels and tenants' sales volumes. Annual minimum rentals plus
         incremental rents based on operating expense levels comprised
         approximately 97% of total revenues from rental property during years
         1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

      The future minimum revenues from rental property under the terms of all
         noncancellable tenant leases, assuming no new or renegotiated leases
         are executed for such premises, for future years are approximately as
         follows (in millions of dollars): 1997, $130.5; 1998, $122.3; 1999,
         $113.7; 2000, $100.1; 2001, $89.2; and thereafter, $708.9.

      Minimum rental payments under the terms of all noncancellable operating
         leases pertaining to its shopping center portfolio for future years are
         approximately as follows (in millions of dollars): 1997, $1.7; 1998,
         $1.7; 1999, $1.7; 2000, $1.7; 2001, $1.4; and thereafter, $36.7.

16.   Incentive Plans:

      The Company maintains a stock option plan (the "Plan") pursuant to which a
         maximum 3,000,000 shares of Common Stock may be issued for qualified
         and non-qualified options. Options granted under the Plan generally
         vest ratably over a three-year term, expire ten years from the date of
         grant and are exercisable at the market price on the date of grant,
         unless otherwise determined by the Board in its sole discretion.

      The Company has extended loans to certain executive officers to supplement
         available margin loans and partially fund the purchase of shares of the
         Company's Common Stock held be these individuals. These loans bear
         interest at 6% per annum, are collateralized by the shares of Common
         Stock purchased and, are repayable over an average term of
         approximately eight years.

                                     -46-



                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES


             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                    -------

      Information with respect to stock options under the Plan for years 1996,
         1995 and 1994 is as follows:

                                                          Weighted Average
                                                           Exercise Price
                                                   Shares     Per share
                                                   ------  --------------

      Options outstanding, December 31, 1993       894,742     $18.97
               Exercised                           (54,598)    $15.35
               Granted                             229,125     $22.35
                                                 ---------              
      Options outstanding, December 31, 1994     1,069,269     $19.87
               Exercised                           (40,581)    $16.67
               Granted                             423,540     $24.96
                                                 ---------
      Options outstanding, December 31, 1995     1,452,228     $21.44
               Exercised                          (163,582)    $19.36
               Granted                             315,500     $28.32
                                                 ---------   
      Options outstanding, December 31, 1996     1,604,146     $23.01
                                                 =========     ======

      Options exercisable -

               December 31, 1994                   484,968     $18.32
                                                  ========     ======

               December 31, 1995                   762,204     $19.45
                                                  ========     ======

               December 31, 1996                   954,175     $20.84
                                                  ========     ======


      The exercise prices for options outstanding as of December 31, 1996 range
         from $13.33 to $29.75 per share. The weighted average remaining
         contractual life for options outstanding as of December 31, 1996 was
         approximately 7.8 years. Options to purchase 800,373, 1,115,873, and
         39,413, shares of Common Stock were available for issuance under the
         Plan at December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

      The Company has elected to adopt the disclosure-only provisions of
         Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 "Accounting for
         Stock-Based Compensation". Accordingly, no compensation cost has been
         recognized with regard to options granted under the Plan in the
         accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income. If stock-based
         compensation costs had been recognized based on the estimated fair
         values at the dates of grant for options awarded during 1996 and 1995,
         net income and net income per common share for these calendar years

         would have been reduced by approximately $.4 million, or $.01 per
         share, and $.1 million, or less than $.01 per share, respectively.

      These pro forma adjustments to net income and net income per common share
         assume fair values of each option grant estimated using the
         Black-Scholes option pricing formula. The more significant assumptions
         underlying the determination of such fair values for options granted
         during 1996 and 1995 include: (i) weighted average risk-free interest
         rates of 6.24% and 6.02%, respectively; (ii) weighted average expected
         option lives of 7.25 and 6.13 years, respectively; (iii) an expected
         volatility of 15.79%, and (iv) an expected dividend yield of 6.82%. The
         per share weighted average fair value at the dates of grant for options
         awarded during 1996 and 1995 was $2.50 and $2.14, respectively.

      The Company maintains a 401(k) retirement plan covering substantially all
         officers and employees which permits participants to defer up to a
         maximum 10% of their compensation. This deferred compensation, together
         with Company matching contributions which generally equal employee
         deferrals up to a maximum of 5%, is fully vested and funded as of
         December 31, 1996. Company contributions to the plan totaled less than
         $.3 million for each of years 1996, 1995 and 1994.

                                     -47-


                                       
                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continued

                                    -------


17.   Supplemental Financial Information:

      The following summary represents the results of operations, expressed in
         thousands except per share amounts, for each quarter during years 1996
         and 1995.



      Interest paid during years 1996, 1995 and 1994 approximated $26.9 million,
         $25.0 million and $19.3 million, respectively.

      Accounts and notes receivable in the accompanying Consolidated Balance
         Sheets are net of estimated unrecoverable amounts of approximately $1.4
         million at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

18.   Pro Forma Financial Information (Unaudited):

      The Company and certain of its subsidiaries acquired and disposed of
         interests in shopping center properties during 1996. The pro forma
         financial information set forth below is based upon the Company's
         historical Consolidated Statements of Income for years 1996 and 1995,
         adjusted to give effect to these transactions as of January 1, 1995.

      The pro forma financial information is presented for informational
         purposes only and may not be indicative of what actual results of
         operations would have been had the transactions occurred on January 1,
         1995, nor does it purport to represent the results of operations for
         future periods. (Amounts presented in millions of dollars, except per
         share figures.)

         Years Ended December 31,             1996    1995
         ------------------------             ----    ----

         Revenues from rental property      $170.1  $148.3
         Net Income                          $74.1   $54.7
         Net Income, per common share        $1.62   $1.38


                                     -48-





                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES        SCHEDULE  II
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                FOR YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, 1995 AND 1994




                                     -49-





                                     -50-




                                     -51-





                                     -52-





                                     -53-




Depreciation and amortization of the Company's investment in buildings and 
improvements reflected in the statements of income is calculated over the 
estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:

       Buildings.................15 to 39 years
       Improvements..................Terms of leases or useful lives, whichever 
                                       is shorter

The aggregate cost for Federal income tax purposes was approximately $1.062 
billion at December 31, 1996.

The changes in total real estate assets for the years ended December 31, 1996, 
1995 and 1994 are as follows:



The changes in accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 1996, 
1995 and 1994 are as follows:



                                     -54-

