
10-K
0001.txt




                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
 __X__     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
           EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000

                                     OR

____       TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
           EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
For the transition period from ____________ to ____________

Commission file number 1-10899

                            Kimco Realty Corporation
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        Maryland                                         13-2744380
- ------------------------                    ------------------------------------
(State of incorporation)                    (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

3333 New Hyde Park Road, New Hyde Park, NY                      11042-0020
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   (Address of principal executive offices)                      Zip Code

Registrant's telephone number, including area code (516)869-9000
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:


                                                        Name of each exchange on
             Title of each class                             which registered
             -------------------                        ------------------------
Common Stock, par value $.01 per share.                  New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares, each representing one-
tenth of a share of 7-3/4% Class A
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
par value $1.00 per share.                               New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares, each representing one-
tenth of a share of 8-1/2% Class B
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
par value $1.00 per share.                               New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares, each representing one-
tenth of a share of 8-3/8% Class C
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
par value $1.00 per share.                               New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares, each representing one-
tenth of a share of 7-1/2% Class D
Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock, par value $1.00 per share.                        New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                   None


             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (i) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (ii) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. _X_

             The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant was approximately $2.4 billion based upon the
closing price on the New York Stock Exchange for such stock on February 1, 2001.

                   (APPLICABLE ONLY TO CORPORATE REGISTRANTS)
             Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
registrant's classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.

                    63,249,835 shares as of February 1, 2001.



                                  Page 1 of 85







                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


Part III incorporates certain information by reference to the Registrant's
definitive proxy statement to be filed with respect to the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders expected to be held on May 15, 2001.

Index to Exhibits begins on page 37.





















                                
                                                                       Form
                                                                       10-K
                                                                      Report
Item No.                                                               Page
- --------                                                              ------
                                     PART I

 1.      Business . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4

 2.      Properties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13

 3.      Legal Proceedings. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15

 4.      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  . . . .   15

         Executive Officers and other Significant Employees
           of the Registrant  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25


                                     PART II

 5.      Market for the Registrant's Common Equity
           and Related Shareholder Matters  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27

 6.      Selected Financial Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28

 7.      Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
           Condition and Results of Operations  . . . . . . . . . . .   30

 7A.     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. .  33

 8.      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  . . . . . . . .   34

 9.      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
           Accounting and Financial Disclosure  . . . . . . . . . . .   34



                                    PART III

10.      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant . . . . .   35

11.      Executive Compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35

12.      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
           Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35

13.      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions . . . . . . .   35



                                     PART IV

14.      Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports on
           Form 8-K . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36









                                     PART I


                           FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This annual report on Form 10-K, together with other statements and information
publicly disseminated by Kimco Realty Corporation (the "Company" or "Kimco")
contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company intends such forward-looking
statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking
statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and
include this statement for purposes of complying with these safe harbor
provisions. Forward-looking statements, which are based on certain assumptions
and describe the Company's future plans, strategies and expectations, are
generally identifiable by use of the words "believe," "expect," "intend,"
"anticipate," "estimate," "project" or similar expressions. You should not rely
on forward-looking statements since they involve known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors which are, in some cases, beyond the Company's
control and which could materially affect actual results, performances or
achievements. Factors which may cause actual results to differ materially from
current expectations include, but are not limited to, (i) general economic and
local real estate conditions, (ii) financing risks, such as the inability to
obtain equity or debt financing on favorable terms, (iii) changes in
governmental laws and regulations, (iv) the level and volatility of interest
rates (v) the availability of suitable acquisition opportunities and (vi)
increases in operating costs. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the
Company's expectations will be realized.

Item 1.  Business

General Kimco Realty Corporation is one of the nation's largest owners and
operators of neighborhood and community shopping centers. As of February 1,
2001, the Company's portfolio was comprised of 494 property interests including
429 neighborhood and community shopping center properties, two regional malls,
50 retail store leases, nine ground-up development projects, three parcels of
undeveloped land and one distribution center totaling approximately 66.0 million
square feet of leasable space located in 41 states. The Company's portfolio
includes 53 shopping center properties comprising approximately 9.2 million
square feet (the "KIR Portfolio") relating to the Kimco Income REIT ("KIR"), a
joint venture arrangement with institutional investors established for the
purpose of investing in high quality retail properties financed primarily with
individual non-recourse mortgage debt (See Recent Developments - Investment in
Kimco Income REIT ("KIR") and Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K). The Company believes
its portfolio of neighborhood and community shopping center properties is the
largest (measured by gross leasable area ("GLA")) currently held by any
publicly-traded real estate investment trust ("REIT"). The Company is a
self-administered REIT and manages its properties through present management,
which has owned and operated neighborhood and community shopping centers for 35
years. The Company has not engaged, nor does it expect to retain, any REIT
advisors in connection with the operation of its properties.

The Company's executive offices are located at 3333 New Hyde Park Road, New Hyde
Park, New York 11042-0020 and its telephone number is (516) 869-9000. Unless the
context indicates otherwise, the term the "Company" as used herein is intended
to include subsidiaries of the Company.

History The Company began operations through its predecessor, The Kimco
Corporation, which was organized in 1966 upon the contribution of several
shopping center properties owned by its principal stockholders. In 1973, these
principals formed the Company as a Delaware corporation, and in 1985, the
operations of The Kimco Corporation were merged into the Company. The Company
completed its initial public stock offering (the "IPO") in November 1991, and
commencing with its taxable year which began January 1, 1992, elected to
qualify as a REIT in accordance with Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). In 1994 the Company reorganized
as a Maryland corporation.

The Company's growth through its first fifteen years resulted primarily from the
ground-up development and construction of its shopping centers. By 1981, the
Company had assembled a portfolio of 77 properties that provided an established
source of income and positioned the Company for an expansion of its asset base.
At that time, the Company revised its growth strategy to focus on the
acquisition of existing shopping centers and creating value through the
redevelopment and re-tenanting of those properties. As a result of this
strategy, substantially all of the shopping centers added to the Company's
portfolio since 1981 have been through the acquisition of existing shopping
centers.







During 1998, the Company, through a merger transaction, completed the
acquisition of The Price REIT, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the "Price
REIT")(See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
this annual report on Form 10-K). Prior to the merger, Price REIT was a
self-administered and self-managed equity REIT that was primarily focused on the
acquisition, development, management and redevelopment of large retail community
shopping center properties concentrated in the western part of the United
States. In connection with the Merger, the Company acquired interests in 43
properties, located in 17 states, consisting of 39 retail community centers, one
stand-alone retail warehouse, one project under development and two undeveloped
land parcels, containing approximately 8.0 million square feet of GLA. The
overall occupancy rate of the retail community centers was approximately 98%.
With the completion of the Price REIT merger, the Company expanded its presence
in certain western states including California, Arizona and Washington. In
addition, Price REIT had strong ground-up development capabilities. These
development capabilities, coupled with the Company's own construction management
expertise, provides the Company, on a selective basis, the ability to pursue
ground-up development opportunities.

Also during 1998, the Company formed KIR, an entity in which the Company held a
99.99% limited partnership interest. KIR was established for the purpose of
investing in high quality properties financed primarily with individual
non-recourse mortgages. The Company believes that these properties are
appropriate for financing with greater leverage than the Company traditionally
uses. At the time of formation, the Company contributed 19 properties to KIR,
each encumbered by an individual non-recourse mortgage. During 1999, KIR sold a
significant interest in the partnership to institutional investors. As of
December 31, 2000, the Company holds a 43.3% non-controlling limited partnership
interest in KIR and accounts for its investment in KIR under the equity method
of accounting (See Recent Developments - Investment in Kimco Income REIT ("KIR")
and Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
annual report on form 10-K).

In connection with the Tax Relief Extension Act of 1999 (the "RMA") which became
effective January 1, 2001, the Company is now permitted to participate in
activities which it was precluded from previously in order to maintain its
qualification as a REIT, so long as these activities are conducted in entities
which elect to be treated as taxable subsidiaries under the code, subject to
certain limitations. As such, the Company has established Kimco Developers, Inc.
("KDI"), a wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiary which will be primarily engaged
in the ground-up development of neighborhood and community shopping centers and
sales thereof upon completion. KDI currently has nine ground-up development
projects in progress located in San Antonio, TX, Houston, TX, Tallahasee, FL,
Miamisburg, OH, Columbus, OH, Raleigh, NC, Henderson, NV, Burleson, TX and
Peoria, AZ (see Recent Developments - Ground-Up Developments).

Investment and Operating Strategy The Company's investment objective has been to
increase cash flow, current income and, consequently, the value of its existing
portfolio of properties, and to seek continued growth through (i) the strategic
re-tenanting, renovation and expansion of its existing centers and (ii) the
selective acquisition of established income-producing real estate properties and
properties requiring significant re-tenanting and redevelopment, primarily in
neighborhood and community shopping centers in geographic regions in which the
Company presently operates. The Company, through its KDI subsidiary, will also
make selective acquisitions of land parcels for the ground-up development of
neighborhood and community shopping centers and subsequent sale thereof upon
completion. The Company will consider investments in other real estate sectors
and in geographic markets where it does not presently operate should suitable
opportunities arise.

The Company's neighborhood and community shopping center properties are designed
to attract local area customers and typically are anchored by a discount
department store, a supermarket or drugstore tenant offering day-to-day
necessities rather than high-priced luxury items. The Company may either
purchase or lease income-producing properties in the future, and may also
participate with other entities in property ownership through partnerships,
joint ventures or similar types of co-ownership. Equity investments may be
subject to existing mortgage financing and other indebtedness or such financing
or indebtedness may be incurred in connection with acquiring such investments.
Any such financing or indebtedness will have priority over the Company's equity
interest in such property. The Company may make loans to joint ventures in which
it may or may not participate in the future.

While the Company has historically held its properties for long-term investment,
and accordingly has placed strong emphasis on its ongoing program of regular
maintenance, periodic renovation and capital improvement, it is possible that
properties in the portfolio may be sold, in whole or in part, as circumstances
warrant, subject to REIT qualification rules.






The Company emphasizes equity real estate investments, but may, at its
discretion, invest in mortgages, other real estate interests and other
investments. The mortgages in which the Company may invest may be either first
mortgages, junior mortgages or other mortgage-related securities.

The Company may legally invest in the securities of other issuers, for the
purpose, among others, of exercising control over such entities, subject to the
gross income and asset tests necessary for REIT qualification. The Company may,
on a selective basis, acquire all or substantially all securities or assets of
other REITs or similar entities where such investments would be consistent with
the Company's investment policies. In any event, the Company does not intend
that its investments in securities will require it to register as an "investment
company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through
diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its properties and a
large tenant base. At December 31, 2000, the Company's single largest
neighborhood and community shopping center, excluding the KIR Portfolio,
accounted for only 1.4% of the Company's annualized base rental revenues and
only 1.0% of the Company's total shopping center GLA. At December 31, 2000, the
Company's five largest tenants, excluding the KIR Portfolio, include Kmart
Corporation, Kohl's, The Home Depot, Ames, and TJX Companies, which represent
approximately 13.3%, 2.9%, 2.6%, 2.6% and 1.9%, respectively, of the Company's
annualized base rental revenues.

The Company intends to maintain a conservative debt capitalization with a ratio
of debt to total market capitalization of approximately 50% or less. As of
December 31, 2000, the Company had a debt to total market capitalization ratio
of approximately 30%.

The Company has authority to offer shares of capital stock or other senior
securities in exchange for property and to repurchase or otherwise reacquire its
common stock or any other securities and may engage in such activities in the
future. At all times, the Company intends to make investments in such a manner
as to be consistent with the requirements of the Code, to qualify as a REIT
unless, because of circumstances or changes in the Code (or in Treasury
Regulations), the Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in the best
interests of the Company to qualify as a REIT.

The Company's policies with respect to the aforementioned activities may be
reviewed and modified from time to time by the Company's Board of Directors
without the vote of the Company's stockholders.

Competition As one of the original participants in the growth of the shopping
center industry and one of the nation's largest owners and operators of
neighborhood and community shopping centers, the Company has established close
relationships with a large number of major national and regional retailers and
maintains a broad network of industry contacts. Management is associated with
and/or actively participates in many shopping center and REIT industry
organizations. Notwithstanding these relationships, there are numerous
commercial developers, real estate companies, financial institutions and other
investors that compete with the Company in seeking properties for acquisition
and tenants who will lease space in these properties.

Capital Resources Since the completion of the Company's IPO in 1991, the Company
has utilized the public debt and equity markets as its principal source of
capital. Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional offerings of its
public unsecured debt and equity, raising in the aggregate over $2.2 billion for
the purposes of repaying indebtedness, acquiring interests in neighborhood and
community shopping centers and for expanding and improving properties in the
portfolio.

During August 2000, the Company established a $250.0 million, unsecured
revolving credit facility, which is scheduled to expire in August 2003. This
credit facility, which replaced the Company's $215.0 million unsecured revolving
credit facility, has made available funds to both finance the purchase of
properties and meet any short-term working capital requirements. As of December
31, 2000 there was $45.0 million outstanding under this unsecured revolving
credit facility.

The Company has also implemented a medium-term notes program (the "MTN program")
pursuant to which it may from time to time offer for sale its senior unsecured
debt for any general corporate purposes, including (i) funding specific
liquidity requirements in its business, including property acquisitions,
development and redevelopment costs, and (ii) managing the Company's debt
maturities. (See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)








In addition to the public debt and equity markets as capital sources, the
Company may, from time to time, obtain mortgage financing on selected
properties. As of December 31, 2000, the Company had over 350 unencumbered
property interests in its portfolio.

During August 1998, the Company filed a shelf registration on Form S-3 for up to
$750.0 million of debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares, common
stock and common stock warrants. As of February 1, 2001, the Company had
approximately $106.7 million available for issuance under this shelf
registration statement.

It is management's intention that the Company continually have access to the
capital resources necessary to expand and develop its business. Accordingly, the
Company may seek to obtain funds through additional equity offerings, unsecured
debt financings and/or mortgage financings in a manner consistent with its
intention to operate with a conservative debt capitalization policy.

The Company anticipates that cash flows from operations will continue to provide
adequate capital to fund its operating and administrative expenses, regular debt
service obligations and the payment of dividends in accordance with REIT
requirements in both the short-term and long-term. In addition, the Company
anticipates that cash on hand, availability under its revolving credit facility,
issuance of equity and public debt, as well as other debt and equity
alternatives, will provide the necessary capital required by the Company. Cash
flow from operations increased to $250.5 million for the year ended December 31,
2000, as compared to $237.2 million for the year ended December 31, 1999.

Inflation and Other Business Issues Many of the Company's leases contain
provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation. Such provisions
include clauses enabling the Company to receive payment of additional rent
calculated as a percentage of tenants' gross sales above predetermined
thresholds ("Percentage Rents"), which generally increase as prices rise, and/or
escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the terms of
the leases. Such escalation clauses include increases in the consumer price
index or similar inflation indices. In addition, many of the Company's leases
are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits the Company to seek to
increase rents upon renewal to market rates. Most of the Company's leases
require the tenant to pay an allocable share of operating expenses, including
common area maintenance costs, real estate taxes and insurance, thereby reducing
the Company's exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting
from inflation. The Company periodically evaluates its exposure to short-term
interest rates and will, from time to time, enter into interest rate protection
agreements which mitigate, but do not eliminate, the effect of changes in
interest rates on its floating-rate debt.

As an owner of real estate, the Company is subject to risks arising in
connection with the underlying real estate, including, among other factors,
defaults or nonrenewal of tenant leases, the financial condition and stability
of tenants, retailing trends, environmental matters and changes in real estate
and zoning laws. The success of the Company also depends upon trends in the
economy, including, but not limited to, interest rates, the availability of
capital, either in the form of debt or equity on satisfactory terms, income tax
laws, governmental regulations and legislation and population trends.

Operating Practices Nearly all operating functions, including leasing, legal,
construction, data processing, maintenance, finance and accounting, are
administered by the Company from its executive offices in New Hyde Park, New
York. The Company believes it is critical to have a management presence in its
principal areas of operation; accordingly, the Company also maintains regional
offices in Margate, Orlando and Tampa, Florida; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania;
Dallas, Texas; Dayton and Cleveland, Ohio; Lisle and Chicago, Illinois;
Charlotte, North Carolina; Phoenix and Tucson, Arizona and Los Angeles,
California. A total of 260 persons are employed at the Company's executive and
regional offices.

The Company's regional offices are generally staffed by a manager and the
support personnel necessary to both function as local representatives for
leasing and promotional purposes and to complement the corporate office efforts
to ensure that property inspection and maintenance objectives are achieved. The
regional offices are important in reducing the time necessary to respond to the
needs of the Company's tenants. Leasing and maintenance personnel from the
corporate office also conduct regular inspections of each shopping center.

The Company also employs a total of 58 persons at several of its larger
properties in order to more effectively administer its maintenance and security
responsibilities.







Management Information Systems Virtually all operating activities are supported
by a sophisticated computer software system designed to provide management with
operating data necessary to make informed business decisions on a timely basis.
These systems are continually expanded and enhanced by the Company and reflect a
commitment to quality management and tenant relations. The Company has
integrated an advanced mid-range computer with personal computer technology,
creating a management information system that facilitates the development of
property cash flow budgets, forecasts and related management information.

Qualification as a REIT The Company has elected, commencing with its taxable
year which began January 1, 1992, to qualify as a REIT under the Code. If, as
the Company believes, it is organized and operates in such a manner so as to
qualify and remain qualified as a REIT under the Code, the Company generally
will not be subject to Federal income tax, provided that distributions to its
stockholders equal at least the amount of its REIT taxable income as defined
under the Code. However, in connection with the RMA, which became effective
January 1, 2001, the Company is now permitted to participate in activities which
the Company was precluded from previously in order to maintain its qualification
as a REIT, so long as these activities are conducted in entities which elect to
be treated as taxable subsidiaries under the Code, subject to certain
limitations. These activities include, but are not limited to, the ground-up
development of real estate and subsequent sale thereof. As such, the Company
will be subject to Federal income tax on the income from these activities.

Recent Developments

Investment in Kimco Income REIT ("KIR") -

During 1998, the Company formed KIR, an entity in which the Company held a
99.99% limited partnership interest. KIR was established for the purpose of
investing in high quality real estate properties financed primarily with
individual non-recourse mortgages. These properties include, but are not limited
to, fully developed properties with strong, stable cash flows from credit-worthy
retailers with long-term leases. The Company believes these type of properties
are more appropriately financed with greater leverage than the Company
traditionally uses. During April 1999, the Company entered into an agreement
whereby an institutional investor purchased a significant limited partnership
interest in KIR. Under the terms of the agreement, the agreed equity value for
the properties previously contributed by the Company to KIR was approximately
$107.0 million and the Company agreed to contribute an additional $10.0 million
for a total investment of $117.0 million. During August 1999, KIR admitted three
additional limited partners. The limited partners other than the Company
subscribed for a total of $152.0 million in KIR. As a result of these
transactions, the Company had a 43.3% non-controlling limited partnership
interest in KIR as of December 31, 1999, and accounts for its investment in KIR
under the equity method of accounting.

During 2000, all subscriptions related to the initial commitments were
contributed. During August 2000, KIR obtained additional subscriptions
aggregating $300.0 million from the existing limited partners, of which the
Company subscribed for an additional $130.0 million. As of December 31, 2000,
the Company had contributed $19.5 million of such subscriptions and maintained
its 43.3% interest in KIR. As of December 31, 2000, KIR had unfunded capital
commitments of $255.0 million.

During 2000, KIR purchased 24 shopping center properties, in separate
transactions, aggregating 3.8 million square feet of GLA for approximately
$421.0 million, including the assumption of approximately $152.0 million of
mortgage debt. As of December 31, 2000, the KIR portfolio was comprised of 53
shopping center properties aggregating approximately 9.2 million square feet of
GLA located in 17 states.

During 2000, KIR obtained individual non-recourse, non-cross collateralized
ten-year fixed-rate first mortgages aggregating $137.3 million on 12 of its
properties, with interest rates ranging from 7.97% to 8.36% per annum. The net
proceeds were used to finance the acquisition of various shopping center
properties.

During November 2000, KIR established a two year $100.0 million secured
revolving credit facility with a group of banks which is scheduled to expire in
November 2002. This facility is collateralized by the unfunded subscriptions of
certain partners, including those of the Company. Under the terms of the
facility, funds may be borrowed for general corporate purposes including funding
the acquisition of institutional quality properties. Borrowings under the
facility accrue interest at LIBOR plus .80%. A fee of 0.15% per annum is payable
quarterly in arrears on the unused portion of the facility. As of December 31,
2000, there was $58.0 million outstanding under this facility.







Shopping Center Acquisitions -

During the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company and its affiliates acquired
interests in 12 shopping center properties located in 11 states, comprising
approximately 1.4 million square feet of GLA for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately $62.5 million, including the assumption of approximately $19.4
million of mortgage debt encumbering the properties as follows:

In January 2000, the Company acquired Chippewa Plaza located in Chippewa, PA for
a purchase price of approximately $14.5 million, including the assumption of
approximately $13.3 million of mortgage debt encumbering the property. This
shopping center is anchored by Kmart Corporation and Home Depot and contains
approximately 215,000 square feet of GLA.

In February 2000, the Company acquired Fort Collins Shopping Center located in
Fort Collins, CO for a purchase price of approximately $8.8 million including
the assumption of approximately $3.2 million of mortgage debt encumbering the
property. This shopping center is anchored by Kohl's and contains approximately
106,000 square feet of GLA. Also during February 2000, the Company purchased
Hammond Aire Plaza, a shopping center anchored by Burlington Coat Factory, for a
purchase price of approximately $3.4 million. This center is located in Baton
Rouge, LA and contains approximately 80,000 square feet of GLA.

In June 2000, the Company, through its Kimco Select Investments affiliate,
acquired five shopping center properties comprising approximately 462,000 square
feet of GLA located in five states for an aggregate price of approximately $18.9
million. These properties were formerly anchored by a retailer which filed for
protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code and subsequently rejected
these leases in January 2000. The Company acquired these properties with an
occupancy level of approximately 43% (currently 74%) and is actively negotiating
with other retailers to lease the vacant space (see Recent Developments - Kimco
Select Investments).

Also in June 2000, the Company exercised its option to acquire two shopping
center properties comprising 396,000 square feet of GLA from KC Holdings, Inc.
("KC Holdings"), an entity formed in connection with the Company's IPO in
November 1991. The properties were acquired for an aggregate option price of
approximately $12.2 million, paid $11.6 million in shares of the Company's
common stock (285,148 common shares issued at $40.7625 per share) and $0.6
million through the assumption of mortgage debt encumbering one of the
properties. Such mortgage debt was repaid during September 2000. The members of
the Company's Board of Directors who are not also shareholders of KC Holdings,
unanimously approved the Company's purchase of these two shopping center
properties (See Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in this annual report on Form 10-K).

In August 2000, the Company acquired a shopping center located in North
Charleston, SC for a purchase price of approximately $3.7 million including the
assumption of approximately $2.3 million in mortgage debt encumbering the
property. This shopping center has approximately 62,000 square feet of GLA and
is anchored by Sports Authority.

In December 2000, the Company acquired a leasehold interest in a vacant shopping
center property located in Glen Burnie, MD for approximately $1.0 million. This
property contains approximately 60,000 square feet of GLA and was formerly
occupied by Hechinger Stores Inc. The Company has completed the lease-up of this
location.

The Company, as a regular part of its business operations, will continue to
actively seek properties for acquisition, which have below market-rate leases or
other cash flow growth potential.

Property Redevelopment -

The Company has an ongoing program to reformat and re-tenant its properties to
maintain or enhance its competitive position in the marketplace. During 2000,
the Company substantially completed the redevelopment and re-tenanting of
various shopping center properties. The Company expended approximately $39.0
million in connection with these major redevelopments and re-tenanting projects
during 2000. The Company is currently involved in redeveloping several other
shopping centers in the existing portfolio. The Company anticipates its capital
commitment toward these and other redevelopment projects will be approximately
$40 million during 2001.







Ground-Up Developments -

During 2000, the Company was in progress on ground-up development projects
located in San Antonio, TX, Houston, TX, Cedar Hill, TX, Tallahasee, FL,
Miamisburg, OH, Henderson, NV, Burleson, TX, Peoria, AZ and Chandler, AZ. These
projects had substantial pre-leasing prior to the commencement of construction.
During 2000, the Company expended approximately $74.0 million in connection with
the purchase of land and construction costs related to these projects. The
Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these and other development
projects will be approximately $150.0 million to $200.0 million during 2001.

Effective January 1, 2001, the Company has elected taxable REIT subsidiary
status for its wholly-owned subsidiary KDI. KDI will be primarily engaged in the
ground-up development of neighborhood and community shopping centers and the
subsequent sale thereof upon completion. As such, as of January 1, 2001, the
ground-up development projects described above are included in KDI. During
January 2001, KDI sold its recently completed project in Chandler, AZ for
approximately $32.5 million.

Property Dispositions -

During the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company, in separate transactions,
disposed of ten shopping center properties. Sale prices from two of these
dispositions aggregated approximately $4.5 million which approximated their
aggregate net book value. Sale prices from six of these dispositions aggregated
approximately $25.5 million which resulted in net gains of approximately $2.2
million.

During June 2000, the Company disposed of a shopping center property in Forest
Park, GA. Cash proceeds from the disposition totaling approximately $1.5
million, together with an additional $2.2 million cash investment, were used to
acquire an exchange shopping center property located in North Charleston, SC
during August 2000. The sale of this property resulted in a gain of
approximately $1.1 million.

During December 2000, the Company disposed of a shopping center property in
Grand Haven, MI. Proceeds from the disposition totaling approximately $2.7
million will be used to acquire an exchange shopping center property. The sale
of this property resulted in a gain of approximately $0.7 million.

In addition, during 2000, the Company disposed of various land parcels, in
separate transactions, for aggregate proceeds of approximately $5.6 million.

Kimco Select Investments -

Kimco Select Investments, a New York general partnership ("Kimco Select"), was
formed in 1997 to provide the Company, through its 90% ownership interest, the
opportunity to make investments outside of its core neighborhood and community
shopping center business.

Although potential investments may be largely retail-focused, Kimco Select may
invest in other asset categories. Kimco Select will focus on investments where
the intrinsic value in the underlying assets may provide potentially superior
returns relative to the inherent risk. These investments may be in the form of
direct ownership of real estate, mortgage loans, public and private debt and
equity securities that Kimco Select believes are undervalued, unoccupied
properties, properties leased to troubled or bankrupt tenants and other assets.

During 2000, Kimco Select (i) acquired fee title to five shopping center
properties formerly anchored by a retailer who filed for protection under
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code and rejected the leases prior to the
acquisition by Kimco Select for an aggregate purchase price of $18.9 million,
(ii) acquired certain public bonds for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately $27.0 million and (iii) sold two property interests, in separate
transactions, for aggregate proceeds of approximately $16.2 million which
resulted in net gains of $1.9 million (see Recent Developments - Property
Dispositions).

Kimco Select also has investments in (i) other public bonds, (ii) a joint
venture which owns an office building in Miami, FL, (iii) two joint ventures
which acquired participating interests in first and second mortgages, (iv) three
retail properties in the Chicago, IL market and one property in Massapequa, NY,
and (v) three properties which are anchored by ambulatory care facilities with
complementary retail space. As of December 31, 2000, Kimco Select had total
investments of approximately $110.0 million.





Other Transactions -

In January 2000, the Company acquired fee title to a shopping center property in
which the Company held a leasehold interest for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately $2.5 million.

During 1998, in connection with the Company's merger with The Price REIT, Inc.,
the Company acquired a 50% interest in a joint venture in Houston, TX. During
March 2000, the Company acquired the remaining 50% interest in such partnership
for $5.0 million and now accounts for its investment under the consolidation
method of accounting.

Financings -

Unsecured Debt During August 2000, the Company issued $110.0 million of floating
rate MTNs under its MTN program. These floating rate MTNs were priced at
99.7661% of par, mature in August 2002, and bear interest at LIBOR plus .25%.
Interest on the MTNs is payable quarterly in arrears. As of November 2000, the
Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement for the term of these MTNs,
which effectively fixed the interest rate at 6.865% per annum. The proceeds from
this MTN issuance were used to (i) repay a $60.0 million MTN that matured in
August 2000 and (ii) to prepay a $52.0 million term loan that matured in
November 2000.

During October 2000, the Company issued an aggregate $100.0 million of senior
fixed rate MTNs under its MTN program. These issuances consisted of (i) a $50.0
million MTN which matures in November 2005 and bears interest at 7.68% per
annum, and (ii) a $50.0 million MTN which matures in November 2007 and bears
interest at 7.86% per annum. Interest on these notes is payable semi-annually in
arrears. The proceeds from these MTN issuances were used to repay a $100.0
million senior note that matured in November 2000.

Mortgage Debt During 2000, the Company obtained individual non-recourse,
non-cross collateralized fixed-rate first mortgage financing aggregating
approximately $44.2 million on five Kmart anchored shopping centers. These
mortgages mature in 2010 and have effective interest rates ranging from 7.91% to
8.15% per annum.

Credit Facility In August 2000, the Company established a $250.0 million
unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility") with a group of
banks. The Credit Facility is scheduled to expire in August 2003. Under the
terms of the Credit Facility, funds may be borrowed for general corporate
purposes, including (i) funding property acquisitions and (ii) development and
redevelopment costs. Interest on borrowings under the Credit Facility accrues at
a spread (currently .55%) to LIBOR, which fluctuates in accordance with changes
in the Company's senior debt ratings. As part of the Credit Facility, the
Company has a competitive bid option where the Company may auction up to $100.0
million of its requested borrowings to the bank group. This competitive bid
option provides the Company the opportunity to obtain pricing below the
currently stated spread to LIBOR of .55%. This Credit Facility replaced the
Company's $215.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. As of December 31,
2000, there was $45.0 million outstanding under the Credit Facility.

Equity During May 2000, the Company repurchased from an officer and director of
the Company 100,217 depositary shares of its Class D Preferred Stock at a price
of $25.00 per depositary share, totaling approximately $2.5 million. The Company
does not have a share repurchase program but acquired the shares when it
received an unsolicited offer to buy the shares (See Note 13 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K).

During June 2000, the Company issued 285,148 shares of common stock at $40.7625
per share in connection with the exercise of its option to acquire two shopping
center properties from KC Holdings (See Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K).

During August 2000, the Company completed a primary public stock offering of
1,800,000 shares of common stock priced at $42.50 per share. The net proceeds
from this sale of common stock, totaling approximately $72.4 million (after
related transaction costs of $4.1 million) were used for general corporate
purposes, including (i) the investment of additional equity capital in KIR (See
Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual
report on Form 10-K), and (ii) the development, redevelopment and expansion of
properties in the Company's portfolio.








KC Holdings, Inc.

To facilitate the Company's November 1991 IPO, 46 shopping center properties and
certain other assets, together with indebtedness related thereto, were
transferred to subsidiaries of KC Holdings. The Company, although having no
ownership interest in KC Holdings or its subsidiary companies, was granted
ten-year, fixed-price acquisition options which expire in November 2001 to
reacquire the real estate assets owned by KC Holdings' subsidiaries, subject to
any liabilities outstanding with respect to such assets at the time of an option
exercise. As of December 31, 2000, KC Holdings' subsidiaries had conveyed 29
shopping center properties back to the Company and had disposed of ten
additional centers in transactions with third parties. The members of the
Company's Board of Directors who are not also shareholders of KC Holdings
unanimously approved the purchase of each of the 29 shopping centers that have
been reacquired by the Company from KC Holdings. (See Notes 11 and 15 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on
Form 10-K.) The Company manages three of KC Holdings' remaining seven shopping
center properties pursuant to a management agreement. KC Holdings' other four
shopping center properties are managed by unaffiliated joint venture partners.

At December 31, 2000, the Company holds 10-year acquisition options which expire
in November 2001 to reacquire interests in the remaining seven shopping center
properties owned by KC Holdings' subsidiaries. The option exercise prices are
fixed and payable in shares of the Company's common stock or, in the event
payment in the form of common stock could jeopardize the Company's status as a
REIT, an equivalent value in cash. If the Company exercises its options to
acquire all the remaining shopping center properties, the maximum aggregate
amount payable to KC Holdings would be approximately $3.3 million, or
approximately 75,600 shares of the Company's common stock (assuming shares
valued at the closing price on the NYSE of $44.1875 per share as of December 31,
2000). The Company would acquire the properties subject to any existing mortgage
indebtedness and other liabilities on the properties. The acquisition options
enable the Company to obtain any appreciation in the value of these properties
over the option exercise prices, while eliminating the Company's interim
exposure to leverage and operating risks.

The option exercise prices for the shopping center properties are generally
equal to 10% of KC Holdings' share of the mortgage debt which was outstanding on
the properties at the date of the IPO. If, however, the market value of the
Company's common stock at the time an option is exercised is less than $13.33
per share (the IPO price), then the option exercise price will decline
proportionately (subject to maximum reduction of 50%).

The seven shopping center properties subject to the acquisition options are held
in five subsidiaries of KC Holdings. Four of the properties, which are owned in
two separate joint ventures and managed by unaffiliated joint venture partners,
are held by two subsidiaries, and the remaining three shopping center properties
are each held by separate subsidiaries. The Company may exercise its acquisition
options separately with respect to each subsidiary.

The acquisition options may be exercised by either (i) a majority of the
Company's directors who are not also stockholders of KC Holdings, provided that
the pro forma annualized net cash flows of the properties to be acquired exceeds
the dividend yield on the shares issued to exercise each option, or (ii) a
majority of the Company's stockholders who are not also stockholders of KC
Holdings.

KC Holdings' subsidiaries may sell any of the properties subject to the
acquisition options to any third party unaffiliated with KC Holdings or its
stockholders, provided that KC Holdings provides the Company with a 30-day right
of first refusal notice with regard to such sale. KC Holdings may cause such a
selling subsidiary to distribute any sale proceeds to KC Holdings or its
stockholders, provided that the option exercise price with respect to such
subsidiary is reduced by the amount that is distributed, and further provided
that no amount may be distributed so as to cause the option exercise price for
any subsidiary to be reduced to less than $1.00.

Each of KC Holdings' subsidiaries may pay dividends to KC Holdings to the extent
of net operating cash flow. In addition, any KC Holdings subsidiary may make
distributions to KC Holdings in excess of net operating cash flow, provided that
the option exercise price with respect to such subsidiary is reduced by the
amount of such distribution, and further provided that no amount may be
distributed so as to cause the option exercise price for any subsidiary to be
reduced to less than $1.00. KC Holdings may increase the indebtedness in its
subsidiaries for the purpose of improving, maintaining, refinancing or operating
the related shopping center properties. Such indebtedness may include borrowings
from the stockholders of KC Holdings.







In the event of a complete casualty or a condemnation of a property held by any
of KC Holdings' subsidiaries, the acquisition option will terminate with respect
to such property and the option shall continue to be effective with respect to
any other properties held by such subsidiary.

Each of KC Holdings' subsidiaries has agreed with the Company that it will
engage in no activities other than in connection with the ownership, maintenance
and improvement of the properties that it owns and only to the extent that the
Company could engage in such activities without receiving or earning
non-qualifying income (in excess of certain limits) under the REIT provisions of
the Code or without otherwise impairing the Company's status as a REIT. In
addition, KC Holdings has covenanted not to engage in any other real estate
activity. The Company has agreed not to make loans to KC Holdings or its
subsidiaries.

Subsequent Events

During March 2001, the Company through a joint venture (the "Ward Venture") in
which the Company has a 50% interest, acquired asset designation rights for all
of the real estate property interests of the bankrupt estate of Montgomery Ward
LLC and its affiliates. These asset designation rights will enable the Ward
Venture to direct the ultimate disposition of the 315 fee and leasehold
interests held by the bankrupt estate. The Ward Venture acquired the asset
designation rights for an initial purchase price of $60.5 million, however, the
price may ultimately exceed $435.5 million under the terms of the designation
rights agreement.

The asset designation rights expire in February 2002 for the leasehold positions
and December 2004 for the fee owned locations. During the marketing period, the
Ward Venture will be responsible for all carrying costs associated with the
properties until the site is designated for a user.

Exchange Listings

The Company's common stock, Class A Depositary Shares, Class B Depositary
Shares, Class C Depositary Shares and Class D Depositary Shares are traded on
the NYSE under the trading symbols "KIM", "KIMprA", "KIMprB", "KIMprC" and
"KIMprD", respectively.

Item 2.  Properties

Real Estate Portfolio As of January 1, 2001 the Company's real estate portfolio
was comprised of approximately 66.5 million square feet of GLA in 431
neighborhood and community shopping center properties, two regional malls, 55
retail store leases, three parcels of undeveloped land, one distribution center
and seven projects under development, located in 41 states. The Company's
portfolio includes 53 shopping center properties comprising approximately 9.2
million square feet of GLA relating to the KIR Portfolio. Neighborhood and
community shopping centers comprise the primary focus of the Company's current
portfolio, representing approximately 98% of the Company's total shopping center
GLA. As of January 1, 2001, approximately 92.8% of the Company's neighborhood
and community shopping center space (excluding the KIR Portfolio) was leased,
and the average annualized base rent per leased square foot of the neighborhood
and community shopping center portfolio (excluding the KIR Portfolio) was $7.99.
As of January 1, 2001, the KIR Portfolio was 98.3% leased with an average
annualized base rent per leased square foot of $11.16.

The Company's neighborhood and community shopping center properties, generally
owned and operated through subsidiaries or joint ventures, had an average size
of approximately 139,000 square feet as of January 1, 2001. The Company
generally retains its shopping centers for long-term investment and consequently
pursues a program of regular physical maintenance together with major
renovations and refurbishing to preserve and increase the value of its
properties. These projects usually include renovating existing facades,
installing uniform signage, resurfacing parking lots and enhancing parking lot
lighting. During 2000, the Company capitalized approximately $6.2 million in
connection with these property improvements.

The Company's neighborhood and community shopping centers (including the KIR
Portfolio) are usually "anchored" by a national or regional discount department
store, supermarket or drugstore. As one of the original participants in the
growth of the shopping center industry and one of the nation's largest owners
and operators of shopping centers, the Company has established close
relationships with a large number of major national and regional retailers.
National and regional companies that are tenants in the Company's shopping
center properties include Kmart Corporation, The Home Depot, Kohl's, WalMart,
Ames, TJX Companies, Toys/Kids R' Us, Costco and Best Buy.






A substantial portion of the Company's income consists of rent received under
long-term leases. Most of the leases provide for the payment of fixed base
rentals monthly in advance and for the payment by tenants of an allocable share
of the real estate taxes, insurance, utilities and common area maintenance
expenses incurred in operating the shopping centers. Although a majority of the
leases require the Company to make roof and structural repairs as needed, a
number of tenant leases place that responsibility on the tenant, and the
Company's standard small store lease provides for roof repairs to be reimbursed
by the tenant as part of common area maintenance. The Company's management
places a strong emphasis on sound construction and safety at its properties.

Approximately 1,900 of the Company's 5,020 leases also contain provisions
requiring the payment of additional rent calculated as a percentage of tenants'
gross sales above predetermined thresholds. Percentage Rents accounted for
approximately 1% of the Company's revenues from rental property for the year
ended December 31, 2000.

Minimum base rental revenues and operating expense reimbursements accounted for
approximately 99% of the Company's total revenues from rental property for the
year ended December 31, 2000. The Company's management believes that the base
rent per leased square foot for many of the Company's existing leases is
generally lower than the prevailing market-rate base rents in the geographic
regions where the Company operates, reflecting the potential for future growth.

The Company has been able to capitalize on the below market-rate leases in its
existing shopping center portfolio to obtain increases in rental revenues
through the renewal of leases or strategic re-tenanting of space. For the period
January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2000 excluding the effects of 2000 acquisitions
and dispositions, the Company increased the average base rent per leased square
foot in its portfolio of neighborhood and community shopping centers (excluding
the KIR Portfolio) from $7.87 to $7.96, an increase of $0.09 per square foot,
which was primarily attributed to general leasing activity within the existing
portfolio. The combined effect of the 2000 acquisitions/dispositions decreased
the overall rent per leased square foot by $0.01, thus bringing the average rent
per leased square foot to $7.95 as of December 31, 2000. The average annual base
rent per leased square foot for new leases (excluding the KIR Portfolio)
executed in 2000 was $8.23.

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through geographic
and tenant diversity. No single neighborhood and community shopping center
(excluding the KIR Portfolio) accounted for more than 1.0% of the Company's
total shopping center GLA or more than 1.4% of total annualized base rental
revenues as of December 31, 2000. The Company's five largest tenants (excluding
the KIR Portfolio) include Kmart Corporation, Kohl's, The Home Depot, Ames, and
TJX Companies, which represent approximately 13.3%, 2.9%, 2.6%, 2.6% and 1.9%,
respectively, of annualized base rental revenues at December 31, 2000. The
Company maintains an active leasing and capital improvement program that,
combined with the high quality of the locations, has made, in management's
opinion, the Company's properties attractive to tenants.

The Company's management believes its experience in the real estate industry and
its relationships with numerous national and regional tenants gives it an
advantage in an industry where ownership is fragmented among a large number of
property owners.

Retail Store Leases In addition to neighborhood and community shopping centers,
as of January 1, 2001, the Company had interests in retail store leases totaling
approximately 4.9 million square feet of anchor stores in 55 neighborhood and
community shopping centers located in 24 states. As of January 1, 2001,
approximately 93.0% of the space in these anchor stores had been sublet to
retailers that lease the stores under net lease agreements providing for average
annualized base rental payments of $4.18 per square foot. The average annualized
base rental payments under the Company's retail store leases to the land owners
of such subleased stores is approximately $2.82 per square foot. The average
remaining primary term of the retail store leases (and, similarly, the remaining
primary terms of the sublease agreements with the tenants currently leasing such
space) is approximately 4 years, excluding options to renew the leases for terms
which generally range from 5 to 25 years.

Ground-Leased Properties The Company has 54 shopping center properties that are
subject to long-term ground leases where a third party owns and has leased the
underlying land to the Company (or an affiliated joint venture) to construct
and/or operate a shopping center. The Company or the joint venture pays rent for
the use of the land and generally is responsible for all costs and expenses
associated with the building and improvements. At the end of these long-term
leases, unless extended, the land together with all improvements revert to the
land owner.






Undeveloped Land The Company owns certain unimproved land tracts and parcels of
land adjacent to certain of its existing shopping centers that are held for
possible expansion. At times, should circumstances warrant, the Company may
develop or dispose of these parcels.

The table on pages 16 to 24 sets forth more specific information with respect to
each of the Company's property interests.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

The Company is not presently involved in any litigation nor to its knowledge is
any litigation threatened against the Company or its subsidiaries that, in
management's opinion, would result in any material adverse effect on the
Company's ownership, management or operation of its properties, or which is not
covered by the Company's liability insurance.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.






[RESTUB]










[RESTUB]











[RESTUB]









[RESTUB]







[RESTUB]






[RESTUB]










[RESTUB]








[RESTUB]








[RESTUB]



(1)    PERCENT LEASED INFORMATION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2000  OR  DATE OF
       ACQUISITION  IF ACQUIRED SUBSEQUENT TO DECEMBER 31, 2000.
(2)    THE TERM "JOINT VENTURE" INDICATES THAT THE COMPANY OWNS THE PROPERTY IN
       CONJUNCTION WITH ONE OR MORE JOINT VENTURE PARTNERS. THE DATE INDICATED
       IS THE EXPIRATION DATE OF ANY GROUND LEASE AFTER GIVING AFFECT TO ALL
       RENEWAL PERIODS.
(3)    DENOTES REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT.
(4)    DENOTES GROUND-UP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT.
(5)    DENOTES UNDEVELOPED LAND.
(6)    SOLD OR TERMINATED SUBSEQUENT TO DECEMBER 31, 2000.
(7)    THE COMPANY HOLDS INTEREST IN VARIOUS RETAIL STORE LEASES RELATED TO THE
       ANCHOR STORE PREMISES IN NEIGHBORHOOD AND COMMUNITY SHOPPING CENTERS.
(8)    DENOTES PROPERTY INTEREST IN KIMCO INCOME REIT ("KIR").





      Executive Officers and Other Significant Employees of the Registrant

The following table sets forth information with respect to the executive
officers and other significant employees of the Company as of February 1, 2001.

   Name                       Age        Position                         Since
   ----                       ---        --------                         -----

Milton Cooper                 72         Chairman of the Board of         1991
                                         Directors and Chief
                                         Executive Officer

Michael J. Flynn              65         Vice Chairman of the             1996
                                         Board of Directors and
                                         President and Chief              1997
                                         Operating Officer

Patrick Callan, Jr.           38         Vice President -                 1998
                                         Eastern Region

Thomas A. Caputo              54         Executive Vice President         2000

Glenn G. Cohen                37         Vice President -                 2000
                                         Treasurer                        1997

Joseph V. Denis               49         Vice President -                 1993
                                         Construction

Jerald Friedman               56         President, KDI and               2000
                                         Executive Vice President         1998

Bruce M. Kauderer             54         Vice President - Legal           1995
                                         General Counsel and              1997
                                         Secretary

Joseph K. Kornwasser          53         Director and Senior              1998
                                         Executive Vice President

Mitchell Margolis             40         Vice President -                 2001
                                         Chief Information Officer

Robert Nadler                 42         President -                      2000
                                         Midwest Region

Michael V. Pappagallo         42         Vice President -                 1997
                                         Chief Financial Officer

Paul Weinberg                 56         Vice President -                 2000
                                         Human Resources

Joel Yarmak                   51         Vice President -                 2000
                                         Financial Operations

Michael J. Flynn has been President and Chief Operating Officer since January 2,
1997, Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors since January 2, 1996 and a
Director of the Company since December 1, 1991. Mr. Flynn was Chairman of the
Board and President of Slattery Associates, Inc. for more than five years prior
to joining the Company.

Patrick Callan, Jr. has been a Vice President of the Company since May 1998. Mr.
Callan was a Director of Leasing of the Company for more than five years prior
to 1999.

Thomas A. Caputo has been Executive Vice President of the Company since December
2000. Mr. Caputo was a principal with H & R Retail from January 2000 to December
2000. Mr. Caputo was a principal with the RREEF Funds, a pension advisor, for
more than five years prior to January 2000.

Glenn G. Cohen has been a Vice President of the Company since May 2000 and
Treasurer of the Company since June 1997. Mr. Cohen served as Director of
Accounting and Taxation of the Company from June 1995 to June 1997. Prior to
joining the Company in June 1995, Mr. Cohen served as Chief Operating Officer
and Chief Financial Officer for U.S. Balloon Manufacturing Co., Inc. from August
1993 to June 1995.






Jerald Friedman has been President of the Company's KDI subsidiary since April
2000 and Executive Vice President of the Company since June 1998. Mr. Friedman
was Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of The Price
REIT, Inc. from January 1, 1997 to June 1998. From 1994 through 1996, Mr.
Friedman was the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of K & F Development
Company, an affiliate of The Price REIT, Inc.

Bruce M. Kauderer has been a Vice President of the Company since June 1995 and
since December 15, 1997, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company. Mr.
Kauderer was a founder of and partner with Kauderer & Pack P.C. from 1992 to
June 1995.

Joseph K. Kornwasser has been a Director and Senior Executive Vice President of
the Company since June 1998. Mr. Kornwasser was President, Chief Executive
Officer and a director of The Price REIT, Inc. from August 1993 to June 1998.

Mitchell Margolis has been a Vice President of the Company since January 2001.
Mr. Margolis was the Chief Information Officer with Tishman Speyer Properties
for more than five years prior to joining the Company.

Robert Nadler has been President - Midwest Region of the Company since June 2000
and was a Vice President of the Company from June 1998 to June 2000. Prior to
joining the Company, Mr. Nadler was Senior Vice President at LaSalle Partners
from April 1994 to June 1998.

Michael V. Pappagallo has been a Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
the Company since May 27, 1997. Mr. Pappagallo was Chief Financial Officer of GE
Capital's Commercial Real Estate Financial and Services business from September
1994 to May 1997 and held various other positions within GE Capital for more
than five years prior to joining the Company.

Paul Weinberg has been a Vice President of the Company since May 2000. Mr.
Weinberg served as Director of Human Resources of the Company from January 1997
to May 2000. Mr. Weinberg was Vice President of Employee and Labor Relations at
American Express for more than five years prior to joining the Company.

Joel Yarmak has been a Vice President of the Company since June 2000. Mr. Yarmak
served as a partner at Rubin & Katz LLP from August 1998 to June 2000 and Chief
Financial Officer at Solow Realty from August 1997 to July 1998. Mr. Yarmak was
a partner with Deloitte & Touche for more than five years prior to August 1997.

The executive officers of the Company serve in their respective capacities for
approximate one-year terms and are subject to re-election by the Board of
Directors, generally at the time of the Annual Meeting of the Board of Directors
following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.










                                     PART II


Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Shareholder
         Matters

Market Information The following table sets forth the common stock offerings
completed by the Company during the three year period ended December 31, 2000.
The Company's common stock was sold for cash at the following offering prices
per share.


     Offering Date                    Offering Price(s)
     -------------                    -----------------

   April 1998 (4 Offerings)          $36.0625, $36.025, $36.25
                                      and $36.625, respectively
   May 1998                          $38.4375
   July 1998 (3 Offerings)           $38.2575, $38.56 and
                                     $39.4375, respectively
   September 1998                    $38.75
   November 1998 (4 Offerings)       $39.00, $39.00, $39.6875
                                      and $39.6875, respectively
   December 1998 (3 Offerings)       $38.25 for each offering
   August 2000                       $42.50

The table below sets forth, for the quarterly periods indicated, the high and
low sales prices per share reported on the NYSE Composite Tape for the Company's
common stock. The Company's common stock is traded under the trading symbol "KIM
".

                                   Stock Price
                                   -----------
               Period              High      Low
               ------              ----      ---

        1999:
        First Quarter             $39.81     $36.44
        Second Quarter            $40.63     $35.56
        Third Quarter             $39.00     $34.31
        Fourth Quarter            $35.31     $30.88

        2000:
        First Quarter             $37.50     $32.75
        Second Quarter            $42.69     $36.25
        Third Quarter             $42.81     $39.13
        Fourth Quarter            $44.75     $39.00

Holders The approximate number of holders of record of the Company's common
stock, par value $0.01 per share, was 1,552 as of February 1, 2001.

Dividends Since the IPO, the Company has paid regular quarterly dividends to its
stockholders.

A quarterly dividend at the rate of $0.57 per share was declared and paid on
October 29, 1998 and January 15, 1999, respectively. On March 15, 1999 and April
15, 1999 and June 15, 1999 and July 15, 1999 and September 15, 1999 and October
15, 1999, the Company declared and paid quarterly dividends at an increased rate
of $0.60 per share. On December 7, 1999, the Company declared its dividend
payable during the first quarter of 2000 at the increased rate of $0.66 per
share payable on January 18, 2000 to shareholders of record January 3, 2000.
Quarterly dividends at the rate of $0.66 per share were declared and paid on
March 15, 2000 and April 17, 2000 and June 15, 2000 and July 17, 2000,
respectively. On September 15, 2000 and October 16, 2000, the Company declared
and paid its quarterly dividend at an increased rate of $0.68 per share. On
December 4, 2000, the Company declared its dividend payable during the first
quarter of 2001 at an increased rate of $0.72 per share payable on January 16,
2001 to shareholders of record January 2, 2001. This $0.72 per share dividend,
if annualized, would equal $2.88 per share or an annual yield of approximately
6.6% based on the closing price of $43.60 of the Company's common stock on the
NYSE as of February 1, 2001.

The Company has determined that 100% of the dividends paid during 2000 and 1999
totaling $2.66 and $2.37 per share, respectively, represented ordinary dividend
income to its stockholders.







While the Company intends to continue paying regular quarterly dividends, future
dividend declarations will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and
will depend on the actual cash flow of the Company, its financial condition,
capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT
provisions of the Code and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems
relevant. The actual cash flow available to pay dividends will be affected by a
number of factors, including the revenues received from rental properties, the
operating expenses of the Company, the interest expense on its borrowings, the
ability of lessees to meet their obligations to the Company and any
unanticipated capital expenditures.

In addition to its common stock offerings, the Company has capitalized the
growth in its business through the issuance of unsecured fixed and floating-rate
medium-term notes, underwritten bonds, mortgage debt, convertible preferred
stock and perpetual preferred stock. Borrowings under the Company's revolving
credit facility have also been an interim source of funds to both finance the
purchase of properties and meet any short-term working capital requirements. The
various instruments governing the Company's issuance of its unsecured public
debt, bank debt, mortgage debt and preferred stock impose certain restrictions
on the Company with regard to dividends, voting, liquidation and other
preferential rights available to the holders of such instruments. See
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" and Notes 8 and 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in this annual report on Form 10-K.

The Company does not believe that the preferential rights available to the
holders of its Class A, Class B, Class C and Class D Preferred Stock, the
financial covenants contained in its public bond Indenture, as amended, or its
revolving credit agreement will have an adverse impact on the Company's ability
to pay dividends in the normal course to its common stockholders or to
distribute amounts necessary to maintain its qualification as a REIT.

The Company maintains a dividend reinvestment and direct stock purchase plan
(the "Plan") pursuant to which common and preferred stockholders and other
interested investors may elect to automatically reinvest their dividends to
purchase shares of the Company's common stock or, through optional cash
payments, purchase shares of the Company's common stock. The Company may, from
time to time, either (i) repurchase shares of its common stock in the open
market, or (ii) issue new shares of its common stock, for the purpose of
fulfilling its obligations under the Plan.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

The following table sets forth selected, historical consolidated financial data
for the Company and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
Financial Statements of the Company and Notes thereto and Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
included in this annual report on Form 10-K.

The Company believes that the book value of its real estate assets, which
reflects the historical costs of such real estate assets less accumulated
depreciation, is not indicative of the current market value of its properties.
Historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating
performance.













(1)  Does not include revenues from rental property relating to unconsolidated
     joint ventures or revenues relating to the investment in retail stores
     leases.
(2)  Most industry analysis and equity REITs, including the Company, generally
     consider funds from operations ("FFO") to be an appropriate supplemental
     measure of the performance of an equity REIT. In March 1995, the National
     Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") modified the
     definition of FFO, among other things, to eliminate adding back amorization
     of deferred financing costs and depreciation of non-real estate items to
     net income when computing FFO. The Company adopted this new method as of
     January 1, 1996. FFO is defined as net income applicable to common share
     before depreciation and amortization, extraordinary items, gains or losses
     on sales of real estate, plus the pro-rata amount of depreciation and
     amortization of unconsolidated joint ventures determined on a consistent
     basis. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities in
     accordance with generally accepted accounting principals and therefore
     should not be considered an alternative for net income as a measure of
     liquidty. In addition, the comparability of the Company's FFO with the FFO
     reported by other REIT's may be affected by the difference that exist
     regarding certain accounting policies relating to expenditures for repairs
     and other recurring items.
(3)  Includes $4.0 million or $0.06 per share in 2000, $1.6 million or $0.03 per
     share in 1999, $0.9 million or $0.02 per share in 1998, $0.2 million or
     $0.01 per share in 1997 and $0.8 million or $0.02 per share in 1996
     relating to non-recurring gains from the disposition of shopping center
     properties in each year.










Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
            and Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this annual report on Form
10-K. Historical results and percentage relationships set forth in the
Consolidated Statements of Income contained in the Consolidated Financial
Statements, including trends which might appear, should not be taken as
indicative of future operations.

Results of Operations

        Comparison 2000 to 1999

Revenues from rental property increased $25.5 million or 5.9% to $459.4 million
for the year ended December 31, 2000, as compared with $433.9 million for the
year ended December 31, 1999. This net increase resulted primarily from the
combined effect of (i) the acquisition of 12 shopping center properties during
2000, providing revenues of $6.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000,
(ii) the full year impact related to the 35 shopping center properties acquired
in 1999 providing incremental revenues of $13.0 million, and (iii) the
completion of certain development and redevelopment projects, new leasing, and
re-tenanting within the portfolio at improved rental rates providing incremental
revenues of approximately $22.4 million as compared to the corresponding year
ended December 31, 1999. These increases were reduced as a result of the
deconsolidation of 23 shopping center properties as of April 28, 1999 in
connection with the sale of a controlling interest in KIR. Revenues from these
23 properties totaled approximately $16.3 million for the period January 1, 1999
to April 28, 1999.

Rental property expenses, including depreciation and amortization, increased
$12.3 million or 4.7% to $275.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, as
compared with $262.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. These net
increases in rental property expenses are the result of the combined effect of
(i) increased expenses relating to new property acquisitions made throughout
calendar years 1999 and 2000, offset by (ii) the reduction of rental property
expenses relating to the deconsolidation of 23 shopping center properties as of
April 28, 1999, in connection with the sale of a controlling interest in KIR.
Interest expense increased $8.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2000,
reflecting higher average outstanding borrowings as compared to the preceding
year resulting primarily from (i) the issuance of additional unsecured debt
during 1999 and 2000, (ii) additional mortgage financing obtained on certain
properties totaling approximately $44.2 million during 2000 and (iii) the
assumption of mortgage debt during 1999 and 2000 in connection with certain
property acquisitions offset by (iv) the deconsolidation of $252.4 million of
mortgage debt on 19 properties as of April 28, 1999, in connection with the sale
of a controlling interest in KIR.

The Company has interests in various retail store leases relating to the anchor
stores premises in neighborhood and community shopping centers. These premises
have been substantially sublet to retailers which lease the stores pursuant to
net lease agreements. Income from the investment in retail store leases during
the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999 was $4.0 million and $4.1 million,
respectively.

Operating and administrative expenses increased approximately $1.9 million for
the year ended December 31, 2000, as compared to the preceding calendar year.
The increase is due primarily to an increase in senior management and staff
levels and other personnel costs in connection with the growth of the Company.

During 1998, the Company formed KIR, a limited partnership established to invest
in high quality retail properties financed primarily through the use of
individual non-recourse mortgages. At the time of formation, the Company
contributed 19 property interests to KIR. On April 28, 1999, KIR sold a
significant interest in the partnership to an institutional investor. As a
result, the Company holds a non-controlling limited partnership interest in KIR
and accounts for its investment in KIR under the equity method of accounting.
The Company's equity in income of KIR for the year ended December 31, 2000 was
$9.5 million and for the period April 28, 1999 to December 31, 1999 was
approximately $6.0 million.

Other income, net increased $10.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000,
as compared to the preceding calendar year. The net increase was primarily
attributed to higher interest and dividend income related to the Company's
investment in certain marketable equity and debt securities.







During 2000, the Company, in separate transactions, disposed of ten shopping
center properties. Sale prices from two of these dispositions aggregated
approximately $4.5 million which approximated their aggregate net book value.
Sale prices from eight of these dispositions aggregated approximately $29.7
million which resulted in net gains of approximately $4.0 million.

Net income for the year ended December 31, 2000 was $205.0 million as compared
to $176.8 million for the year ended December 31, 1999, representing an increase
of $28.2 million. After adjusting for the gains on sales of shopping center
properties in each year, net income for 2000 increased $25.8 million, or $0.36
per diluted share compared to 1999. This improved performance is primarily
attributable to the Company's strong acquisition and investment program,
internal growth from development and redevelopment projects and increased
leasing activity which strengthened operating profitability.

        Comparison 1999 to 1998

Revenues from rental property increased $95.1 million or 28.1% to $433.9 million
for the year ended December 31, 1999, as compared with $338.8 million for the
year ended December 31, 1998. This net increase resulted primarily from the
combined effect of (i) the acquisition of 35 shopping center properties during
1999, two of which were subsequently sold to KIR, providing revenues of $13.5
million for the year ended December 31, 1999, (ii) the full year impact related
to the 62 shopping center properties and three retail properties acquired in
1998 providing incremental revenues of $37.4 million, (iii) the acquisition of
The Price REIT, Inc. as of June 19, 1998 (the "Price REIT Acquisition")
providing incremental revenues of $35.6 million and (iv) new leasing, property
redevelopments and re-tenanting within the portfolio at improved rental rates
providing incremental revenues of $11.0 million. These increases were reduced as
a result of the deconsolidation of 21 shopping center properties as of April 28,
1999 in connection with the sale of a controlling interest in KIR.

Rental property expenses, including depreciation and amortization, increased
$55.4 million or 26.7% to $262.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1999,
as compared with $207.5 million for the year ended December 31, 1998. The rental
property expense components of real estate taxes, operating and maintenance, and
depreciation and amortization increased by $10.2 million, $8.8 million and $16.1
million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 1999 as compared to the
year ended December 31, 1998. These rental property expense increases are
primarily due to property acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 1999,
and the incremental costs associated with the Price REIT Acquisition and the
property acquisitions throughout 1998. These increases were reduced as a result
of the deconsolidation of 21 shopping center properties as of April 28, 1999 in
connection with the sale of a controlling interest in KIR. Interest expense
increased $18.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1999, reflecting higher
average outstanding borrowings as compared to the preceding year resulting from
(i) the issuance of additional unsecured debt during 1999 and 1998 and the
assumption of $250.0 million in connection with the Price REIT Acquisition, (ii)
the assumption of mortgage debt during 1999 and 1998 in connection with certain
property acquisitions and (iii) mortgage financing obtained on certain
properties in 1999 and 1998, offset by the deconsolidation of $252.4 million of
mortgage debt on 19 properties as of April 28, 1999 in connection with the sale
of a controlling interest in KIR.

The Company has interests in various retail store leases relating to the anchor
stores premises in neighborhood and community shopping centers. These premises
have been substantially sublet to retailers which lease the stores pursuant to
net lease agreements. Income from the investment in retail store leases during
the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 was $4.1 million and $3.7 million,
respectively.

Operating and administrative expenses increased approximately $5.2 million for
the year ended December 31, 1999, as compared to the preceding calendar year.
The increase is due primarily to an increase in senior management and staff
levels and other personnel costs in connection with the growth of the Company
and the Price REIT Acquisition.

During 1998, the Company formed KIR, a limited partnership established to invest
in high quality retail properties financed primarily through the use of
individual non-recourse mortgages. At the time of formation, the Company
contributed 19 property interests to KIR. On April 28, 1999, KIR sold a
significant interest in the partnership to an institutional investor. As a
result, the Company holds a non-controlling limited partnership interest in KIR
and accounts for its investment in KIR under the equity method of accounting.
The Company's equity in income of KIR for the period April 28, 1999 to December
31, 1999 was approximately $6.0 million.







During 1999, the Company disposed of six shopping center properties and a land
parcel. Cash proceeds from four of these dispositions aggregated approximately
$6.1 million, which approximated their aggregate net book value. During July
1999, the Company disposed of an additional shopping center property in New Port
Richey, FL. Cash proceeds from the disposition totaling $0.5 million, together
with an additional $5.5 million cash investment, were used to acquire an
exchange shopping center property located in Greensboro, NC during September
1999. The sale of this property resulted in a gain of approximately $0.3
million.

During October 1999, the Company, in separate transactions, disposed of a
shopping center and a land parcel for an aggregate sale price of approximately
$4.5 million, which resulted in a gain of approximately $1.3 million.

Net income for the year ended December 31, 1999 was $176.8 million as compared
to $122.3 million for the year ended December 31, 1998, representing an increase
of $54.5 million. After adjusting for the gains on sales of shopping center
properties in each year and the extraordinary charge in 1998, net income for
1999 increased $49.0 million, or $0.43 per basic share compared to 1998. This
improved performance is primarily attributable to the Company's strong
acquisition program, internal growth from development and redevelopment projects
and increased leasing activity which strengthened operating profitability.

Liquidity and Capital Resources Since the completion of the Company's IPO in
1991, the Company has utilized the public debt and equity markets as its
principal source of capital. Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional
offerings of its public unsecured debt and equity, raising in the aggregate over
$2.2 billion for the purposes of, among other things, repaying indebtedness,
acquiring interests in neighborhood and community shopping centers, funding
ground-up development projects and for expanding and improving properties in the
portfolio.

During August 2000, the Company established a $250.0 million, unsecured
revolving credit facility, which is scheduled to expire in August 2003. This
credit facility, which replaced the Company's $215.0 million unsecured revolving
credit facility has made available funds to both finance the purchase of
properties and meet any short-term working capital requirements. As of December
31, 2000 there was $45.0 million outstanding under the credit facility.

The Company has also implemented an MTN program pursuant to which it may from
time to time offer for sale its senior unsecured debt for any general corporate
purposes, including (i) funding specific liquidity requirements in its business,
including property acquisitions, development and redevelopment costs and (ii)
managing the Company's debt maturities (See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

In addition to the public equity and debt markets as capital sources, the
Company may, from time to time, obtain mortgage financing on selected
properties. As of December 31, 2000, the Company had over 350 unencumbered
property interests in its portfolio.

During 1998, the Company filed a shelf registration on Form S-3 for up to $750.0
million of debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares, common stock and
common stock warrants. As of February 1, 2001, the Company had approximately
$106.7 million available for issuance under this shelf registration statement.

In connection with its intention to continue to qualify as a REIT for Federal
income tax purposes, the Company expects to continue paying regular dividends to
its stockholders. These dividends will be paid from operating cash flows which
are expected to increase due to property acquisitions and growth in rental
revenues in the existing portfolio and from other sources. Since cash used to
pay dividends reduces amounts available for capital investment, the Company
generally intends to maintain a conservative dividend payout ratio, reserving
such amounts as it considers necessary for the expansion and renovation of
shopping centers in its portfolio, debt reduction, the acquisition of interests
in new properties and other investments as suitable opportunities arise, and
such other factors as the Board of Directors considers appropriate.

Cash dividends paid increased to $189.9 million in 2000, compared to $169.7
million in 1999 and $113.9 million in 1998. The Company's dividend payout ratio,
based on funds from operations on a per-basic common share basis, for 2000, 1999
and 1998 was approximately 64.7%, 64.8% and 64.2%, respectively.

Although the Company receives substantially all of its rental payments on a
monthly basis, it generally intends to continue paying dividends quarterly.
Amounts accumulated in advance of each quarterly distribution will be invested
by the Company in short-term money market or other suitable instruments.






The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward ground-up development and
redevelopment projects during 2001 will be approximately $190.0 million to
$240.0 million. It is management's intention that the Company continually have
access to the capital resources necessary to expand and develop its business.
Accordingly, the Company may seek to obtain funds through additional equity
offerings, unsecured debt financings and/or mortgage financings and other debt
and equity alternatives in a manner consistent with its intention to operate
with a conservative debt capitalization policy.

The Company anticipates that cash flows from operations will continue to provide
adequate capital to fund its operating and administrative expenses, regular debt
service obligations and all dividend payments in accordance with REIT
requirements in both the short-term and long-term. In addition, the Company
anticipates that cash on hand, borrowings under its revolving credit facility,
issuance of equity and public debt, as well as other debt and equity
alternatives, will provide the necessary capital required by the Company. Cash
flows from operations as reported in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
increased to $250.5 million for 2000 from $237.2 million for 1999 and $158.7
million for 1998.

Effects of Inflation

Many of the Company's leases contain provisions designed to mitigate the adverse
impact of inflation. Such provisions include clauses enabling the Company to
receive payment of additional rent calculated as a percentage of tenants' gross
sales above pre-determined thresholds, which generally increase as prices rise,
and/or escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the
terms of the leases. Such escalation clauses often include increases based upon
changes in the consumer price index or similar inflation indices. In addition,
many of the Company's leases are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits
the Company to seek to increase rents to market rates upon renewal. Most of the
Company's leases require the tenant to pay an allocable share of operating
expenses, including common area maintenance costs, real estate taxes and
insurance, thereby reducing the Company's exposure to increases in costs and
operating expenses resulting from inflation. The Company periodically evaluates
its exposure to short-term interest rates and will, from time to time, enter
into interest rate protection agreements which mitigate, but do not eliminate,
the effect of changes in interest rates on its floating-rate loans.

New Accounting Pronouncements

During December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 101 "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements" ("SAB
101") which, among other things, provides further guidance as to the recognition
of contingent rents (i.e. additional rents based on tenants' sales volumes). The
Company has elected early adoption of SAB 101 effective January 1, 2000. The
implementation of SAB 101 has not had a material impact on the Company's
financial position or results of operations.

In 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities ("FASB No. 133"). In June 1999, the FASB delayed the implementation
date of FASB No. 133 making it effective for the Company for periods beginning
January 1, 2001. FASB No. 133 requires that all derivative instruments be
recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value. Changes in the fair value of
derivatives are recorded each period in current earnings or other comprehensive
income, depending on whether a derivative is designated as part of a hedge
transaction and, if it is, the type of hedge transaction. Management of the
Company anticipates that, due to its limited use of derivative instruments, the
adoption of FASB No. 133 will not have a significant effect on the Company's
financial position or results of operations.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

As of December 31, 2000, the Company had approximately $267.1 million of
floating-rate debt outstanding. The interest rate risk on $110.0 million of such
debt has been mitigated through the use of an interest rate swap agreement (the
"Swap") with a major financial institution. The Company is exposed to credit
risk in the event of non-performance by the counter-parties to the Swap. The
Company believes it mitigates its credit risk by entering into this Swap with a
major financial institution.

The Company believes the interest rate risk represented by the remaining $157.1
million of floating-rate debt is not material in relation to the total debt
outstanding of the Company or its market capitalization.






The Company has not, and does not plan to, enter into any derivative financial
instruments for trading or speculative purposes. As of December 31, 2000, the
Company had no other material exposure to market risk.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The response to this Item 8 is included as a separate section of this annual
report on Form 10-K.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

None.











                                    PART III


Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held
on May 15, 2001.

Information with respect to the Executive Officers and other significant
employees of the Registrant follows Part I, Item 4 of this annual report on Form
10-K.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held
on May 15, 2001.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held
on May 15, 2001.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held
on May 15, 2001.








                                     PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K


(a)   1. Financial Statements -                                        Form 10-K
             The following consolidated financial information            Report
             is included as a separate section of this annual             Page
             report on Form 10-K.                                         ----

         Report of Independent Accountants                                    42

         Consolidated Financial Statements

               Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2000 and 1999   43

               Consolidated Statements of Income for the years
                   ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998                     44

               Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
                   for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998       45

               Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
                   December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998                           46

               Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                     47

      2.    Financial Statement Schedules -

            Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                   63
            Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation           64

            All other schedules are omitted since the required information is
            not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require
            submission of the schedule.

      3.    Exhibits

            The exhibits listed on the accompanying Index to
            Exhibits are filed as part of this report.                        37

(b)   Reports on Form 8-K

No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company for the quarter ended December
31, 2000.










                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS
                                                                       Form 10-K
    Exhibits                                                              Page



    2.1    --Form of Plan of Reorganization of Kimco Realty Corporation
                      [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the
                      Company's Registration Statement on Form S-11
                      No. 33-42588].

    2.2    --Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 13, 1998,
                      among Kimco Realty Corporation, REIT Sub, Inc. and
                      The Price REIT, Inc. (the "Merger Agreement").
                      [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the
                      Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed
                      January 21, 1998].

    2.3               --First Amendment to the Merger Agreement, dated as
                      of March 5, 1998, among Kimco Realty Corporation,
                      REIT Sub, Inc. and The Price REIT, Inc. [Incorporated
                      by reference to the Company's Exhibit 99.1 of the
                      Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed January
                      21, 1998.]

    2.4    --Second Amendment to the Merger Agreement, dated as of
                      May 14, 1998, among Kimco Realty Corporation, REIT
                      Sub, Inc. and The Price REIT, Inc. [Incorporated by
                      reference to the Company's  and The Price REIT, Inc.'s
                      Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus on
                      Form S-4 No. 333-52667].

    3.1               --Articles of Amendment and Restatement of the
                      Company, dated August 4, 1994 [Incorporated by
                      reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Annual
                      Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                      1994].

    3.2    --By-laws of the Company, as amended dated August 4, 1994.

    3.3               --Articles Supplementary relating to the 8 1/2% Class
                      B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value
                      $1.00 per share, of the Company, dated July 25, 1995.
                      Incor- porated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the
                      Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                      ended December 31, 1995 (file #1-10899) (the "1995
                      Form 10-K")].

    3.4               --Articles Supplementary relating to the 8 3/8% Class
                      C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value
                      $1.00 per share, of the Company, dated April 9, 1996
                      [Incorp- orated by reference to Exhibit 3.4 to the
                      Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                      ended December 31, 1996].

    3.5               --Articles Supplementary relating to the 7 1/2% Class
                      D Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, par value
                      $1.00 per share, of the Company, dated May 14, 1998
                      [Incor- porated by reference to the Company's and The
                      Price REIT, Inc.'s Joint Proxy/Prospectus on Form S-4
                      No. 333-52667].

    4.1    --Agreement of the Company pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A)
                      of Regulation S-K [Incorporated by reference to
                      Exhibit 4.1 to Amendment No. 3 to the Company's
                      Registration Statement on Form S-11 No. 33-42588].

    4.2    --Certificate of Designations [Incorporated by reference to
                      Exhibit 4(d) to Amendment No. 1 to the Registration
                      Statement on Form S-3 dated September 10, 1993 (the
                      "Registration Statement", Commission File No. 33-67552)].







INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)
                                                                       Form 10-K
                                                                         Page
Exhibits

       4.3       --Indenture dated September 1, 1993 between Kimco
                           Realty Corporation and IBJ Schroder Bank and Trust
                           Company [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to
                           the Registration Statement].

       4.4      --First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 4, 1994.
                           [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the 1995
                           Form 10-K.]

       4.5      --Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 7,
                           1995 [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to
                           the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated April
                           7, 1995 (the "April 1995 8-K")].

       4.6      -- Form of Medium-Term Note (Fixed Rate)
                           [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to the
                           April 1995 8-K].

       4.7      -- Form of Medium-Term Note (Floating Rate)
                           [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to the
                           April 1995 8-K].

       4.8      --    Form of Remarketed Reset Note [Incorporated by reference
                           to Exhibit 4(j) to the Company's Current Report on
                           Form 8-K dated March 26, 1999].

       10.1     --   Form of Acquisition Option Agreement between the Company
                           and the subsidiary named therein [Incorporated by
                           reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Amendment No. 3 to the
                           Company's Registration Statement on Form S-11
                           No. 33-42588].

       10.2     --   Management Agreement between the Company and
                           KC Holdings, Inc. [Incorporated by reference to
                           Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Registration Statement
                           on Form S-11 No. 33-47915].

       10.3     -- Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan
                           [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
                           1995 Form 10-K.]

       10.4     --   Employment Agreement between Kimco Realty
                           Corporation and Michael J. Flynn, dated
                           November 1, 1998.

       10.5     --   Restricted Equity Agreement, Non-Qualified
                           and Incentive Stock Option Agreement, and
                           Price Condition Non-Qualified and Incentive
                           Stock Option Agreement between Kimco Realty
                           Corporation and Michael J. Flynn, each dated
                           November 1, 1995 [Incorporated by reference to
                           Exhibit 10.5 to the 1995 Form 10-K].

       10.6     --   Employment Agreement between Kimco Realty Corporation and
                           Michael V. Pappagallo, dated April 30, 1997 [Incor-
                           porated by Reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Company's
                           Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                           December 31, 1997].

       10.7     --   Employment Agreement between Kimco Realty Corporation and
                           Joseph K. Kornwasser, dated January 13, 1998
                           [Incorporated by Reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the
                           Company's and the Price REIT, Inc.'s Joint Proxy
                           Statement/Prospectus on Form S-4 No. 333-52667].








INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)
                                                                       Form 10-K
                                                                          Page

       10.8     --    Employment Agreement between Kimco Realty Corporation and
                           Jerald Friedman, dated January 13, 1998
                           [Incorporated by Reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the
                           Company's and the Price REIT, Inc.'s Joint Proxy
                           Statement/Prospectus on Form S-4 No. 333-52667].

       10.9     --    Credit Agreement among Kimco Realty Corporation, The
                           Several Banks, financial institutions
                           and other entities from Time to Time Parties Hereto,
                           Chase Manhattan Bank and The First National
                           Bank of Chicago, as Co-Managers and Chase
                           Manhattan Bank, as Administrative Agent,
                           dated as of August 11, 1998.  [Incorporated by
                           reference to Exhibit 4(b) to the Company's
                           Current Report of Form 8-K filed November 10, 1998].

       10.10  --Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan [Incorporated by
                           reference to the Company's and The Price REIT, Inc.'s
                           Joint Proxy/Prospectus on Form S-4 No. 333-52667].

       *12.1  --Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed
                           Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.             71

       *12.2  --Computation of Ratio of Funds from Operations to Combined
                           Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.       72

       *21.1  --Subsidiaries of the Company                                   73

       *23.1  --Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP                         85




- -----------------------------------------------------------
   *   Filed herewith.









                                   SIGNATURES
                                   ----------


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                     KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION
                                                              (Registrant)


                                             By: /s/ Milton Cooper
                                                --------------------------------
                                                     Milton Cooper
                                                     Chief Executive Officer

Dated:  March 16, 2001


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature                             Title                     Date
- ---------                             -----                     ----


/s/ Martin S. Kimmel                  Chairman (Emeritus) of    March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------          the Board of Directors
    Martin S. Kimmel


/s/ Milton Cooper                     Chairman of the Board     March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------          of Directors and Chief
    Milton Cooper                     Executive Officer


/s/ Michael J. Flynn                  Vice Chairman of the      March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------          Board of Directors,
    Michael J. Flynn                  President and
                                      Chief Operating Officer

/s/ Joseph K. Kornwasser              Director and Senior       March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------          Executive Vice President
    Joseph K. Kornwasser

/s/ Richard G. Dooley                 Director                  March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
    Richard G. Dooley

/s/ Joe Grills                        Director                  March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
    Joe Grills

/s/ Frank Lourenso                    Director                  March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
    Frank Lourenso

/s/ Michael V. Pappagallo             Vice President -          March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------          Chief Financial Officer
    Michael V. Pappagallo

/s/ Glenn G. Cohen                    Vice President -          March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------          Treasurer
    Glenn G. Cohen

/s/ Einat Dekel                       Manager of Accounting     March 16, 2001
- ----------------------------
    Einat Dekel











                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                         ITEM 8, ITEM 14 (a) (1) and (2)

                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                       AND

                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES



                                                                       FORM 10-K
                                                                        Page No.
                                                                        --------


   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



   Report of Independent Accountants                                          42

   Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules:

     Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2000 and 1999             43

     Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
         December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998                                     44

     Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
         for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998                 45

     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
         December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998                                     46

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                               47

     Financial Statement Schedules:

         II.   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                              63
         III.  Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation                       64











                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS



To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
of Kimco Realty Corporation:


In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the
accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Kimco Realty Corporation and Subsidiaries at December 31, 2000
and 1999, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In
addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedules listed in the
accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the information
set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated
financial statements. These financial statements and financial statement
schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
financial statement schedules based on our audits. We conducted our audits of
these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in
the United States of America, which require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.





/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York
February 15, 2001, except as to Note 20,
  which is dated as of March 15, 2001




                 KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                 (in thousands, except share information)

       The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.


                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                  (in thousands, except per share information)


        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.


                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
              For the Years Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
                  (in thousands, except per share information)

       The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.


                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (in thousands)

       The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                              financial statements


                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.       Summary of Significant Accounting Policies:

         Business

         Kimco Realty Corporation (the "Company" or "Kimco"), its subsidiaries,
             affiliates and related real estate joint ventures are engaged
             principally in the operation of neighborhood and community shopping
             centers which are anchored generally by discount department stores,
             supermarkets or drugstores. The Company also provides management
             services for shopping centers owned by affiliated entities and
             various real estate joint ventures. Additionally, the Company is
             engaged in the ground-up development of neighborhood and community
             shopping centers and the subsequent sale thereof upon completion.

         The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through
             diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its
             properties, avoiding dependence on any single property, and a large
             tenant base. At December 31, 2000, the Company's single largest
             neighborhood and community shopping center accounted for only 1.4%
             of the Company's annualized base rental revenues and only 1.0% of
             the Company's total shopping center gross leasable area ("GLA"). At
             December 31, 2000, the Company's five largest tenants include Kmart
             Corporation, Kohl's, The Home Depot, Ames and TJX Companies, which
             represented approximately 13.3%, 2.9%, 2.6%, 2.6% and 1.9%,
             respectively, of the Company's annualized base rental revenues.

         The above statistics do not include the KIR Portfolio, as defined in
             Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

         Principles of Consolidation and Estimates

         The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts
             of the Company, its subsidiaries, all of which are wholly-owned,
             and all partnerships in which the Company has a controlling
             interest. All significant intercompany balances and transactions
             have been eliminated in consolidation.

         Generally accepted accounting principles require the Company's
             management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
             reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of
             contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of
             revenues and expenses during a reporting period. Actual results may
             differ from such estimates. The most significant assumptions and
             estimates relate to depreciable lives, valuation of real estate and
             the recoverability of trade accounts receivable.

         Real Estate

         Real estate assets are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation
             and amortization. If there is an event or a change in circumstances
             that indicates that the basis of a property may not be recoverable,
             then management will assess any impairment in value by making a
             comparison of (i) the current and projected operating cash flows
             (undiscounted and without interest charges) of the property over
             its remaining useful life and (ii) the net carrying amount of the
             property. If the current and projected operating cash flows
             (undiscounted and without interest charges) are less than the
             carrying value of its property, the carrying value would be written
             down to an amount to reflect the fair value of the property.

         Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight-line method
             over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as follows:

            Buildings                                15 to 39 years
            Fixtures and leasehold improvements      Terms of leases or useful
                                                     lives, whichever is shorter

         Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as
         incurred. Significant renovations are capitalized.


                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         Investments in Real Estate Joint Ventures

         Investments in real estate joint ventures are accounted for on the
             equity method.

         Deferred Leasing and Financing Costs

         Costs incurred in obtaining tenant leases and long-term financing,
             included in deferred charges and prepaid expenses in the
             accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, are amortized over the
             terms of the related leases or debt agreements, as applicable.

         Revenue Recognition

         Minimum revenues from rental property are recognized on a straight-line
             basis over the terms of the related leases.

         Income Taxes

         The Company and its subsidiaries file a consolidated Federal income tax
             return. The Company has made an election to qualify, and believes
             it is operating so as to qualify, as a Real Estate Investment Trust
             (a "REIT") for Federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, the
             Company generally will not be subject to Federal income tax,
             provided that distributions to its stockholders equal at least the
             amount of its REIT taxable income as defined under the Code.
             However, in connection with the Tax Relief Extension Act of 1999,
             which became effective January 1, 2001, the Company is now
             permitted to participate in certain activities which it was
             previously precluded from in order to maintain its qualification as
             a REIT, so long as these activities are conducted in entities which
             elect to be treated as taxable subsidiaries under the Code. As
             such, the Company will be subject to federal income tax on the
             income from these activities.

         Per Share Data

         The following table sets forth the reconciliation between basic and
             diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for each
             period:

         The effect of the conversion of the Class D Preferred Stock (as defined
             in Note 3) would have an anti-dilutive effect upon the calculation
             of net income per common share. Accordingly, the impact of such
             conversion has not been included in the determination of diluted
             net income per common share.

         New Accounting Pronouncements

         During December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued
             Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 "Revenue Recognition in Financial
             Statements" ("SAB 101") which, among other things, provides further
             guidance as to the recognition of contingent rents (i.e. additional
             rents based on tenants' sales volumes). The Company has elected
             early adoption of SAB 101 effective January 1, 2000. The
             implementation of SAB 101 has not had a material impact on the
             Company's financial position or results of operations.


                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         In 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
             Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative
             Instruments and Hedging Activities ("FASB No. 133"). In June 1999,
             the FASB delayed the implementation date of FASB No. 133 by one
             year making it effective for the Company for periods beginning
             January 1, 2001. FASB No. 133 requires that all derivative
             instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value.
             Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period
             in current earnings or other comprehensive income, depending on
             whether a derivative is designated as part of a hedge transaction
             and, if it is, the type of hedge transaction. Management of the
             Company anticipates that, due to its limited use of derivative
             instruments, the adoption of FASB No. 133 will not have a
             significant effect on the Company's financial position or results
             of operations.

2.       Property Acquisitions and Developments:

         Shopping Centers -

         During the years 2000, 1999 and 1998 certain subsidiaries and
             affiliates of the Company acquired real estate interests, in
             separate transactions, at aggregate costs of approximately $62.5
             million, $249.0 million and $303.0 million, respectively.

         Ground-Up Development -

         During the years 2000 and 1999 certain subsidiaries and affiliates of
             the Company expended approximately $74.0 million and $80.0 million,
             respectively, in connection with the purchase of land and
             construction costs related to its ground-up development projects.

         Venture Stores, Inc. Properties Transactions -

         During the period January 1996 through August 1997, the Company
             acquired 65 fee and leasehold interests from Venture Stores, Inc.
             ("Venture") for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $170.0
             million. Simultaneously with these transactions, the Company
             entered into long-term unitary net leases with Venture covering all
             premises occupied by Venture on these properties.

         In  January 1998, Venture filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the
             United States Bankruptcy Code. On April 27, 1998, Venture announced
             it would discontinue its retail operations and that it had reached
             an agreement to sell its leasehold position at 89 locations to the
             Company, including 56 properties pursuant to two unitary leases
             already in place with the Company, 30 properties pursuant to a
             master lease with Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
             ("Metropolitan Life") and three properties leased by Venture from
             others. On July 1, 1998, the Company reached an agreement with
             Metropolitan Life to purchase the 30 fee and leasehold positions
             which were leased by Metropolitan Life to Venture, for an aggregate
             purchase price of $167.5 million. During August 1998, the Company
             acquired from Venture 5 additional leasehold positions, including
             two leases already in place with the Company, for an aggregate
             purchase price of approximately $2.2 million.

         The purchase price for the 89 leasehold positions was $95.0 million,
             less certain closing adjustments, but was subject to upward
             adjustment based on the Company's success in re-tenanting the
             properties over a two-year period. On July 17, 1998, the Company
             purchased the leasehold positions with an initial cash payment to
             Venture of approximately $53.3 million. During April and December
             1999, the Company paid Venture an additional $21.0 million and $5.8
             million, respectively. During August 2000, the Company paid Venture
             a final cash payment of approximately $14.9 million.

         The Company has substantially completed its re-tenanting efforts with
             regard to the former Venture locations.


                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         Retail Property Acquisitions -

         During January 1998, the Company, through a partnership interest,
             acquired fee interest in three properties from a retailer in the
             Chicago, IL market comprising approximately 516,000 square feet of
             GLA for a aggregate purchase price of approximately $23.7 million.
             These properties include approximately 70,000 square feet of
             showroom space and adjoining warehouses of approximately 100,000
             square feet at each location. Simultaneous with this transaction,
             the Company leased, to a national furniture retailer, the showroom
             portion of each property under individual long-term leases.

         Other Acquisitions -

         In January 2000, the Company acquired fee title to a shopping center
             property in which the Company held a leasehold interest for an
             aggregate purchase price of approximately $2.5 million.

         During 1998, in connection with the Company's merger with The Price
             REIT, Inc., the Company acquired a 50% interest in a joint venture
             in Houston, TX. During March 2000, the Company acquired the
             remaining 50% interest in such partnership for $5.0 million and now
             accounts for its investment under the consolidation method of
             accounting.

         During December 1998, the Company acquired a first mortgage on a
             shopping center in Manhasset, New York for approximately $21.0
             million. During April 1999, the Company acquired fee title to this
             property.

         These property acquisitions have been funded principally through the
             application of proceeds from the Company's public unsecured debt
             and equity offerings and proceeds from mortgage financings (see
             Notes 8, 9 and 13).

3.       Price REIT Merger:

         On January 13, 1998, the Company, REIT Sub, Inc., a Maryland
             corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ("Merger
             Sub") and The Price REIT, Inc., a Maryland corporation, ("Price
             REIT"), signed a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger dated
             January 13, 1998, as amended March 5, 1998 and May 14, 1998, (the
             "Merger Agreement"). On June 19, 1998, upon approval by the
             shareholders of the Company and the shareholders of Price REIT,
             Price REIT was merged into Merger Sub, whereupon the separate
             existence of Price REIT ceased (the "Merger"). For financial
             reporting purposes, the Merger was accounted for using the purchase
             method of accounting.

         Prior to the Merger, Price REIT was a self-administered and
             self-managed equity REIT that was focused on the acquisition,
             development, management and redevelopment of large community
             shopping center properties concentrated in the western part of the
             United States. In connection with the Merger, the Company acquired
             interests in 43 properties, consisting of 39 retail community
             centers, one stand-alone retail warehouse, one project under
             development and two undeveloped land parcels, located in 17 states
             containing approximately 8.0 million square feet of GLA. The
             overall occupancy rate of the retail community centers was 98%.

         In connection with the Merger, holders of Price REIT common stock
             received one share of Kimco common stock and 0.36 shares of Kimco
             Class D Depositary Shares ("the Class D Depositary Shares"), each
             Class D Depositary Share representing a one-tenth fractional
             interest in a new issue of Kimco 7.5% Cumulative Convertible
             Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share (the "Class D Preferred
             Stock"), for each share of Price REIT common stock. On June 19,
             1998, the Company issued 11,921,992 shares of its common stock and
             429,159 shares of Class D Preferred Stock (represented by 4,291,590
             Class D Depositary Shares) in connection with the Merger.
             Additionally, in connection with the Merger, the Company issued
             65,000 shares of a new issue of Kimco Class E Floating Rate
             Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share ((the "Class
             E Preferred Stock"), represented by 650,000 Class E Depositary
             Shares, (the "Class E Depositary Shares")), each Class E Depositary
             Share representing a one-tenth fractional interest in the Class E
             Preferred Stock. The Class E Preferred Stock was redeemable at the
             option of the Company for 150 days after its issuance at a price
             equal to the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share plus
             accrued and unpaid dividends. The Company exercised its option in
             November 1998 to redeem all of the Class E Preferred Stock for
             $65.065 million representing the liquidation preference of $65
             million and approximately $65,000 of accrued dividends.


                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         The total Merger consideration was approximately $960.0 million,
             including the assumption of approximately $310.0 million of debt.
             Management has allocated the purchase price based on the fair value
             of assets and liabilities assumed.

4.       Investment and Advances in Kimco Income REIT ("KIR"):

         During 1998, the Company formed KIR, an entity in which the Company
             held a 99.99% limited partnership interest. KIR was established for
             the purpose of investing in high quality real estate properties
             financed primarily with individual non-recourse mortgages. These
             properties include, but are not limited to, fully developed
             properties with strong, stable cash flows from credit-worthy
             retailers with long-term leases. The Company believes these type of
             properties are more appropriately financed with greater leverage
             than the Company traditionally uses. During April 1999, the Company
             entered into an agreement whereby an institutional investor
             purchased a significant interest in KIR. Under the terms of the
             agreement, the agreed equity value for the properties previously
             contributed by the Company to KIR was approximately $107.0 million
             and the Company agreed to contribute an additional $10.0 million
             for a total investment of $117.0 million. During August 1999, KIR
             admitted three additional limited partners. The limited partners
             other than the Company subscribed for a total of $152.0 million in
             KIR. As a result of these transactions, the Company had a 43.3%
             non-controlling limited partnership interest in KIR as of December
             31, 1999, and accounts for its investment in KIR under the equity
             method of accounting.

         During 2000, all unfunded subscriptions related to the initial
             commitments were contributed. During August 2000, KIR obtained
             additional subscriptions aggregating $300.0 million from the
             existing limited partners, of which the Company subscribed for an
             additional $130.0 million. As of December 31, 2000, the Company had
             contributed $19.5 million of such subscriptions and KIR had
             unfunded capital commitments of $255.0 million. The Company
             maintained its 43.3% non-controlling limited partnership interest
             in KIR as of December 31, 2000.

         The Company's equity in income from KIR for the year ended December 31,
             2000 and for the period April 28, 1999 to December 31, 1999 was
             approximately $9.5 million and $6.0 million, respectively.

         In addition, KIR entered into a master management agreement with the
             Company, whereby the Company will perform services for fees
             relating to the management, leasing, operation, supervision and
             maintenance of the joint venture properties. For the year ended
             December 31, 2000 and for the period April 28, 1999 through
             December 31, 1999, the Company earned management fees of
             approximately $2.0 million and $0.9 million, respectively,
             reimbursement of administrative fees of approximately $1.4 million
             and $0.5 million, respectively, and leasing commissions of
             approximately $0.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively.

         During the year ended December 31, 2000, KIR purchased 24 shopping
             center properties, in separate transactions, aggregating 3.8
             million square feet of GLA for approximately $421.0 million,
             including the assumption of approximately $152.0 million of
             mortgage debt.

         During the period April 28, 1999 through December 31, 1999, KIR
             purchased ten shopping center properties, aggregating 2.2 million
             square feet of GLA for approximately $218.3 million including the
             assumption of approximately $36.1 million of mortgage debt. Four of
             these properties were purchased from the Company for an aggregate
             purchase price of $70.1 million.

         During 2000, KIR obtained individual non-recourse, non-cross
             collateralized ten-year fixed-rate first mortgages aggregating
             $137.3 million on 12 of its properties, with interest rates ranging
             from 7.97% to 8.36% per annum. During 1999, KIR obtained individual
             non-recourse, non-cross collateralized ten-year fixed-rate first
             mortgages aggregating $52.6 million on four of its properties, with
             interest rates ranging from 7.57% to 7.72% per annum. The net
             proceeds were used to finance the acquisition of various shopping
             center properties.


                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         During November 2000, KIR established a two year $100.0 million secured
             revolving credit facility with a group of banks which is scheduled
             to expire in November 2002. This facility is collateralized by the
             unfunded subscriptions of certain partners, including those of the
             Company. Under the terms of the facility, funds may be borrowed for
             general corporate purposes including funding the acquisition of
             institutional quality properties. Borrowings under the facility
             accrue interest at LIBOR plus .80%. A fee of 0.15% per annum is
             payable quarterly in arrears on the unused portion of the facility.
             As of December 31, 2000, there was $58.0 million outstanding under
             this facility.

         As of December 31, 2000, the KIR portfolio was comprised of 53
             shopping center properties totaling approximately 9.2 million
             square feet of GLA.

         Summarized financial information for the recurring operations of KIR is
             as follows (in millions):

5.       Investments and Advances in Other Real Estate Joint Ventures:

         The Company and its subsidiaries have investments in and advances to
             various other real estate joint ventures. These joint ventures are
             engaged primarily in the operation of shopping centers, which are
             either owned or held under long-term operating leases.

         During 1999, the Company invested approximately $4.9 million in a
             partnership which is developing an office and retail center in
             Dover, DE and separately, through a partnership investment, the
             Company invested approximately $5.7 million in a joint venture
             which acquired a parcel of land in Henderson, NV for the
             development of a retail shopping center. The Company has a 50%
             interest in each of these partnerships.


                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         During 1998, in connection with the Merger, the Company acquired two
             additional joint venture interests. The Company also invested
             approximately $19.0 million in a partnership which has acquired and
             leased-back 11 automotive dealerships and invested approximately
             $3.6 million in a partnership which acquired a shopping center for
             approximately $34.0 million, including mortgage debt of
             approximately $27.0 million. The Company has a 50% interest in each
             of these partnerships.

         Summarized financial information for the recurring operations of these
             real estate joint ventures is as follows (in millions):

         Other liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets
             include accounts with certain real estate joint ventures totaling
             approximately $4.8 million and $5.4 million at December 31, 2000
             and 1999, respectively. The Company and its subsidiaries have
             varying equity interests in these real estate joint ventures, which
             may differ from their proportionate share of net income or loss
             recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting
             principles.

6.       Investment in Retail Store Leases:

         The Company has interests in various retail store leases relating to
             the anchor store premises in neighborhood and community shopping
             centers. These premises have been substantially sublet to retailers
             who lease the stores pursuant to net lease agreements. Income from
             the investment in these retail store leases during the years ended
             December 31, 2000 and 1999 was approximately $4.0 million and $4.1
             million, respectively. These amounts represent sublease revenues
             during the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999 of approximately
             $19.0 million and $20.3 million, respectively, less related
             expenses of $13.6 million and $14.7 million, respectively, and an
             amount, which in management's estimate, reasonably provides for the
             recovery of the investment over a period representing the expected
             remaining term of the retail store leases. The Company's future
             minimum revenues under the terms of all noncancellable tenant
             subleases and future minimum obligations through the remaining
             terms of its retail store leases, assuming no new or renegotiated
             leases are executed for such premises, for future years are as
             follows (in millions): 2001, $15.2 and $11.2; 2002, $14.3 and
             $10.2; 2003, $13.2 and $8.7; 2004, $10.0 and $6.3; 2005, $7.5 and
             $4.5 and thereafter, $12.5 and $4.1, respectively.




7.       Cash and Cash Equivalents:

         Cash and cash equivalents (demand deposits in banks, commercial paper
             and certificates of deposit with original maturities of three
             months or less) includes tenants' security deposits, escrowed funds
             and other restricted deposits approximating $0.1 million at
             December 31, 2000 and 1999.


                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         Cash and cash equivalent balances may, at a limited number of banks and
             financial institutions, exceed insurable amounts. The Company
             believes it mitigates its risks by investing in or through major
             financial institutions. Recoverability of investments is dependent
             upon the performance of the issuers.

8.       Notes Payable:

         The Company has implemented a medium-term notes ("MTN") program
             pursuant to which it may, from time to time, offer for sale its
             senior unsecured debt for any general corporate purposes, including
             (i) funding specific liquidity requirements in its business,
             including property acquisitions, development and redevelopment
             costs, and (ii) managing the Company's debt maturities.

         During October 2000, the Company issued an aggregate $100.0 million of
             senior fixed rate MTNs under its MTN program. These issuances
             consisted of (i) a $50.0 million MTN which matures in November 2005
             and bears interest at 7.68% per annum, and (ii) a $50.0 million MTN
             which matures in November 2007 and bears interest at 7.86% per
             annum. Interest on these notes is payable semi-annually in arrears.
             The proceeds from these MTN issuances were used to repay a $100.0
             million senior note that bore interest at 7.25% and matured in
             November 2000.

         During October and December 1999, the Company issued an aggregate
             $100.0 million of senior fixed-rate MTN's (the "October and
             December MTNs") under its MTN program. The October and December
             MTNs mature in October 2004 and December 2007, respectively, and
             bear interest at 7.62% and 7.90% per annum, respectively. Interest
             on these notes is payable semi-annually in arrears.

         As of December 31, 2000, a total principal amount of $490.25 million,
             in senior fixed-rate MTNs had been issued under the MTN program
             primarily for the acquisition of neighborhood and community
             shopping centers, the expansion and improvement of properties in
             the Company's portfolio and the repayment of certain debt of the
             Company. These fixed-rate notes had maturities ranging from five to
             twelve years at the time of issuance and bear interest at rates
             ranging from 6.70% to 7.91%. Interest on these fixed-rate senior
             unsecured notes is payable semi-annually in arrears.

         During August 2000, the Company issued $110.0 million of floating rate
             MTNs under its MTN program. These floating rate MTNs were priced at
             99.7661% of par, mature in August 2002, and bear interest at LIBOR
             plus .25%. Interest on these MTNs is payable quarterly in arrears.
             As of November 2000, the Company entered into an interest rate swap
             agreement for the term of these MTNs, which effectively fixed the
             interest rate at 6.865% per annum. The proceeds from this MTN
             issuance were used to (i) repay a $60.0 million MTN that matured in
             August 2000 and bore interest at LIBOR plus .15% per annum and (ii)
             to prepay a $52.0 million term loan that matured in November 2000
             and bore interest at LIBOR plus .70% per annum.

         During February 1999, the Company issued $130.0 million of 6.875%
             fixed-rate Senior Notes due 2009. Interest on the notes is payable
             semi-annually in arrears. The notes were sold at 99.85% of par
             value. Net proceeds from the issuance totaling approximately $128.9
             million, after related transaction costs of approximately $0.9
             million, were used, in part, to repay $100.0 million floating-rate
             senior notes that matured during February 1999 and for general
             corporate purposes.

         As of December 31, 2000, the Company had outstanding $100.0 million of
             remarketed reset notes. The remarketed reset notes mature in August
             2008 and bore interest at the initial issuance in August 1998 at a
             floating rate of LIBOR plus .30% per annum. After an initial period
             of one year, the interest rate spread applicable to each subsequent
             period is determined pursuant to a remarketing agreement between
             the Company and a financial institution. The interest rate resets
             quarterly and is payable quarterly in arrears. During August 2000
             and 1999, the Company remarketed the notes for a one-year period at
             Libor plus .65% per annum during each period.

         As of December 31, 2000, the Company had outstanding $105.0 million of
             fixed-rate unsecured senior notes consisting of: (i) $50.0 million
             which mature in June 2004 and bear interest at 7.125% and (ii)
             $55.0 million which mature November 2006 and bear interest at
             7.50%. These notes were assumed in connection with the Price REIT
             merger and interest on these notes is payable semi-annually in
             arrears.


                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         As of December 31, 2000, the Company had $100.0 million in 6.50%
             fixed-rate unsecured Senior Notes due 2003. Interest on these
             senior unsecured notes is paid semi-annually in arrears.

         In accordance with the terms of the Indenture, as amended, pursuant to
             which the Company's senior, unsecured notes have been issued, the
             Company is (a) subject to maintaining certain maximum leverage
             ratios on both unsecured senior corporate and secured debt, minimum
             debt service coverage ratios and minimum equity levels, and (b)
             restricted from paying dividends in amounts that exceed by more
             than $26 million the funds from operations, as defined, generated
             through the end of the calendar quarter most recently completed
             prior to the declaration of such dividend; however, this dividend
             limitation does not apply to any distributions necessary to
             maintain the Company's qualification as a REIT providing the
             Company is in compliance with its total leverage limitations.

         During August 2000, the Company established a $250.0 million, unsecured
             revolving credit agreement with a group of banks which is scheduled
             to expire in August 2003. This credit facility, which replaced the
             Company's $215.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility has
             made available funds for general corporate purposes, including the
             funding of property acquisitions, development and redevelopment
             costs. Interest on borrowings accrues at a spread (currently .55%)
             to LIBOR or money-market rates, as applicable, which fluctuates in
             accordance with changes in the Company's senior debt ratings. As
             part of this Credit Facility, the Company has a competitive bid
             option where the Company may auction up to $100.0 million of its
             requested borrowings to the bank group. This competitive bid option
             provides the Company the opportunity to obtain pricing below the
             currently stated spread to LIBOR of .55%. A facility fee of .15%
             per annum is payable quarterly in arrears. Pursuant to the terms of
             the agreement, the Company, among other things, is (a) subject to
             maintaining certain maximum leverage ratios on both unsecured
             senior corporate and secured debt, a minimum debt service coverage
             ratio and minimum unencumbered asset and equity levels, and (b)
             restricted from paying dividends in amounts that exceed 90% of
             funds from operations, as defined, plus 10% of the Company's
             stockholders' equity determined in accordance with generally
             accepted accounting principles. As of December 31, 2000, there was
             $45.0 million outstanding under this facility.

         The scheduled maturities of all unsecured senior notes payable as of
             December 31, 2000 are approximately as follows (in millions): 2002,
             $110.0; 2003, $145.0; 2004, $100.0; 2005, $200.25 and thereafter,
             $525.0.

9.       Mortgages Payable:

         During 2000, the Company obtained individual non-recourse, fixed-rate
             mortgage financing on five Kmart anchored shopping centers,
             providing aggregate proceeds to the Company of approximately $44.2
             million. These ten-year loans mature in 2010 and have effective
             interest rates ranging from 7.91% to 8.15% per annum.

         During 1999, the Company obtained individual non-recourse, fixed-rate
             mortgage financing aggregating approximately $28.7 million on five
             of its properties. The mortgages bear interest at rates ranging
             from 7.00% to 8.25% per annum and mature at various dates through
             2009.

         During 1998, the Company obtained mortgage financing aggregating
             approximately $272.3 million on 20 of its properties. These
             individual mortgages were non-recourse, non-cross collateralized,
             ten year fixed-rate first mortgages, bearing interest at a weighted
             average rate of 6.585% per annum over the term of the loans. The
             proceeds from the mortgages were used primarily for the acquisition
             of neighborhood and community shopping centers. During April 1999,
             mortgages encumbering 19 of these properties totaling approximately
             $252.4 million were deconsolidated in connection with the sale of a
             controlling interest in KIR (See Note 4).

         Also during 1998, the Company, through an affiliated entity, obtained
             mortgage financing of approximately $9.0 million on two other
             properties. These ten-year fixed-rate mortgages, which are
             cross-collateralized, bear interest at 7.00% per annum for the term
             of the loans.


                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         Mortgages payable, collateralized by certain shopping center properties
             and related tenants' leases, are generally due in monthly
             installments of principal and/or interest which mature at various
             dates through 2023. Interest rates range from approximately 6.57%
             to 9.50% (weighted average interest rate of 7.91% as of December
             31, 2000). The scheduled maturities of all mortgages payable as of
             December 31, 2000, are approximately as follows (in millions):
             2001, $4.6; 2002, $7.6; 2004, $9.0; 2005, $15.2 and thereafter,
             $209.0.

         Three of the Company's properties are encumbered by approximately $12.1
             million in floating-rate, tax-exempt mortgage bond financing. The
             rates on the bonds are reset annually, at which time bondholders
             have the right to require the Company to repurchase the bonds. The
             Company has engaged a remarketing agent for the purpose of offering
             for resale those bonds that are tendered to the Company. All bonds
             tendered for redemption in the past have been remarketed and the
             Company has arrangements, including letters of credit, with banks
             to both collateralize the principal amount and accrued interest on
             such bonds and to fund any repurchase obligations.

10.      Extraordinary Items:

         During 1998, the Company prepaid certain mortgage loans resulting in
             extraordinary charges of approximately $4.9 million, or, on a
             per-basic share and diluted share basis, $0.10 and $0.09,
             respectively, representing the premiums paid and other costs
             written-off in connection with the early satisfaction of these
             mortgage loans.

11.      KC Holdings, Inc.:

         To facilitate the Company's November 1991 initial public stock
             offering (the "IPO"), 46 shopping center properties and certain
             other assets, together with indebtedness related thereto, were
             transferred to subsidiaries of KC Holdings, Inc. ("KC Holdings"), a
             newly-formed corporation that is owned by the stockholders of the
             Company prior to the IPO. The Company was granted ten-year,
             fixed-price acquisition options to reacquire the real estate assets
             owned by KC Holdings' subsidiaries, subject to any liabilities
             outstanding with respect to such assets at the time of an option
             exercise. As of December 31, 2000, KC Holdings' subsidiaries had
             conveyed 29 shopping centers back to the Company and had disposed
             of ten additional centers in transactions with third parties. The
             members of the Company's Board of Directors who are not also
             shareholders of KC Holdings unanimously approved the purchase of
             each of the 29 shopping centers that have been reacquired by the
             Company from KC Holdings. The Company manages three of KC Holdings
             seven remaining shopping center properties pursuant to a management
             agreement (See Note 15).

12.      Fair Value Disclosure of Financial Instruments:

         All financial instruments of the Company are reflected in the
             accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets at amounts which, in
             management's estimation based upon an interpretation of available
             market information and valuation methodologies (including
             discounted cash flow analyses with regard to fixed rate debt)
             considered appropriate, reasonably approximate their fair values.
             Such fair value estimates are not necessarily indicative of the
             amounts that would be realized upon disposition of the Company's
             financial instruments.

13.      Preferred and Common Stock Transactions:

         During May 2000, the Company repurchased from an officer and director
             of the Company 100,217 depositary shares of its Class D Preferred
             Stock at a price of $25.00 per depositary share, totaling
             approximately $2.5 million.

         During June 2000, the Company issued 285,148 shares of common stock at
             $40.7625 per share in connection with the exercise of its option to
             acquire two shopping center properties from KC Holdings (See Note
             15).


                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         During August 2000, the Company completed a primary public stock
             offering of 1,800,000 shares of common stock priced at $42.50 per
             share. The net proceeds from this sale of common stock, totaling
             approximately $72.4 million (after related transaction costs of
             $4.1 million) were used for general corporate purposes, including
             (i) the investment of additional equity capital in KIR (see Note
             4), and (ii) the development, redevelopment and expansion of
             properties in the Company's portfolio.

         During July 1999, the Company issued 401,646 shares of common stock at
             $39.00 per share in connection with the exercise of its option to
             acquire 13 shopping center properties from KC Holdings (See Note
             15).

         During December 1999, the Company purchased and retired 160,000 shares
             of its common stock at a price of $31.75 per share, totaling
             approximately $5.1 million. The Company did not have a share
             repurchase program but acquired the shares when it received an
             unsolicited offer to buy them from an institutional investor.

         At December 31, 2000, the Company had outstanding 3,000,000 Depositary
             Shares (the "Class A Depositary Shares"), each such Class A
             Depositary Share representing a one-tenth fractional interest of a
             share of the Company's 7-3/4% Class A Cumulative Redeemable
             Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share (the "Class A Preferred
             Stock"), 2,000,000 Depositary Shares (the "Class B Depositary
             Shares"), each such Class B Depositary Share representing a
             one-tenth fractional interest of a share of the Company's 8-1/2%
             Class B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per
             share (the "Class B Preferred Stock"), 4,000,000 Depositary Shares
             ("the Class C Depositary Shares"), each such Class C Depositary
             Share representing a one-tenth fractional interest of a share of
             the Company's 8-3/8% Class C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
             par value $1.00 per share (the "Class C Preferred Stock"),
             4,182,542 Depositary Shares (the "Class D Depositary Shares"), each
             such Class D Depositary Share representing a one-tenth fractional
             interest of a share of the Company's 7-1/2% Cumulative Convertible
             Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share (the "Class D Preferred
             Stock").

         Dividends on the Class A Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable
             quarterly in arrears at the rate of 7-3/4% per annum based on the
             $25.00 per share initial offering price, or $1.9375 per depositary
             share. The Class A Depositary Shares are redeemable, in whole or in
             part, for cash on or after September 23, 1998 at the option of the
             Company, at a redemption price of $25 per depositary share, plus
             any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon. The Class A Depositary
             Shares are not convertible or exchangeable for any other property
             or securities of the Company. The Class A Preferred Stock
             (represented by the Class A Depositary Shares outstanding) ranks
             pari passu with the Company's Class B Preferred Stock, Class C
             Preferred Stock and Class D Preferred Stock as to voting rights,
             priority for receiving dividends and liquidation preferences as set
             forth below.

         Dividends on the Class B Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable
             quarterly in arrears at the rate of 8-1/2% per annum based on the
             $25.00 per share initial offering price, or $2.125 per depositary
             share. The Class B Depositary Shares are redeemable, in whole or in
             part, for cash on or after July 15, 2000 at the option of the
             Company at a redemption price of $25.00 per depositary share, plus
             any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon. The redemption price of
             the Class B Preferred Stock may be paid solely from the sale
             proceeds of other capital stock of the Company, which may include
             other classes or series of preferred stock. The Class B Depositary
             Shares are not convertible or exchangeable for any other property
             or securities of the Company. The Class B Preferred Stock
             (represented by the Class B Depositary Shares outstanding) ranks
             pari passu with the Company's Class A Preferred Stock, Class C
             Preferred Stock and Class D Preferred Stock as to voting rights,
             priority for receiving dividends and liquidation preferences as set
             forth below.


                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         Dividends on the Class C Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable
             quarterly in arrears at the rate of 8-3/8% per annum based on the
             $25.00 per share initial offering price, or $2.0938 per depositary
             share. The Class C Depositary Shares are redeemable, in whole or in
             part, for cash on or after April 15, 2001 at the option of the
             Company at a redemption price of $25.00 per depositary share, plus
             any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon. The redemption price of
             the Class C Preferred Stock may be paid solely from the sale
             proceeds of other capital stock of the Company, which may include
             other classes or series of preferred stock. The Class C Depositary
             Shares are not convertible or exchangeable for any other property
             or securities of the Company. The Class C Preferred Stock
             (represented by the Class C Depositary Shares outstanding) ranks
             pari passu with the Company's Class A Preferred Stock, Class B
             Preferred Stock and Class D Preferred Stock as to voting rights,
             priority for receiving dividends and liquidation preferences as set
             forth below.

         Dividends on the Class D Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable
             at the rate per depositary share equal to the greater of (i) 7-1/2%
             per annum based upon a $25.00 per share initial value or $1.875 per
             share or (ii) the cash dividend on the shares of the Company's
             common stock into which a Class D Depositary Share is convertible
             plus $0.0275 per quarter. The Class D Depositary Shares are
             convertible into the Company's common stock at a conversion price
             of $40.25 per share of common stock at any time by the holder and
             may be redeemed by the Company at the conversion price in shares of
             the Company's common stock at any time after June 19, 2001 if, for
             any 20 trading days within any period of 30 consecutive trading
             days, including the last day of such period, the average closing
             price per share of the Company's common stock exceeds 120% of the
             conversion price or $48.30 per share, subject to certain
             adjustments.

         The Class D Preferred Stock (represented by the Class D Depositary
             Shares outstanding) ranks pari passu with the Company's Class A
             Preferred Stock, Class B Preferred Stock and Class C Preferred
             Stock as to voting rights, priority for receiving dividends and
             liquidation preferences as set forth below.

         Voting Rights - As to any matter on which the Class A Preferred Stock,
             Class B Preferred Stock, Class C Preferred Stock and Class D
             Preferred Stock (collectively, the "Preferred Stock") may vote,
             including any action by written consent, each share of Preferred
             Stock shall be entitled to 10 votes, each of which 10 votes may be
             directed separately by the holder thereof. With respect to each
             share of Preferred Stock, the holder thereof may designate up to 10
             proxies, with each such proxy having the right to vote a whole
             number of votes (totaling 10 votes per share of Preferred Stock).
             As a result, each Class A, each Class B, each Class C and each
             Class D Depositary Share is entitled to one vote.

         Liquidation Rights - In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or
             winding up of the affairs of the Company, the Preferred Stock
             holders are entitled to be paid, out of the assets of the Company
             legally available for distribution to its stockholders, a
             liquidation preference of $250.00 per share ($25.00 per Class A,
             Class B, Class C and Class D Depositary Share, respectively), plus
             an amount equal to any accrued and unpaid dividends to the date of
             payment, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of
             the Company's common stock or any other capital stock that ranks
             junior to the Preferred Stock as to liquidation rights.

14.      Dispositions of Real Estate:

         During the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company, in separate
             transactions, disposed of ten shopping center properties. Sale
             prices from two of these dispositions aggregated approximately $4.5
             million which approximated their aggregate net book value. Sale
             prices from eight of these dispositions aggregated approximately
             $29.7 million which resulted in net gains of approximately $4.0
             million.

         In addition, during 2000, the Company disposed of various land
             parcels, in separate transactions, for aggregate proceeds of
             approximately $5.6 million.

         During the year ended December 31, 1999, the Company disposed of six
             shopping center properties and a land parcel. Cash proceeds from
             four of these dispositions aggregated approximately $6.1 million,
             which approximated their aggregate net book value.


                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         During July 1999, the Company disposed of a shopping center property in
             New Port Richey, FL. Cash proceeds from the disposition totaling
             $0.5 million, together with an additional $5.5 million cash
             investment, were used to acquire an exchange shopping center
             property located in Greensboro, NC during September 1999. The sale
             of this property resulted in a gain of approximately $0.3 million.

         During October 1999, the Company, in separate transactions, disposed of
             a shopping center property and a land parcel for an aggregate sale
             price of approximately $4.5 million, which resulted in a gain of
             approximately $1.3 million.

15.      Transactions with Related Parties:

         The Company provides management services for shopping centers owned
             principally by affiliated entities and various real estate joint
             ventures in which certain stockholders of the Company have economic
             interests. Such services are performed pursuant to management
             agreements which provide for fees based upon a percentage of gross
             revenues from the properties and other direct costs incurred in
             connection with management of the centers. The Consolidated
             Statements of Income include management fee income from KC Holdings
             of approximately $0.1 million, $0.4 million and $0.6 million for
             the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

         In June 2000, the Company exercised its option to acquire two shopping
             center properties from KC Holdings. The properties were acquired
             for an aggregate option price of approximately $12.2 million, paid
             approximately $11.6 million in shares of the Company's common stock
             (valued at $40.7625 per share at June 1, 2000) and $0.6 million
             through the assumption of mortgage debt encumbering one of the
             properties.

         During July 1999, the Company exercised its option to acquire 13
             shopping center properties from KC Holdings. The properties were
             acquired for an aggregate option price of approximately $39.8
             million, paid $15.7 million in shares of the Company's common stock
             (valued at $39.00 per share at July 1, 1999) and $24.1 million
             through the assumption of mortgage debt encumbering the properties.

         Reference is made to Notes 4, 5, 11 and 13 for additional information
             regarding transactions with related parties.

16.      Commitments and Contingencies:

         The Company and its subsidiaries are primarily engaged in the operation
             of shopping centers which are either owned or held under long-term
             leases which expire at various dates through 2087. The Company and
             its subsidiaries, in turn, lease premises in these centers to
             tenants pursuant to lease agreements which provide for terms
             ranging generally from 5 to 25 years and for annual minimum rentals
             plus incremental rents based on operating expense levels and
             tenants' sales volumes. Annual minimum rentals plus incremental
             rents based on operating expense levels comprised approximately
             99%, 98% and 98% of total revenues from rental property for each of
             the three years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998,
             respectively.

         The future minimum revenues from rental property under the terms of all
             noncancellable tenant leases, assuming no new or renegotiated
             leases are executed for such premises, for future years are
             approximately as follows (in millions): 2001, $366.6; 2002, $348.4;
             2003, $320.9; 2004, $297.5; 2005, $270.5 and thereafter, $2,132.3.

         Minimum rental payments under the terms of all noncancellable operating
             leases pertaining to its shopping center portfolio for future years
             are approximately as follows (in millions): 2001, $13.9; 2002,
             $13.8; 2003, $12.7; 2004, $12.0; 2005, $10.9 and thereafter,
             $156.8.


                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

17.      Incentive Plans:

         The Company maintains a stock option plan (the "Plan") pursuant to
             which a maximum 6,000,000 shares of the Company's common stock may
             be issued for qualified and non-qualified options. Options granted
             under the Plan generally vest ratably over a three-year term,
             expire ten years from the date of grant and are exercisable at the
             market price on the date of grant, unless otherwise determined by
             the Board in its sole discretion. In addition, the Plan provides
             for the granting of certain options to each of the Company's
             non-employee directors (the "Independent Directors") and permits
             such Independent Directors to elect to receive deferred stock
             awards in lieu of directors' fees.

         Information with respect to stock options under the Plan for the years
             ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 is as follows:

         The exercise prices for options outstanding as of December 31, 2000
             range from $13.33 to $42.53 per share. The weighted average
             remaining contractual life for options outstanding as of December
             31, 2000 was approximately 7.6 years. Options to purchase 608,695,
             1,507,120 and 2,306,170 shares of the Company's common stock were
             available for issuance under the Plan at December 31, 2000, 1999
             and 1998, respectively.

         The Company has elected to adopt the disclosure-only provisions of
             Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 "Accounting for
             Stock-Based Compensation". Accordingly, no compensation cost has
             been recognized with regard to options granted under the Plan in
             the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income. If stock-based
             compensation costs had been recognized based on the estimated fair
             values at the dates of grant for options awarded during 2000, 1999
             and 1998 net income and net income per common share for these
             calendar years would have been reduced by approximately $2.2
             million or $0.04 per diluted share, $1.7 million, or $0.03 per
             diluted share and $1.4 million, or $0.03 per diluted share,
             respectively.

         These pro forma adjustments to net income and net income per diluted
             common share assume fair values of each option grant estimated
             using the Black-Scholes option pricing formula. The more
             significant assumptions underlying the determination of such fair
             values for options granted during 2000, 1999 and 1998 include: (i)
             weighted average risk-free interest rates of 5.69%, 6.30% and
             5.07%, respectively; (ii) weighted average expected option lives of
             4.4 years, 5.4 years and 5.6 years, respectively; (iii) an expected
             volatility of 15.82%, 15.91% and 15.76%, respectively, and (iv) an
             expected dividend yield of 6.95%, 7.30% and 6.40%, respectively.
             The per share weighted average fair value at the dates of grant for
             options awarded during 2000, 1999 and 1998 was $3.07, $2.53 and
             $2.86, respectively.


                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         The Company maintains a 401(k) retirement plan covering substantially
             all officers and employees which permits participants to defer up
             to a maximum 10% of their eligible compensation. This deferred
             compensation, together with Company matching contributions which
             generally equal employee deferrals up to a maximum of 5% of their
             eligible compensation, is fully vested and funded as of December
             31, 2000. Company contributions to the plan were approximately $0.6
             million, $0.4 million and $0.3 million for the years ended December
             31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

18.      Supplemental Financial Information:

         The following represents the results of operations, expressed in
             thousands except per share amounts, for each quarter during years
             2000 and 1999.

         Interest paid during years 2000, 1999 and 1998 approximated $89.9
             million, $80.0 million and $60.7 million, respectively.

         Accounts and notes receivable in the accompanying Consolidated Balance
             Sheets are net of estimated unrecoverable amounts of approximately
             $4.0 million and $3.8 million at December 31, 2000 and 1999,
             respectively.

19.      Pro Forma Financial Information (Unaudited):

         As discussed in Notes 2 and 14, the Company and certain of its
             subsidiaries acquired and disposed of interests in shopping center
             properties during 2000. The pro forma financial information set
             forth below is based upon the Company's historical Consolidated
             Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2000 and
             1999, adjusted to give effect to these transactions as of January
             1, 1999.

         The pro forma financial information is presented for informational
             purposes only and may not be indicative of what actual results of
             operations would have been had the transactions occurred on January
             1, 1999, nor does it purport to represent the results of operations
             for future periods. (Amounts presented in millions, except per
             share figures.)

                                                     Years ended December 31,
                                                    2000                  1999
                                                    ----                  ----

          Revenues from rental property            $458.3                $440.5
          Net income                               $201.6                $182.6

              Net income per common share:
                   Basic                            $2.83                 $2.57
                                                    =====                 =====
                   Diluted                          $2.80                 $2.55
                                                    =====                 =====


                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

20.      Subsequent Events:

         During March 2001, the Company, through a joint venture (the "Ward
             Venture") in which the Company has a 50% interest, acquired asset
             designation rights for substantially all of the real estate
             property interests of the bankrupt estate of Montgomery Ward LLC
             and its affiliates. These asset designation rights will enable the
             Ward Venture to direct the ultimate disposition of the 315 fee and
             leasehold interests held by the bankrupt estate. The Ward Venture
             acquired the asset designation rights for an initial purchase price
             of $60.5 million, however, the price may ultimately exceed $435.5
             million under the terms of the designation rights agreement.

         The asset designation rights expire in February 2002 for the leasehold
             positions and December 2004 for the fee owned locations. During the
             marketing period, the Ward Venture will be responsible for all
             carrying costs associated with the properties until the site is
             designated to a user.







                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                For Years Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
                                 (in thousands)




                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 2000
















































































Depreciation and amortization of the Company's investment in buildings and
improvements reflected in the statements of income is calculated over the
estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:

Buildings..................15 to 39 years
Improvements...............Terms of leases or useful lives, whichever is shorter

The aggregate cost for Federal income tax purposes was approximately $3.01
billion at December 31, 2000.




The changes in total real estate assets for the years ended December 31, 2000,
1999 and 1998 are as follows:





The changes in accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 2000,
1999 and 1998 are as follows:








