10-K


y30877e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

10-K


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the fiscal year ended

December 31, 2006

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For
the transition period from

to

Commission file number

1-10899

Kimco Realty Corporation

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Maryland

13-2744380

(State of incorporation)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

3333 New Hyde Park Road, New Hyde Park, NY

11042-0020

(Address of principal executive offices)

Zip Code

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code

(516) 869-9000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Name of each exchange on

Title of each class

which registered

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share.

New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares, each representing one-

tenth of a share of 6.65% Class F

Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,

par value $1.00 per share.

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act. Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (i) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (ii) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K. Yes

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer” in Rule 12-b of the Exchange Act.

Large Accelerated Filer

þ

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act). Yes

o

No

þ

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was
approximately $9.8 billion based upon the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange for such
stock on January 31, 2007.

(APPLICABLE ONLY TO CORPORATE REGISTRANTS)

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the Registrant’s classes of common stock,
as of the latest practicable date.

251,162,635 shares as of January 31, 2007.


DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part III incorporates certain information by reference to the Registrant’s definitive proxy
statement to be filed with respect to the Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held on May
17, 2007.

Index to Exhibits begins on page 63.






PART I

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This annual report on Form 10-K, together with other statements and information publicly
disseminated by Kimco Realty Corporation (the “Company” or “Kimco”) contains certain
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company intends
such forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking
statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and includes this
statement for purposes of complying with these safe harbor provisions. Forward-looking statements,
which are based on certain assumptions and describe the Company’s future plans, strategies and
expectations, are generally identifiable by use of the words “believe,” “expect,” “intend,”
“anticipate,” “estimate,” “project” or similar expressions. You should not rely on forward-looking
statements since they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are,
in some cases, beyond the Company’s control and which could materially affect actual results,
performances or achievements. Factors which may cause actual results to differ materially from
current expectations include, but are not limited to, (i) general economic and local real estate
conditions, (ii) the inability of major tenants to continue paying their rent obligations due to
bankruptcy, insolvency or general downturn in their business, (iii) financing risks, such as the
inability to obtain equity, debt, or other sources of financing on favorable terms, (iv) changes in
governmental laws and regulations, (v) the level and volatility of interest rates and foreign
currency exchange rates, (vi) the availability of suitable acquisition opportunities and (vii)
increases in operating costs. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the Company’s expectations
will be realized.

SHARE SPLIT

As of August 23, 2005, the Company effected a two-for-one split (the “Stock Split”) of the
Company’s common stock in the form of a stock dividend paid to stockholders of record on August 8,
2005. All common share and per common share data included in this annual report on Form 10-K and
the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto have been adjusted to reflect
this Stock Split.

Item 1. Business

General

Kimco Realty Corporation, a Maryland corporation, is one of the nation’s largest
owners and operators of neighborhood and community shopping centers. The Company is a
self-administered real estate investment trust (“REIT”) and manages its properties through present
management, which has owned and operated neighborhood and community shopping centers for over 45
years. The Company has not engaged, nor does it expect to retain, any REIT advisors in connection
with the operation of its properties. As of January 31, 2007, the Company had interests in 1,348
properties, totaling approximately 175.4 million square feet of gross leasable area (“GLA”) located
in 45 states, Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico. The Company’s ownership interests in real estate
consist of its consolidated portfolio and in portfolios where the Company owns an economic
interest, such as properties in the Company’s investment management program, where the Company
partners with institutional investors and also retains management (See Recent Developments —
Operating Real Estate Joint Venture Investments and Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K). The Company believes its portfolio of
neighborhood and community shopping center properties is the largest (measured by GLA) currently
held by any publicly-traded REIT.

The Company’s executive offices are located at 3333 New Hyde Park Road, New Hyde Park, New York
11042-0020 and its telephone number is (516) 869-9000. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the
term the “Company” as used herein is intended to include all subsidiaries of the Company.

The Company’s web site is located at

http://www.kimcorealty.com

. The information contained on our
web site does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. On the Company’s web site
you can obtain, free of charge, a copy of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable
after we file such material electronically with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the “SEC”).



History

The Company began operations through its predecessor, The Kimco Corporation, which
was organized in 1966 upon the contribution of several shopping center properties owned by its
principal stockholders. In 1973, these principals formed the Company as a Delaware corporation,
and in 1985, the operations of The Kimco Corporation were merged into the Company. The Company
completed its initial public stock offering (the “IPO”) in November 1991, and commencing with its
taxable year which began January 1, 1992, elected to qualify as a REIT in accordance with Sections
856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). In 1994, the
Company reorganized as a Maryland corporation.

The Company’s growth through its first 15 years resulted primarily from the ground-up development
and construction of its shopping centers. By 1981, the Company had assembled a portfolio of 77
properties that provided an established source of income and positioned the Company for an
expansion of its asset base. At that time, the Company revised its growth strategy to focus on the
acquisition of existing shopping centers and creating value through the redevelopment and
re-tenanting of those properties. As a result of this strategy, a majority of the operating
shopping centers added to the Company’s portfolio since 1981 have been through the acquisition of
existing shopping centers.

During 1998, the Company, through a merger transaction, completed the acquisition of The Price
REIT, Inc., a Maryland corporation, (the “Price REIT”). Prior to the merger, Price REIT was a
self-administered and self-managed equity REIT that was primarily focused on the acquisition,
development, management and redevelopment of large retail community shopping center properties
concentrated in the western part of the United States. In connection with the merger, the Company
acquired interests in 43 properties, located in 17 states. With the completion of the Price REIT
merger, the Company expanded its presence in certain western states including California, Arizona
and Washington. In addition, Price REIT had strong ground-up development capabilities. These
development capabilities, coupled with the Company’s own construction management expertise, provide
the Company, on a selective basis, the ability to pursue ground-up development opportunities.

Also during 1998, the Company formed Kimco Income REIT (“KIR”), an entity in which the Company held
a 99.99% limited partnership interest. KIR was established for the purpose of investing in
high-quality properties financed primarily with individual non-recourse mortgages. The Company
believed that these properties were appropriate for financing with greater leverage than the
Company traditionally used. At the time of formation, the Company contributed 19 properties to
KIR, each encumbered by an individual non-recourse mortgage. During 1999, KIR sold a significant
interest in the partnership to institutional investors. As of December 31, 2006, the Company holds
a 45.0% non-controlling limited partnership interest in KIR and accounts for its investment in KIR
under the equity method of accounting. (See Recent Developments — Operating Real Estate Joint
Venture Investments and Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
annual report on Form 10-K.)

The Company has expanded its management business through the establishment of other various
institutional joint venture programs in which the Company has non-controlling interests ranging
generally from 5% to 45%. The Company’s largest joint venture, Kimco Prudential Joint Venture
(“KimPru”), was formed in 2006, in connection with the Pan Pacific Retail Properties Inc. (“Pan
Pacific”) merger transaction, with Prudential Real Estate Investors (“PREI”), which holds
approximately $4.1 billion in assets. The Company earns management fees, acquisition fees,
disposition fees and promoted interests based on value creation. As of December 31, 2006, the
Company’s assets under management were valued at approximately $14.0 billion, comprising 458 of
properties. (See Recent Developments — Operating Real Estate Joint Venture Investments and Note 7
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

In connection with the Tax Relief Extension Act of 1999 (the “RMA”) which became effective January
1, 2001, the Company is permitted to participate in activities which it was precluded from
previously in order to maintain its qualification as a REIT, so long as these activities are
conducted in entities which elect to be treated as taxable subsidiaries under the Code, subject to
certain limitations. As such, the Company, through its taxable REIT subsidiaries, is engaged in
various retail real estate related opportunities, including (i) merchant building through its
wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiary, Kimco Developers, Inc. (“KDI”), which is primarily engaged in
the ground-up development of neighborhood and community shopping centers and subsequent sale
thereof upon completion (see Recent Developments — Ground-Up Development), (ii) retail real estate
advisory and disposition services, which primarily focus on leasing and disposition strategies for
real estate property interests of both healthy and distressed retailers and



(iii) acting as an agent or principal in connection with tax deferred exchange transactions. The
Company will consider other investments through taxable REIT subsidiaries should suitable
opportunities arise.

The Company has continued its geographic expansion with investments in Canada, Mexico and Puerto
Rico. During October 2001, the Company formed the RioCan Venture with (“RioCan Venture”) RioCan
Real Estate Investment Trust (“RioCan”, Canada’s largest publicly traded REIT measured by GLA) in
which the Company has a 50% non-controlling interest, to acquire retail properties and development
projects in Canada. The Company accounts for this investment under the equity method of
accounting. The Company has expanded its presence in Canada with the establishment of other joint
venture arrangements. During 2002, the Company, along with various strategic co-investment
partners, began acquiring operating and development properties located in Mexico. During 2006, the
Company acquired interests in shopping center properties located in Puerto Rico through joint
ventures in which the Company holds controlling ownership interests. (See Recent Developments —
Operating Properties and Operating Real Estate Joint Venture Investments and Notes 3 and 7 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

The Company generated equity in income from its unconsolidated Canadian investments in real estate
joint ventures of approximately $21.1 million and $21.6 million during 2006 and 2005, respectively.
In addition, income from other unconsolidated Canadian real estate investments approximately $13.9
million and $6.6 million during 2006 and 2005, respectively.

The Company recognized equity in income from its unconsolidated Mexican investments in real estate
joint ventures of approximately $11.8 million and $2.2 million during 2006 and 2005, respectively.

The Company’s revenues from its consolidated Mexican subsidiaries aggregated approximately $2.4
million and $1.2 million during 2006 and 2005, respectively.

In addition, the Company continues to capitalize on its established expertise in retail real estate
by establishing other ventures in which the Company owns a smaller equity interest and provides
management, leasing and operational support for those properties. The Company also provides
preferred equity capital for real estate entrepreneurs and provides real estate capital and
advisory services to both healthy and distressed retailers. The Company also makes selective
investments in secondary market opportunities where a security or other investment is, in
management’s judgment, priced below the value of the underlying real estate.

Investment and Operating Strategy

The Company’s investment objective has been to increase
cash flow, current income and, consequently, the value of its existing portfolio of properties, and
to seek continued growth through (i) the strategic re-tenanting, renovation and expansion of its
existing centers and (ii) the selective acquisition of established income-producing real estate
properties and properties requiring significant re-tenanting and redevelopment, primarily in
neighborhood and community shopping centers in geographic regions in which the Company presently
operates. The Company has and will continue to consider investments in other real estate sectors
and in geographic markets where it does not presently operate should suitable opportunities arise.

The Company’s neighborhood and community shopping center properties are designed to attract local
area customers and typically are anchored by a discount department store, a supermarket or a
drugstore tenant offering day-to-day necessities rather than high-priced luxury items. The Company
may either purchase or lease income-producing properties in the future and may also participate
with other entities in property ownership through partnerships, joint ventures or similar types of
co-ownership. Equity investments may be subject to existing mortgage financing and/or other
indebtedness. Financing or other indebtedness may be incurred simultaneously or subsequently in
connection with such investments. Any such financing or indebtedness will have priority over the
Company’s equity interest in such property. The Company may make loans to joint ventures in which
it may or may not participate.

In addition to property or equity ownership, the Company provides property management services for
fees relating to the management, leasing, operation, supervision and maintenance of real estate
properties.

While the Company has historically held its properties for long-term investment, and accordingly
has placed strong emphasis on its ongoing program of regular maintenance, periodic renovation and
capital improvement, it is possible that properties in the portfolio may be sold, in whole or in
part, as circumstances warrant, subject to REIT qualification rules.



The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through diversification achieved by the
geographic distribution of its properties and a large tenant base. At December 31, 2006, the
Company’s single largest neighborhood and community shopping center accounted for only 1.6% of the
Company’s annualized base rental revenues and only 0.8% of the Company’s total shopping center GLA.
At December 31, 2006, the Company’s five largest tenants were The Home Depot, TJX Companies, Sears
Holdings, Kohl’s, and Wal-Mart, which represent approximately 3.5%, 2.9%, 2.5%, 2.2% and 2.1%,
respectively, of the Company’s annualized base rental revenues, including the proportionate share
of base rental revenues from properties in which the Company has less than a 100% economic
interest.

In connection with the RMA, which became effective January 1, 2001, the Company has expanded its
investment and operating strategy to include new real estate related opportunities which the
Company was precluded from previously in order to maintain its qualification as a REIT. As such,
the Company, has established a merchant building business through its KDI subsidiary. KDI makes
selective acquisitions of land parcels for the ground-up development of neighborhood and community
shopping centers and subsequent sale thereof upon completion. Additionally, the Company has
developed a business which specializes in providing capital, real estate advisory services and
disposition services of real estate controlled by both healthy and distressed and/or bankrupt
retailers. These services may include assistance with inventory and fixture liquidation in
connection with going-out-of-business sales. The Company may participate with other entities in
providing these advisory services through partnerships, joint ventures or other co-ownership
arrangements. The Company, as a regular part of its investment strategy, will continue to actively
seek investments for its taxable REIT subsidiaries.

The Company emphasizes equity real estate investments including preferred equity investments, but
may, at its discretion, invest in mortgages, other real estate interests and other investments. The
mortgages in which the Company may invest may be either first mortgages, junior mortgages or other
mortgage-related securities. The Company provides mortgage financing to retailers with significant
real estate assets, in the form of lease- hold interests or fee-owned properties, where the Company
believes the underlying value of the real estate collateral is in excess of its loan balance. In
addition, the Company will acquire debt instruments at a discount in the secondary market where the
Company believes the real estate value of the enterprise is substantially greater than the current
value.

The Company may legally invest in the securities of other issuers, for the purpose, among others,
of exercising control over such entities, subject to the gross income and asset tests necessary for
REIT qualification. The Company may, on a selective basis, acquire all or substantially all
securities or assets of other REITs or similar entities where such investments would be consistent
with the Company’s investment policies. In any event, the Company does not intend that its
investments in securities will require it to register as an “investment company” under the
Investment Company Act of 1940.

The Company has authority to offer shares of capital stock or other senior securities in exchange
for property and to repurchase or otherwise reacquire its common stock or any other securities and
may engage in such activities in the future. At all times, the Company intends to make investments
in such a manner as to be consistent with the requirements of the Code to qualify as a REIT unless,
because of circumstances or changes in the Code (or in Treasury Regulations), the Board of
Directors determines that it is no longer in the best interests of the Company to qualify as a
REIT.

The Company’s policies with respect to the aforementioned activities may be reviewed and modified
from time to time by the Company’s Board of Directors without the vote of the Company’s
stockholders.

Capital Strategy and Resources

The Company intends to operate with and maintain a
conservative capital structure with a level of debt to total market capitalization of approximately
50% or less. As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s level of debt to total market capitalization
was 23%. In addition, the Company intends to maintain strong debt service coverage and fixed
charge coverage ratios as part of its commitment to maintaining its investment-grade debt ratings.
It is management’s intention that the Company continually have access to the capital resources
necessary to expand and develop its business. Accordingly, the Company may, from time to time,
seek to obtain funds through additional equity offerings, unsecured debt financings and/or
mortgage/construction loan financings and other capital alternatives in a manner consistent with
its intention to operate with a conservative debt structure.

Since the completion of the Company’s IPO in 1991, the Company has utilized the public debt and
equity markets as its principal source of capital for its expansion needs. Since



the IPO, the Company has completed additional offerings of its public unsecured debt and equity,
raising in the aggregate over $4.9 billion. Proceeds from public capital market activities have
been used for among other things, repaying indebtedness, acquiring interests in neighborhood and
community shopping centers, funding ground-up development projects, expanding and improving
properties in the portfolio and other investments. In March 2006, the Company was added to the S &
P 500 Index, an index containing the stock of 500 Large Cap corporations, most of which are U.S.
corporations.

The Company has an $850.0 million unsecured credit facility, (the “Credit Facility”) which is
scheduled to expire in July 2008. Under the Credit Facility, funds may be borrowed for general
corporate purposes, including the funding of (i) property acquisitions, (ii) development and
redevelopment costs and (iii) any short-term working capital requirements. Interest on borrowings
under the Credit Facility accrue at a spread (currently 0.45%) to LIBOR and fluctuates in
accordance with changes in the Company’s senior debt ratings. As part of this Credit Facility, the
Company has a competitive bid option whereby the Company may auction up to $425.0 million of its
requested borrowings to the bank group. This competitive bid option provides the Company the
opportunity to obtain pricing below the currently stated spread to LIBOR of 0.45%. A facility fee
of 0.125% per annum is payable quarterly in arrears. In addition, the Company has a $200.0 million
sub-limit which provides it the opportunity to borrow in alternative currencies such as Pounds
Sterling, Japanese Yen or Euros. Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Facility, the Company, among
other things, is (i) subject to maintaining certain maximum leverage ratios on both unsecured
senior corporate debt and minimum unencumbered asset and equity levels, and (ii) restricted from
paying dividends in amounts that exceed 95% of funds from operations, as defined. As of December
31, 2006, there was no outstanding balance under this credit facility.

Additionally, the Company has a Canadian denominated (“CAD”) $250.0 million unsecured revolving
credit facility with a group of banks. This facility originally bore interest at the CDOR Rate, as
defined therein, plus 0.50% and is scheduled to expire in March 2008. During January 2006, the
facility was amended to reduce the borrowing spread to 0.45% and to modify the covenant package to
conform to the Company’s $850.0 million U.S. Credit Facility. Proceeds from this facility are used
for general corporate purposes including the funding of Canadian denominated investments. As of
December 31, 2006, there was no outstanding balance under this facility.

The Company also has a three-year Mexican Peso denominated (“MXP”) 500.0 million unsecured
revolving credit facility. This facility bears interest at the TIIE Rate, as defined therein, plus
1.00% and is scheduled to expire in May 2008. Proceeds from this facility are used to fund peso
denominated investments. As of December 31, 2006, there was no outstanding balance under this
facility.

The Company also has a medium-term notes (“MTN”) program pursuant to which it may, from time to
time, offer for sale its senior unsecured debt for any general corporate purpose, including (i)
funding specific liquidity requirements in its business, including property acquisitions,
development and redevelopment costs, and (ii) managing the Company’s debt maturities. (See Note 11
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

During March 2006, the Company issued $300.0 million of fixed rate unsecured senior notes under its
MTN program. This fixed rate MTN matures March 15, 2016 and bears interest at 5.783% per annum.
The proceeds from this MTN issuance were primarily used to repay a portion of the outstanding
balance under the Company’s U.S. revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes.

During June 2006, the Company entered into a third supplemental indenture, under the indenture
governing its medium-term notes and senior notes, which amended the (i) total debt test and secured
debt test by changing the asset value definition from undepreciated real estate assets to total
assets, with total assets being defined as undepreciated real estate assets, plus other assets (but
excluding goodwill and amortized debt costs) and (ii) maintenance of unencumbered total asset value
covenant by increasing the requirement of the ratio of unencumbered total asset value to
outstanding unsecured debt from 1 to 1 to 1.5 to 1. Additionally, the same amended covenants were
adopted within the Canadian supplemental indenture, which governs the 4.45% Canadian Debentures due
in 2010. As a result of the amended covenants, the Company has increased its borrowing capacity by
approximately $2.0 billion.

During August 2006, Kimco North Trust III, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, completed the
issuance of $200.0 million Canadian denominated senior unsecured notes. The notes bear interest at
5.18% and mature on August 16, 2013. The proceeds were used by Kimco North Trust III to pay down
outstanding indebtedness under the existing credit



facility, to fund long-term investments in Canadian real estate and for general corporate purposes.

In connection with the October 31, 2006, Pan Pacific merger transaction, the Company assumed $630.0
million of unsecured notes payable. These notes bear interest at fixed rates ranging from 4.70% to
7.95% per annum and have maturity dates ranging from June 29, 2007 to September 1, 2015 (see Recent
Developments — Operating Real Estate Joint Venture Investments — Pan Pacific Retail Properties
Inc., and Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report
on Form 10-K).

During 2006, the Company repaid its $30.0 million 6.93% fixed rate notes, which matured on July 20,
2006, $100.0 million floating rate notes, which matured on August 1, 2006, and $55.0 million 7.50%
fixed rate notes, which matured on November 5, 2006.

In addition to the public debt and equity markets as capital sources, the Company may, from
time-to-time, obtain mortgage financing on selected properties and construction loans to partially
fund the capital needs of ground-up development projects. As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s
consolidated property portfolio had over 390 unencumbered property interests representing over 81%
of the Company’s 2006 net operating income.

During March 2006, the Company completed a primary public stock offering of 10,000,000 shares of
the Company’s common stock (“Common Stock”). The net proceeds from this sale of Common Stock,
totaling approximately $405.5 million (after related transaction costs of $2.5 million) were
primarily used to repay the outstanding balance under the Company’s U.S. revolving credit facility,
partial repayment of the outstanding balance under the Company’s Canadian denominated credit
facility and for general corporate purposes.

During March 2006, the shareholders of Atlantic Realty Trust (“Atlantic Realty”) approved a
proposed merger with the Company and the closing occurred on March 31, 2006. As consideration for
this transaction, the Company issued Atlantic Realty shareholders 1,274,420 shares of Common Stock,
excluding 748,510 shares of Common Stock that were to be received by the Company, at a price of
$40.41 per share. (See Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
annual report on Form 10-K.)

During May 2006, the Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3ASR, which is
effective for a three year term, for the unlimited future offerings, from time to time, of debt
securities, preferred stock, depositary shares, common stock and common stock warrants.

On September 25, 2006, Pan Pacific stockholders approved the proposed merger with the Company and
the closing occurred on October 31, 2006. Under the terms of the merger agreement, the Company
agreed to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Pan Pacific for a total merger consideration of
$70.00 per share. As permitted under the merger agreement, the Company elected to issue $10.00 per
share of the total merger consideration in the form of Common Stock. As such, the Company issued
9,185,847 shares of Common Stock valued at $407.7 million, which was based upon the average closing
price of the Common Stock over the ten trading days immediately preceding the closing date. (See
Recent Developments — Operating Real Estate Joint Venture Investment — Pan Pacific Retail
Properties Inc. and Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.)

The Company anticipates that cash flows from operating activities will continue to provide adequate
capital to fund its operating and administrative expenses, regular debt service obligations and the
payment of dividends in accordance with REIT requirements in both the short term and long term. In
addition, the Company anticipates that cash on hand, free cash flow generated by the operating
business, availability under its revolving credit facilities, and issuance of equity and public
debt, as well as other debt and equity alternatives, will provide the necessary capital required by
the Company. Cash flow from operating activities (see Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows) was
$455.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to $410.8 million for the year
ended December 31, 2005.

Competition

As one of the original participants in the growth of the shopping center
industry and one of the nation’s largest owners and operators of neighborhood and community
shopping centers, the Company has established close relationships with a large number of major
national and regional retailers and maintains a broad network of industry contacts. Management is
associated with and/or actively participates in many shopping center and REIT industry
organizations. Notwithstanding these relationships, there are numerous regional and local
commercial developers, real estate companies, financial institutions and other investors who
compete with the Company for the acquisition of properties and other investment opportunities and
in seeking tenants who will lease space



in the Company’s properties.

Inflation and Other Business Issues

Many of the Company’s leases contain provisions
designed to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation. Such provisions include clauses enabling the
Company to receive payment of additional rent calculated as a percentage of tenants’ gross sales
above predetermined thresholds (“Percentage Rents”), which generally increase as prices rise,
and/or escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the terms of the leases.
Such escalation clauses include increases in the consumer price index or similar inflation indices.
In addition, many of the Company’s leases are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits the
Company to seek to increase rents upon renewal to market rates. Most of the Company’s leases
require tenants to reimburse the Company for their allocable share of operating expenses, including
common area maintenance costs, real estate taxes and insurance, thereby reducing the Company’s
exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation. The Company
periodically evaluates its exposure to short-term interest rates and fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates and will, from time-to-time, enter into interest rate protection agreements
and foreign currency hedge agreements which mitigate, but do not eliminate, the effect of changes
in interest rates on its floating-rate debt and changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

Operating Practices

Nearly all operating functions, including leasing, legal,
construction, data processing, maintenance, finance and accounting, are administered by the Company
from its executive offices in New Hyde Park, New York and supported by the Company’s regional
offices. The Company believes it is critical to have a management presence in its principal areas
of operation and accordingly, the Company maintains regional offices in various cities throughout
the United States. A total of 618 persons are employed at the Company’s executive and regional
offices.

The Company’s regional offices are generally staffed by a regional business leader and the operating personnel
necessary to both function as local representatives for leasing and promotional purposes, to
complement the corporate office’s administrative and accounting efforts and to ensure that property
inspection and maintenance objectives are achieved. The regional offices are important in reducing
the time necessary to respond to the needs of the Company’s tenants. Leasing and maintenance
personnel from the corporate office also conduct regular inspections of each shopping center.

The Company also employs a total of 14 persons at several of its larger properties in order to more
effectively administer its maintenance and security responsibilities.

Qualification as a REIT

The Company has elected, commencing with its taxable year which
began January 1, 1992, to qualify as a REIT under the Code. If, as the Company believes, it is
organized and operates in such a manner so as to qualify and remain qualified as a REIT under the
Code, the Company generally will not be subject to federal income tax, provided that distributions
to its stockholders equal at least the amount of its REIT taxable income as defined under the Code.

In connection with the RMA, which became effective January 1, 2001, the Company is permitted to
participate in activities which the Company was precluded from previously in order to maintain its
qualification as a REIT, so long as these activities are conducted in entities which elect to be
treated as taxable subsidiaries under the Code, subject to certain limitations. The primary
activities conducted by the Company in its taxable REIT subsidiaries during 2006 included, but were
not limited to, (i) the ground-up development of shopping center properties and subsequent sale
thereof upon completion (see Recent Developments — Ground-Up Development), (ii) real estate
advisory and disposition services, and (iii) acting as an agent or principal in connection with tax
deferred exchange transactions. As such, the Company was subject to federal and state income taxes
on the income from these activities.

Recent Developments

Operating Properties -

Acquisitions -

During 2006, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, 40 operating properties, comprising an
aggregate 4.8 million square feet of GLA, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.1
billion, including the assumption of approximately $297.7 million of non-recourse mortgage debt
encumbering 20 of the properties, issuance of approximately $247.6 million of redeemable units
relating to 10 properties and issuance of approximately $51.5 million of Common Stock relating to
one property. Details of these transactions are as follows (in thousands):



Purchase Price

Debt Assumed/

Month

Stock

Property Name

Location

Acquired

Cash

or Units Issued

Total

GLA

Portfolio — 19
properties

Various: CA, NV, & HI

Jan-06

$

114,430

$

19,124

$

133,554


Groves at Lakeland

Lakeland, FL

Feb-06

1,500

—

1,500


625 Broadway

New York, NY

Feb-06

36,600

27,750

64,350


387 Bleecker Street

New York, NY

Feb-06

3,700

2,960

6,660

—

Cupertino Village

Cupertino, CA

Mar-06

27,400

38,000

65,400


Poway Center

Poway, CA

Mar-06(a)

3,500

—

3,500


Plaza Centro

Caguas, PR

Mar-06

35,731

71,774

(b)

107,505


Los Colobos

Carolina, PR

Mar-06

36,684

41,719

(b)

78,403


Hylan Plaza

Staten Island, NY

Mar-06

—

81,800

(c)

81,800


Tyler St Plaza

Riverside, CA

Apr-06

10,100

—

10,100


Market at Bay Shore

Bay Shore, NY

Apr-06

—

39,673

(b)

39,673


Pathmark S.C.

Centereach, NY

Apr-06

—

21,955

(b)

21,955


Western Plaza

Mayaguez, PR

June-06

4,562

30,378

(b)

34,940


Mallside Plaza

Portland, ME

June-06

23,100

—

23,100


Pearl Towers

Albany, NY

June-06

—

39,868

(b)

39,868


19 Greenwich

New York, NY

Sept-06

1,010

4,040

5,050

—

Western Plaza

Mayaguez, PR

Sept-06

1,900

19,443

(b)

21,343


Los Colobos

Carolina, PR

Sept-06

2,034

24,414

(b)

26,448


Plaza Centro

Caguas, PR

Sept-06

16,165

9,185

(b)

25,350


Trujillo Alto Plaza

Trujillo Alto, PR

Sept-06

7,379

26,058

(b)

33,437


Ponce Town Center

Ponce, PR

Oct-06

3,679

38,974

(b)

42,653


Villa Maria S.C.

Manati, PR

Oct-06

1,382

6,825

(b)

8,207


100 Van Dam Street

New York, NY

Oct-06

3,650

16,400

20,050

—



Purchase Price

Debt Assumed/

Month

Stock

Property Name

Location

Acquired

Cash

or Units Issued

Total

GLA

Rexville Town Center

Bayamon, PR

Nov-06

6,813

66,766

(b)

73,579


Fountains at Arbor
Lakes

Maple Grove, MN

Dec-06

95,025

—

95,025


$

436,344

$

627,106

$

1,063,450

4,758

(a)

Acquired additional square footage of existing property.

(b)

Represents the value of units issued and/or debt assumed, see additional disclosure
below.

(c)

Represents the value of Common Stock issued by the Company relating to the merger
transaction with Atlantic Realty including $30.3 million issued to the Company’s
subsidiaries representing the 37% of Atlantic Realty previously owned (See Note 17
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on
Form 10-K).

During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company acquired interests in seven shopping center
properties, included in the table above, located in Caguas, Carolina, Mayaguez, Trujillo Alto,
Ponce, Manati, and Bayamon, Puerto Rico, valued at an aggregate $451.9 million. The properties were
acquired through the issuance of units from a consolidated subsidiary and consist of approximately
$158.6 million of floating and fixed rate redeemable units, approximately $45.8 million of
redeemable units, which are redeemable at the option of the holder, the assumption of approximately
$131.2 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering six of the properties and approximately
$116.3 million in cash. The Company has the option to settle the redemption of the $45.8 million
redeemable units with Common Stock or cash. The aggregate value of the units is included in
Minority interests on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.

During April 2006, the Company acquired interests in two shopping center properties, included in
the table above, located in Bay Shore and Centereach, NY, valued at an aggregate $61.6 million.
The properties were acquired through the issuance of units from a consolidated subsidiary and
consist of approximately $24.2 million of redeemable units, which are redeemable at the option of
the holder, approximately $14.0 million of fixed rate redeemable units and the assumption of
approximately $23.4 million of non-recourse mortgage debt. The Company has the option to settle
the redemption of the $24.2 million redeemable units with Common Stock or cash. The aggregate
value of the units is included in Minority interests on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.

During June 2006, the Company acquired an interest in an office property, included in the table
above, located in Albany, NY, valued at approximately $39.9 million. The property was acquired
through the issuance of approximately $5.0 million of redeemable units from a consolidated
subsidiary, which are redeemable at the option of the holder after one year, and the assumption of
approximately $34.9 million of non-recourse mortgage debt. The Company has the option to settle
the redemption of the redeemable units with Common Stock or cash. The aggregate value of the units
is included in Minority interests on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Dispositions -

During 2006, the Company (i) disposed of, in separate transactions, 28 operating properties and one
ground lease for an aggregate sales price of approximately $270.5 million, which resulted in a net
gain of $71.7 million, net of income taxes of $2.8 million relating to the sale of two properties,
and (ii) transferred five operating properties to joint ventures in which the Company has 20%
non-controlling interests for an aggregate price of approximately $95.4 million, which resulted in
a gain of approximately $1.4 million from one transferred property.

During November 2006, the Company disposed of a vacant land parcel located in Bel Air, MD, for
approximately $1.8 million resulting in a $1.6 million gain on sale. This gain is included in
Other income, net on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income.

Redevelopments -

The Company has an ongoing program to reformat and re-tenant its properties to maintain or enhance
its competitive position in the marketplace. During 2006, the Company substantially completed the
redevelopment and re-tenanting of various operating properties. The Company expended approximately
$62.2 million in connection with these major redevelopments and re-tenanting projects during 2006.
The Company is currently involved in redeveloping several other shopping centers in the existing
portfolio. The



Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these and other redevelopment projects will be
approximately $125.0 million to $150.0 million during 2007.

Ground-Up Development -

The Company is engaged in ground-up development projects which consist of (i) merchant building
through the Company’s wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiary, KDI, which develops neighborhood and
community shopping centers and the subsequent sale thereof upon completion, (ii) U.S. ground-up
development projects which will be held as long-term investments by the Company and (iii) various
ground-up development projects located in Mexico and Canada for long-term investment (see Recent
Developments — International Real Estate Investments and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K). The ground-up development
projects generally have substantial pre-leasing prior to the commencement of construction. As of
December 31, 2006, the Company had in progress a total of 45 ground-up development projects
including 23 merchant building projects, six domestic ground-up development projects, and 16
ground-up development projects located throughout Mexico. These projects are currently proceeding
on schedule and substantially in line with the Company’s budgeted costs of approximately $1.8
billion.

KDI -

As of December 31, 2006, KDI had in progress 23 ground-up development projects located in ten
states. In addition, KDI manages the construction of five domestic projects for the Company.
During 2006, KDI expended approximately $468.7 million in connection with the purchase of land and
construction costs related to these projects and those sold during 2006. These projects are
currently proceeding on schedule and substantially in line with the Company’s budgeted costs. The
Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these development projects will be approximately
$400 million to $450 million during 2007. The proceeds from the sale of completed ground-up
development projects during 2007, proceeds from construction loans and availability under the
Company’s revolving lines of credit are expected to be sufficient to fund these anticipated capital
requirements.

Acquisitions -

During 2006, KDI acquired various land parcels, in separate transactions, for an aggregate purchase
price of approximately $101.0 million. The estimated project costs for these newly acquired
parcels are approximately $194.3 million with completion dates ranging from June 2007 to June 2009.
Details of these acquisitions are as follows:

Purchase Price

Date Acquired

City

State

(in millions)

February 2006

Grand Praire

TX

$

13.1

March 2006

Various

AZ, TN

17.6

May 2006

Jacksonville

FL

0.5

June 2006

Various

FL, AK

9.2

July 2006

Nampa

ID

5.1

August 2006

Various

FL, TX

13.9

September 2006

Council Bluffs

IA

3.0

November 2006

McMinnville

OR

4.1

December 2006

Various

FL, AZ

34.5

$

101.0

During 2006, the Company obtained individual construction loans on three ground-up development
projects and repaid construction loans on five ground-up development projects. In addition, the
Company assigned a $7.2 million construction loan, which bore interest at LIBOR plus 1.75% and was
scheduled to mature in November 2006, in connection with the sale of its partnership interest in
one project. At December 31, 2006, total loan commitments on the Company’s 13 outstanding
construction loans aggregated approximately $330.9 million of which approximately $271.0 million
has been funded. These loans have maturities ranging from two months to 31 months and bear
interest at rates ranging from 6.87% to 7.32% at December 31, 2006.

Dispositions -

During 2006, KDI sold, in separate transactions, six of its recently completed projects, its
partnership interest in one project and 30 out-parcels for approximately $260.0 million. These
sales resulted in pre-tax gains of approximately $37.3 million. Details are as follows:



Sales Price

Date Sold

Project

State

(in millions)

January 2006

Various (3
out-parcels) and 2
earn-out proceeds

AZ, FL, WA

$

4.1

February 2006

Various (4 out-parcels)

NC, NE, TX

6.3

March 2006

Various (3
out-parcels) and 2
earn-out proceeds

AZ, FL, TX, WA

6.1

April 2006

Two out-parcels

AZ, NC

3.3

May 2006

Various (3 out-parcels)

AZ, ID, NC

3.4

June 2006

Completed projects in
Burleson and Lake
Worth, TX, 6
out-parcels, and
earn-out proceeds

AZ, ID, NC, NE, MS,

TX, WA

58.5

July 2006

One out-parcel

NC

0.4

August 2006

Houston, TX, project,
one out-parcel and an
ownership interest in
a project in Anthem,
AZ

AZ, TX, WA

58.9

September 2006

Earn-out proceeds

TX, FL

3.2

November 2006

Completed project in
Raleigh, NC, 5
out-parcels, and earn
out proceeds

AZ, ID, FL, NC, TX

27.9

December 2006

Completed projects in
Beaumont and San
Antonio, TX, 2
out-parcels and
earn-out proceeds

AZ, FL, TX

87.9

$

260.0

Long-Term Investment Project -

During 2006, the Company acquired land in Chambersburg, PA, for a purchase price of approximately
$8.9 million. The land will be developed into a 0.4 million square foot retail center with a total
estimated project cost of approximately $31.6 million.

Operating Real Estate Joint Venture Investments -

Kimco Prudential Joint Venture (“KimPru”) -

On July 9, 2006, the Company entered into a definitive merger agreement with Pan Pacific. Under the
terms of the agreement, the Company agreed to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Pan Pacific
for total merger consideration of $70.00 per share. As permitted under the merger agreement, the
Company elected to issue $10.00 per share of the total merger consideration in the form of Common
Stock to be based upon the average closing price of the Common Stock over ten trading days
immediately preceding the closing date.

On September 25, 2006, Pan Pacific stockholders approved the proposed merger and the closing
occurred on October 31, 2006. In addition to the merger consideration of $70.00 per share, Pan
Pacific stockholders also received $0.2365 per share as a pro-rata portion of Pan Pacific’s regular
$0.64 per share dividend for each day between September 26, 2006 and the closing date.

The transaction had a total value of approximately $4.1 billion, including Pan Pacific’s
outstanding loans totaling approximately $1.1 billion. As of October 31, 2006, Pan Pacific owned
interests in 138 operating properties, which comprised approximately 19.9 million square feet of
GLA, located primarily in California, Oregon, Washington and Nevada.

Funding for this transaction was provided by approximately $1.3 billion of new individual
non-recourse mortgage loans encumbering 51 properties, a $1.2 billion two year credit facility
provided by a consortium of banks and guaranteed by the joint venture partners described below and
the Company, the issuance of 9,185,847 shares of Common Stock valued at approximately $407.7
million, the assumption of approximately $630.0 million of unsecured bonds and approximately $289.4
million of existing non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering 23 properties and approximately $300.0
million in cash. With respect to the $1.2 billion guarantee by the Company, PREI, as defined
below, guaranteed reimbursement to the Company of 85% of any guaranty payment the Company is
obligated to make.

Immediately following the merger, the Company commenced its joint venture agreements with
Prudential Real Estate Investors (“PREI”) through three separate accounts managed by PREI. In
accordance with the joint venture agreements, all Pan Pacific assets, the respective non-recourse
mortgage debt and the $1.2 billion credit facility mentioned above were transferred to the separate
accounts. PREI contributed approximately $1.1 billion on



behalf of institutional investors in three of its portfolios. The Company holds 15%
non-controlling ownership interests in each of these joint ventures, collectively KimPru, with a
total aggregate investment of approximately $194.8 million, and will account for these investments
under the equity method of accounting. In addition, the Company will manage the portfolios and
earn acquisition fees, leasing commissions, property management fees and construction management
fees.

During November 2006, KimPru sold an operating property for a sales price of approximately $5.3
million. There was no gain or loss recognized in connection with this sale.

Kimco Income REIT (“KIR”) -

The Company has a non-controlling limited partnership interest in KIR, manages the portfolio and
accounts for its investment under the equity method of accounting. Effective July 1, 2006, the
Company acquired an additional 1.7% limited partnership interest in KIR, which increased the
Company’s total non-controlling interest to approximately 45.0%.

During 2006, KIR disposed of two operating properties and one land parcel, in separate
transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $15.2 million. These sales resulted in
an aggregate gain of approximately $4.4 million of which the Company’s share of the gain was
approximately $1.9 million.

In April 2005, KIR entered into a three-year $30.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility,
which bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.40%. As of December 31, 2006, there was $14.0 million
outstanding under this facility.

As of December 31, 2006, the KIR portfolio was comprised of 66 operating properties aggregating
approximately 14.0 million square feet of GLA located in 19 states.

KROP Venture (“KROP”) -

During 2001, the Company formed the KROP joint venture with GE Capital Real Estate (“GECRE”), in
which the Company has a 20% non-controlling interest and manages the portfolio. The Company
accounts for its investment in KROP under the equity method of accounting.

During 2006, the Company recognized equity in income of KROP of approximately $34.0 million,
including profit participation of approximately $22.2 million.

During 2006, KROP acquired one operating property from the Company for an aggregate purchase price
of approximately $3.5 million.

During 2006, KROP sold three operating properties to a joint venture in which the Company has a 20%
non-controlling interest for an aggregate sales price of approximately $62.2 million. These sales
resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $26.7 million. As a result of its continued 20%
ownership interest in these properties, the Company deferred recognition of its share of these
gains. In addition, KROP sold one operating property to a joint venture in which the Company has a
19% non-controlling interest for a sales price of $96.0 million. This sale resulted in a gain of
approximately $42.3 million, of which the Company deferred 19% of its share of the gain as a result
of its continued ownership interest in the property.

Also during 2006, KROP sold nine operating properties, one out-parcel and one land parcel, in
separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $171.4 million. These sales
resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $49.6 million of which the Company’s share was
approximately $9.9 million.

During 2006, KROP obtained one non-recourse, non-cross collateralized variable rate mortgage for
$14.0 million on a property previously unencumbered with a rate of LIBOR plus 1.10%.

Additionally during 2006, KROP obtained a one-year $15.0 million unsecured term loan, which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.5%. This loan is guaranteed by the Company and
GECRE has guaranteed reimbursement to the Company of 80% of any guaranty payment the Company is
obligated to make.

As of December 31, 2006, the KROP portfolio was comprised of 25 operating properties aggregating
approximately 3.6 million square feet of GLA located in 10 states.



During August 2006, the Company and GECRE agreed to market for sale the remaining properties within
the KROP venture.

PL Retail LLC (“PL Retail”) -

The Company has a 15% non-controlling limited partnership interest in PL Retail, manages the
portfolio and accounts for its investment under the equity method of accounting.

During May 2006, PL Retail sold one operating property for a sales price of approximately $42.1
million, which resulted in a gain of approximately $3.9 million of which the Company’s share was
approximately $0.6 million.

Additionally during 2006, PL Retail sold one of its operating properties to a newly formed joint
venture in which the Company has a 19% non-controlling interest for a sales price of approximately
$109.0 million. No gain was recognized by the Company from this transaction as a result of its
continued ownership interest.

Proceeds of approximately $17.0 million from these sales were used by PL Retail to fully repay the
remaining balance of mezzanine financing and a promissory note that were previously provided by the
Company.

During 2005, PL Retail entered into a $39.5 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which
bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.675% and was scheduled to mature in February 2007. During 2007, the loan was extended to February 2008 at a reduced rate of LIBOR plus 0.45%. This facility is guaranteed by
the Company and the joint venture partner has guaranteed reimbursement to the Company of 85% of any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to make. As of December 31, 2006, there was $39.5 million
outstanding under this facility.

As of December 31, 2006, the PL Retail portfolio was comprised of 23 operating properties
aggregating approximately 5.8 million square feet of GLA located in seven states.

Kimco/UBS Joint Ventures (“KUBS”) -

The Company has joint venture investments with UBS Wealth Management North American Property Fund
Limited (“UBS”) in which the Company has non-controlling interests ranging from 15% to 20%. These
joint ventures, (collectively “KUBS”), were established to acquire high quality retail properties
primarily financed through the use of individual non-recourse mortgages. Capital contributions are
only required as suitable opportunities arise and are agreed to by the Company and UBS. The
Company manages the properties and accounts for its investments under the equity method of
accounting.

During 2006, KUBS acquired 15 operating properties for an aggregate purchase price of approximately
$447.8 million, which included approximately $136.8 million of non-recourse debt encumbering 13
properties, with maturities ranging from three to ten years with interest rates ranging from 4.74%
to 6.20%.

Additionally during 2006, KUBS acquired one operating property from the Company, and five operating
properties from joint ventures in which the Company has 15% to 20% non-controlling interests, for
an aggregate purchase price of approximately $297.0 million, including the assumption of
approximately $93.2 million of non-recourse mortgage debt, encumbering two of the properties, with
maturities ranging from six to seven years with interest rates ranging from 5.64% to 5.88%.

As of December 31, 2006, the KUBS portfolio was comprised of 31 operating center properties
aggregating approximately 5.0 million square feet of GLA located in 11 states.

Other Real Estate Joint Ventures —

During 2006, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, 18 operating properties and one ground
lease, through joint ventures in which the Company has non-controlling interests. These properties
were acquired for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $606.0 million, including
approximately $349.9 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering 12 of the properties. The
Company’s aggregate investment in these joint ventures was approximately $48.9 million. The
Company accounts for its investment in these joint ventures under the equity method of accounting.
Details of these transactions are as follows (in thousands):



Purchase Price

Month

Property Name

Location

Acquired

Cash

Debt

Total

GLA

Crème de la Crème (2 Locations)

Allen & Colleyville, TX

Feb-06

$

2,409

$

7,229

$

9,638


Five free-standing locations

CO, OR, NM, NY

Mar-06

7,000

—

7,000


Edgewater Commons

Edgewater, NJ

Mar-06

44,104

74,250

118,354


Long Gate Shopping
Ctr

Ellicot City, MD

Mar-06

36,330

40,200

76,530


Clackamas Promenade

Clakamas, OR

Mar-06

35,240

42,550

77,790


Crow Portfolio (3 Locations)

FL and TX

Apr-06

46,698

66,200

112,898


Great Northeast Plaza

Philadelphia, PA

Apr-06

36,500

—

36,500


Crème de la Crème

Coppell, TX

Jun-06

1,325

4,275

5,600


Westmont Portfolio

Houston, TX

Jun-06

14,000

47,200

61,200


Cypress Towne
Center

Cypress, TX

Aug-06

13,332

25,650

38,982


Bustleton
Dunkin Donuts
(ground lease)

Philadelphia, PA

Aug-06

1,000

—

1,000


Conroe Marketplace

Conroe, TX

Dec-06

18,150

42,350

60,500


$

256,088

$

349,904

$

605,992

3,187

During 2006, joint ventures, in which the Company has non-controlling interests ranging from 10% to
50%, disposed of, in separate transactions, six properties for an aggregate sales price of
approximately $62.4 million. These sales resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $8.1
million, of which the Company’s share was approximately $2.0 million.

The Company’s maximum exposure to losses associated with its unconsolidated joint ventures is
primarily limited to its carrying value in these investments. As of December 31, 2006, the
Company’s carrying value of its investments and advances in real estate joint ventures was
approximately $1.1 billion.

International Real Estate Investments -

Canadian Investments -

During March 2006, the Company acquired an interest in a portfolio of eight properties located in
various cities throughout Canada through a newly formed joint venture in which the Company has a
non-controlling interest. The Company’s investment in the joint venture was approximately CAD
$28.0 million (approximately USD $24.0 million), which includes funding for various renovation
costs. The joint venture purchased the properties for approximately CAD $100.0 million
(approximately USD $86.0 million), subject to approximately CAD $81.2 million (USD $69.6 million)
of cross-collateralized mortgage debt.

During 2006, the Company provided through 12 separate Canadian preferred equity investments, an
aggregate of approximately CAD $121.3 million (approximately USD $104.0 million) to developers and
owners of 32 real estate properties.

The Company applies the equity method of accounting for the Canadian investments described
above.



Mexican Investments -

During January 2006, the Company transferred 50% of its 60% interest in an operating property in
Guadalajara, Mexico, to a joint venture partner for approximately $12.8 million, which approximated
its carrying value. As a result of this transaction, the Company now holds a 30% non-controlling
interest and continues to account for its investment under the equity method of accounting.

During June 2006, the Company acquired, through a newly formed joint venture, in which the Company
has a non-controlling interest, a 0.1 million square foot development project in Puerta Vallarta,
Mexico, for a purchase price of MXP 65.4 million (approximately USD $5.7 million). Total estimated
project costs are approximately USD $7.3 million. The Company accounts for this investment under
the equity method of accounting.

Additionally, during June 2006, the Company transferred 50% of its 60% interest in a development
property located in Tijuana, Baja California, Mexico, to a joint venture partner for approximately
$6.4 million, which approximated its carrying value. As a result of this transaction, the Company
now holds a 30% non-controlling interest and continues to account for its investment under the
equity method of accounting.

During July 2006, the Company acquired the completed improvements on a recently acquired
development property located in Saltillo, Mexico, for approximately MXP 43.6 million (approximately
USD $4.0 million).

During August 2006, the Company sold 50% of its 100% interest in a development property located in
Monterrey, Mexico, to a joint venture partner for approximately $9.6 million, which approximated its
carrying value. The Company accounts for its remaining 50% non-controlling interest under the
equity method of accounting.

During November 2006, the Company acquired an operating property for a purchase price of MXP 180.0
million (approximately USD $16.5 million) in Mexicali, Baja California, Mexico, comprising
approximately 0.1 million square feet of GLA.

During 2006, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, ten operating properties, through a
joint venture in which the Company has a 50% non-controlling interest. These properties were
acquired for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $35.1 million. The Company accounts for
its investment in this joint venture under the equity method of accounting.

During 2006, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, nine parcels of land in various cities
throughout Mexico for an aggregate purchase price of approximately MXP 1.3 billion (approximately
USD $119.3 million). The properties were at various stages of construction at acquisition and will
be developed into retail centers aggregating approximately 3.4 million square feet. Total
estimated remaining project costs are approximately USD $324.2 million.

Other Real
Estate Investments -

Preferred Equity Capital -

The Company maintains a Preferred Equity program, which provides capital to developers and owners
of real estate properties. During 2006, the Company provided in separate transactions, an
aggregate of approximately $223.9 million in investment capital to developers and owners of 101
real estate properties, including the Canadian investments described above. As of December 31,
2006, the Company’s net investment under the Preferred Equity program was approximately $400.4
million relating to 215 properties. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company earned
approximately $40.1 million, including $12.2 million of profit participation earned from 16 capital
transactions from these investments.

Other Investments -

Kimsouth -

During November 2002, the Company, through its taxable REIT subsidiary, together with Prometheus
Southeast Retail Trust, completed the merger and privatization of Konover Property Trust, which was
renamed Kimsouth Realty, Inc., (“Kimsouth”). As of January 1, 2006, Kimsouth consisted of five
properties.



During May 2006, the Company acquired an additional 48% interest in Kimsouth for approximately
$22.9 million, which increased the Company’s total ownership to 92.5%. As a result of this
transaction, the Company became the controlling shareholder and had, therefore, commenced
consolidation of Kimsouth upon the closing date.

During June 2006, Kimsouth contributed approximately $51.0 million, of which $47.2 million, or 92.5%
was provided by the Company to fund its 15% non-controlling interest in a newly formed joint
venture with an investment group to acquire a portion of Albertson’s Inc. To maximize investment
returns, the investment group’s strategy, with respect to this joint venture, includes refinancing,
selling selected stores and the enhancement of operations at the remaining stores. This investment
is included in Other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. During February 2007, this joint
venture completed the disposition of certain operating stores and a refinancing of the remaining
assets held in the joint venture. As a result of these transactions, Kimsouth received a cash
distribution of approximately $121.3 million.

During July 2006, Kimsouth contributed approximately $3.7 million to fund its 15% non-controlling
interest in a newly formed joint venture with an investment group to acquire 50 grocery anchored
operating properties. During September 2006, Kimsouth contributed an additional $2.2 million to
this joint venture to acquire an operating property in Sacramento, CA, comprising approximately 0.1
million square feet of GLA, for a purchase price of approximately $14.5 million. This joint
venture investment is included in Investment and advances in real estate joint ventures in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets and is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.

During 2006, Kimsouth sold two properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $9.8
million and transferred two properties to a joint venture in which the Company has an 18%
non-controlling interest for an aggregate price of approximately $54.0 million, which included the
repayment of approximately $23.1 million in mortgage debt.

Mortgages and Other Financing Receivables -

During January 2006, the Company provided approximately $16.0 million as its share of a $50.0
million junior participation in a $700.0 million first mortgage loan in connection with a private
investment firm’s acquisition of a retailer. This loan participation bore interest at LIBOR plus
7.75% per annum and had a two-year term with a one-year extension option and was collateralized by
certain real estate interests of the retailer. During June 2006, the borrower elected to pre-pay
the outstanding loan balance of approximately $16.0 million in full satisfaction of this loan.

Additionally, during January 2006, the Company provided approximately $5.2 million as its share of
an $11.5 million term loan to a real estate developer for the acquisition of a 59-acre land parcel
located in San Antonio, TX. This loan is interest only at a fixed rate of 11.0% for a term of two
years payable monthly and collateralized by a first mortgage on the subject property. As of
December 31, 2006, the outstanding balance on this loan was approximately $5.2 million.

During February 2006, the Company committed to provide a one-year $17.2 million credit facility at
a fixed rate of 8.0% for a term of nine months and 9.0% for the remaining term to a real estate
investor for the recapitalization of a discount and entertainment mall that it currently owns.
During 2006, this facility was fully paid and terminated.

During April 2006, the Company provided two separate mortgages aggregating $14.5 million on a
property owned by a real estate investor. Proceeds were used to pay off the existing first
mortgage, buyout the existing partner and for redevelopment of the property. The mortgages bear
interest at 8.0% per annum and mature in 2008 and 2013. These mortgages are collateralized by the
subject property. As of December 31, 2006, the aggregate outstanding balance on these mortgages
was approximately $15.0 million, including $0.5 million of accrued interest.

During May 2006, the Company provided a CAD $23.5 million collateralized credit facility at a fixed
rate of 8.5% per annum for a term of two years to a real estate company for the execution of its
property acquisitions program. The credit facility is guaranteed by the real estate company. The
Company was issued 9,811 units, valued at approximately USD $0.1 million, and warrants to purchase
up to 0.1 million shares of the real estate company as a loan origination fee. During August 2006,
the Company increased the credit facility to CAD $45.0 million and received an additional 9,811
units, valued at approximately USD $0.1 million, and warrants to purchase up to 0.1 million shares
of the real estate company. As of December 31, 2006, the outstanding balance on this credit
facility was approximately CAD $3.6 million (approximately USD $3.1 million).



During September 2005, a newly formed joint venture, in which the Company had an 80% interest,
acquired a 90% interest in a $48.4 million mortgage receivable for a purchase price of
approximately $34.2 million. This loan bore interest at a rate of three-month LIBOR plus 2.75% per
annum and was scheduled to mature on January 12, 2010. A 626-room hotel located in Lake Buena
Vista, FL, collateralized the loan. The Company had determined that this joint venture entity was a
Variable Interest Entity (“VIE”) and had further determined that the Company was the primary
beneficiary of this VIE and had, therefore, consolidated it for financial reporting purposes. During
March 2006, the joint venture acquired the remaining 10% of this mortgage receivable for a purchase
price of approximately $3.8 million. During June 2006, the joint venture accepted a pre-payment of
approximately $45.2 million from the borrower as full satisfaction of this loan.

During August 2006, the Company provided $8.8 million as its share of a $13.2 million 12-month term
loan to a retailer for general corporate purposes. This loan bears interest at a fixed rate of
12.50% with interest payable monthly and a balloon payment for the principal balance at maturity.
The loan is collateralized by the underlying real estate of the retailer. Additionally, the
Company funded $13.3 million as its share of a $20.0 million revolving Debtor-in-Possession
facility to this retailer. The facility bears interest at LIBOR plus 3.00% and has an unused line
fee of 0.375%. This credit facility is collateralized by a first priority lien on all the
retailer’s assets. As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s share of the outstanding balance on this
loan and credit facility was approximately $7.6 million and $4.9 million, respectively.

During September 2006, the Company provided a MXP 57.3 million (approximately USD $5.3 million)
loan to an owner of an operating property in Mexico. The loan, which is collateralized by the
property, bears interest at 12.0% per annum and matures in 2016. The Company is entitled to a
participation feature of 25% of annual cash flows after debt service and 20% of the gain on sale of
the property. As of December 31, 2006, the outstanding balance on this loan was approximately MXP
57.8 million (approximately USD $5.3 million).

During November 2006, the Company committed to provide a MXP 124.8 million (approximately USD $11.5
million) loan to an owner of a land parcel in Acapulco, Mexico. The loan, which is collateralized
with an operating property owned by the borrower, bears interest at 10% per annum and matures in
2016. The Company is entitled to a participation feature of 20% of excess cash flows and 20% of
the gain on sale of the property. As of December 31, 2006, the outstanding balance on this loan
was approximately MXP 12.8 million (approximately USD $1.2 million).

During December 2006, the Company provided $5.0 million as its share of a one-year $27.5 million
mortgage loan to a real estate developer. The proceeds were used to pay off the existing debt. The
loan is collateralized by a parcel of land and bears interest at a fixed rate of 13%, which is
payable monthly with any unpaid accrued interest and principal payable at maturity. As of December
31, 2006, the outstanding balance on this loan was approximately $5.0 million.

Financing Transactions -

Non-Recourse Mortgage Debt -

During 2006, the Company (i) obtained an aggregate of approximately $52.7 million of individual
non-recourse mortgage debt on five operating properties, (ii) assumed approximately $253.6 million
of individual non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the acquisition of 19 operating properties,
including approximately $2.9 million of fair value debt adjustments, (iii) consolidated
approximately $27.1 million of non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the purchase of additional
ownership interests in various entities, (iv) paid off approximately $61.9 million of individual
non-recourse mortgage debt that encumbered 16 operating properties and (v) assigned approximately
$3.9 million of non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the sale of one operating property.

Unsecured Debt -

During March 2006, the Company issued $300.0 million of fixed rate unsecured senior notes under its
MTN program. This fixed rate MTN matures March 15, 2016, and bears interest at 5.783% per annum.
The proceeds from this MTN issuance were primarily used to repay a portion of the outstanding
balance under the Company’s U.S. revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes.

During June 2006, the Company entered into a third supplemental indenture, under the indenture
governing its medium-term notes and senior notes. This amended the (i) total debt test and secured
debt test by changing the asset value definition from undepreciated



real estate assets to total assets, with total assets being defined as undepreciated real estate
assets, plus other assets (but excluding goodwill and amortized debt costs) and (ii) maintenance of
unencumbered total asset value covenant by increasing the requirement of the ratio of unencumbered
total asset value to outstanding unsecured debt from 1 to 1 to 1.5 to 1. Additionally, the same
amended covenants were adopted within the Canadian supplemental indenture, which governs the 4.45%
Canadian Debentures due in 2010. In connection with the consent solicitation, the Company incurred
costs aggregating approximately $5.8 million, of which $1.8 million was related to costs paid to
third parties, which were expensed. The remaining $4.0 million was related to fees paid to note
holders, which were capitalized and are being amortized over the remaining term of the notes.

During 2006, the Company repaid its $30.0 million 6.93% fixed rate notes, which matured on July 20,
2006, $100.0 million floating rate notes, which matured August 1, 2006, and $55.0 million 7.50%
fixed rate notes, which matured on November 5, 2006.

During August 2006, Kimco North Trust III, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, completed the
issuance of $200.0 million Canadian denominated senior unsecured notes. The notes bear interest at
5.18% and mature on August 16, 2013. The proceeds were used by Kimco North Trust III, to pay down
outstanding indebtedness under the existing Canadian credit facility and to fund long-term
investments in Canadian real estate.

In connection with the October 31, 2006, Pan Pacific merger transaction, the Company assumed $650.0
million of unsecured notes payable, including $20.0 million of fair value debt premiums. These
notes bear interest at fixed rates ranging from 4.70% to 7.95% per annum and have maturity dates
ranging from June 29, 2007, to September 1, 2015.

Construction Loans -

During 2006, the Company obtained construction financing on three ground-up development projects
for an original loan commitment of up to $83.8 million, of which approximately $36.0 million was
funded as of December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had a total of 13
construction loans with commitments of up to $330.9 million, of which $271.0 million had been
funded to the Company. These loans had maturities ranging from two months to 31 months and
variable interest rates ranging from 6.87% to 7.32% at December 31, 2006.

Credit Facility -

The Company has a CAD $250.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of banks.
This facility originally bore interest at the CDOR Rate, as defined, plus 0.50% and is scheduled to
expire in March 2008. During January 2006, the facility was amended to reduce the borrowing spread
to 0.45% and to modify the covenant package to conform to the Company’s $850.0 million U.S. Credit
Facility. Proceeds from this facility are used for general corporate purposes including the
funding of Canadian denominated investments. As of December 31, 2006, there was no outstanding
balance under this facility.

Equity -

During March 2006, the Company completed a primary public stock offering of 10,000,000 shares of
Common Stock. The net proceeds from this sale of Common Stock, totaling approximately $405.5
million (after related transaction costs of $2.5 million) were primarily used to repay the
outstanding balance under the Company’s U.S. revolving credit facility, partial repayment of the
outstanding balance under the Company’s Canadian denominated credit facility and for general
corporate purposes.

During March 2006, the shareholders of Atlantic Realty approved a proposed merger with the Company,
and the closing occurred on March 31, 2006. As consideration for this transaction, the Company
issued Atlantic Realty shareholders 1,274,420 shares of Common Stock, excluding 748,510 shares of
Common Stock that were to be received by the Company, at a price of $40.41 per share. (See Note 17
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.)

During May 2006, the Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3ASR, which is
effective for a three-year term, for the unlimited future offerings, from time to time, of debt
securities, preferred stock, depositary shares, common stock and common stock warrants.

On September 25, 2006, Pan Pacific stockholders approved the proposed merger with the



Company and the closing occurred on October 31, 2006. Under the terms of the merger agreement, the
Company agreed to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Pan Pacific for total merger
consideration of $70.00 per share. As permitted under the merger agreement, the Company elected to
issue $10.00 per share of the total merger consideration in the form of Common Stock. As such, the
Company issued 9,185,847 shares of Common Stock valued at $407.7 million, which was based upon the
average closing price of the Common Stock over the ten trading days immediately preceding the
closing date. (See Recent Developments — Operating Real Estate Joint Venture Investments — Pan
Pacific Retail Properties Inc. and Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.)

During 2006, the Company received approximately $43.8 million through employee stock option
exercises and the dividend reinvestment program.

Exchange Listings

The Company’s common stock and Class F Depositary Shares are traded on the NYSE under the trading
symbols “KIM” and “KIMprF”, respectively.

Item 1A. Risk Factors

Set forth below are the material risks associated with the purchase and ownership of the Company’s
equity and debt securities. As an owner of real estate, the Company is subject to certain business
risks arising in connection with the underlying real estate, including, among other factors, the
following:

i) Loss of the Company’s tax status as a real estate investment trust could have significant
adverse consequences to the Company and the value of its securities.

The Company elected to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the Code commencing
with the taxable year beginning January 1, 1992. The Company currently intends to operate so as to
qualify as a REIT and believes that the Company’s current organization and method of operation
comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Code to enable us to qualify as a REIT.

Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions
for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of
various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within the Company’s control may affect the
Company’s ability to qualify as a REIT. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of
the Company’s gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and the Company
must satisfy a number of requirements regarding the composition of the Company’s assets. Also, the
Company must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of the Company’s
net taxable income, excluding capital gains. In addition, new legislation, regulations,
administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with
respect to qualification as a REIT, the federal income tax consequences of such qualification or
the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. Although the Company
believes that it is organized and has operated in such a manner, the Company can give no assurance
that it has qualified or will continue to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes.

If the Company loses its REIT status, it will face serious tax consequences that will substantially
reduce the funds available to pay dividends to Company stockholders. If the Company fails to
qualify as a REIT:

•

the Company would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in
computing its taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular
corporate rates;

•

the Company also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly
increased state and local taxes; and

•

unless the Company was entitled to relief under statutory provisions, it could not elect
to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which the
Company was disqualified.

In addition, if the Company fails to qualify as a REIT, it would not be required to make
distributions to stockholders.

As a result of all these factors, the Company’s failure to qualify as a REIT could impair its
ability to expand its business and raise capital, and could adversely affect the value



of the Company’s securities.

ii) Adverse market conditions and competition may impede the Company’s ability to generate
sufficient income to pay expenses and maintain properties.

The economic performance and value of the Company’s properties are subject to all of the risks
associated with owning and operating real estate including:

iii) Downturns in the retailing industry likely will have a direct impact on the Company’s
performance.

The Company’s properties consist primarily of community and neighborhood shopping centers and other
retail properties. The Company’s performance therefore is linked to economic conditions in the
market for retail space generally. The market for retail space has been or could be adversely
affected by weakness in the national, regional and local economies, the adverse financial condition
of some large retailing companies, the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector, the excess
amount of retail space in a number of markets, and increasing consumer purchases through catalogues
and the internet. To the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to impact
market rents for retail space.

iv) Failure by any anchor tenant with leases in multiple locations to make rental payments to the
Company because of a deterioration of its financial condition or otherwise, could impact the
Company’s performance.

The Company’s performance depends on its ability to collect rent from tenants. At any time, the
Company’s tenants may experience a downturn in their business that may significantly weaken their
financial condition. As a result, the Company’s tenants may delay a number of lease commencements,
decline to extend or renew leases upon expiration, fail to make rental payments when due, close
stores or declare bankruptcy. Any of these actions could result in the termination of the tenants’
leases and the loss of rental income attributable to the terminated leases. In addition, lease
terminations by an anchor tenant or a failure by that anchor tenant to occupy the premises could
result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants in the same shopping centers
under the terms of some leases. In that event, the Company may be unable to re-lease the vacated
space at attractive rents or at all. The occurrence of any of the situations described above,
particularly if it involves a substantial tenant with leases in multiple locations, could impact
the Company’s performance.

v) The Company may be unable to collect balances due from tenants in bankruptcy.

The Company cannot give assurance that any tenant that files for bankruptcy protection will
continue to pay rent. A bankruptcy filing by or relating to one of the Company’s tenants or a lease
guarantor would bar all efforts by the Company to collect pre-



bankruptcy debts from the tenant or the lease guarantor, or their property, unless the Company
receives an order permitting it to do so from the bankruptcy court. A tenant or lease guarantor
bankruptcy could delay the Company’s efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant
leases and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. If a lease is assumed by the tenant
in bankruptcy, all pre-bankruptcy balances due under the lease must be paid to the Company in full.
However, if a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, the Company would have only a general
unsecured claim for damages. Any unsecured claim the Company holds may be paid only to the extent
that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of
unsecured claims, and there are restrictions under bankruptcy laws which limit the amount of the
claim the Company can make if a lease is rejected. As a result, it is likely that the Company will
recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims it holds.

vi) Real estate property investments are illiquid, and therefore the Company may not be able to
dispose of properties when appropriate or on favorable terms.

Real estate property investments generally cannot be disposed of quickly. In addition, the federal
tax code imposes restrictions on a REIT’s ability to dispose of properties that are not applicable
to other types of real estate companies. Therefore, the Company may not be able to vary its
portfolio in response to economic or other conditions promptly or on favorable terms.

vii) We may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate related companies and this
may create risks.

We may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate related companies when we believe
that an acquisition or development is consistent with our business strategies. We may not, however,
succeed in consummating desired acquisitions or in completing developments on time or within
budget. In addition, we may face competition in pursuing acquisition or development opportunities
that could increase our costs. When we do pursue a project or acquisition, we may not succeed in
leasing newly developed or acquired properties at rents sufficient to cover their costs of
acquisition or development and operations. Difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove
costly or time-consuming and could divert management’s attention. Acquisitions or developments in
new markets or industries where we do not have the same level of market knowledge may result in
poorer than anticipated performance. We may also abandon acquisition or development opportunities
that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred and have
devoted management time to a matter not consummated. Furthermore, our acquisitions of new
properties or companies will expose us to the liabilities of those properties or companies, some of
which we may not be aware at the time of acquisition. In addition, development of our existing
properties presents similar risks.

viii) There is a lack of operating history with respect to our recent acquisitions and development
of properties and we may not succeed in the integration or management of additional properties.

These properties may not have characteristics or deficiencies currently unknown to us that affect
their value or revenue potential. It is also possible that the operating performance of these
properties may decline under our management. As we acquire additional properties, we will be
subject to risks associated with managing new properties, including lease-up and tenant retention.
In addition, our ability to manage our growth effectively will require us to successfully integrate
our new acquisitions into our existing management structure. We may not succeed with this
integration or effectively manage additional properties. Also, newly acquired properties may not
perform as expected.

ix) The Company does not have exclusive control over its joint venture investments, so the Company
is unable to ensure that its objectives will be pursued.

The Company has invested in some cases as a co-venturer or partner in properties, instead of owning
directly. These investments involve risks not present in a wholly-owned ownership structure. In
these investments, the Company does not have exclusive control over the development, financing,
leasing, management and other aspects of these investments. As a result, the co-venturer or partner
might have interests or goals that are inconsistent with the Company’s interests or goals, take
action contrary to the Company’s interests or otherwise impede the Company’s objectives. The
co-venturer or partner also might become insolvent or bankrupt.

x) We have significant international operations that carry additional risks.



We invest in, and conduct, operations outside the United States. The inherent risks that we face
in international business operations include, but are not limited to:

Each of these risks might impact our cash flow or impair our ability to borrow funds, which
ultimately could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash
flows.

xi) The Company’s financial covenants may restrict its operating and acquisition activities.

The Company’s revolving credit facilities and the indentures under which the Company’s senior
unsecured debt is issued contain certain financial and operating covenants, including, among other
things, certain coverage ratios, as well as limitations on the Company’s ability to incur secured
and unsecured debt, make dividend payments, sell all or substantially all of the Company’s assets
and engage in mergers and consolidations and certain acquisitions. These covenants may restrict
the Company’s ability to pursue certain business initiatives or certain acquisition transactions.
In addition, failure to meet any of the financial covenants could cause an event of default under
and/or accelerate some or all of the Company’s indebtedness, which would have a material adverse
effect on the Company.

xii) The Company may be subject to environmental regulations.

Under various federal, state, and local laws, ordinances and regulations, the Company may be
considered an owner or operator of real property and may be responsible for paying for the disposal
or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances released on or in the Company’s property, as well as
certain other potential costs which could relate to hazardous or toxic substances (including
governmental fines and injuries to persons and property). This liability may be imposed whether or
not the Company knew about, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances.

xiii) The Company’s ability to lease or develop properties is subject to competitive pressures

.

The Company faces competition in the acquisition, development, operation and sale of real property
from individuals and businesses who own real estate, fiduciary accounts and plans and other
entities engaged in real estate investment. Some of these competitors have greater financial
resources than the Company does. This results in competition for the acquisition of properties, for tenants
who lease or consider leasing space in the Company’s existing and subsequently acquired properties
and for other real estate investment opportunities.

xiv) Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s publicly
traded securities.

As with other publicly traded securities, the market price of the Company’s publicly traded
securities depends on various market conditions, which may change from time-to-time. Among the
market conditions that may affect the market price of the Company’s publicly traded securities are
the following:

•

the extent of institutional investor interest in the Company;



Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None

Item 2. Properties

Real Estate Portfolio

As of January 1, 2007, the Company’s real estate portfolio was
comprised of interests in approximately 138.0 million square feet of GLA (not including 36
properties under development comprising 3.5 million square feet of GLA related to the Preferred
Equity program, 38 property interests comprising 0.7 million square feet of GLA related to FNC
Realty, 61 property interests comprising 6.4 million square feet of GLA related to the American
Industries portfolio, 51 property interests comprising 2.5 million square feet of GLA related to
the NewKirk Portfolio and 22.4 million square feet of planned GLA for the 77 ground-up development
projects and undeveloped land parcels) in 1,061 operating properties primarily consisting of
neighborhood and community shopping centers, and 20 retail store leases located in 45 states,
Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico. The Company’s portfolio includes interests ranging from 5% to 50%
in 397 shopping center properties comprising approximately 63.7 million square feet of GLA relating
to the Company’s investment management program. Neighborhood and community shopping centers
comprise the primary focus of the Company’s current portfolio. As of January 1, 2007,
approximately 95.5% of the Company’s neighborhood and community shopping center space (excluding
the Pan Pacific, KIR, KROP and other institutional co-investment program portfolios) was leased,
and the average annualized base rent per leased square foot of the portfolio was $10.19.

The Company’s neighborhood and community shopping center properties, generally owned and operated
through subsidiaries or joint ventures, had an average size of approximately 131,000 square feet as
of January 1, 2007. The Company generally retains its shopping centers for long-term investment
and consequently pursues a program of regular physical maintenance together with major renovations
and refurbishing to preserve and increase the value of its properties. These projects usually
include renovating existing facades, installing uniform signage, resurfacing parking lots and
enhancing parking lot lighting. During 2006, the Company capitalized approximately $8.4 million in
connection with these property improvements and expensed to operations approximately $14.6 million.

The Company’s neighborhood and community shopping centers are usually “anchored” by a national or
regional discount department store, supermarket or drugstore. As one of the original participants
in the growth of the shopping center industry and one of the nation’s largest owners and operators
of shopping centers, the Company has established close relationships with a large number of major
national and regional retailers. Some of the major national and regional companies that are
tenants in the Company’s shopping center properties include The Home Depot, TJX Companies, Sears
Holdings, Kohl’s, Wal-Mart, Value City, Linens N Things, Burlington Coat, Royal Ahold and Costco.

A substantial portion of the Company’s income consists of rent received under long-term leases.
Most of the leases provide for the payment of fixed base rentals monthly in advance and for the
payment by tenants of an allocable share of the real estate taxes, insurance, utilities and common
area maintenance expenses incurred in operating the shopping centers. Although many of the leases
require the Company to make roof and structural repairs as needed, a number of tenant leases place
that responsibility on the tenant, and the Company’s standard small store lease provides for roof
repairs to be reimbursed by the tenant as part of common area maintenance. The Company’s
management places a strong emphasis on sound construction and safety at its properties.



Approximately 1,960 of the Company’s 8,260 leases also contain provisions requiring the payment of
additional rent calculated as a percentage of tenants’ gross sales above predetermined thresholds.
Percentage rents accounted for approximately 1% of the Company’s revenues from rental property for
the year ended December 31, 2006.

Minimum base rental revenues and operating expense reimbursements accounted for approximately 99%
of the Company’s total revenues from rental property for the year ended December 31, 2006. The
Company’s management believes that the base rent per leased square foot for many of the Company’s
existing leases is generally lower than the prevailing market-rate base rents in the geographic
regions where the Company operates, reflecting the potential for future growth.

For the period January 1, 2006, to December 31, 2006, the Company increased the average base rent
per leased square foot in its portfolio of neighborhood and community shopping centers from $9.44
to $10.19, an increase of $0.75. This increase primarily consists of (i) a $0.40 increase relating
to acquisitions, (ii) a $0.05 increase relating to dispositions or the transfer of properties to
various joint venture entities, (iii) a $0.02 increase related to the fluctuation in exchange rates
related to Canadian and Mexican-denominated leases and (iv) a $0.28 increase relating to new leases
signed net of leases vacated and rent step-ups within the portfolio.

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through geographic and tenant
diversity. No single neighborhood and community shopping center accounted for more than 0.8% of
the Company’s total shopping center GLA or more than 1.6% of total annualized base rental revenues
as of December 31, 2006. The Company’s five largest tenants at December 31, 2006, were The Home
Depot, TJX Companies, Sears Holdings, Kohl’s and Wal-Mart, which represent approximately 3.5%,
2.9%, 2.5%, 2.2% and 2.1%, respectively, of the Company’s annualized base rental revenues,
including the proportionate share of base rental revenues from properties in which the Company has
less than a 100% economic interest. The Company maintains an active leasing and capital
improvement program that, combined with the high quality of the locations, has made, in
management’s opinion, the Company’s properties attractive to tenants.

The Company’s management believes its experience in the real estate industry and its relationships
with numerous national and regional tenants gives it an advantage in an industry where ownership is
fragmented among a large number of property owners.

Retail Store Leases

In addition to neighborhood and community shopping centers, as of
January 1, 2007, the Company had interests in retail store leases totaling approximately 1.8
million square feet of anchor stores in 20 neighborhood and community shopping centers located in
14 states. As of January 1, 2007, approximately 99.8% of the space in these anchor stores had been
sublet to retailers that lease the stores under net lease agreements providing for average
annualized base rental payments of $4.02 per square foot. The average annualized base rental
payments under the Company’s retail store leases to the landowners of such subleased stores are
approximately $2.41 per square foot. The average remaining primary term of the retail store leases
(and, similarly, the remaining primary term of the sublease agreements with the tenants currently
leasing such space) is approximately three years, excluding options to renew the leases for terms
which generally range from 5 years to 20 years. The Company’s investment in retail store leases is
included in the caption Other real estate investments on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Ground-Leased Properties

The Company has interests in 83 shopping center properties that
are subject to long-term ground leases where a third party owns and has leased the underlying land
to the Company (or an affiliated joint venture) to construct and/or operate a shopping center. The
Company or the joint venture pays rent for the use of the land and generally is responsible for all
costs and expenses associated with the building and improvements. At the end of these long-term
leases, unless extended, the land together with all improvements revert to the landowner.

Ground-Up Development Properties

The Company is engaged in ground-up development projects
which consists of (i) merchant building through the Company’s wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiary
KDI, which develops neighborhood and community shopping centers and the subsequent sale thereof
upon completion, (ii) U.S. ground-up development projects which will be held as long-term
investments by the Company and (iii) various ground-up development projects located in Mexico and
Canada for long-term investment (see Recent

Developments —
International

Real Estate Investments
and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form
10-K). The ground-up development projects generally have substantial pre-leasing prior to the
commencement of the construction. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had in progress a



total of 45 ground-up development projects including 23 merchant building projects, six domestic
ground-up development projects, and 16 ground-up development projects located throughout Mexico.

As of January 1, 2007, KDI has currently in progress 23 ground-up development projects located in
ten states, which are expected to be sold upon completion. These projects had substantial
pre-leasing prior to the commencement of construction. As of January 1, 2007, the average annual
base rent per leased square foot for the KDI portfolio was $15.91 and the average annual base rent
per leased square foot for new leases executed in 2006 was $15.75.

Undeveloped Land

The Company owns certain unimproved land tracts and parcels of land
adjacent to certain of its existing shopping centers that are held for possible expansion. At
times, should circumstances warrant, the Company may develop or dispose of these parcels.

The table on pages 29 to 41 sets forth more specific information with respect to each of the
Company’s property interests.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

The Company is not presently involved in any litigation nor, to its knowledge, is any litigation
threatened against the Company or its subsidiaries that, in management’s opinion, would result in
any material adverse effect on the Company’s ownership, management or operation of its properties,
or which is not covered by the Company’s liability insurance.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.



YEAR

OWNERSHIP

LAND

LEASABLE

PERCENT

MAJOR LEASES

DEVELOPED

INTEREST/

AREA

AREA

LEASED

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LOCATION

OR ACQUIRED

(EXPIRATION)(2)

(ACRES)

(SQ. FT.)

(1)

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

ALABAMA

HOOVER


FEE

11.5

115,347

100.0

WAL-MART



MOBILE (9)


JOINT VENTURE

48.8

375,822

75.3

ACADEMY SPORTS & OUTDOORS



TURNER FURNITURE



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



ALASKA

ANCHORAGE (4)


JOINT VENTURE

24.6

95,000

100.0

MICHAELS



BED BATH & BEYOND



OLD NAVY



KENAI


JOINT VENTURE

14.7

146,759

100.0

HOME DEPOT



ARIZONA

CHANDLER (4)


JOINT VENTURE

29.3

-

—

GILBERT (4)


JOINT VENTURE

57.9

-

—

GLENDALE


JOINT VENTURE

16.5

96,337

100.0

MOR FURNITURE FOR LESS


MICHAELS



ANNA’S LINENS



GLENDALE (12)


FEE

6.4

70,428

100.0

SAFEWAY



GLENDALE (8)


JOINT VENTURE

40.5

333,388

95.7

COSTCO



FLOOR & DECOR



LEVITZ



MARANA


FEE

18.2

191,008

100.0

LOWE’S HOME CENTER



MARANA (4)


JOINT VENTURE

158.9

-

—

MESA


FEE

19.8

144,617

79.1

ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



BLACK ANGUS



MESA (12)


FEE

29.4

307,375

99.6

SPORTS AUTHORITY



SIMPLY ARTRAGEOUS



CIRCUIT CITY



MESA (4)


GROUND LEASE (2076)/ JOINT VENTURE

6.1

829,000

100.0

WAL-MART



HOME DEPOT



CINEMARK



MESA (4)


JOINT VENTURE

43.1

-

—

NORTH PHOENIX


FEE

17.0

230,164

100.0

BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY



GUITAR CENTER



MICHAELS



PEORIA (4)


JOINT VENTURE

2.2

-

—

PHOENIX


FEE

26.6

304,331

100.0

COSTCO



PHOENIX RANCH MARKET



PHOENIX


FEE

13.4

153,180

93.7

HOME DEPOT



JO-ANN FABRICS



PHOENIX


FEE

17.5

131,621

95.6

SAFEWAY



TRADER JOE’S



PHOENIX


JOINT VENTURE

1.6

16,410

100.0

CHAPMAN BMW



PHOENIX (7)


FEE

9.4

95,329

61.8

DOLLAR TREE



SURPRISE (4)


JOINT VENTURE

113.4

-

—

TEMPE (12)


FEE

24.0

228,000

100.0

TERRI’S CONSIGN & DESIGN



CIRCUIT CITY



JCPENNEY



TUCSON


JOINT VENTURE

17.8

190,174

100.0

LOWE’S HOME CENTER



CALIFORNIA

ALHAMBRA


FEE

18.4

195,455

100.0

COSTCO



COSTCO



JO-ANN FABRICS



ANAHEIM


FEE

1.0

15,396

100.0

ANAHEIM (7)


FEE

36.1

345,708

98.6

MERVYN’S



GIGANTE



OFFICEMAX



ANAHEIM (7)


FEE

19.1

185,247

97.2

RALPHS



RITE AID



DOLLAR STORE



ANAHEIM (7)


FEE

8.5

105,085

96.2

STATER BROTHERS



SAV-ON DRUG



ANGEL’S CAMP (7)


FEE

5.1

77,967

100.0

SAVE MART



RITE AID



ANTELOPE (7)


FEE

13.1

119,998

94.0

FOOD MAXX



GOODWILL INDUSTRIES



BAKERSFIELD (7)


FEE

1.2

14,115

74.1

BELLFLOWER (7)


GROUND LEASE (2032)

9.1

113,511

100.0

STATER BROTHERS



STAPLES


CALSBAD (7)


FEE

21.1

160,928

99.0

MARSHALLS



DOLLAR TREE



KIDS ‘R’ US



CARMICHAEL


FEE

18.5

210,306

100.0

HOME DEPOT



SPORTS AUTHORITY



LONGS DRUGS



CHICO


FEE

1.3

19,560

93.9

CHICO (7)


FEE

1.0

264,680

95.5

FOOD MAXX



ASHLEY HOME FURNISHING



BED, BATH & BEYOND



CHICO (7)


FEE

18.3

186,553

97.9

RALEY’S



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



JO-ANN FABRICS



CHINO (7)


FEE

33.0

341,577

94.9

LA CURACAO



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



DD’S DISCOUNT



CHINO (7)


FEE

13.1

168,264

98.2

DOLLAR TREE



PETSMART



RITE AID



CHINO HILLS


FEE

7.3

73,352

98.5

STATER BROTHERS



CHINO HILLS (7)


FEE

11.8

128,121

61.0

CHULA VISTA


FEE

34.3

356,335

100.0

COSTCO



WAL-MART



NAVCARE


COLMA (14)


JOINT VENTURE

6.4

213,532

100.0

MARSHALLS


NORDSTROM RACK



BED BATH & BEYOND



CORONA


FEE

47.6

487,048

98.7

COSTCO



HOME DEPOT



LEVITZ



COVINA (8)


GROUND LEASE (2054)/ JOINT VENTURE

26.0

269,433

97.2

HOME DEPOT



STAPLES


PETSMART



CUPERTINO


FEE

11.5

114,533

92.6

99 RANCH MARKET



DALY CITY (3)


FEE

25.6

537,496

100.0

HOME DEPOT



BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY



SAFEWAY



DOWNEY (7)


GROUND LEASE (2009)

9.8

114,722

100.0

A WORLD OF DšCOR


DUBLIN (7)


FEE

12.4

154,728

100.0

ORCHARD SUPPLY HARDWARE


MARSHALLS



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



EL CAJON


JOINT VENTURE

10.9

123,343

100.0

KOHL’S



MICHAELS



EL CAJON (12)


FEE

10.4

98,474

98.3

RITE AID



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



PETCO



ELK GROVE


FEE

2.3

30,130

100.0

ELK GROVE


FEE

0.8

7,880

100.0

ELK GROVE (7)


FEE

8.1

89,216

100.0

BEL AIR MARKET



ELK GROVE (7)


FEE

5.0

34,015

96.6

ENCINITAS (7)


FEE

9.1

119,738

94.6

ALBERTSONS



TWEETER



ESCONDIDO (7)


FEE

12.1

132,832

100.0

SAV-ON DRUG



KAHOOTS



VALUE CRAFT



FAIR OAKS (7)


FEE

9.6

98,625

92.3

RALEY’S



FOLSOM


JOINT VENTURE

9.5

108,255

100.0

KOHL’S



FOLSOM (7)


FEE

14.0

141,310

98.0

RALEY’S



FREMONT (13) (6)


JOINT VENTURE

44.4

504,782

94.5

SAFEWAY



BED BATH & BEYOND



MARSHALLS



FREMONT (7)


FEE

11.9

131,242

100.0

ALBERTSONS



LONGS DRUGS



BALLY TOTAL FITNESS



FRESNO (12)


FEE

10.8

121,107

100.0

BED BATH & BEYOND



SPORTMART



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



FRESNO (7)


FEE

9.9

102,581

92.4

SAVE MART



RITE AID



FULLERTON (7)


GROUND LEASE (2025)

20.3

270,647

98.7

TOYS’R ‘US/CHUCK E.CHEESE



AMC THEATRES



AMC THEATERS



GARDENA (7)


FEE

6.5

65,987

100.0

TAWA MARKET



RITE AID



GRANITE BAY (7)


FEE

11.5

140,184

97.3

RALEY’S



GRASS VALLEY (7)


FEE

30.0

217,535

94.8

RALEY’S


JCPENNEY



COURTHOUSE ATHLETIC CLUB



HACIENDA HEIGHTS (7)


FEE

12.1

135,012

91.1

ALBERTSONS



VIVO DANCE



HAYWARD (7)


FEE

8.1

80,911

97.4

99 CENTS ONLY STORES



BIG LOTS



HUNTINGTON BEACH (7)


FEE

12.0

148,756

97.0

VONS



SAV-ON DRUG



JACKSON


FEE

9.2

67,665

100.0

RALEY’S



LA MIRADA


FEE

31.2

261,782

100.0

TOYS “R” US



US POST OFFICE



MOVIES 7 DOLLAR THEATRE



LA VERNE (7)


GROUND LEASE (2059)

20.1

231,376

98.4

TARGET



VONS STORE



LIVERMORE (7)


FEE

8.1

104,363

100.0

ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



RICHARD CRAFTS



BIG 5 SPORTING GOODS



LOS ANGELES (7)


GROUND LEASE (2070)

0.0

169,744

99.1

KMART



SUPERIOR MARKETS



SAV-ON



LOS ANGELES (7)


GROUND LEASE (2050)

14.6

165,195

97.8

RALPHS/FOOD 4 LESS



FACTORY 2-U



RITE AID



LOS BANOS (7)


FEE

7.7

110,535

97.8

SAVE MART



RITE AID



MANTECA


FEE

1.1

19,455

100.0

MANTECA (7)


FEE

13.3

171,953

99.1

STADIUM 10 CINEMAS



SAVE MART



RITE AID


MANTECA (7)


FEE

7.2

96,393

98.9

PAK ‘N’ SAVE


BIG 5 SPORTING GOODS


MERCED


FEE

1.6

27,350

91.2

MODESTO (7)


FEE

17.9

214,772

98.4

GOTTSCHALKS



RALEY’S



GOTTSCHALKS



MODESTO (7)


FEE

5.6

77,863

100.0

SAVE MART



MONTEBELLO (8)


JOINT VENTURE

25.4

251,489

100.0

SEARS



TOYS “R” US



AMC THEATRES



MORAGA (7)


FEE

33.7

163,975

96.6

TJ MAXX



LONGS DRUGS



U.S. POSTAL SERVICE



MORGAN HILL


JOINT VENTURE

8.1

103,362

100.0

HOME DEPOT



NAPA


GROUND LEASE (2070)/ JOINT VENTURE

34.5

349,530

100.0

TARGET



HOME DEPOT



RALEY’S



NORTHRIDGE


FEE

9.3

158,812

100.0

DSW SHOE WAREHOUSE



LINENS N THINGS



GELSON’S MARKET



NOVATO (7)


FEE

11.3

133,862

92.5

SAFEWAY



RITE AID



BIG LOTS



OCEANSIDE (7)


FEE

42.7

366,775

100.0

STEIN MART



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



BARNES & NOBLE



OCEANSIDE (7)


GROUND LEASE (2048)

9.5

92,378

87.1

LAMPS PLUS


TRADER JOE’S





YEAR

OWNERSHIP

LAND

LEASABLE

PERCENT

MAJOR LEASES

DEVELOPED

INTEREST/

AREA

AREA

LEASED

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LOCATION

OR ACQUIRED

(EXPIRATION)(2)

(ACRES)

(SQ. FT.)

(1)

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

OCEANSIDE (7)


FEE

10.2

88,414

94.4

VONS


LONGS DRUGS



ONTARIO (7)


FEE

14.1

97,131

97.9

PEP BOYS



24 HOUR FITNESS



ABBEY CARPET


ONTARIO (7)


FEE

14.1

45,075

100.0

SEARS OUTLET


DUNN EDWARDS CORP.


ORANGEVALE (7)


FEE

17.3

160,811

97.2

ALBERTSONS



LONGS DRUGS



US POST OFFICE


OXNARD (8)


JOINT VENTURE

14.4

171,580

100.0

TARGET



FOOD 4 LESS


24 HOUR FITNESS



PACIFICA (11)


JOINT VENTURE

13.6

168,871

98.2

SAFEWAY



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



RITE AID


PACIFICA (7)


FEE

7.5

103,081

100.0

ALBERTSONS



RITE AID



PALMDALE (7)


FEE

8.0

81,050

96.3

SMART & FINAL



DOLLAR TREE



BIG LOTS



PORTERVILLE (7)


FEE

0.3

81,010

95.0

SAVE MART



COUNTY OF TULARE



POWAY


FEE

8.3

121,977

91.8

STEIN MART



HOME GOODS



OFFICE DEPOT



RANCHO CUCAMONGA (7)


GROUND LEASE (2042)

17.1

286,824

97.3

FOOD 4 LESS



SPORTS CHALET



AMIGO’S FLOORING MONSTER



RANCHO CUCAMONGA (7)


FEE

5.2

56,019

100.0

SAV-ON DRUG



RANCHO MIRAGE (7)


FEE

16.9

150,391

91.7

VONS MARKET



LONGS DRUGS



RED BLUFF


FEE

4.6

23,200

100.0

REDDING


FEE

1.8

21,876

100.0

REDDING (7)


FEE

12.1

122,091

95.7

RALEY’S



REDWOOD CITY (12)


FEE

6.4

49,429

100.0

ORCHARD SUPPLY HARDWARE



RIVERSIDE


FEE

5.0

86,108

100.0

BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY



ROSEVILLE (12)


FEE

20.3

188,493

100.0

SPORTS AUTHORITY



LINENS N THINGS



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



SACRAMENTO (7)


FEE

23.1

189,043

100.0

SD MART



SEAFOOD CITY



BIG 5 SPORTING GOODS



SACRAMENTO (7)


FEE

10.8

132,630

99.8

KMART



SACRAMENTO (7)


FEE

13.2

116,668

98.6

UNITED ARTISTS THEATRE



24 HOUR FITNESS



SACRAMENTO (7)


FEE

6.6

69,230

100.0

BIG LOTS



SAN DIEGO (12)


FEE

42.1

411,375

100.0

PRICE SELF STORAGE


CHARLOTTE RUSSE



COSTCO



SAN DIEGO (12)


FEE

5.9

35,000

100.0

CLAIM JUMPER



SAN DIEGO (7)


GROUND LEASE (2016)

16.4

210,604

96.4

CIRCUIT CITY



TJ MAXX



SAV-ON DRUG



SAN DIEGO (8)


JOINT VENTURE

11.2

117,410

100.0

ALBERTSONS


SPORTMART


SAN DIMAS (7)


FEE

13.4

154,020

100.0

OFFICEMAX



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



PETCO



SAN JOSE (7)


FEE

16.8

183,180

100.0

WAL-MART



WALGREENS


SAN LEANDRO (7)


FEE

6.2

95,255

97.2

ROSS DRESS FOR LESS


MICHAELS



SAN LUIS OBISPO


FEE

17.6

174,428

98.2

VON’S



MICHAELS



SAV-ON DRUG



SAN RAMON (8)


JOINT VENTURE

5.3

41,913

100.0

PETCO



SANTA ANA


FEE

12.0

134,400

100.0

HOME DEPOT



SANTA CLARITA (7)


FEE

14.1

96,662

92.7

ALBERTSONS



SANTA ROSA


FEE

3.6

41,565

90.3

ACE HARDWARE



SANTEE


JOINT VENTURE

44.5

311,437

99.2

24 HOUR FITNESS


BED BATH & BEYOND



TJ MAXX



SIGNAL HILL (12)


FEE

15.0

181,250

99.5

HOME DEPOT



PETSMART



STOCKTON


FEE

14.6

152,919

87.2

SUPER UNITED FURNITURE



COSTCO



SUISON CITY (7)


FEE

14.9

161,851

98.3

RALEY’S



ACE HARDWARE



AMERICAN FURNISHINGS GALLERIES



TEMECULA (12)


FEE

47.4

345,113

99.7

WAL-MART



KOHL’S



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



TEMECULA (7)


FEE

17.9

139,130

100.0

ALBERTSONS



LONGS DRUGS



TEMECULA (8)


JOINT VENTURE

40.0

342,336

99.2

KMART



FOOD 4 LESS



TRISTONE THEATRES



TORRANCE (8)


JOINT VENTURE

26.7

266,847

100.0

HL TORRANCE



LINENS N THINGS



MARSHALLS



TRUCKEE


FEE

3.2

26,553

78.8

TULARE (7)


FEE

6.9

119,412

90.6

SAVE MART



RITE AID



DOLLAR TREE


TURLOCK (7)


FEE

10.1

111,612

100.0

RALEY’S



OUCHINA BUFFET



TUSTIN


JOINT VENTURE

9.1

108,413

100.0

KMART



TUSTIN (4)


JOINT VENTURE

47.2

626,000

100.0

TARGET



WHOLE FOODS



TJ MAXX



TUSTIN (7)


FEE

15.7

210,936

97.4

VONS



RITE AID



KRAGEN AUTO PARTS



TUSTIN (7)


FEE

12.9

138,348

98.8

RALPHS



LONGS DRUGS



MICHAELS



UKIAH (7)


FEE

11.1

110,565

98.5

RALEY’S



UPLAND (7)


FEE

22.5

273,167

99.0

HOME DEPOT



VONS PAVILIONS



STAPLES



VALENCIA (7)


FEE

13.6

143,333

100.0

RALPHS



LONGS DRUGS


VALLEJO (7)


FEE

14.2

150,766

97.1

RALEY’S



24 HOUR FITNESS



AARON RENTS



VALLEJO (7)


FEE

6.8

66,000

100.0

SAFEWAY



VISALIA (7)


FEE

3.1

46,460

96.2

CHUCK E. CHEESE



VISTA (7)


FEE

12.0

136,922

86.5

ALBERTSONS



SAV-ON DRUG



WALNUT CREEK (7)


FEE

3.2

114,733

100.0

CENTURY THEATRES


COST PLUS


WESTMINSTER (7)


FEE

16.4

208,660

99.1

VONS PAVILIONS



EASY LIFE FURNITURE


WINDSOR (7)


GROUND LEASE (2008)

13.1

127,237

98.6

SAFEWAY


LONGS DRUGS


WINDSOR (7)


FEE

9.8

107,769

100.0

RALEY’S



24-HOUR HEALTH CLUB



YREKA (7)


FEE

14.0

127,148

98.9

RALEY’S



JCPENNEY


DOLLAR TREE


COLORADO

AURORA


FEE

13.9

152,282

84.6

ALBERTSONS



DOLLAR TREE



CROWN LIQUORS


AURORA


FEE

9.9

44,174

91.1

AURORA (3)


FEE

13.8

154,536

87.9

ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



TJ MAXX



SPACE AGE FEDERAL CU



COLORADO SPRINGS


FEE

10.7

107,310

78.3

RANCHO LIBORIO


DENVER


FEE

1.5

18,405

100.0

SAVE-A-LOT



ENGLEWOOD


FEE

6.5

80,330

100.0

HOBBY LOBBY



OLD COUNTRY BUFFET



FORT COLLINS (3)


FEE

11.6

115,862

100.0

KOHL’S



GREELEY (13)


JOINT VENTURE

14.4

138,818

100.0

BED BATH & BEYOND



MICHAELS



CIRCUIT CITY



GREENWOOD VILLAGE


JOINT VENTURE

21.0

196,726

100.0

HOME DEPOT



LAKEWOOD


FEE

7.6

82,581

97.6

SAFEWAY



PUEBLO


JOINT VENTURE

3.3

30,809

—

CONNECTICUT

BRANFORD (8)


JOINT VENTURE

19.1

191,352

98.3

KOHL’S



SUPER FOODMART



DERBY


JOINT VENTURE

20.7

53,346

100.0

MARSHALLS


FASHION BUG


ENFIELD (8) (3)


JOINT VENTURE

14.9

148,517

100.0

KOHL’S



BEST BUY



FARMINGTON


FEE

16.9

184,572

100.0

SPORTS AUTHORITY



LINENS N THINGS



BORDERS BOOKS



HAMDEN


JOINT VENTURE

31.7

341,996

100.0

WAL-MART



BON-TON


BOB’S STORES



NORTH HAVEN


FEE

31.7

331,919

99.4

HOME DEPOT



BJ’S



XPECT DISCOUNT



WATERBURY


FEE

13.1

137,943

100.0

RAYMOUR & FLANIGAN FURNITURE



STOP & SHOP



DELAWARE

DOVER


FEE

0.4

4,000

100.0

ELSMERE


GROUND LEASE (2076)

17.1

114,530

100.0

VALUE CITY



MILFORD (9)


JOINT VENTURE

7.8

61,100

87.1

FOOD LION



WILMINGTON (11)


GROUND LEASE (2052)/ JOINT VENTURE

25.9

165,805

100.0

SHOPRITE



SPORTS AUTHORITY



RAYMOUR & FLANIGAN FURNITURE



FLORIDA

ALTAMONTE SPRINGS


JOINT VENTURE

19.4

233,817

99.0

BAER’S FURNITURE



LEATHER GALLERIES



DSW SHOE WAREHOUSE



ALTAMONTE SPRINGS


FEE

5.6

94,193

100.0

ORIENTAL MARKET



THOMASVILLE HOME



PEARL ARTS N CRAFTS



BOCA RATON


FEE

9.9

73,549

97.5

WINN DIXIE



BONITA SPRINGS (14)


JOINT VENTURE

8.0

79,676

97.8

PUBLIX



BOYNTON BEACH (8)


JOINT VENTURE

18.0

196,717

100.0

BEALLS



ALBERTSONS



BRADENTON


FEE

19.6

162,997

96.4

PUBLIX



TJ MAXX



JO-ANN FABRICS



BRADENTON


JOINT VENTURE

6.2

30,938

89.3

GRAND CHINA BUFFET



BRANDON (8)


JOINT VENTURE

29.7

143,785

100.0

BED BATH & BEYOND



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



THOMASVILLE HOME



CAPE CORAL (14)


JOINT VENTURE

12.7

127,016

98.5

PUBLIX



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



STAPLES



CAPE CORAL (14)


JOINT VENTURE

4.2

42,030

84.1

CLEARWATER


FEE

20.7

207,071

99.1

HOME DEPOT



JO-ANN FABRICS



STAPLES



CLEARWATER


JOINT VENTURE

12.1

75,552

100.0

FREEDOM FORD





YEAR

OWNERSHIP

LAND

LEASABLE

PERCENT

MAJOR LEASES

DEVELOPED

INTEREST/

AREA

AREA

LEASED

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LOCATION

OR ACQUIRED

(EXPIRATION)(2)

(ACRES)

(SQ. FT.)

(1)

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

CORAL SPRINGS


FEE

9.8

86,342

100.0

TJ MAXX



RAG SHOP



PARTY SUPERMARKET



CORAL SPRINGS


FEE

5.9

55,597

100.0

LINENS N THINGS



CORAL WAY


JOINT VENTURE

8.7

87,305

100.0

WINN DIXIE



STAPLES



CUTLER RIDGE


JOINT VENTURE

3.8

37,640

100.0

POTAMKIN CHEVROLET



DELRAY BEACH (14)


JOINT VENTURE

5.1

50,906

100.0

PUBLIX



EAST ORLANDO


GROUND LEASE (2068)

11.6

131,981

100.0

SPORTS AUTHORITY



OFFICE DEPOT



C-TOWN



FORT LAUDERDALE (12)


FEE

22.9

229,034

98.6

REGAL CINEMAS



OFFICE DEPOT



SPORTIVE


FORT MEYERS (14)


JOINT VENTURE

7.4

74,286

92.6

PUBLIX



HIALEAH


JOINT VENTURE

2.4

23,625

100.0

POTAMKIN CHEVROLET



HOLLYWOOD


JOINT VENTURE

5.0

50,000

100.0

HOME GOODS



MICHAELS



HOLLYWOOD (12)


FEE

98.9

871,723

99.8

HOME DEPOT



KMART



BJ’S



HOLLYWOOD (12)


FEE

10.5

137,196

87.8

MANTECH ADVANCED SYSTEMS



TRADER PUBLISHING COMPANY


KOS PHARMACEUTICALS, INC.


HOMESTEAD


GROUND LEASE (2093) JOINT VENTURE

21.0

209,214

100.0

PUBLIX



MARSHALLS



OFFICEMAX



JACKSONVILLE


FEE

18.6

205,696

97.8

BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY



OFFICEMAX



TJ MAXX



JACKSONVILLE


JOINT VENTURE

5.1

51,002

100.0

MICHAELS



HOME GOODS



JACKSONVILLE (14)


JOINT VENTURE

7.3

72,840

100.0

PUBLIX


JACKSONVILLE (4)


JOINT VENTURE

27.9

74,000

100.0

MICHAELS



OFFICEMAX



JACKSONVILLE (4)


JOINT VENTURE

149.0

45,000

100.0

HAVERTY’S



JENSEN BEACH


FEE

20.7

173,491

95.5

SERVICE MERCHANDISE



MARSHALLS



BEALLS



JENSEN BEACH (9)


JOINT VENTURE

19.8

197,731

79.3

HOME DEPOT



KEY LARGO (8)


JOINT VENTURE

21.5

207,332

97.5

KMART



PUBLIX



BEALLS OUTLET



KISSIMMEE


FEE

18.4

90,840

82.1

OFFICEMAX



DOCKSIDE IMPORT


LAKELAND


FEE

22.9

229,383

96.3

STEIN MART



AMC THEATRES



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS


LAKELAND


FEE

5.8

85,782

100.0

SPORTS AUTHORITY



CHUCK E CHEESE



LAKELAND SQUARE 10 THEATRE



LARGO


FEE

29.4

215,916

99.5

PUBLIX



AMC THEATRES



OFFICE DEPOT



LARGO


FEE

12.0

149,472

86.1

WAL-MART



LARGO


FEE

6.6

56,668

54.9

LAUDERDALE LAKES


JOINT VENTURE

10.0

115,341

96.9

SAVE-A-LOT



THINK THRIFT



LAUDERHILL


FEE

17.8

181,416

97.9

STAPLES



WORLD JEWELRY CENTER II



BABIES R US



LEESBURG


GROUND LEASE (2017)

1.3

13,468

100.0

MARGATE


FEE

34.1

253,729

95.1

PUBLIX



OFFICE DEPOT



SAM ASH MUSIC


MELBOURNE


GROUND LEASE (2022)

11.5

168,737

95.0

SUBMITTORDER CO



WALGREENS


GOODWILL INDUSTRIES


MELBOURNE


FEE

13.2

144,439

100.0

JO-ANN FABRICS



BED BATH & BEYOND



MARSHALLS


MERRITT ISLAND (14)


JOINT VENTURE

6.0

60,103

100.0

PUBLIX



MIAMI


FEE

8.2

104,908

100.0

HOME DEPOT



MILAM’S MARKET


WALGREENS


MIAMI


JOINT VENTURE

8.7

86,900

100.0

POTAMKIN CHEVROLET



MIAMI


FEE

7.8

83,380

100.0

PUBLIX



WALGREENS


MIAMI


JOINT VENTURE

14.0

79,273

100.0

BABIES R US



FIRESTONE TIRE


MIAMI


FEE

5.4

63,604

100.0

PETCO



PARTY CITY



MIAMI


JOINT VENTURE

2.9

29,166

100.0

LEHMAN TOYOTA



MIAMI


JOINT VENTURE

1.7

17,117

100.0

LEHMAN TOYOTA



MIAMI (12)


FEE

31.2

402,801

100.0

KMART



EL DORADO FURNITURE



SYMS



MIAMI (14)


JOINT VENTURE

6.4

63,595

100.0

PUBLIX



MIDDLEBURG (4)


JOINT VENTURE

37.1

14,000

100.0

MIRAMAR (4)


JOINT VENTURE

36.7

-

—

MOUNT DORA


FEE

12.4

120,430

100.0

KMART



NORTH LAUDERDALE (13) (6)


JOINT VENTURE

28.9

250,209

100.0

HOME DEPOT



CHANCELLOR ACADEMY



PUBLIX



NORTH MIAMI BEACH


FEE

15.9

108,795

100.0

PUBLIX



WALGREENS


OCALA (3)


FEE

27.2

260,435

92.6

KMART



BEST BUY



SERVICE MERCHANDISE



ORANGE PARK


JOINT VENTURE

5.0

50,299

100.0

BED BATH & BEYOND



MICHAELS



ORLANDO


FEE

28.0

236,486

99.0

OLD TIME POTTERY



SPORTS AUTHORITY



USA BABY



ORLANDO


FEE

11.7

132,856

100.0

ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



BIG LOTS



WORLD GYM


ORLANDO


FEE

12.0

131,646

100.0

BED BATH & BEYOND



BOOKS-A-MILLION



OFFICEMAX



ORLANDO


JOINT VENTURE

10.0

114,434

100.0

BALLY TOTAL FITNESS



HSN


BEDDING & FURNITURE


ORLANDO (12)


FEE

14.0

154,356

89.3

MARSHALLS



OFF BROADWAY SHOES



GOLFSMITH GOLF CENTER



ORLANDO (3)


GROUND LEASE (2011)

7.8

84,834

100.0

OFFICE FURNITURE


ORLANDO (8)


JOINT VENTURE

18.0

179,065

100.0

KMART



PUBLIX



OVIEDO (14)


JOINT VENTURE

7.8

78,179

96.5

PUBLIX



PLANTATION


JOINT VENTURE

4.6

57,774

100.0

BREAD OF LIFE



WHOLE FOODS



POMPANO BEACH


JOINT VENTURE

6.6

66,838

93.1

SAVE-A-LOT



POMPANO BEACH (13)


JOINT VENTURE

18.6

140,312

92.5

WINN DIXIE



CVS



PORT RICHEY (8) (3)


JOINT VENTURE

14.3

103,294

62.0

CIRCUIT CITY



STAPLES



RIVIERA BEACH


JOINT VENTURE

5.1

46,390

95.5

FURNITURE KINGDOM



GOODWILL INDUSTRIES


SANFORD


FEE

40.9

159,969

100.0

ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



OFFICE DEPOT



ANNA’S LINENS


SARASOTA


FEE

12.0

129,700

100.0

SWEETBAY



ACE HARDWARE



ANTHONY’S LADIES WEAR



SARASOTA


FEE

10.0

102,455

98.4

TJ MAXX



OFFICEMAX



DOLLAR TREE



SARASOTA (14)


JOINT VENTURE

6.5

65,320

93.9

PUBLIX


ST. AUGUSTINE


JOINT VENTURE

1.5

62,942

100.0

ROWE’S SUPERMARKET



ST. PETERSBURG


GROUND LEASE (2093)/ JOINT VENTURE

9.0

118,979

86.6

KASH N’ KARRY



TJ MAXX



DOLLAR TREE



TALLAHASSEE


FEE

12.8

105,655

80.9

STEIN MART


SHOE STATION



TAMPA

1997/ 2004

FEE

23.9

205,634

100.0

STAPLES



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



US POST OFFICE



TAMPA (3)


FEE

22.4

181,253

100.0

LOWE’S HOME CENTER



TAMPA (8)


JOINT VENTURE

73.0

340,506

96.3

BEST BUY



JO-ANN FABRICS



BED BATH & BEYOND



WEST PALM BEACH


JOINT VENTURE

7.6

81,073

100.0

WINN DIXIE



WEST PALM BEACH


FEE

7.9

80,845

88.9

BABIES R US



WEST PALM BEACH (12)


FEE

33.0

357,537

95.8

KMART



WINN DIXIE



LINENS N THINGS



WINTER HAVEN


JOINT VENTURE

13.9

95,188

98.7

BIG LOTS



JO-ANN FABRICS



BUDDY’S HOME FURNISHINGS



YULEE (4)


JOINT VENTURE

84.1

34,000

100.0

PETCO



GEORGIA

AUGUSTA


FEE

11.3

112,537

89.3

TJ MAXX



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



RUGGED WEARHOUSE



AUGUSTA (8)


JOINT VENTURE

52.6

530,915

100.0

ASHLEY FURNITURE HOME STORE



SPORTS AUTHORITY



BED BATH & BEYOND



DULUTH (14)


JOINT VENTURE

7.8

78,025

90.9

WHOLE FOODS MARKET GROUP



SAVANNAH


FEE

22.2

187,076

95.2

BED BATH & BEYOND



TJ MAXX



MARSHALLS



SAVANNAH (3)


GROUND LEASE (2045)

9.5

39,725

74.5

STAPLES



SNELLVILLE (8)


JOINT VENTURE

35.6

311,033

97.1

KOHL’S



BELK



LINENS N THINGS



VALDOSTA


JOINT VENTURE

17.5

175,396

100.0

LOWE’S HOME CENTER



HAWAII

KIHEI


FEE

4.6

17,897

100.0

IDAHO

NAMPA (4)


JOINT VENTURE

45.4

177,000

100.0

BED BATH & BEYOND



OLD NAVY



NAMPA (4)


JOINT VENTURE

75.3

-

—

ILLINOIS

ALTON


FEE

21.2

131,188

100.0

VALUE CITY



ARLINGTON HEIGHTS


FEE

7.0

80,040

100.0

DIRECTUS FURNITURE



AURORA


FEE

17.9

91,182

100.0

CERMAK PRODUCE AURORA



AURORA (14)


JOINT VENTURE

34.7

361,984

70.8

BEST BUY



VALUE CITY FURNITURE



GOLFSMITH



BATAVIA (8)


JOINT VENTURE

31.7

272,410

100.0

KOHL’S



HOBBY LOBBY



LINENS N THINGS



BELLEVILLE


GROUND LEASE (2057)

20.3

81,490

100.0

KMART



BLOOMINGTON


FEE

16.1

188,250

100.0

SCHNUCK MARKETS



TOYS “R” US



BARNES & NOBLE





YEAR

OWNERSHIP

LAND

LEASABLE

PERCENT

MAJOR LEASES

DEVELOPED

INTEREST/

AREA

AREA

LEASED

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LOCATION

OR ACQUIRED

(EXPIRATION)(2)

(ACRES)

(SQ. FT.)

(1)

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

BLOOMINGTON


JOINT VENTURE

11.0

73,951

100.0

JEWEL-OSCO



BRADLEY


FEE

5.4

80,535

100.0

CARSON PIRIE SCOTT



CALUMET CITY


FEE

17.0

159,647

99.0

MARSHALLS



BEST BUY



BED BATH & BEYOND



CARBONDALE


GROUND LEASE (2052)

8.1

80,535

—

CHAMPAIGN


FEE

9.0

112,000

—

CHAMPAIGN (8)


JOINT VENTURE

9.3

111,720

100.0

BEST BUY



DICK’S SPORTING GOODS



MICHAELS



CHICAGO


GROUND LEASE (2040)

17.5

102,011

100.0

BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY



RAINBOW SHOPS



BEAUTY ONE



CHICAGO


FEE

6.0

86,894

100.0

KMART



COUNTRYSIDE


GROUND LEASE (2053)

27.7

117,005

100.0

HOME DEPOT



CRESTWOOD


GROUND LEASE (2051)

36.8

79,903

100.0

SEARS



CRYSTAL LAKE


FEE

6.1

80,390

100.0

HOBBY LOBBY



DINOREX



DOWNERS GROVE


GROUND LEASE (2041)

7.2

192,639

51.9

HOME DEPOT EXPO



DOWNERS GROVE


FEE

24.8

144,770

98.2

DOMINICK’S



DOLLAR TREE



WALGREENS


DOWNERS GROVE


FEE

12.0

141,906

100.0

TJ MAXX



BEST BUY



BEST BUY



ELGIN


FEE

18.7

186,432

99.2

ELGIN MALL



ELGIN FARMERS PRODUCTS



AARON SALES & LEASE



FAIRVIEW HEIGHTS


GROUND LEASE (2050)

19.1

192,073

100.0

KMART



OFFICEMAX



WALGREENS



FOREST PARK


GROUND LEASE (2021)

9.3

98,371

100.0

KMART


GENEVA


FEE

8.2

110,188

100.0

GANDER MOUNTAIN



KILDEER (14)


JOINT VENTURE

23.3

167,477

100.0

BED BATH & BEYOND



CIRCUIT CITY



OLD NAVY



MATTESON


FEE

17.0

157,885

100.0

SPORTMART



MARSHALLS



LINENS N THINGS



MOUNT PROSPECT


FEE

16.8

192,547

100.0

KOHL’S



HOBBY LOBBY



POOL-A-RAMA



MUNDELIEN


FEE

7.6

89,692

100.0

BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY



NAPERVILLE


FEE

9.0

102,327

100.0

BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY



NORRIDGE


GROUND LEASE (2042)

11.7

116,914

100.0

KMART



OAK LAWN


FEE

15.4

164,414

100.0

KMART



CHUCK E CHEESE



OAKBROOK TERRACE

1983 / 1997

GROUND LEASE (2049)

15.6

176,263

100.0

HOME DEPOT



LINENS N THINGS



LOYOLA UNIV. MEDICAL CENTER



ORLAND PARK


FEE

18.8

131,546

100.0

VALUE CITY



OTTAWA


FEE

9.0

60,000

100.0

VALUE CITY



PEORIA


GROUND LEASE (2031)

20.5

156,067

100.0

KMART


MARSHALLS



ROCKFORD (9)


JOINT VENTURE

8.9

89,047

100.0

BEST BUY



LINENS N THINGS



ROLLING MEADOWS


FEE

3.7

37,225

100.0

FAIR LANES ROLLING MEADOWS



SCHAUMBURG


JOINT VENTURE

62.8

629,377

94.1

GALYAN’S TRADING COMPANY



CARSON PIRIE SCOTT



LOEWS THEATRES



SCHAUMBURG


JOINT VENTURE

7.3

-

—

SKOKIE


FEE

5.8

58,455

100.0

MARSHALLS



OLD NAVY



STREAMWOOD


FEE

5.6

81,000

100.0

VALUE CITY



WAUKEGAN


FEE

6.8

90,555

100.0

PICK N SAVE



WOODRIDGE


FEE

13.1

161,272

96.3

WOODGROVE THEATERS, INC



KOHL’S



MCSPORTS


INDIANA

EVANSVILLE


FEE

14.2

192,933

79.7

BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY



OFFICEMAX



FAMOUS FOOTWEAR



GREENWOOD


FEE

25.7

168,577

98.2

BABY SUPERSTORE



TOYS “R” US



TJ MAXX



GRIFFITH


GROUND LEASE (2054)

10.6

114,684

100.0

KMART



INDIANAPOLIS


JOINT VENTURE

17.4

165,220

98.7

KROGER



AJ WRIGHT



CVS



LAFAYETTE


FEE

24.3

238,288

83.9

HOME DEPOT



JO-ANN FABRICS



SMITH OFFICE EQUIPMENT


LAFAYETTE


FEE

43.2

214,876

84.4

PETSMART



STAPLES



LAFAYETTE


FEE

12.4

90,500

100.0

KROGER



MISHAWAKA


FEE

7.5

82,100

—

SOUTH BEND


FEE

1.8

81,668

100.0

MENARD



SOUTH BEND (3)


JOINT VENTURE

13.4

134,414

100.0

BED BATH & BEYOND



DSW SHOE WAREHOUSE



PETSMART



IOWA

CLIVE


FEE

8.8

90,000

100.0

KMART



COUNCIL BLUFFS (4)


JOINT VENTURE

79.3

-

—

DAVENPORT


GROUND LEASE (2028)

9.1

91,035

100.0

KMART



DES MOINES


FEE

23.0

149,059

82.8

BEST BUY



OFFICEMAX



JO-ANN FABRICS



DUBUQUE


GROUND LEASE (2019)

6.5

82,979

100.0

SHOPKO



SOUTHEAST DES MOINES


FEE

9.6

111,847

100.0

HOME DEPOT



WATERLOO


FEE

9.0

104,074

100.0

HOBBY LOBBY



TJ MAXX



SHOE CARNIVAL



KANSAS

EAST WICHITA (8)


JOINT VENTURE

6.5

96,011

100.0

DICK’S SPORTING GOODS



GORDMANS



OVERLAND PARK


FEE

14.5

120,164

100.0

HOME DEPOT



WEST WICHITA (8)


JOINT VENTURE

8.1

96,319

100.0

SHOPKO



WICHITA (8)


JOINT VENTURE

13.5

133,771

100.0

BEST BUY



TJ MAXX



MICHAELS



KENTUCKY

BELLEVUE


FEE

6.0

53,695

100.0

KROGER



FLORENCE (11)


FEE

8.2

99,578

97.8

DICK’S SPORTING GOODS



LINENS N THINGS



MCSWAIN CARPETS



HINKLEVILLE


GROUND LEASE (2039)

2.0

85,229

100.0

K’S MERCHANDISE



LEXINGTON


FEE

35.8

258,713

98.7

BEST BUY



BED BATH & BEYOND



TOYS “R” US



MAYSVILLE (7)


FEE

24.7

216,119

52.7

KROGER



JCPENNEY



LOUISIANA

BATON ROUGE


FEE

18.6

349,907

95.9

BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY



STEIN MART



K&G MEN’S COMPANY



BATON ROUGE


JOINT VENTURE

9.4

67,755

94.6

WAL-MART



HARVEY (9)


JOINT VENTURE

17.4

181,660

100.0

BEST BUY



LINENS N THINGS



BARNES & NOBLE



HOUMA


FEE

10.1

98,586

94.9

OLD NAVY



OFFICEMAX



MICHAELS



LAFAYETTE


FEE

21.9

244,733

100.0

STEIN MART



LINENS N THINGS



TJ MAXX



MAINE

BANGOR


FEE

8.6

86,422

100.0

BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY



S. PORTLAND


FEE

12.5

98,574

92.1

DSW SHOE WAREHOUSE



DOLLAR TREE



GUITAR CENTER



MARYLAND

BALTIMORE


FEE

4.2

44,170

65.3

BALTIMORE (11) (3)


JOINT VENTURE

7.6

79,815

100.0

GIANT FOOD



BALTIMORE (13)


JOINT VENTURE

7.5

90,903

100.0

GIANT FOOD



BALTIMORE (14)


JOINT VENTURE

5.8

49,629

100.0

CORT FURNITURE RENTAL



BALTIMORE (5)


FEE

3.0

-

—

BALTIMORE (9)


JOINT VENTURE

18.4

152,834

100.0

KMART



SALVO AUTO PARTS



BALTIMORE (9)


JOINT VENTURE

10.6

112,722

100.0

SAFEWAY



RITE AID



FOOT LOCKER


BALTIMORE (9)


JOINT VENTURE

8.8

90,830

100.0

GIANT FOOD



BALTIMORE (9)


FEE

7.3

77,287

100.0

SUPER FRESH



BEL AIR (13) (3)


FEE

19.7

115,927

97.9

SAFEWAY



CVS



CLINTON


GROUND LEASE (2024)

2.6

2,544

100.0

CLINTON


GROUND LEASE (2069)

2.6

-

—

COLUMBIA


FEE

7.3

55,791

100.0

GIANT FOOD


COLUMBIA


JOINT VENTURE

5.0

50,000

100.0

MICHAELS



HOME GOODS



COLUMBIA


FEE

2.5

23,835

100.0

DAVID’S NATURAL MARKET



COLUMBIA (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.7

6,780

100.0

COLUMBIA (14)


JOINT VENTURE

16.3

100,521

100.0

GIANT FOOD



COLUMBIA (14)


JOINT VENTURE

12.3

91,165

100.0

SAFEWAY



COLUMBIA (14)


JOINT VENTURE

15.5

86,456

100.0

GIANT FOOD



COLUMBIA (14)


JOINT VENTURE

7.3

73,299

93.0

OLD NAVY



COLUMBIA (9)


JOINT VENTURE

15.2

105,907

100.0

GIANT FOOD



COLUMBIA (9) (3)


JOINT VENTURE

12.2

86,032

48.2



YEAR

OWNERSHIP

LAND

LEASABLE

PERCENT

MAJOR LEASES

DEVELOPED

INTEREST/

AREA

AREA

LEASED

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LOCATION

OR ACQUIRED

(EXPIRATION)(2)

(ACRES)

(SQ. FT.)

(1)

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

EASTON (11)


JOINT VENTURE

11.1

113,330

97.4

GIANT FOOD



FASHION BUG



ELLICOTT CITY (11)


JOINT VENTURE

31.8

139,898

100.0

SAFEWAY



PETCO



ELLICOTT CITY (13) (6)


JOINT VENTURE

42.4

433,467

100.0

TARGET



KOHL’S



SAFEWAY



FREDRICK COUNTY (3)


FEE

7.6

75,677

100.0

GIANT FOOD



GAITHERSBURG


FEE

8.7

88,277

100.0

GREAT BEGINNINGS FURNITURE



FURNITURE 4 LESS


GLEN BURNIE (13)


JOINT VENTURE

21.9

249,746

100.0

LOWE’S HOME CENTER



GIANT FOOD



HAGERSTOWN (3)


FEE

10.5

117,718

71.9

SUPER SHOE



ALDI



WONDER BOOK & VIDEO



HUNT VALLEY


FEE

9.1

94,653

100.0

GIANT FOOD



LAUREL


FEE

10.0

81,550

100.0

ROOMSTORE



LAUREL


FEE

8.1

75,924

100.0

VILLAGE THRIFT STORE


DOLLAR TREE



OLD COUNTRY BUFFET



LINTHICUM


FEE

0.6

7,872

100.0

LUTHERVILLE (9)


JOINT VENTURE

1.2

12,333

86.7

NORTH EAST (9)


JOINT VENTURE

17.5

80,190

100.0

FOOD LION



OWINGS MILLS (13)


JOINT VENTURE

11.0

116,303

96.6

GIANT FOOD



MERRITT ATHLETIC CLUB



PASADENA


GROUND LEASE (2030)

3.0

38,727

97.2

PERRY HALL (11)


JOINT VENTURE

8.2

65,059

100.0

SUPER FRESH



PERRY HALL (3)


FEE

15.7

183,124

80.1

BRUNSWICK (LEISERV)BOWLING


RITE AID



ACE HARDWARE



TIMONIUM (3)


FEE

17.2

127,097

95.4

STAPLES



TIMONIUM (9)


JOINT VENTURE

6.0

59,799

95.3

AMERICAN RADIOLOGY



TOWSON (11)


JOINT VENTURE

8.7

84,280

100.0

LINENS N THINGS



COMPUSA



TWEETER ENTERTAINMENT



TOWSON (13)


JOINT VENTURE

43.1

669,926

100.0

WAL-MART



TARGET



SUPER FRESH



WALDORF


FEE

2.6

26,128

100.0

FAIR LANES WALDORF



WALDORF


FEE

0.0

4,500

100.0

WOODSTOCK (9)


JOINT VENTURE

13.9

103,547

100.0

WEIS MARKETS



MASSACHUSETTS

GREAT BARRINGTON


FEE

14.1

131,235

100.0

KMART



PRICE CHOPPER



HYANNIS (11)


JOINT VENTURE

22.6

225,634

95.5

SHAW’S SUPERMARKET



TOYS “R” US



HOME GOODS



MARLBOROUGH


JOINT VENTURE

16.1

104,125

100.0

BEST BUY



DSW SHOE WAREHOUSE



BORDERS BOOKS



PITTSFIELD (11)


JOINT VENTURE

13.0

72,014

100.0

STOP & SHOP



QUINCY (13)


JOINT VENTURE

8.0

80,510

100.0

SHAW’S SUPERMARKET



BROOKS PHARMACY



SHREWSBURY


FEE

10.8

108,418

100.0

BOB’S STORES



BED BATH & BEYOND



STAPLES



STURBRIDGE (14)


JOINT VENTURE

42.4

231,016

95.7

STOP & SHOP



MARSHALLS



LINENS N THINGS



MICHIGAN

CLARKSTON


FEE

20.0

148,973

90.5

FARMER JACK



CVS



CLAWSON (3)


FEE

13.5

119,801

100.0

STAPLES



RITE AID



LITTLE CAESARS


FARMINGTON


FEE

2.8

96,915

97.4

OFFICE DEPOT



FITNESS 19



KALAMAZOO


JOINT VENTURE

60.0

261,334

100.0

HOBBY LOBBY



VALUE CITY FURNITURE



MARSHALLS



LIVONIA


FEE

4.5

10,400

100.0

MUSKEGON


FEE

12.2

79,215

91.5

PLUMB’S FOOD



JO-ANN FABRICS



NOVI


JOINT VENTURE

6.0

60,000

100.0

MICHAELS



HOME GOODS



TAYLOR


FEE

13.0

141,549

100.0

KOHL’S



BABIES R US



PARTY CONCEPTS



TROY (13)


JOINT VENTURE

24.0

223,041

95.8

WAL-MART



MARSHALLS



WALKER


FEE

41.8

338,928

100.0

RUBLOFF DEVELOPMENT



KOHL’S



LOEKS THEATRES



MINNESOTA

MAPLE GROVE


FEE

44.4

407,686

100.0

LOWE’S HOME CENTER



DICK’S SPORTING GOODS



CIRCUIT CITY



MAPLE GROVE (8)


JOINT VENTURE

63.0

466,401

99.3

BYERLY’S



BEST BUY



JO-ANN FABRICS



MAPLEWOOD (9)


JOINT VENTURE

8.2

111,544

100.0

BEST BUY



BEST BUY



MINNETONKA (8)


JOINT VENTURE

12.1

120,220

100.0

TOYS “R” US



GOLFSMITH GOLF CENTER



OFFICEMAX


MISSISSIPPI

HATTIESBURG (4)


JOINT VENTURE

53.3

248,000

100.0

ASHLEY FURNITURE HOME STORE



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



BED BATH & BEYOND



JACKSON


JOINT VENTURE

5.0

50,000

100.0

MICHAELS



HOME GOODS



MISSOURI

BRIDGETON


GROUND LEASE (2040)

27.3

101,592

100.0

KOHL’S



CRYSTAL CITY


GROUND LEASE (2032)

10.1

100,724

100.0

KMART



ELLISVILLE


FEE

18.4

118,080

100.0

SHOP N SAVE



2ND WIND EXERCISE EQUIPMENT



INDEPENDENCE


FEE

21.0

184,870

100.0

KMART



THE TILE SHOP



OFFICE DEPOT



JOPLIN


FEE

12.6

155,416

99.1

GOODY’S FAMILY CLOTHING



HASTINGS BOOKS



OFFICEMAX



JOPLIN (8)


JOINT VENTURE

9.5

80,524

100.0

SHOPKO



KANSAS CITY


FEE

17.8

150,381

82.3

HOME DEPOT



KIRKWOOD


GROUND LEASE (2069)

19.8

253,662

97.4

HEMISPHERES



HOBBY LOBBY



GART SPORTS



LEMAY (3)


FEE

9.8

69,498

100.0

SHOP N SAVE



DOLLAR GENERAL


MANCHESTER (8)


JOINT VENTURE

9.6

89,305

100.0

KOHL’S



SPRINGFIELD


FEE

41.5

277,590

94.2

BEST BUY



JCPENNEY



TJ MAXX



SPRINGFIELD


GROUND LEASE (2087)

18.5

203,384

100.0

KMART



OFFICE DEPOT


PACE-BATTELFIELD, LLC



SPRINGFIELD


FEE

8.5

84,916

100.0

BED BATH & BEYOND



MARSHALLS



BORDERS BOOKS



ST. CHARLES


GROUND LEASE (2039)

8.4

84,460

100.0

KOHL’S



ST. CHARLES


FEE

36.9

8,000

100.0

ST. LOUIS


FEE

17.5

176,273

100.0

BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY



BIG LOTS



OFFICE DEPOT



ST. LOUIS


GROUND LEASE (2035)

37.7

172,165

100.0

KMART



K&G MEN’S COMPANY



ST. LOUIS


GROUND LEASE (2025)

19.7

170,779

87.6

HOME DEPOT



OFFICE DEPOT



ST. LOUIS


FEE

13.1

129,093

92.7

SHOP N SAVE



ST. LOUIS


GROUND LEASE (2040)

16.3

128,765

100.0

KMART



ST. LOUIS


FEE

11.4

113,781

100.0

KOHL’S



CLUB FITNESS



ST. PETERS


GROUND LEASE (2073)

14.8

175,121

98.6

HOBBY LOBBY



GART SPORTS



OFFICE DEPOT


NEBRASKA

OMAHA (4)


JOINT VENTURE

59.5

141,000

100.0

MARSHALLS



LINENS N THINGS



OFFICEMAX



NEVADA

CARSON CITY (7)


FEE

9.4

114,078

92.3

RALEY’S



ELKO (7)


FEE

31.3

170,812

92.4

RALEY’S



BUILDERS MART



CINEMA 4 THEATRES


HENDERSON (4)


JOINT VENTURE

32.1

156,000

100.0

LEVITZ



BIG LOTS



SAVERS



HENDERSON (7)


FEE

10.5

130,773

86.0

ALBERTSONS



LAS VEGAS (7)


FEE

34.8

362,758

99.3

WAL-MART



COLLEENS CLASSICS


24 HOUR FITNESS



LAS VEGAS (7)


FEE

34.5

333,679

90.5

VONS



CARPETS-N-MORE



TJ MAXX



LAS VEGAS (7)


FEE

21.1

228,279

97.8

UA THEATRES



LINENS N’ THINGS



OFFICEMAX



LAS VEGAS (7)


FEE

16.4

169,160

95.3

FOOD 4 LESS



HOLLYWOOD VIDEO



LAS VEGAS (7)


FEE

16.1

160,842

91.1

SPORTS AUTHORITY



OFFICEMAX



DOLLAR DISCOUNT CENTER



LAS VEGAS (7)


FEE

16.4

144,653

88.3

VONS



AARON RENTS


CRAFTA DECORATIONS



LAS VEGAS (7)


FEE

9.4

111,245

92.7

VONS GROCERY



DOLLAR TREE



CORT FURNITURE RENTAL



LAS VEGAS (7)


FEE

7.0

77,650

97.8

ALBERTSONS



RENO


FEE

3.1

36,627

100.0

NEW BALANCE



RENO


FEE

2.7

31,710

98.8

RENO (7)


FEE

10.4

129,960

97.6

SAK ‘N SAVE



RENO (7)


FEE

12.3

113,488

99.9

SCOLARI’S WAREHOUSE MARKET


RENO (7)


FEE

9.3

102,907

99.9

SCOLARI’S FOOD & DRUG



LONGS DRUGS



WINNEMUCCA (7)


FEE

4.8

65,424

100.0

RALEY’S



NEW HAMPSHIRE

NASHUA (11)


JOINT VENTURE

18.2

182,360

96.3

DSW SHOE WAREHOUSE



BED BATH & BEYOND



MICHAELS



NEW LONDON


FEE

9.5

106,470

100.0

HANNAFORD BROS.



FIRST COLONIAL



MACKENNA’S



SALEM


FEE

39.8

344,076

100.0

KOHL’S



SHAW’S SUPERMARKET



BOB’S STORES





YEAR

OWNERSHIP

LAND

LEASABLE

PERCENT

MAJOR LEASES

DEVELOPED

INTEREST/

AREA

AREA

LEASED

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LOCATION

OR ACQUIRED

(EXPIRATION)(2)

(ACRES)

(SQ. FT.)

(1)

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

NEW JERSEY

BAYONNE


FEE

0.6

23,901

100.0

DUANE READE


BRIDGEWATER (8)


JOINT VENTURE

16.6

378,567

100.0

COSTCO



BED BATH & BEYOND



MARSHALLS



CHERRY HILL


GROUND LEASE (2035)

15.2

129,809

95.5

KOHL’S



CHERRY HILL


JOINT VENTURE

18.6

124,750

95.9

STOP & SHOP



RETROFITNESS



CHERRY HILL (9)


FEE

48.0

209,185

100.0

KOHL’S



WORLDWIDE WHOLESALE



BABIES R US



CINNAMINSON


FEE

13.7

121,852

84.1

VF OUTLET



ACME MARKETS


DELRAN (8)


JOINT VENTURE

9.5

37,679

45.4

DELRAN (8) (3)


JOINT VENTURE

10.5

77,583

100.0

PETSMART



OFFICE DEPOT



SLEEPY’S



EAST WINDSOR


FEE

34.8

249,029

100.0

TARGET



GENUARDI’S



TJ MAXX



EDGEWATER (13)


JOINT VENTURE

42.1

423,620

100.0

TARGET



PATHMARK



TJ MAXX



HILLSBOROUGH


JOINT VENTURE

5.6

55,552

100.0

KMART



HOLMDEL


FEE

23.5

234,739

100.0

LINENS N THINGS



BEST BUY



MICHAELS



HOLMDEL (3)


FEE

30.0

300,010

92.9

A&P



MARSHALLS



LA FITNESS



LINDEN


FEE

0.9

13,340

100.0

STRAUSS DISCOUNT AUTO



MOORESTOWN (12)


GROUND LEASE (2066)/ JOINT VENTURE

22.7

201,351

100.0

LOWE’S HOME CENTER


SPORTS AUTHORITY



BALLY TOTAL FITNESS



NORTH BRUNSWICK (3)


FEE

38.1

409,879

100.0

WAL-MART



BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY



MARSHALLS



PISCATAWAY


FEE

9.6

97,348

100.0

SHOPRITE



RIDGEWOOD


FEE

2.7

24,280

100.0

FRESH FIELDS



WAYNE (12)


FEE

19.2

331,528

100.0

COSTCO



LACKLAND STORAGE



SPORTS AUTHORITY



WESTMONT


FEE

17.4

192,254

75.9

SUPER FRESH



HALLOWEEN ADVENTURE


SUPER FITNESS


NEW MEXICO

ALBUQUERQUE


FEE

26.0

183,912

93.7

MOVIES WEST



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



VALLEY FURNITURE



ALBUQUERQUE


FEE

4.8

59,722

88.9

PAGE ONE



WALGREENS


ALBUQUERQUE


FEE

4.7

37,758

100.0

PETSMART



LAS CRUCES


JOINT VENTURE

3.9

30,686

—

RIO RANCHO ALBUQUERQUE (7)


FEE

8.6

74,656

68.9

NEW YORK

BAYRIDGE


FEE

2.1

21,106

100.0

DUANE READE


BAYSHORE


FEE

15.9

176,622

100.0

BEST BUY



TOYS “R” US



OFFICE DEPOT



BELLMORE


FEE

1.4

24,802

100.0

RITE AID


BRIDGEHAMPTON


FEE

30.2

287,587

100.0

KMART



KING KULLEN



TJ MAXX



BRONX


JOINT VENTURE

22.9

228,638

96.7

NATIONAL AMUSEMENTS



WALDBAUMS



OFFICE OF HEARING


BRONX


FEE

0.4

3,720

100.0

BROOKLYN


FEE

2.9

41,076

100.0

DUANE READE


PC RICHARD & SON



BROOKLYN


FEE

3.0

29,671

80.5

DUANE READE


BROOKLYN


FEE

0.4

10,000

100.0

GENOVESE


BROOKLYN


FEE

0.8

7,500

100.0

BROOKLYN


FEE

0.2

5,200

100.0

BROOKLYN (8)


JOINT VENTURE

8.1

80,708

100.0

HOME DEPOT



WALGREENS


BUFFALO


JOINT VENTURE

9.2

141,285

77.9

TOPS SUPERMARKET



FASHION BUG



BUFFALO, AMHERST


JOINT VENTURE

7.5

101,066

100.0

TOPS SUPERMARKET



CENTEREACH


JOINT VENTURE

40.7

377,584

93.9

WAL-MART



BIG LOTS



MODELL’S



CENTEREACH


FEE

10.5

101,656

94.9

PATHMARK



ACE HARDWARE



CENTRAL ISLIP (4)


JOINT VENTURE

11.8

42,000

100.0

COMMACK


GROUND LEASE (2085)

35.7

265,409

100.0

KING KULLEN



LINENS N THINGS



SPORTS AUTHORITY



COPIAGUE (8)


JOINT VENTURE

15.4

163,999

100.0

HOME DEPOT



BALLY TOTAL FITNESS



EAST NORTHPORT


JOINT VENTURE

2.6

26,016

93.0

GOLFSMITH GOLF CENTER



EAST NORTHPORT (4)


JOINT VENTURE

4.0

-

—

ELMONT


FEE

1.8

27,078

100.0

DUANE READE


FARMINGDALE (14)


JOINT VENTURE

56.5

443,134

100.0

HOME DEPOT



DAVE & BUSTER’S



COMP USA



FRANKLIN SQUARE


FEE

1.4

17,864

100.0

DUANE READE


FREEPORT (8)


JOINT VENTURE

9.6

173,031

95.4

STOP & SHOP


TOYS “R” US



MARSHALLS



GLEN COVE (8)


JOINT VENTURE

2.7

49,346

100.0

STAPLES



ANNIE SEZ



GLENVILLE (5)


FEE

0.5

-

—

HAMPTON BAYS


FEE

8.2

70,990

84.5

MACY’S



HEMPSTEAD (8)


JOINT VENTURE

1.4

13,905

100.0

WALGREENS


HICKSVILLE


FEE

2.5

35,581

100.0

DUANE READE


PARTY CITY



JAMAICA


FEE

0.3

5,770

100.0

LATHAM (8)


JOINT VENTURE

60.3

616,130

99.3

SAM’S CLUB



WAL-MART



HOME DEPOT



LAURELTON


FEE

0.2

7,435

100.0

LEVITTOWN


JOINT VENTURE

4.7

47,214

100.0

FILENE’S BASEMENT


LITTLE NECK


FEE

4.5

48,275

100.0

MANHASSET


FEE

9.6

188,608

100.0

FILENE’S


LINENS N THINGS



KING KULLEN



MANHATTAN


FEE

1.0

9,566

100.0

MASPETH


FEE

1.1

22,500

100.0

DUANE READE


MERRICK (8)


JOINT VENTURE

10.8

107,871

90.7

WALDBAUMS



ANNIE SEZ



PARTY CITY



MIDDLETOWN (8)


JOINT VENTURE

10.1

80,000

100.0

BEST BUY



LINENS N THINGS



MUNSEY PARK (8)


JOINT VENTURE

6.0

72,748

100.0

BED BATH & BEYOND



FRESH FIELDS



NESCONSET (12)


FEE

5.9

55,580

100.0

LEVITZ



NORTH MASSAPEQUA


GROUND LEASE (2033)

2.0

29,610

100.0

DUANE READE


OCEANSIDE


FEE

0.3

1,856

—

PLAINVIEW


GROUND LEASE (2070)

7.0

88,222

100.0

FAIRWAY STORES



POUGHKEEPSIE


FEE

20.0

167,668

94.7

STOP & SHOP



BIG LOTS



QUEENS VILLAGE


FEE

0.5

14,649

100.0

STRAUSS DISCOUNT AUTO



ROCHESTER


FEE

18.6

185,153

32.0

TOPS SUPERMARKET



STATEN ISLAND


FEE

35.7

356,779

100.0

KMART



PATHMARK



TOYS “R” US


STATEN ISLAND


FEE

16.7

212,325

100.0

KMART


PATHMARK



STATEN ISLAND


GROUND LEASE (2072)

7.0

101,337

96.4

WALDBAUMS



STATEN ISLAND


FEE

5.5

47,270

100.0

STAPLES



STATEN ISLAND (8)


JOINT VENTURE

14.4

177,118

100.0

TJ MAXX



NATIONAL WHOLESALE



MICHAELS



SYOSSET


FEE

2.5

32,124

100.0

NEW YORK SPORTS CLUB



WESTBURY (12)


FEE

30.1

398,602

100.0

COSTCO



WAL-MART



MARSHALLS



WHITE PLAINS


FEE

2.5

24,577

88.3

DUANE READE


YONKERS


FEE

4.4

43,560

100.0

SHOPRITE



YONKERS


FEE

1.0

10,329

100.0

STRAUSS DISCOUNT AUTO



YONKERS (8) (6)


GROUND LEASE (2047)/ JOINT VENTURE

6.3

56,361

92.0

STAPLES



NORTH CAROLINA

BURLINGTON (5)


FEE

25.6

-

—

CARY


FEE

10.9

102,787

100.0

LOWES FOOD



ECKERD



CARY


FEE

10.6

86,015

100.0

BED BATH & BEYOND



DICK’S SPORTING GOODS



CARY (8)


JOINT VENTURE

40.3

315,797

100.0

BJ’S



KOHL’S



PETSMART



CARY (9)


JOINT VENTURE

24.2

169,901

98.5

CARMIKE CINEMAS



FOOD LION


DOLLAR TREE



CHARLOTTE


GROUND LEASE (2048)

18.5

233,800

98.9

ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



K&G MEN’S COMPANY



OFFICEMAX



CHARLOTTE


FEE

14.0

139,269

92.7

BI-LO



RUGGED WEARHOUSE



FLOORS TODAY



CHARLOTTE


FEE

13.5

62,300

100.0

TJ MAXX



CVS



DURHAM


FEE

13.2

116,186

97.2

TJ MAXX



JO-ANN FABRICS



DURHAM (8)


JOINT VENTURE

39.5

408,292

100.0

WAL-MART



BEST BUY



LINENS N THINGS





YEAR

OWNERSHIP

LAND

LEASABLE

PERCENT

MAJOR LEASES

DEVELOPED

INTEREST/

AREA

AREA

LEASED

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LOCATION

OR ACQUIRED

(EXPIRATION)(2)

(ACRES)

(SQ. FT.)

(1)

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

FRANKLIN


JOINT VENTURE

2.6

26,326

100.0

BILL HOLT FORD



GREENSBORO


FEE

8.2

103,494

95.7

HOBBY LOBBY



K&G MEN’S COMPANY



DOLLAR TREE



HILLSBOROUGH (5)


FEE

8.0

-

—

KNIGHTDALE (4)


JOINT VENTURE

29.2

188,000

100.0

ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



BED BATH & BEYOND



MICHAELS



PINEVILLE (13)


JOINT VENTURE

39.1

269,710

97.4

KMART



STEIN MART



TJ MAXX



RALEIGH


FEE

35.9

372,023

94.1

BEST BUY



BED BATH & BEYOND



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



RALEIGH (10)


FEE

1.6

16,030

90.4

RALEIGH (4)


JOINT VENTURE

35.4

87,000

100.0

FOOD LION



RALEIGH (4)


JOINT VENTURE

8.8

-

—

RALEIGH (4)


JOINT VENTURE

4.0

-

—

WINSTON-SALEM


FEE

13.2

137,433

100.0

HARRIS TEETER



DOLLAR TREE



SPORTSMAN’S SUPPLY


OHIO

AKRON


FEE

24.5

138,363

100.0

GABRIEL BROTHERS



PAT CATANS CRAFTS


ESSENCE BEAUTY MART



AKRON


FEE

6.9

75,866

100.0

GIANT EAGLE



BARBERTON


FEE

10.0

101,801

95.1

GIANT EAGLE



BEAVERCREEK


FEE

18.2

119,410

95.0

KROGER



FITWORKS



REVCO



BRUNSWICK


FEE

20.0

171,223

97.0

KMART



MARC’S



CAMBRIDGE


FEE

13.1

78,065

90.8

TRACTOR SUPPLY CO.



CANTON


FEE

19.6

172,419

85.9

BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY



TJ MAXX



HOMETOWN BUFFET



CENTERVILLE


FEE

15.2

125,058

82.2

BED BATH & BEYOND



THE TILE SHOP



MICHAEL’S DAY SPA



CINCINNATI


FEE

29.2

308,277

75.9

HOBBY LOBBY



TOYS “R” US



HAVERTY’S



CINCINNATI


FEE

11.6

223,731

99.3

LOWE’S HOME CENTER



BIG LOTS



AJ WRIGHT



CINCINNATI


GROUND LEASE (2054)

8.8

121,242

25.7

TOYS “R” US



CINCINNATI


FEE

16.7

89,742

100.0

BIGGS FOODS



CINCINNATI


FEE

8.8

88,317

100.0

HOBBY LOBBY



GOLD’S GYM



CINCINNATI (8)


JOINT VENTURE

36.7

378,901

88.3

WAL-MART



HOBBY LOBBY



DICK’S SPORTING GOODS



COLUMBUS


FEE

12.4

191,089

100.0

KOHL’S



KROGER



TOYS “R” US



COLUMBUS


FEE

13.7

142,743

99.2

KOHL’S



STAPLES



COLUMBUS


FEE

12.4

135,650

100.0

KOHL’S



CIRCUIT CITY



COLUMBUS


FEE

17.9

129,008

100.0

KOHL’S



GRANT/RIVERSIDE HOSPITAL


COLUMBUS


FEE

12.5

99,262

100.0

SOUTHLAND EXPO


COLUMBUS (8)


JOINT VENTURE

36.5

254,152

97.2

LOWE’S HOME CENTER



KROGER



COLUMBUS (8)


JOINT VENTURE

12.1

112,862

85.4

BORDERS BOOKS



PIER 1 IMPORTS



FRANNYS HALLMARK



DAYTON


FEE

32.1

213,666

86.4

VICTORIA’S SECRET



KROGER



DAYTON


GROUND LEASE (2043)

22.8

163,131

81.6

BEST BUY



BIG LOTS



JO-ANN FABRICS


DAYTON


FEE

11.2

116,374

100.0

VALUE CITY



THE OHIO TRADING COMPANY


HUBER HEIGHTS (8)


JOINT VENTURE

40.0

318,468

98.0

ELDER BEERMAN



KOHL’S



MARSHALLS



KENT

1988/ 1991

GROUND LEASE (2013)

17.6

106,500

100.0

TOPS SUPERMARKET



MENTOR


FEE

25.0

235,577

93.6

GIANT EAGLE



BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY


JO-ANN FABRICS



MENTOR


FEE

20.6

103,910

100.0

GABRIEL BROTHERS



BIG LOTS



MIAMISBURG


FEE

0.6

6,000

57.5

MIDDLEBURG HEIGHTS


FEE

8.2

104,342

51.5

GABRIEL BROTHERS



NORTH OLMSTEAD


FEE

11.7

99,862

100.0

TOPS SUPERMARKET



ORANGE TOWNSHIP (4)


FEE

12.2

-

—

SHARONVILLE


GROUND LEASE (2076)/JOINT VENTURE

15.0

130,704

92.7

GABRIEL BROTHERS



KROGER



UNITED ART AND EDUCATION



SPRINGDALE (8)


JOINT VENTURE

22.0

253,510

73.5

WAL-MART



HH GREGG



DAVID’S BRIDAL



TROTWOOD


FEE

16.9

141,616

80.4

VALUE CITY



DOLLAR GENERAL


UPPER ARLINGTON


FEE

13.3

160,702

95.0

TJ MAXX



THE DUSTY ATTIC



HONG KONG BUFFET



WESTERVILLE

1993/ 1988

FEE

25.4

242,124

91.7

MARC’S



KOHL’S



OFFICEMAX



WICKLIFFE


FEE

10.0

128,180

95.6

GABRIEL BROTHERS



BIG LOTS


DOLLAR GENERAL


WILLOUGHBY HILLS


FEE

14.1

157,424

100.0

VF OUTLET



MARCS DRUGS



OKLAHOMA

NORMAN (8)


JOINT VENTURE

31.3

262,624

93.6

TOYS “R” US



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



BARNES & NOBLE



OKLAHOMA CITY


FEE

19.8

233,797

99.6

HOME DEPOT



GORDMANS



BEST BUY



OKLAHOMA CITY


FEE

9.8

103,027

100.0

ACADEMY SPORTS & OUTDOORS



SOUTH TULSA


FEE

0.0

4,090

100.0

OREGON

ALBANY


JOINT VENTURE

3.8

22,700

100.0

GROCERY OUTLET


ALBANY (7)


FEE

13.3

109,891

100.0

RITE AID



BIG LOTS



AARON’S SALES & LEASING



CANBY (7_


FEE

9.1

115,701

98.4

SAFEWAY



RITE AID



CANBY ACE HARDWARE



CLACKAMAS (13) (6)


JOINT VENTURE

23.7

236,713

98.1

GART SPORTS



NORDSTROM RACK



OLD NAVY


GRESHAM (7)


FEE

25.6

265,765

94.2

PETSMART



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS


CRAFT WAREHOUSE


GRESHAM (7)


FEE

0.3

208,276

98.1

WILD OATS MARKETS



OFFICE DEPOT



BIG LOTS



GRESHAM (7)


FEE

0.7

107,583

100.0

FOOD 4 LESS



CASCADE ATHLETIC CLUB



GRESHAM (7)


FEE

8.0

92,872

91.2

DOLLAR TREE



VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA



HERMISTON (7)


GROUND LEASE (2046)

14.2

149,196

93.3

SAFEWAY



BIG LOTS



DOLLAR TREE



HILLSBORO (7)


FEE

20.0

260,954

96.2

SAFEWAY



STAPLES


RITE AID



HILLSBORO (7)


FEE

20.0

210,992

97.5

SAFEWAY


RITE AID


HILLSBORO PUBLIC LIBRARY


HOOD RIVER (7)


FEE

8.3

108,554

100.0

ROSAUERS



HI SCHOOL PHARMACY



VALUE-MART



MCMINNVILLE (4)


JOINT VENTURE

90.5

-

—

MEDFORD (7)


FEE

30.1

335,043

99.3

SEARS



TINSELTOWN



24 HOUR FITNESS



MEDFORD (7)


FEE

16.9

183,850

96.0

BI-MART



TJ MAXX



BIG LOTS



MILWAUKIE (7)


GROUND LEASE (2041)

16.3

185,859

100.0

ALBERTSONS


RITE AID


JO-ANN FABRICS



MILWAUKIE (7)


FEE

4.2

50,862

100.0

OFFICEMAX/COPY MAX



OREGON CITY (7)


FEE

17.6

246,855

97.0

COASTAL FARM & HOME SUPPLY



RITE AID



FISHERMEN’S MARINE SUPPLY



PORTLAND (7)


FEE

10.6

115,635

96.8

SAFEWAY



DOLLAR TREE



PORTLAND (7)


FEE

1.5

112,755

98.7

STAPLES



WALGREENS



PORTLAND (7)


FEE

2.1

38,363

98.3

QFC



SANDY (7)


FEE

9.3

101,438

62.3

HI SCHOOL PHARMACY


DOLLAR TREE



SPRINGFIELD (7)


FEE

8.7

96,027

95.6

SAFEWAY



TROUTDALE (7)


FEE

9.8

98,137

57.0

LAMBS THRIFTWAY



PENNSLYVANIA

BLUE BELL


FEE

17.7

120,211

100.0

KOHL’S



HOME GOODS



CARLISLE (14)


JOINT VENTURE

12.2

90,289

93.4

GIANT FOOD



CHAMBERSBURG (4)


FEE

45.3

251,000

100.0

KOHL’S



GIANT FOOD



MICHAELS



CHAMBERSBURG (9)


JOINT VENTURE

12.9

129,754

96.5

GIANT FOOD



WINE & SPIRITS SHOPPE



CHIPPEWA


FEE

22.4

215,206

100.0

KMART



HOME DEPOT



DUQUESNE


FEE

8.8

69,733

18.0

EAGLEVILLE


FEE

15.2

165,385

94.9

KMART



GENUARDI’S



EAST NORRITON


FEE

12.5

133,569

100.0

SHOPRITE



STAPLES



JO-ANN FABRICS


EAST STROUDSBURG


FEE

15.3

168,506

100.0

KMART



WEIS MARKETS


EASTWICK


FEE

3.4

36,511

100.0

MERCY HOSPITAL



EXTON


FEE

9.8

85,184

100.0

KOHL’S



EXTON


FEE

6.1

60,685

100.0

ACME MARKETS



FEASTERVILLE


FEE

4.6

86,575

100.0

VALUE CITY



GETTYSBURG


FEE

2.4

14,584

100.0

RITE AID



GREENSBURG


JOINT VENTURE

5.0

50,000

100.0

TJ MAXX



MICHAELS



HAMBURG


FEE

3.0

15,400

100.0

LEHIGH VALLEY HEALTH



HARRISBURG


FEE

17.0

175,917

100.0

GANDER MOUNTAIN



AMERICAN SIGNATURE



SUPERPETZ





YEAR

OWNERSHIP

LAND

LEASABLE

PERCENT

MAJOR LEASES

DEVELOPED

INTEREST/

AREA

AREA

LEASED

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LOCATION

OR ACQUIRED

(EXPIRATION)(2)

(ACRES)

(SQ. FT.)

(1)

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

HAVERTOWN


FEE

9.0

80,938

100.0

KOHL’S



HORSHAM (14)


JOINT VENTURE

8.3

75,206

100.0

GIANT FOOD



LANDSDALE


GROUND LEASE (2037)

1.4

84,470

100.0

KOHL’S


MONROEVILLE (14)


FEE

13.7

143,200

89.6

PETSMART



BED BATH & BEYOND



MICHAELS



MONTGOMERY (8)


JOINT VENTURE

45.0

257,565

100.0

GIANT FOOD



BED BATH & BEYOND



COMPUSA



MORRISVILLE


FEE

14.4

2,437

—

NEW KENSINGTON


FEE

12.5

108,950

100.0

GIANT EAGLE



PHILADELPHIA


JOINT VENTURE

18.0

294,751

98.4

SEARS



PHILADELPHIA


GROUND LEASE (2035)

6.8

133,309

100.0

PHILADELPHIA


FEE

6.3

82,345

100.0

KOHL’S



PHILADELPHIA


JOINT VENTURE

7.5

75,303

100.0

NORTHEAST AUTO OUTLET



PHILADELPHIA


FEE

0.4

9,343

100.0

PHILADELPHIA (3)


JOINT VENTURE

22.6

274,412

100.0

SUPER FRESH



PETSMART



AMC ORLEANS 8


PHILADELPHIA (3)


JOINT VENTURE

8.1

198,721

100.0

JCPENNEY



TOYS “R” US



PIITSBURGH


FEE

46.8

467,927

100.0

POTTSTOWN (9)


FEE

15.7

161,727

95.5

GIANT FOOD



TRACTOR SUPPLY CO.



TJ MAXX



RICHBORO


FEE

14.5

110,357

100.0

SUPER FRESH



SCOTT TOWNSHIP


GROUND LEASE (2052)

6.9

69,288

100.0

WAL-MART



SHREWSBURY (13)


JOINT VENTURE

21.2

94,706

100.0

GIANT FOOD



SPRINGFIELD


FEE

19.7

212,188

90.9

VALUE CITY



STAPLES



UPPER DARBY


JOINT VENTURE

16.3

48,936

88.2

MERCY HOSPITAL


BRIGHTSIDE ACADEMY



WEST MIFFLIN


GROUND LEASE (2032)

8.3

84,279

100.0

BIG LOTS



WHITEHALL


JOINT VENTURE

15.1

151,418

100.0

GIANT FOOD


JO-ANN FABRICS


BARNES & NOBLE


WHITEHALL


GROUND LEASE (2081)

6.0

84,524

100.0

KOHL’S



YORK


FEE

13.7

58,244

68.7

ADVANCE AUTO PARTS


YORK


FEE

3.3

35,500

100.0

GIANT FOOD



PUERTO RICO

BAYAMON


FEE

16.5

186,400

98.4

AMIGO SUPERMARKET



OFFICEMAX



CHUCK E. CHEESE



CAGUAS


FEE

20.0

572,188

98.9

COSTCO



JCPENNEY



OFFICEMAX



CAROLINA


FEE

28.5

570,610

97.8

HOME DEPOT



KMART



PUEBLO INTERNATIONAL



MANATI


FEE

6.7

69,640

95.7

GRANDE SUPERMARKET


MAYAGUEZ


FEE

32.5

348,593

100.0

HOME DEPOT



SAM’S CLUB



CARIBBEAN CINEMA



PONCE


FEE

12.1

192,701

99.0

2000 CINEMA CORP.



SUPERMERCADOS MAXIMO



DAVID’S BRIDAL



TRUJILLO ALTO


FEE

20.1

201,324

96.8

KMART



PUEBLO SUPERMARKET



FARMACIAS EL AMAL


RHODE ISLAND

CRANSTON


FEE

11.0

129,907

89.6

BOB’S STORES



MARSHALLS



PROVIDENCE


GROUND LEASE (2022)/JOINT VENTURE

13.0

71,735

95.5

STOP & SHOP



SOUTH CAROLINA

CHARLESTON


FEE

17.2

186,740

100.0

TJ MAXX



OFFICE DEPOT



MARSHALLS


CHARLESTON


FEE

17.6

128,658

99.4

STEIN MART



FLOOR IT NOW


TUESDAY MORNING



FLORENCE


FEE

21.0

113,922

81.8

HAMRICKS


STAPLES



DOLLAR TREE



GREENVILLE


FEE

20.4

148,532

92.8

STEVE & BARRY’S UNIVERSITY



BABIES R US



GREENVILLE (12)


FEE

31.8

295,928

98.1

INGLES MARKETS



GOODY’S FAMILY CLOTHING



TJ MAXX



NORTH CHARLESTON

2000/ 1997

FEE

27.3

267,632

89.4

SPORTS AUTHORITY



CIRCUIT CITY



MARSHALLS



TENNESSEE

BELLEVUE (4)


JOINT VENTURE

30.6

53,000

100.0

PUBLIX



CHATTANOOGA


GROUND LEASE (2074)

7.6

50,588

89.6

SAVE-A-LOT



CHATTANOOGA


JOINT VENTURE

5.0

50,000

100.0

HOME GOODS



MICHAELS



MADISON


FEE

25.4

240,318

98.1

JO-ANN FABRICS



CIRCUIT CITY



TJ MAXX



MADISON


GROUND LEASE (2039)

14.5

175,593

98.1

OLD TIME POTTERY



WAL-MART



MADISON (8)


JOINT VENTURE

21.1

189,401

97.4

DICK’S SPORTING GOODS



BEST BUY



GOODY’S FAMILY CLOTHING



MEMPHIS


FEE

14.7

167,243

87.0

TOYS “R” US



OFFICEMAX



KIDS R US



MEMPHIS


FEE

8.8

87,962

100.0

OLD TIME POTTERY



MEMPHIS (7)


FEE

6.0

51,542

75.6

HANCOCK FABRICS



MEMPHIS (8)


JOINT VENTURE

3.9

40,000

100.0

BED BATH & BEYOND



NASHVILLE


FEE

16.9

172,135

97.5

STEIN MART



ASHLEY FURNITURE



BED BATH & BEYOND



NASHVILLE


FEE

10.2

109,012

92.6

MARSHALLS


OFFICEMAX



OLD COUNTRY BUFFET



NASHVILLE (8)


JOINT VENTURE

9.3

99,909

92.5

BEST BUY



OFFICEMAX



TEXAS

ALLEN


JOINT VENTURE

2.1

21,162

100.0

CREME DE LA CREME



AMARILLO (8)


JOINT VENTURE

9.3

343,989

99.6

HOME DEPOT



KOHL’S



CIRCUIT CITY



AMARILLO (8)


JOINT VENTURE

10.6

142,747

99.2

ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



BED BATH & BEYOND



JO-ANN FABRICS



ARLINGTON


FEE

8.0

96,127

100.0

HOBBY LOBBY



AUSTIN


FEE

15.4

157,852

90.5

HEB GROCERY



BROKERS NATIONAL LIFE


AUSTIN


JOINT VENTURE

10.8

108,028

100.0

FRY’S ELECTRONICS



AUSTIN (13) (6)


JOINT VENTURE

20.9

209,393

96.0

BED BATH & BEYOND



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



TJ MAXX



AUSTIN (13) (6)


JOINT VENTURE

20.8

138,422

98.5

RANDALLS FOOD & DRUGS



AUSTIN (8)


JOINT VENTURE

18.2

191,760

86.6

CIRCUIT CITY



BABIES R US



WORLD MARKET



BAYTOWN


FEE

8.7

86,240

100.0

HOBBY LOBBY



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



BROWNSVILLE (4)


JOINT VENTURE

30.1

197,000

100.0

MERVYN’S



TJ MAXX



PETSMART



BURLESON (4)


JOINT VENTURE

46.7

64,000

100.0

OLD NAVY



ULTA



COLLEYVILLE


JOINT VENTURE

2.0

20,188

100.0

CREME DE LA CREME



CONROE (13)


JOINT VENTURE

30.0

299,921

82.7

FINGERS FURNITURE



TJ MAXX



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



COPPELL


JOINT VENTURE

2.0

20,425

100.0

CREME DE LA CREME



CORPUS CHRISTI


GROUND LEASE (2065)

12.5

125,454

100.0

BEST BUY



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



BED BATH & BEYOND



DALLAS


JOINT VENTURE

75.0

-

—

DALLAS (8)


JOINT VENTURE

6.8

83,867

100.0

ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



OFFICEMAX



BIG LOTS



DALLAS (9) (6)


JOINT VENTURE

9.6

125,195

93.0

TOM THUMB



EAST PLANO


FEE

9.0

100,598

100.0

HOME DEPOT EXPO



FORT WORTH (4)


JOINT VENTURE

45.5

200,000

100.0

MARSHALLS



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



OFFICE DEPOT



FRISCO (4)


JOINT VENTURE

38.7

106,000

100.0

SPROUTS SUPERMARKET



GRAND PRAIRIE (4)


JOINT VENTURE

56.5

69,000

100.0

HARRIS COUNTY (14)


JOINT VENTURE

11.4

144,055

100.0

BEST BUY



LINENS N THINGS



BARNES & NOBLE



HOUSTON


FEE

40.0

397,899

97.8

HOBBY LOBBY



OSHMAN SPORTING



BEL FURNITURE



HOUSTON


FEE

8.0

113,831

84.3

HEB PANTRY STORE



PALAIS ROYAL



HOUSTON


FEE

8.2

96,500

100.0

BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY



HOUSTON


FEE

5.6

84,188

75.5

OFFICE DEPOT



METROPOLITAN FURNITURE



HOUSTON (13)


JOINT VENTURE

19.0

196,044

96.0

TJ MAXX



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



BED BATH & BEYOND



HOUSTON (14)


FEE

32.0

350,398

92.2

MARSHALLS



BED BATH & BEYOND



OFFICEMAX



HOUSTON (4)


JOINT VENTURE

8.2

30,000

100.0

BEST BUY



HOUSTON (9)


JOINT VENTURE

17.1

185,332

92.9

ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



OFFICE DEPOT



OLD NAVY



LAREDO (9)


JOINT VENTURE

25.8

257,981

98.7

TOYS “R” US



CINEMARK



LINENS N THINGS



LEWISVILLE


FEE

7.6

123,560

98.0

BABIES R US



BED BATH & BEYOND



BROYHILL HOME COLLECTIONS



LEWISVILLE


FEE

9.4

93,668

71.6

DSW SHOE WAREHOUSE



PETLAND



LEWISVILLE


FEE

11.2

74,837

82.8

BALLY TOTAL FITNESS



TALBOTS OUTLET



LUBBOCK


FEE

9.6

108,326

98.6

PETSMART



OFFICEMAX



BARNES & NOBLE



MESQUITE


FEE

15.0

209,766

92.9

BEST BUY



ASHLEY FURNITURE



PETSMART



MESQUITE


FEE

9.0

79,550

100.0

KROGER



N. BRAUNFELS


JOINT VENTURE

8.6

86,479

100.0

KOHL’S





YEAR

OWNERSHIP

LAND

LEASABLE

PERCENT

MAJOR LEASES

DEVELOPED

INTEREST/

AREA

AREA

LEASED

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LOCATION

OR ACQUIRED

(EXPIRATION)(2)

(ACRES)

(SQ. FT.)

(1)

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

PASADENA (8)


JOINT VENTURE

24.6

240,907

100.0

BEST BUY



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



MARSHALLS



PASADENA (8)


JOINT VENTURE

15.1

169,190

100.0

PETSMART



OFFICEMAX



MICHAELS



PLANO


FEE

0.0

149,343

100.0

HOME DEPOT



RICHARDSON (8)


JOINT VENTURE

11.7

115,579

79.5

OFFICEMAX



BALLY TOTAL FITNESS



FOX & HOUND



STAFFORD (8)


JOINT VENTURE

54.3

589,201

96.6

LOEWS THEATRES



HOBBY LOBBY



OSHMAN SPORTING



TEMPLE (14)


JOINT VENTURE

27.5

274,786

90.4

HOBBY LOBBY



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



GOODY’S FAMILY CLOTHING



WOODLANDS (4)


JOINT VENTURE

34.0

456,000

100.0

BORDERS BOOKS



CINEMARK



TOMMY BAHAMA’S



UTAH

OGDEN


FEE

11.4

142,628

100.0

COSTCO



VERMONT

MANCHESTER


FEE

9.5

53,483

100.0

PRICE CHOPPERS


VIRGINIA

BURKE (11)


GROUND LEASE (2076)/ JOINT VENTURE

12.5

124,148

100.0

SAFEWAY



CVS



COLONIAL HEIGHTS


FEE

6.1

60,909

100.0

BLOOM BROTHERS FURNITURE


BOOKS-A-MILLION



DUMFRIES (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.2

1,702

100.0

FAIRFAX (8)


JOINT VENTURE

37.0

323,262

100.0

HOME DEPOT



COSTCO



SPORTS AUTHORITY



FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

3.3

33,179

100.0

CIRCUIT CITY



FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

3.2

32,000

100.0

BASSETT FURNITURE



FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

1.1

11,097

100.0

NTB TIRES



FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

1.1

10,578

100.0

CHUCK E CHEESE



FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

1.0

10,125

100.0

CVS



FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

1.0

10,125

100.0

CVS



FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

1.0

10,125

100.0

SHONEY’S


FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

1.0

10,002

100.0

CRACKER BARREL



FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.8

8,027

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.8

8,000

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.8

7,993

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.7

7,256

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


FEE

0.7

7,241

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.7

7,200

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.7

7,200

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.7

7,000

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.7

6,818

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.6

6,100

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.6

6,000

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.6

5,892

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.6

5,540

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.5

5,126

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.5

5,020

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.5

4,842

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.5

4,828

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.5

4,800

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.4

4,352

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.4

4,261

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.4

3,822

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.4

3,650

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.3

3,076

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.3

3,028

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.3

3,000

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.3

3,000

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.3

2,909

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.2

2,454

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.2

2,170

100.0

FREDERICKSBURG (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.2

1,762

100.0

HARRISONBURG (9) (3)


JOINT VENTURE

17.6

107,438

94.4

KOHL’S



MANASSAS


FEE

13.5

117,525

100.0

SUPER FRESH



JO-ANN FABRICS


MANASSAS (14)


JOINT VENTURE

8.9

107,233

100.0

BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY



AUTO ZONE



PENTAGON CITY (12)


FEE

16.8

337,429

97.9

COSTCO



MARSHALLS



BEST BUY



RICHMOND


FEE

11.5

128,612

100.0

BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY



RICHMOND


FEE

8.5

84,683

100.0

BLOOM BROTHERS FURNITURE



RICHMOND (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.3

3,060

100.0

ROANOKE


FEE

7.7

81,789

100.0

DICK’S SPORTING GOODS



CIRCUIT CITY



ROANOKE (9)


JOINT VENTURE

30.2

301,740

95.1

MICHAELS



MARSHALLS



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



STAFFORD (13)


JOINT VENTURE

9.9

101,042

100.0

GIANT FOOD



STAPLES



PETCO SUPPLIES & FISH



STAFFORD (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.7

7,310

100.0

STAFFORD (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.4

4,400

100.0

STAFFORD (13)


JOINT VENTURE

1.2

4,211

100.0

STAFFORD (13)


JOINT VENTURE

0.4

3,549

—

STAFFORD (14)


JOINT VENTURE

30.8

331,730

100.0

SHOPPERS FOOD



TJ MAXX



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



STERLING (14)


JOINT VENTURE

103.3

737,503

100.0

WAL-MART



LOWE’S HOME CENTER



SAM’S CLUB



STERLING (9)


JOINT VENTURE

38.1

361,079

100.0

TOYS “R” US



MICHAELS



CIRCUIT CITY



WOODBRIDGE


GROUND LEASE (2072)/JOINT VENTURE

19.6

150,793

95.5

CAMPOS FURNITURE


SALVATION ARMY



WEDGEWOOD ANTIQUES


WOODBRIDGE (8) (3)


JOINT VENTURE

54.0

494,048

99.4

PETSMART



BEST BUY



LOWE’S



WOODBRIDGE (9)


JOINT VENTURE

27.6

272,174

100.0

LOWE’S HOME CENTER



VILLAGE THRIFT STORE



ALDI



WASHINGTON

AUBURN (7)


FEE

13.7

171,032

99.6

ALBERTSONS



OFFICE DEPOT



RITE AID



BELLEVUE (3)


JOINT VENTURE

41.6

445,250

100.0

TARGET



MERVYN’S



NORDSTROM RACK



BELLINGHAM (7)


FEE

30.5

376,023

99.3

KMART



COST CUTTERS



JO-ANN FABRICS



BELLINGHAM (8)


JOINT VENTURE

20.0

188,885

98.5

MACY’S



BEST BUY



BED BATH & BEYOND



BLAINE (7)


FEE

13.0

109,461

92.7

COST CUTTERS



RITE AID



EVERETT (7)


FEE

6.8

88,770

100.0

QFC



FEDERAL WAY (8)


JOINT VENTURE

17.0

200,126

94.1

QFC



JO-ANN FABRICS



BARNES & NOBLE



KENT (7)


FEE

23.1

86,909

97.1

ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



KENT (7)


FEE

7.2

69,090

100.0

RITE AID



LAKE STEVENS (7)


FEE

18.6

199,937

98.0

SAFEWAY



G.I. JOE’S



BARTELL DRUGS



MILL CREEK (7)


FEE

12.4

94,038

94.1

SAFEWAY



OAK HARBOR (7)


FEE

6.4

70,104

100.0

SAAR’S



OLYMPIA (7)


FEE

15.0

168,209

93.8

ALBERTSONS



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



OLYMPIA (7)


FEE

6.7

69,572

73.5

BARNES & NOBLE



PETCO



SEATTLE (7)


GROUND LEASE (2083)

3.2

144,170

93.0

SAFEWAY



PRUDENTIAL REALTY



BARTELL DRUGS



SILVERDALE (7)


GROUND LEASE (2014)

14.7

170,332

100.0

SAFEWAY



JO-ANN FABRICS



RITE AID



SILVERDALE (7)


FEE

5.1

67,287

95.6

ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



SPANAWAY (7)


FEE

11.8

116,961

98.8

MARKETPLACE GROCERY



GEN X CLOTHING



STUPID PRICES



SPOKANE (14)


JOINT VENTURE

8.3

129,785

100.0

BED BATH & BEYOND



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



RITE AID



TACOMA (7)


FEE

14.5

156,916

85.9

TJ MAXX



GALAXY THEATRES



OFFICE DEPOT



TUKWILA (8)


JOINT VENTURE

45.9

459,071

100.0

THE BON MARCHE’



BEST BUY



GART SPORTS



VANCOUVER (4)


JOINT VENTURE

32.2

230,000

100.0

BEST BUY



OFFICE DEPOT



PETCO



VANCOUVER (7)


FEE

6.3

69,790

95.4

SUPERMAX



HI SCHOOL PHARMACY





YEAR

OWNERSHIP

LAND

LEASABLE

PERCENT

MAJOR LEASES

DEVELOPED

INTEREST/

AREA

AREA

LEASED

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LOCATION

OR ACQUIRED

(EXPIRATION)(2)

(ACRES)

(SQ. FT.)

(1)

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

WEST VIRGINIA

CHARLES TOWN


FEE

22.0

208,950

96.0

WAL-MART



STAPLES


HUNTINGTON


FEE

19.5

2,400

100.0

MARTINSBURG


FEE

6.0

43,212

—

SOUTH CHARLESTON


FEE

14.8

147,753

98.6

KROGER



TJ MAXX



CANADA

ALBERTA

SHOPPES @ SHAWNESSEY


JOINT VENTURE

16.3

162,988

100.0

ZELLERS



SHAWNESSY CENTRE


JOINT VENTURE

30.6

306,010

100.0

FUTURE SHOP (BEST BUY)



LINEN N THINGS



BUSINESS DEPOT (STAPLES)



BRENTWOOD


JOINT VENTURE

31.2

312,331

99.7

CANADA SAFEWAY



SEARS WHOLE HOME



LINEN N THINGS



SOUTH EDMONTON COMMON


JOINT VENTURE

42.9

428,745

100.0

HOME OUTFITTERS



LONDON DRUGS



MICHAELS



GRANDE PRAIRIE III


JOINT VENTURE

6.3

63,413

100.0

MICHAELS



WINNERS (TJ MAXX)



JYSK LINEN



BRITISH COLUMBIA

—

TILLICUM


JOINT VENTURE

45.5

455,493

100.0

ZELLERS



SAFEWAY



WINNERS (TJ MAXX)



PRINCE GEORGE


JOINT VENTURE

37.3

372,725

96.4

OVERWAITEE



THE BAY



LONDON DRUGS



STRAWBERRY HILL


JOINT VENTURE

33.3

332,809

100.0

HOME DEPOT



CINEPLEX ODEON



WINNERS (TJ MAXX)



MISSION


JOINT VENTURE

27.1

271,462

100.0

OVERWAITEE



FAMOUS PLAYERS



LONDON DRUGS



ABBOTSFORD


JOINT VENTURE

21.5

215,213

98.4

ZELLERS



PETSMART



WINNERS (TJ MAXX)



CLEARBROOK


JOINT VENTURE

18.8

188,253

100.0

SAFEWAY



STAPLES



LANDMARK CINEMAS



SURREY


JOINT VENTURE

17.1

170,725

100.0

CANADA SAFEWAY



LONDON DRUGS



LANGLEY POWER CENTER


JOINT VENTURE

22.8

228,314

99.6

WINNERS (TJ MAXX)



MICHAELS



FUTURE SHOP (BEST BUY)



LANGLEY GATE


JOINT VENTURE

15.2

151,802

100.0

SEARS



PETSMART



WINNERS (TJ MAXX)



ONTARIO

THICKSON RIDGE


JOINT VENTURE

36.3

363,039

100.0

WINNERS (TJ MAXX)



FUTURE SHOP (BEST BUY)



SEARS WHOLE HOME



SHOPPERS WORLD ALBION


JOINT VENTURE

34.9

349,399

98.2

CANADIAN TIRE



FORTINO’S



SHOPPERS WORLD DANFORTH


JOINT VENTURE

32.8

328,202

100.0

ZELLERS



DOMINION



BUSINESS DEPOT (STAPLES)



LINCOLN FIELDS


JOINT VENTURE

29.0

289,869

96.0

WAL MART



LOEB (GROUND)



CAA OTTAWA



404 TOWN CENTRE


JOINT VENTURE

24.9

249,379

100.0

ZELLERS



A &

P



NATIONAL GYM CLOTHING



SUDBURY


JOINT VENTURE

23.4

234,299

100.0

FAMOUS PLAYERS



BUSINESS DEPOT (STAPLES)



CHAPTERS



SUDBURY


JOINT VENTURE

17.0

169,555

100.0

WINNERS (TJ MAXX)



LINEN N THINGS



MICHAELS



CLARKSON CROSSING


JOINT VENTURE

21.3

213,052

100.0

CANADIAN TIRE



A &

P



GREEN LANE CENTRE


JOINT VENTURE

16.0

160,195

100.0

LINEN N THINGS



MICHAELS



PETSMART



KENDALWOOD


JOINT VENTURE

15.6

156,274

97.4

PRICE CHOPPER



VALUE VILLAGE



SHOPPERS DRUG MART



LEASIDE


JOINT VENTURE

13.3

133,035

100.0

CANADIAN TIRE



FUTURE SHOP (BEST BUY)



PETSMART



DONALD PLAZA


JOINT VENTURE

9.1

91,462

95.9

WINNERS (TJ MAXX)



ST. LAURANT


JOINT VENTURE

12.6

125,984

98.0

ZELLERS



LOEB



BOULEVARD CENTRE III


JOINT VENTURE

8.3

82,961

100.0

FOOD BASICS



RIOCAN GRAND PARK


JOINT VENTURE

11.9

118,637

100.0

SHOPPERS DRUG MART



WINNERS (TJ MAXX)



BUSINESS DEPOT (STAPLES)



WALKER PLACE


JOINT VENTURE

7.0

69,857

100.0

COMMISSO’S



SCARBOROUGH


JOINT VENTURE

2.3

20,506

100.0

AGINCOURT NISSAN LIMITED


SCARBOROUGH


JOINT VENTURE

1.8

13,433

100.0

MORNINGSIDE NISSAN LIMITED


MARKETPLACE TORONTO


JOINT VENTURE

17.1

171,088

100.0

WINNERS (TJ MAXX)



MARK’S WORK WEARHOUSE



SEARS APPLIANCE



PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND

CHARLOTTETOWN


JOINT VENTURE

39.1

390,988

97.2

ZELLERS



WINNERS (TJ MAXX)



WEST ROYALTY FITNESS



QUEBEC

GREENFIELD PARK


JOINT VENTURE

36.4

364,003

100.0

WINNERS (TJ MAXX)



BUREAU EN GROS (STAPLES)



GUZZO CINEMA



JACQUES CARTIER


JOINT VENTURE

21.2

211,805

96.1

GUZZO CINEMA



VALUE VILLAGE



IGA



CHATEAUGUAY


JOINT VENTURE

21.1

211,368

97.2

SUPER C



HART



MEXICO

BAJA CALIFORNIA

MEXICALI


FEE

11.8

118,047

100.0

CINEPOLIS

MEXICALI (4)


FEE

10.3

103,000

100.0

WAL-MART

TIJUANA (4)


JOINT VENTURE

38.7

182,000

100.0

WAL-MART

CHIHUAHUA

JUAREZ


JOINT VENTURE

23.8

238,135

88.9

SORIANA

JUAREZ (4)


FEE

11.8

118,000

100.0

WAL-MART

COAHUILA

SALTILLO PLAZA


JOINT VENTURE

17.4

173,772

98.0

HEB

SALTILLO (4)


FEE

25.8

252,000

100.0

HEB

CINEPOLIS

GUERRERO

ACAPULCO

2005/ 2006

FEE

31.6

316,005

100.0

WAL-MART

HIDALGO

PACHUCA (4)


JOINT VENTURE

13.7

132,000

100.0

HOME DEPOT

PACHUCA (4)


FEE

11.2

140,000

100.0

WAL-MART

JALISCO

GUADALAJARA


FEE

10.0

99,717

100.0

GUADALAJARA


FEE

12.9

129,198

84.5

WAL-MART

GUADALAJARA (4)


JOINT VENTURE

24.0

571,000

100.0

WAL-MART

CINEPOLIS

SUBURBIA

GUADALAJARA (4)


FEE

17.0

170,000

100.0

WAL-MART

CINEPOLIS

PUERTO VALLARTA (4)


FEE

7.2

72,000

100.0

SORIANA

MEXICO

HUEHUETOCA


JOINT VENTURE

17.1

170,836

82.3

WAL-MART

TECAMAC (4)


FEE

8.2

82,000

100.0

WAL-MART

MEXICO CITY

TLALNEPANTLA (4)


JOINT VENTURE

14.7

356,000

100.0

WAL-MART

CINEPOLIS

SUBURBIA

MEXICO CITY (4)


FEE

0.7

22,000

100.0

MERCEDES BENZ

MORELOS

CUAUTLA (4)


FEE

23.3

233,000

100.0

WAL-MART

SAMS

NUEVO LEON

MONTERREY


JOINT VENTURE

26.5

265,360

95.0

HEB

MONTERREY (4)


FEE

9.8

98,000

100.0

HEB

ESCOBEDO (4)


JOINT VENTURE

9.2

92,000

100.0

HEB

OAXACA

TUXTEPEC


FEE

9.3

92,807

97.5

WAL-MART

QUERETARO

SAN JUAN DEL RIO (4)


FEE

8.4

84,000

100.0

WAL-MART

QUINTANA ROO

CANCUN


FEE

9.1

91,139

87.5

WAL-MART

SAN LUIS POTOSI

SAN LUIS


FEE

12.1

121,324

95.7

HEB

TAMAULIPAS

REYNOSA


JOINT VENTURE

39.1

391,399

92.9

HEB

NUEVO LAREDO (4)


FEE

11.0

110,000

100.0

WAL-MART

TOTAL 915 SHOPPING CENTER PROPERTY INTERESTS

14,573

128,863,386



YEAR

OWNERSHIP

LAND

LEASABLE

PERCENT

MAJOR LEASES

DEVELOPED

INTEREST/

AREA

AREA

LEASED

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LOCATION

OR ACQUIRED

(EXPIRATION)(2)

(ACRES)

(SQ. FT.)

(1)

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

US PREFERRED EQUITY INVESTMENTS (RETAIL ASSETS ONLY)

ALASKA

ANCHORAGE (3)


JOINT VENTURE

5.9

85,163

86.8

COMPUSA



ALABAMA

BOAZ


JOINT VENTURE

2.6

27,900

93.5

DOLLAR TREE



ARIZONA

TUSCON


JOINT VENTURE

57.3

503,084

97.5

LOEWS/CINEPLEX ODEON



LINENS ‘N THINGS



BARNES & NOBLE



CALIFORNIA

CHATSWORTH


JOINT VENTURE

6.8

75,875

100.0

KAHOOTS



SMART & FINAL



TRADER JOE’S COMPANY



HAWTHORNE


JOINT VENTURE

14.4

182,605

100.0

KROGER (FOOD 4 LESS)



SPORTMART



ROSS STORES INC.



HAWTHORNE


JOINT VENTURE

0.5

21,507

100.0

OFFICE DEPOT



COLORADO

LA JUNTA


JOINT VENTURE

2.9

20,500

84.4

FLORIDA

AUBURNDALE (2)


JOINT VENTURE

4.0

-

—

BRANDON (4)


JOINT VENTURE

4.6

-

—

CLEARWATER


JOINT VENTURE

8.4

84,441

98.8

KASH N KARRY



WALGREEN’S


DELTONA


JOINT VENTURE

7.0

80,567

95.0

WINN DIXIE



PET SUPERMARKET



JACKSONVILLE (2)


JOINT VENTURE

4.8

—

LOXAHATCHEE


JOINT VENTURE

8.5

75,194

100.0

WINN DIXIE



MIAMI


JOINT VENTURE

50.0

651,011

97.4

HOME DEPOT



TIGER DIRECT



AMC CINEMA


PEMBROKE PINES


JOINT VENTURE

15.5

137,259

96.4

BRAVO SUPERMARKETS



ASSOCIATION OF BUILDERS


EEMAC INC



PERRY


JOINT VENTURE

1.6

15,300

97.4

SARASOTA


JOINT VENTURE

12.6

148,348

100.0

OFFICE DEPOT



PETSMART



JO-ANN FABRIC



SPRING HILL


JOINT VENTURE

7.3

69,917

100.0

WINN DIXIE



TAMPA


JOINT VENTURE

11.4

100,538

98.3

KASH N KARRY



US POSTAL SERVICE


BEALL’S OUTLET


TAMPA


JOINT VENTURE

11.5

100,200

100.0

PUBLIX



WELLINGTON


JOINT VENTURE

18.7

171,955

73.0

WELLINGTON THEATRE



WALGREEN’S


CLUB FITNESS WORKS


GEORGIA

AUGUSTA


JOINT VENTURE

12.7

258,325

99.6

MOULTRIE


JOINT VENTURE

22.4

196,589

99.2

WAL MART



ILLINOIS

LANSING


JOINT VENTURE

52.8

320,184

98.3

WAL-MART



OFFICE DEPOT



JO-ANN FABRIC



INDIANA

NEW ALBANY


JOINT VENTURE

7.6

31,753

96.0

NEW ALBANY


JOINT VENTURE

2.0

10,554

100.0

NEW ALBANY (4)


JOINT VENTURE

6.8

22,320

100.0

SHELBYVILLE


JOINT VENTURE

1.5

14,150

77.4

TELL CITY


JOINT VENTURE

2.3

27,000

77.8

IOWA

FORT DODGE


JOINT VENTURE

3.1

33,700

100.0

KEOKUK


JOINT VENTURE

1.0

10,160

72.4

MARSHALLTOWN


JOINT VENTURE

3.1

22,900

86.0

NEWTON


JOINT VENTURE

1.9

20,300

100.0

OSKALOOSA


JOINT VENTURE

2.0

20,700

100.0

OTTUMWA


JOINT VENTURE

3.0

22,200

92.8

WEST BURLINGTON


JOINT VENTURE

2.9

26,100

100.0

WEST DES MOINES


JOINT VENTURE

7.6

53,423

82.6

KENTUCKY

LOUISVILLE


JOINT VENTURE

36.3

156,672

100.0

BEST BUY



TJ MAXX


GOODY’S



RADCLIFF


JOINT VENTURE

4.7

36,900

92.4

LOUISIANA

ALEXANDRIA


JOINT VENTURE

2.2

20,400

100.0

MINDEN


JOINT VENTURE

3.1

27,300

100.0

PINEVILLE


JOINT VENTURE

3.0

32,200

100.0

SHREVEPORT


JOINT VENTURE

18.4

93,669

100.0

OFFICE MAX



BARNES & NOBLE



OLD NAVY


SHREVEPORT


JOINT VENTURE

8.4

78,591

81.2

MICHAELS



DOLLAR TREE



ZACHARY


JOINT VENTURE

3.2

29,600

100.0

MASSACHUSETTS

HAVERHILL


JOINT VENTURE

6.9

63,203

94.8

MISSISSIPPI

PETAL


JOINT VENTURE

3.2

30,180

94.7

RIDGELAND


JOINT VENTURE

3.3

41,079

85.4

RIDGELAND


JOINT VENTURE

3.8

61,568

85.5

PARTY CITY


RIDGELAND


JOINT VENTURE

6.0

81,626

100.0

ACADEMY SPORTS



NEW HAMPSHIRE

LANCASTER


JOINT VENTURE

10.8

50,080

100.0

SHAW’S SUPERMARKET



LITTLETON


JOINT VENTURE

43.0

34,583

100.0

STAPLES



NEWPORT


JOINT VENTURE

20.0

117,828

92.5

SHAW’S SUPERMARKET



WOODSVILLE


JOINT VENTURE

1.7

11,280

100.0

RITE AID



WOODSVILLE


JOINT VENTURE

3.5

39,000

100.0

SHAW’S SUPERMARKET



OHIO

WAUSEON


JOINT VENTURE

1.6

13,100

72.5

OKLAHOMA

DURANT


JOINT VENTURE

3.5

32,200

82.6

NEWCASTLE


JOINT VENTURE

1.5

11,600

100.0

SHAWNEE


JOINT VENTURE

3.1

35,640

100.0

DOLLAR TREE



PENNSLYVANIA

FAIRVIEW TOWNSHIP


JOINT VENTURE

6.8

71,979

100.0

GIANT



HALIFAX TOWNSHIP


JOINT VENTURE

8.5

54,150

100.0

GIANT



HOWE TOWNSHIP


JOINT VENTURE

12.1

66,789

100.0

GIANT



RITE AID



PITTSBURGH


JOINT VENTURE

23.8

166,789

94.4

LINENS ‘N THINGS



TJ MAXX



STAPLES



WILLIAMSPORT


JOINT VENTURE

29.0

293,825

100.0

K MART



GIANT



STAPLES



TENNESSEE

PULASKI


JOINT VENTURE

3.0

28,100

94.3

TEXAS

AUSTIN


JOINT VENTURE

4.2

40,000

100.0

DAVE AND BUSTERS



AUSTIN


JOINT VENTURE

10.2

88,829

88.1

BARNES & NOBLE



PETCO



AUSTIN


JOINT VENTURE

4.8

54,651

100.0

CONN’S ELECTRIC



AUSTIN


JOINT VENTURE

19.8

210,520

99.2

ACADEMY SPORTS



PACIFIC RESOURCES



GOLD’S TEXAS HOLDINGS, L.P.



AUSTIN


JOINT VENTURE

10.9

131,039

96.2

24 HOUR FITNESS



DOLLAR TREE



AUSTIN


JOINT VENTURE

20.0

92,030

93.0

OSHMAN’S



BED BATH & BEYOND



AUSTIN


GROUND LEASE (2082)/ JOINT VENTURE

15.6

178,700

72.4

GOLD’S TEXAS HOLDINGS, L.P.



HEB GROCERY COMPANY, LP



K & R COMPANY- AMERICUS DIMOND



BELTON


JOINT VENTURE

3.4

28,060

95.7

DOLLAR TREE



CARROLLTON


JOINT VENTURE

1.8

14,950

27.0



YEAR

OWNERSHIP

LAND

LEASABLE

PERCENT

MAJOR LEASES

DEVELOPED

INTEREST/

AREA

AREA

LEASED

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LOCATION

OR ACQUIRED

(EXPIRATION)(2)

(ACRES)

(SQ. FT.)

(1)

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

CARROLLTON


JOINT VENTURE

2.0

18,740

88.0

DALLAS


JOINT VENTURE

11.7

166,625

100.0

STEIN MART



PARTY CITY



DOLLAR TREE



FT. WORTH


JOINT VENTURE

6.4

68,492

87.9

GEORGETOWN


JOINT VENTURE

12.1

115,158

92.6

DOLLAR TREE


CVS


KILLEEN (4)


JOINT VENTURE

3.0

-

—

LAKE JACKSON (4)


JOINT VENTURE

8.0

-

—

PAMPA


JOINT VENTURE

1.5

16,160

75.2

PLAINVIEW


JOINT VENTURE

3.4

31,720

79.1

SAN ANTONIO


JOINT VENTURE

8.1

102,363

97.0

GREENHOUSE GALLERY



HOLLYWOOD VIDEO



SAN MARCOS


JOINT VENTURE

17.0

185,092

98.0

HOBBY LOBBY



HASTINGS ENTERTAINMENT INC



TRACTOR SUPPLY COMPANY



SOUTHLAKE


JOINT VENTURE

15.1

133,772

94.6

HOBBY LOBBY



SOUTHLAKE (4)


GROUND LEASE (2089)/ JOINT VENTURE

1.4

61,605

100.0

TYLER


JOINT VENTURE

3.3

35,840

100.0

DOLLAR TREE



CANADA PREFERRED EQUITY INVESTMENTS (RETAIL ASSETS ONLY)

ALBERTA

CALGARY


JOINT VENTURE

9.0

172,697

90.8

WINNERS APPAREL LTD.



THE HOUSE OF TOOLS



RUSSELL SPORTING



CALGARY


JOINT VENTURE

10.0

123,084

98.6

PIER ONE



NOVA SCOTIA COMPANY



WINNERS MERCHANTS INT. LP



CALGARY


JOINT VENTURE

0.3

6,308

100.0

HINTON


JOINT VENTURE

18.5

137,917

92.4

WAL-MART CANADA CORP.



CANADA SAFEWAY



LETHBRIDGE


JOINT VENTURE

0.3

7,168

100.0

LETHBRIDGE


JOINT VENTURE

0.2

4,000

100.0

LETHBRIDGE


JOINT VENTURE

25.6

368,419

99.3

CANADIAN TIRE



BRITISH COLUMBIA

KAMLOOPS (4)


JOINT VENTURE

9.7

-

-

WINNERS



JYSK



WESTBANK (4)


JOINT VENTURE

25.9

-

—

100 MILE HOUSE


JOINT VENTURE

7.2

69,023

100.0

SAAN



SAVE ON FOOD & DRUGS



BURNABY


JOINT VENTURE

0.6

8,788

100.0

COURTENAY


JOINT VENTURE

0.3

4,024

100.0

GIBSONS


JOINT VENTURE

10.3

103,596

95.5

LONDON DRUGS LTD.



SUPER VALU



CHEVRON CANADA LTD.



LANGLEY


JOINT VENTURE

7.6

34,895

100.0

PORT ALBERNI


JOINT VENTURE

2.5

32,866

100.0

BUY-LOW FOODS



PRINCE GEORGE


JOINT VENTURE

8.0

77,931

98.6

SAVE ON FOOD & DRUGS



SHOPPERS REALTY INC.



SURREY


JOINT VENTURE

8.0

115,117

96.1

SAFEWAY STORE



THEATRE NEAR YOU



TRAIL


JOINT VENTURE

15.9

187,713

91.3

ZELLERS



EXTRA FOODS



VANCOUVER


JOINT VENTURE

3.0

35,858

100.0

WESTBANK


JOINT VENTURE

9.7

113,141

98.1

SAVE ON FOOD & DRUGS



SHOPPER’S DRUGMART



G&G HARDWARE


MANITOBA

WINNIPEG


JOINT VENTURE

0.4

4,200

100.0

NEW BRUNSWICK

FREDERICTON


JOINT VENTURE

0.6

6,742

100.0

MONCTON


JOINT VENTURE

0.4

4,655

—

NEWFOUNDLAND

ST. JOHN’S


JOINT VENTURE

25.8

457,768

86.2

SEARS



CONVERGYS CALL CENTRE



SPORT CHEK


ONTARIO

KITCHENER


JOINT VENTURE

2.0

13,450

100.0

VALUE VILLAGE



KITCHENER


JOINT VENTURE

5.0

66,579

90.7

LONDON


JOINT VENTURE

6.9

86,612

98.7

FAMOUS PLAYERS THEATRE



SUDBURY


JOINT VENTURE

5.4

40,128

100.0

PRICE CHOPPER



LIQUIDATION WORLD


WATERLOO


JOINT VENTURE

10.0

-

—

BARRIE


JOINT VENTURE

1.1

4,748

100.0

BARRIE


JOINT VENTURE

1.6

1,680

100.0

BARRIE


JOINT VENTURE

1.6

6,897

100.0

BRANTFORD


JOINT VENTURE

0.8

12,894

90.7

BURLINGTON


JOINT VENTURE

0.8

9,126

100.0

CAMBRIDGE


JOINT VENTURE

1.3

15,730

97.1

CORNWALL


JOINT VENTURE

0.3

4,000

100.0

GUELPH


JOINT VENTURE

0.8

3,600

100.0

HAMILTON


JOINT VENTURE

0.3

6,500

100.0

HAMILTON


JOINT VENTURE

0.5

10,441

100.0

HAMILTON


JOINT VENTURE

0.3

4,125

100.0

LONDON


JOINT VENTURE

0.4

8,152

100.0

LONDON


JOINT VENTURE

0.6

5,700

100.0

MISSISSAUGA


JOINT VENTURE

1.8

31,091

95.3

ESTATE HARDWOOD



NORTH BAY


JOINT VENTURE

0.5

8,497

37.9

OTTAWA


JOINT VENTURE

0.3

4,448

100.0

ST. CATHERINES


JOINT VENTURE

3.0

38,993

70.7

ST. CATHERINES


JOINT VENTURE

0.3

5,418

100.0

ST. THOMAS


JOINT VENTURE

0.2

3,595

100.0

SUDBURY


JOINT VENTURE

0.6

9,643

100.0

WATERLOO


JOINT VENTURE

0.6

5,274

100.0

QUEBEC

MONTREAL (4)


JOINT VENTURE

232.0

328,069

100.0

ZELLERS



THE BRICK



TOYS R US



ALMA


JOINT VENTURE

36.1

267,531

99.0

ZELLERS



SEARS



IGA (COOP DES CONSUMMAT)



CHANDLER


JOINT VENTURE

20.1

114,071

96.0

HART STORES



MCDONALD’S



METRO



GASPE


JOINT VENTURE

15.2

152,285

97.0

CANADIAN TIRE



SOBEYS STORES LTD


JONQUIERE


JOINT VENTURE

25.2

246,536

95.0

ZELLERS



SUPER C GROCERIES



ZELLERS



LAMALBAIE


JOINT VENTURE

9.2

117,169

88.7

SAAN


METRO RICHELIEU



CANADIAN TIRE


LAURIER STATION


JOINT VENTURE

3.2

36,366

94.2

PROVIGO



MONTREAL


GROUND LEASE (2064)/ JOINT VENTURE

6.7

93,152

99.4

MAXI (PROVIGO)



MONTREAL


GROUND LEASE (2064)/ JOINT VENTURE

8.0

25,000

100.0

MONTREAL


GROUND LEASE (2064)/ JOINT VENTURE

1.1

10,157

100.0

ROBERVAL


JOINT VENTURE

3.7

126,892

98.8

IGA



ROSSY



SAGUENAY


JOINT VENTURE

13.5

284,669

98.9

ZELLERS


SEARS


WINNERS



ST. AUGUSTIN-DE-DESMAURES


JOINT VENTURE

4.7

52,565

98.3

PROVIGO



STE. EUSTACHE


JOINT VENTURE

6.6

88,596

65.4

MAXI (PROVIGO)



STE. EUSTACHE


JOINT VENTURE

2.4

26,694

87.2

dddTOTAL 152 PREFERRED EQUITY INTERESTS (RETAIL ASSETS ONLY)

1,480.9

11,648,982

PREFERRED EQUITY ACQUISITIONS SUBSEQUENT TO DECEMBER 31, 2006 THROUGH JANUARY 31, 2007

FLORIDA

APOKA


JOINT VENTURE

7.9

71,615

85.0

WINN DIXIE



LAKE WALES


JOINT VENTURE

3.0

-

—



YEAR

OWNERSHIP

LAND

LEASABLE

PERCENT

MAJOR LEASES

DEVELOPED

INTEREST/

AREA

AREA

LEASED

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LEASE

OPTION

LOCATION

OR ACQUIRED

(EXPIRATION)(2)

(ACRES)

(SQ. FT.)

(1)

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

TENANT NAME

EXPIRATION

EXPIRATION

NEW JERSEY

WHITING (4)


JOINT VENTURE

26.7

4,000

100.0

ONTARIO

OTTAWA


JOINT VENTURE

2.7

31,001

100.0

LOEB CANADA, INC.



OTTAWA


JOINT VENTURE

4.5

3,400

100.0

OTTAWA


JOINT VENTURE

4.6

11,133

100.0

OTTAWA


JOINT VENTURE

0.2

11,265

100.0

OTTAWA


JOINT VENTURE

1.1

12,287

100.0

OTTAWA


JOINT VENTURE

2.6

39,840

100.0

ORMES FURNITURE



OTTAWA


JOINT VENTURE

1.5

26,512

85.0

OTTAWA


JOINT VENTURE

5.0

46,400

100.0

LOBLAW PROPERTIES



PREFERRED EQUITY DISPOSITIONS SUBSEQUENT TO

DECEMBER 31, 2006 THROUGH JANUARY 31, 2007

TEXAS

SOUTHLAKE


GROUND LEASE (2089)/ JOINT VENTURE

1.6

67,839

90.8

SHOPPING CENTER ACQUISITIONS SUBSEQUENT TO

DECEMBER 31, 2006 THROUGH JANUARY 31, 2007

CALIFORNIA

TORRANCE


JOINT VENTURE

6.8

67,504

94.4

ACE HARDWARE



GEORGIA

ALPHARETTA


FEE

13.1

130,515

96.2

KROGER



MARYLAND

GAITHERSBURG


JOINT VENTURE

7.1

71,329

100.0

RUGGED WAREHOUSE



MINNESOTA

HASTINGS


JOINT VENTURE

9.8

97,535

100.0

CUB FOODS



NEW YORK

HARRIMAN


JOINT VENTURE

52.9

227,939

100.0

KOHL’S



LINEN N THINGS



STAPLES



PENNSYLVANIA

PITTSBURGH


JOINT VENTURE

13.1

130,824

93.9

ECKERD’S



TENNESSEE

GERMANTOWN


JOINT VENTURE

5.5

55,297

87.4

TEXAS

DALLAS


JOINT VENTURE

17.2

171,988

94.0

WHOLE FOODS


AUSTIN


JOINT VENTURE

3.3

33,181

100.0

JO-ANN FABRICS


PRIMITIVES


SOUTHLAKE


FEE

3.7

37,447

96.7

VIRGINIA

FAIRFAX


FEE

3.5

-

—

FAIRFAX


JOINT VENTURE

10.1

101,332

100.0

HARRIS TEETER



TJ MAXX



LEESBURG


JOINT VENTURE

31.5

314,968

98.4

SHOPPER FOOD WAREHOUSE



STEIN MART



ROSS DRESS FOR LESS



MEXICO

HUEHUETOCA (4)


FEE

7.9

125,873

100.0

SORIANA

SHOPPING CENTER DISPOSITIONS SUBSEQUENT TO

DECEMBER 31, 2006 THROUGH JANUARY 31, 2007

TEXAS

DALLAS (9) (6)


JOINT VENTURE

9.6

125,195

93.0

TOM THUMB



NEW YORK

YONKERS (8) (6)


GROUND LEASE (2047)/ JOINT VENTURE

6.3

56,361

92.0

STAPLES



RETAIL STORE LEASES (15)

1995/ 1997

LEASEHOLD

-

1,867,104

99.8

OTHER REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS

AI PORTFOLIO (VARIOUS CITIES)


JOINT VENTURE

146.3

6,387,682

98.3

GOODYEAR

NINETY NON-RETAIL ASSETS

2005 — 2007

VARIOUS

249.1

10,872,664

100.0

GRAND TOTAL 1260 PROPERTY INTERESTS

16,676.9

161,213,608

(16

)

(1)

PERCENT LEASED INFORMATION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2006 OR DATE OF ACQUISITION IF ACQUIRED SUBSEQUENT TO DECEMBER 31, 2006.

(2)

THE TERM “JOINT VENTURE” INDICATES THAT THE COMPANY OWNS THE PROPERTY IN CONJUNCTION WITH ONE OR MORE JOINT VENTURE PARTNERS. THE DATE INDICATED IS THE EXPIRATION
DATE OF ANY GROUND LEASE AFTER GIVING AFFECT TO ALL RENEWAL PERIODS.

(3)

DENOTES REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT.

(4)

DENOTES GROUND-UP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. THE SQUARE FOOTAGE SHOWN REPRESENTS THE COMPLETED LEASEABLE AREA.

(5)

DENOTES UNDEVELOPED LAND.

(6)

SOLD, TERMINATED, OR TRANSFERRED SUBSEQUENT TO DECEMBER 31, 2006.

(7)

DENOTES PROPERTY INTEREST IN KIMPRU.

(8)

DENOTES PROPERTY INTEREST IN KIMCO INCOME REIT (“KIR”).

(9)

DENOTES PROPERTY INTEREST IN KIMCO RETAIL OPPORTUNITY PORTFOLIO (“KROP”).

(10)

DENOTES PROPERTY INTEREST IN KIMSOUTH REALTY, INC.

(11)

DENOTES PROPERTY INTEREST IN KIMCO INCOME FUND I.

(12)

DENOTES PROPERTY INTEREST IN PL REALTY LLC.

(13)

DENOTES PROPERTY INTEREST IN OTHER INSTITUTIONAL PROGRAMS.

(14)

DENOTES PROPERTY INTEREST IN UBS.

(15)

THE COMPANY HOLDS INTERESTS IN 20 RETAIL STORE LEASES RELATED TO THE ANCHOR STORE PREMISES IN NEIGHBORHOOD AND COMMUNITY SHOPPING CENTERS.

(16)

DOES NOT INCLUDE 37 FNC REALTY PROPERTIES COMPRISING OF 713K SQUARE FEET, 51 NEWKIRK PROPERTIES CONSISTING OF 2.5 MILLION SQUARE FEET, AND 11.0 MILLION SQUARE FEET OF PROJECTED LEASEABLE AREA RELATED TO THE GROUND-UP DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.



Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth information with respect to the executive officers of the Company as
of January 31, 2007.

Name

Age

Position

Since

Milton Cooper


Chairman of the Board of
Directors and Chief
Executive Officer


Michael J. Flynn


Vice Chairman of the
Board of Directors and
President and Chief
Operating Officer



David B. Henry


Vice Chairman of the
Board of Directors and
Chief Investment Officer


Thomas A. Caputo


Executive Vice President


Glenn G. Cohen


Vice President -

Treasurer



Raymond Edwards


Vice President -

Retail Property Solutions


Jerald Friedman


President, KDI and
Executive Vice President



Bruce M. Kauderer


Vice President — Legal
General Counsel and
Secretary



Michael V. Pappagallo


Executive Vice President -

Chief Financial Officer



The executive officers of the Company serve in their respective capacities for approximate one-year
terms and are subject to re-election by the Board of Directors, generally at the time of the Annual
Meeting of the Board of Directors following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.



PART II

Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters

Market Information

The following table sets forth the common stock offerings completed by
the Company during the three-year period ended December 31, 2006. The Company’s common stock was
sold for cash at the following offering price per share:

Offering Date

Offering Price

March 2006

$

40.80

The table below sets forth, for the quarterly periods indicated, the high and low sales prices per
share reported on the NYSE Composite Tape and declared dividends per share for the Company’s common
stock. The Company’s common stock is traded under the trading symbol “KIM”.

Stock Price

Period

High

Low

Dividends

2006:

First Quarter

$

42.00

$

32.02

$

0.330

Second Quarter

$

40.57

$

34.20

$

0.330

Third Quarter

$

43.15

$

36.18

$

0.360

Fourth Quarter

$

47.13

$

42.13

$

0.360

(a)

2005:

First Quarter

$

29.09

$

25.90

$

0.305

Second Quarter

$

30.00

$

26.17

$

0.305

Third Quarter

$

33.35

$

29.19

$

0.330

Fourth Quarter

$

33.21

$

27.81

$

0.330

(b)

(a)

Paid on January 16, 2007, to stockholders of record on January 2, 2007.

(b)

Paid on January 17, 2006, to stockholders of record on January 3, 2006.

Holders

The number of holders of record of the Company’s common stock, par value $0.01 per
share, was 3,530 as of January 31, 2007.

Dividends

Since the IPO, the Company has paid regular quarterly dividends to its
stockholders. While the Company intends to continue paying regular quarterly dividends, future
dividend declarations will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on the
actual cash flow of the Company, its financial condition, capital requirements, the annual
distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and such other factors as the Board
of Directors deems relevant. The Company is required by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, to distribute at least 90% of its REIT taxable income. The actual cash flow available to
pay dividends will be affected by a number of factors, including the revenues received from rental
properties, the operating expenses of the Company, the interest expense on its borrowings, the
ability of lessees to meet their obligations to the Company and any unanticipated capital
expenditures.

The Company has determined that the $1.35 dividend per common share paid during 2006 represented
66% ordinary income, 28% in capital gains and a 6% return of capital to its stockholders. The
$1.25 dividend per common share paid during 2005 represented 86% ordinary income and 14% capital
gain to its stockholders.

In addition to its common stock offerings, the Company has capitalized the growth in its business
through the issuance of unsecured fixed and floating-rate medium-term notes, underwritten bonds,
mortgage debt and construction loans, convertible preferred stock and perpetual preferred stock.
Borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facilities have also been an interim source of
funds to both finance the purchase of properties and other investments and meet any short-term
working capital requirements. The various instruments governing the Company’s issuance of its
unsecured public debt, bank debt, mortgage debt and preferred stock impose certain restrictions on
the Company with regard to dividends, voting, liquidation and other preferential rights available
to the holders of such instruments. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 11 and 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.



The Company does not believe that the preferential rights available to the holders of its Class F
Preferred Stock, the financial covenants contained in its public bond Indentures, as amended, or
its revolving credit agreements will have an adverse impact on the Company’s ability to pay
dividends in the normal course to its common stockholders or to distribute amounts necessary to
maintain its qualification as a REIT.

The Company maintains a dividend reinvestment and direct stock purchase plan (the “Plan”) pursuant
to which common and preferred stockholders and other interested investors may elect to
automatically reinvest their dividends to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock or, through
optional cash payments, purchase shares of the Company’s common stock. The Company may, from time
to time, either (i) purchase shares of its common stock in the open market or (ii) issue new shares
of its common stock for the purpose of fulfilling its obligations under the Plan.

Total Stockholder Return Performance

The following performance chart compares, over the
five years ended December 31, 2006, the cumulative total stockholder return on the Company’s common
stock with the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and the cumulative total return of the
NAREIT Equity REIT Total Return Index (the “NAREIT Equity Index”) prepared and published by the
National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”). Equity real estate investment
trusts are defined as those which derive more than 75% of their income from equity investments in
real estate assets. The NAREIT Equity Index includes all tax qualified equity real estate
investment trusts listed on the New York Stock Exchange, American Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ
National Market System. Stockholder return performance, presented quarterly for the five years
ended December 31, 2006, is not necessarily indicative of future results. All stockholder return
performance assumes the reinvestment of dividends.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

The following table sets forth selected, historical consolidated financial data for the Company and
should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and Notes
thereto and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
included in this annual report on Form 10-K.

The Company believes that the book value of its real estate assets, which reflects the historical
costs of such real estate assets less accumulated depreciation, is not indicative of the current
market value of its properties. Historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of
future operating performance.



Year
ended December 31, (2)






(in thousands, except per
share information)

Operating Data:

Revenues from rental property (1)

$

593,880

$

505,557

$

490,901

$

448,203

$

399,725

Interest expense (3)

$

172,888

$

126,901

$

106,239

$

101,438

$

83,916

Depreciation and amortization (3)

$

141,070

$

101,432

$

95,398

$

79,322

$

64,318

Gain on sale of development properties

$

37,276

$

33,636

$

16,835

$

17,495

$

15,880

Gain on transfer/sale of operating properties,net (3)

$

2,460

$

2,833

$

—

$

3,177

$

—

Provision for income taxes

$

16,542

$

10,989

$

8,320

$

8,514

$

12,904

Income from continuing operations

$

345,131

$

325,947

$

274,110

$

234,827

$

225,316

Income per common share, from continuing
operations:

Basic

$

1.39

$

1.39

$

1.18

$

0.99

$

0.99

Diluted

$

1.36

$

1.36

$

1.16

$

0.98

$

0.98

Weighted average number of shares of common
stock:

Basic

239,552

226,641

222,859

214,184

208,916

Diluted

244,615

230,868

227,143

217,540

210,922

Cash dividends declared per common share

$

1.38

$

1.27

$

1.16

$

1.10

$

1.05

December 31,






Balance Sheet Data:

Real estate, before accumulated depreciation

$

6,001,319

$

4,560,406

$

4,092,222

$

4,174,664

$

3,398,971

Total assets

$

7,869,280

$

5,534,636

$

4,749,597

$

4,641,092

$

3,758,350

Total debt

$

3,587,243

$

2,691,196

$

2,118,622

$

2,154,948

$

1,576,982

Total stockholders’ equity

$

3,366,959

$

2,387,214

$

2,236,400

$

2,135,846

$

1,908,800

Cash flow provided by operations

$

455,569

$

410,797

$

365,176

$

308,632

$

278,931

Cash flow used for investing activities

$

(246,221

)

$

(716,015

)

$

(299,597

)

$

(637,636

)

$

(396,655

)

Cash flow provided by (used for) financing activities

$

59,444

$

343,271

$

(75,647

)

$

341,330

$

59,839

(1)

Does not include (i) revenues from rental property relating to unconsolidated joint ventures,
(ii) revenues relating to the investment in retail stores leases and (iii) revenues
from properties included in discontinued operations.

(2)

All years have been adjusted to reflect the impact of operating properties sold during the the
years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and properties classified as
held for sale as of December 31, 2006, which are reflected in discontinued operations in the
Consolidated Statements of Income.

(3)

Does not include amounts reflected in discontinued operations.



Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements
and Notes thereto included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Historical results and percentage
relationships set forth in the Consolidated Statements of Income contained in the Consolidated
Financial Statements, including trends which might appear, should not be taken as indicative of
future operations.

Executive Summary

Kimco Realty Corporation is one of the nation’s largest publicly-traded owners and operators of
neighborhood and community shopping centers. As of January 31, 2007, the Company had interests in
1,348 properties totaling approximately 175.4 million square feet of GLA located in 45 states,
Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico.

The Company is self-administered and self-managed through present management, which has owned and
managed neighborhood and community shopping centers for over 45 years. The executive officers are
engaged in the day-to-day management and operation of real estate exclusively with the Company,
with nearly all operating functions, including leasing, asset management, maintenance,
construction, legal, finance and accounting, administered by the Company.

In connection with the Tax Relief Extension Act of 1999 (the “RMA”), which became effective January
1, 2001, the Company is permitted to participate in activities which it was precluded from
previously in order to maintain its qualification as a Real Estate Investment Trust (“REIT”), so
long as these activities are conducted in entities which elect to be treated as taxable
subsidiaries under the Code, subject to certain limitations. As such, the Company, through its
taxable REIT subsidiaries, is engaged in various retail real estate-related opportunities including
(i) merchant building, through its KDI subsidiary, which is primarily engaged in the ground-up
development of neighborhood and community shopping centers and the subsequent sale thereof upon
completion, (ii) retail real estate advisory and disposition services, which primarily focuses on
leasing and disposition strategies of retail real estate controlled by both healthy and distressed
and/or bankrupt retailers and (iii) acting as an agent or principal in connection with tax deferred
exchange transactions. The Company will consider other investments through taxable REIT
subsidiaries should suitable opportunities arise.

In addition, the Company continues to capitalize on its established expertise in retail real estate
by establishing other ventures in which the Company owns a smaller equity interest and provides
management, leasing and operational support for those properties. The Company also provides
preferred equity capital for real estate entrepreneurs and provides real estate capital and
advisory services to both healthy and distressed retailers. The Company also makes selective
investments in secondary market opportunities where a security or other investment is, in
management’s judgment, priced below the value of the underlying real estate.

The Company’s strategy is to maintain a strong balance sheet while investing opportunistically and
selectively. The Company intends to continue to execute its plan of delivering solid growth in
earnings and dividends. As a result of the improved 2006 performance, the Board of Directors
increased the quarterly dividend per common share to $0.36 from $0.33, effective for the third
quarter of 2006.

Critical Accounting Policies

The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include the accounts of the Company, its
wholly-owned subsidiaries and all entities in which the Company has a controlling interest
including where the Company has been determined to be a primary beneficiary of a variable interest
entity in accordance with the provisions and guidance of Interpretation No. 46 (R), Consolidation
of Variable Interest Entities or meets certain criteria of a sole general partner or managing
member in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue 04-5, Investor’s Accounting for
an Investment in a Limited Partnership when the Investor is the Sole General Partner and the
Limited Partners have Certain Rights (“EITF 04-5”). The Company applies these provisions to each
of its joint venture investments to determine whether the cost, equity or consolidation method of
accounting is appropriate. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and
assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported in the accompanying Consolidated
Financial Statements and related notes. In preparing these financial statements, management has
made its best estimates and assumptions that affect the



reported amounts of assets and liabilities.
These estimates are based on, but not limited
to, historical results, industry standards and current economic conditions, giving due
consideration to materiality. The most significant assumptions and estimates relate to revenue
recognition and the recoverability of trade accounts receivable, depreciable lives, valuation of
real estate and realizability of deferred tax assets. Application of these assumptions requires the exercise of judgment as to future
uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates.

Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable

Base rental revenues from rental property are recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms of
the related leases. Certain of these leases also provide for percentage rents based upon the level
of sales achieved by the lessee. These percentage rents are recorded once the required sales level
is achieved. Operating expense reimbursements are recognized as earned. Rental income may also
include payments received in connection with lease termination agreements. In addition, leases
typically provide for reimbursement to the Company of common area maintenance, real estate taxes
and other operating expenses.

The Company makes estimates of the uncollectability of its accounts receivable related to base
rents, expense reimbursements and other revenues. The Company analyzes accounts receivable and
historical bad debt levels, customer credit-worthiness and current economic trends when evaluating
the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. In addition, tenants in bankruptcy are
analyzed and estimates are made in connection with the expected recovery of pre-petition and
post-petition claims. The Company’s reported net income is directly affected by management’s
estimate of the collectability of accounts receivable.

Real Estate

The Company’s investments in real estate properties are stated at cost, less accumulated
depreciation and amortization. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations
as incurred. Significant renovations and replacements, which improve and extend the life of the
asset, are capitalized.

Upon acquisition of operating real estate properties, the Company estimates the fair value of
acquired tangible assets (consisting of land, building and improvements) and identified intangible
assets and liabilities (consisting of above and below-market leases, in-place leases and tenant
relationships) and assumed debt in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 141, Business Combinations. Based on these estimates, the Company allocates the
purchase price to the applicable assets and liabilities. The Company utilizes methods similar to
those used by independent appraisers in estimating the fair value of acquired assets and
liabilities. The useful lives of amortizable intangible assets are evaluated each reporting period
with any changes in estimated useful lives being accounted for over the revised remaining useful
life.

Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight-line method over the estimated useful
lives of the assets, as follows:

Buildings

15 to 50 years

Fixtures, building and leasehold improvements
(including certain identified intangible assets)

Terms of leases or useful lives,
whichever is shorter

The Company is required to make subjective assessments as to the useful lives of its properties for
purposes of determining the amount of depreciation to reflect on an annual basis with respect to
those properties. These assessments have a direct impact on the Company’s net income.

Real estate under development on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets represents ground-up
development of neighborhood and community shopping center projects which are subsequently sold upon
completion and projects which the Company may hold as long-term investments. These assets are
carried at cost. The cost of land and buildings under development
includes specifically identifiable costs. The capitalized costs include pre-construction costs
essential to the development of the property, development costs, construction costs, interest
costs, real estate taxes, salaries and related costs of personnel directly involved and other costs
incurred during the period of development. The Company ceases cost capitalization when the
property is held available for occupancy upon substantial completion of tenant improvements, but no
later than one year from the completion of major construction activity. If, in management’s
opinion, the estimated net sales price of these assets is less than the net carrying value, an
adjustment to the carrying value would be recorded to reflect the estimated fair value of the
property. A gain on the sale of these assets is generally recognized using the full accrual method
in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 66, Accounting for Real Estate Sales.



Long Lived Assets

On a periodic basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators that the value of the
real estate properties (including any related amortizable intangible assets or liabilities) may be
impaired. A property value is considered impaired only if management’s estimate of current and
projected operating cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) of the property over its
remaining useful life is less than the net carrying value of the property. Such cash flow
projections consider factors such as expected future operating income, trends, and prospects, as
well as the effects of demand, competition and other factors. To the extent impairment has
occurred, the carrying value of the property would be adjusted to an amount to reflect the
estimated fair value of the property.

When a real estate asset is identified by management as held for sale, the Company ceases
depreciation of the asset and estimates the sales price of such asset net of selling costs. If, in
management’s opinion, the net sales price of the asset is less than the net book value of such
asset, an adjustment to the carrying value would be recorded to reflect the estimated fair value of
the property.

The Company is required to make subjective assessments as to whether there are impairments in the
value of its real estate properties, investments in joint ventures and other investments. The
Company’s reported net income is directly affected by management’s estimate of impairments and/or
valuation allowances.

Results of Operations

Comparison 2006 to 2005

Revenues from rental property increased $88.3 million or 17.5% to $593.9 million for the year
ended December 31, 2006, as compared with $505.6 million for the corresponding period ended December 31,
2005. This net increase resulted primarily from the combined effect of (i) the acquisition of
operating properties during 2005 and 2006, providing incremental revenues for the year ended
December 31, 2006 of approximately $72.3 million, (ii) an overall increase in shopping center
portfolio occupancy to 95.5% at December 31, 2006, as compared to 94.6% at December 31, 2005 and
the completion of certain redevelopment and development projects providing incremental revenues of
approximately $33.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to the corresponding
period in 2005, offset by (iii) a decrease in revenues of approximately $17.6 million for the year
ended December 31, 2006, as compared to the corresponding period in 2005, resulting from the
transfer of operating properties to various unconsolidated joint venture entities, tenant buyouts,
and the sale of certain properties during 2005 and 2006.

Rental property expenses, including depreciation and amortization, increased approximately $67.4
million or 28.7% to $302.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared with $235.1
million for the corresponding year ended December 31, 2005. This increase is primarily due to
operating property acquisitions during 2006 and 2005 which were partially offset by operating
property dispositions including those transferred to various joint venture entities.

Mortgage and other financing income decreased $8.8 million to $18.8 million for the year ended
December 31, 2006, as compared to $27.6 million for the corresponding period in 2005. This
decrease is primarily due to the recognition in 2005 of a prepayment fee of $14.0 million received
by the Company relating to the early repayment by Shopko of its outstanding loan with the Company,
offset by accretion income of approximately $6.2 million received in 2006, resulting from an early
pre-payment of a mortgage receivable in June 2006, which had been acquired at a discount.

Management and other fee income increased approximately $10.2 million for the year ended December
31, 2006, as compared to the corresponding period in 2005. This increase is primarily due to
incremental fees earned from the Kimsouth portfolio and growth in the Company’s other co-investment
programs.

General and administrative expenses increased approximately $20.9 million for the year ended
December 31, 2006, as compared to the corresponding period in 2005. This increase is primarily due
to personnel-related costs including the non-cash expensing of stock options granted, attributable
to the growth of the Company.

Interest, dividends and other investment income increased approximately $26.1 million for the year
ended December 31, 2006, as compared to the corresponding period in 2005. This



increase is
primarily due to greater realized gains on the sale of certain marketable securities and increased
interest and dividend income as a result of higher cash balances and the growth in the marketable
securities portfolio during 2006 and 2005.

Interest expense increased $46.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to the
corresponding period in 2005. This increase is due to higher interest rates and higher outstanding
levels of debt during this period as compared to the same period in the preceding year.

Income from other real estate investments increased $20.3 million to $77.1 million for the year
ended December 31, 2006, as compared to $56.8 million for the corresponding period in 2005. This
increase is primarily due to (i) increased investment in the Company’s Preferred Equity program
which contributed $40.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, including $12.2 million of
profit participation earned from 16 capital transactions, as compared to $32.8 million for the
corresponding period in 2005, including $12.6 million of profit participation earned from six
capital transactions and (ii) pre-tax profits of $7.9 million from the transfer of two properties
from Kimsouth to a joint venture in which the Company has an 18% non-controlling interest. These
profits exclude amounts that have been deferred as a result of the Company’s continued ownership
interest.

Equity in income of real estate joint ventures, net increased $29.5 million to $106.9 million for
the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to $77.5 million for the corresponding period in
2005. This increase is primarily attributable to (i) increase in equity in income from the KROP
primarily resulting from profit participation of approximately $22.2 million and gains from the
sale of nine operating properties, one land parcel and one out-parcel during 2006 of which the
pro-rata share of gains to the Company were $9.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, and
(ii) the Company’s growth of its various other real estate joint ventures. The Company has made
additional capital investments in these and other joint ventures for the acquisition of additional
shopping center properties by the ventures throughout 2005 and 2006.

During 2006, KDI sold six recently completed projects, its partnership interest in one project and
30 out-parcels, in separate transactions, for approximately $260.0 million. These sales resulted
in gains of approximately $25.1 million, after income taxes of $12.2 million. These gains exclude
approximately $1.1 million of gain relating to one project, which was deferred due to the Company’s
continued ownership interest.

During 2005, KDI, sold in separate transactions, 41 out-parcels and six recently completed projects
for approximately $264.1 million. These sales provided gains of approximately $22.8 million, after
income taxes of approximately $10.8 million.

During 2006, the Company disposed of (i) 28 operating properties and one ground lease, for an
aggregate sales price of $270.5 million, which resulted in an aggregate net gain of approximately
$71.7 million, net of income taxes of $2.8 million relating to the sale of two properties, and (ii)
transferred five operating properties, to joint ventures in which the Company has 20%
non-controlling interests for an aggregate price of approximately $95.4 million, which resulted in
a gain of approximately $1.4 million from one transferred property.

During 2005, the Company disposed of, in separate transactions, (i) 20 operating properties for an
aggregate sales price of approximately $93.3 million, (ii) transferred three operating properties
to KROP for an aggregate price of approximately $49.0 million, and (iii) transferred 52 operating
properties to various joint ventures in which the Company has non-controlling interests ranging
from 15% to 50% for an aggregate price of approximately $183.1 million. For the year ended
December 31, 2005, these transactions resulted in gains of approximately $31.9 million and a loss
on sale/transfer from four of the properties for $5.2 million.

Net income for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $428.3 million. Net income for the year ended
December 31, 2005 was $363.6 million. On a diluted per share basis, net income improved $0.18 to
$1.70 for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to $1.52 for the corresponding period in
2005. These increases are attributable to (i) an increase in revenues from rental properties
primarily due to acquisitions in 2005 and 2006, (ii) increased income from other real estate
investments primarily due to increased investments in the Company’s Preferred Equity program, (iii)
an increase in equity in income of real estate joint ventures achieved from profit participation
and gains on sale of joint venture operating properties and additional capital investment in the
Company’s joint venture programs for the acquisition of additional operating properties throughout
2006 and 2005, (iv) increased gains on sales of operating properties in 2006 and (v) increased income
contributed from the marketable securities portfolio in 2006 as compared to 2005,



partially offset
by, (vi) an increase in interest expense due to higher interest rates and increased borrowings
during 2006.

Comparison 2005 to 2004

Revenues from rental property increased $14.7 million or 3.0% to $505.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 2005, as compared with $490.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. This net
increase resulted primarily from the combined effect of (i) acquisitions during 2005 and 2004
providing incremental revenues of $33.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, and (ii) an
overall increase in shopping center portfolio occupancy to 94.6% at December 31, 2005, as compared
to 93.6% at December 31, 2004 and the completion of certain redevelopment projects and tenant
buyouts providing incremental revenues of approximately $18.1 million for the year ended December
31, 2005, as compared to the corresponding period in 2004, offset by (iii) a decrease in revenues
of approximately $37.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to the
corresponding period in 2004, resulting from the sale of certain properties and the transfer of
operating properties to various unconsolidated joint venture entities during 2005 and 2004.

Rental property expenses, including depreciation and amortization, increased approximately $13.5
million or 6.1% to $235.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared with $221.6
million for the preceding year. These increases are primarily due to operating property
acquisitions during 2005 and 2004, which were partially offset by property dispositions and
operating properties transferred to various unconsolidated joint venture entities.

Mortgage and other financing income increased $12.6 million to $27.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 2005, as compared to $15.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. This increase
primarily relates to a $14.0 million prepayment fee received by the Company relating to the early
repayment by Shopko of its outstanding loan with the Company.

Management and other fee income increased approximately $5.0 million to $30.5 million for the year
ended December 31, 2005, as compared to $25.5 million in the corresponding period in 2004. This
increase is primarily due to incremental fees earned from growth in the co-investment programs.

General and administrative expenses increased approximately $13.3 million to $56.8 million for the
year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to $43.5 million in the preceding calendar year. This
increase is primarily due to (i) a $1.4 million increase in professional fees, due in part to
compliance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (ii) a $3.0 million increase due to the
non-cash expensing of the value attributable to stock options granted and (iii) increased
personnel and systems related costs associated with the growth of the Company.

Interest, dividends and other investment income increased approximately $9.6 million to $28.3
million for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to $18.7 million in 2004. This increase
is primarily due to greater dividend income and realized gains on the sale of certain marketable
securities during 2005 as compared to the preceding year.

Interest expense increased $20.7 million to $126.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, as
compared with $106.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. This increase is primarily due
to an overall increase in average borrowings outstanding during the year ended December 31, 2005,
as compared to the preceding year, resulting from the funding of investment activity during 2005.

Income from other real estate investments increased $26.6 million to $56.7 million for the year
ended December 31, 2005, as compared to $30.1 million for the preceding year. This increase is
primarily due to increased investment in the Company’s Preferred Equity program, which contributed
income of $32.8 million during 2005, including an aggregate of approximately $12.6 million of
profit participation earned from six capital transactions during 2005, as compared to $11.4 million
in 2004.

Equity in income of real estate joint ventures, net increased $21.1 million to $77.5 million for
the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared with $56.4 million for the corresponding period in
2004. This increase is primarily attributable to (i) the increased equity in income from KIR
resulting from the sale of two operating properties during 2005 which provided an aggregate gain of
$20.2 million, of which the pro-rata share to the Company was $8.7 million, (ii) increased equity
in income in three



joint venture investments resulting from the sale of two operating properties
and one development property during 2005, which provided aggregate gains of approximately $17.9
million, of which the pro-rata share to the Company was approximately $8.8 million, and (iii) the
Company’s growth of its various other real estate joint ventures. The Company has made additional
capital investments in these and other joint ventures for the acquisition of additional shopping
center properties throughout 2005 and 2004.

During 2005, KDI, the Company’s wholly-owned development taxable REIT subsidiary, in separate
transactions, sold six completed projects and 41 out-parcels for approximately $264.1 million.
These sales provided gains of approximately $22.8 million, after income taxes of approximately
$10.8 million.

During 2004, KDI, in separate transactions, sold five completed projects, three completed phases of
projects and 28 out-parcels for approximately $169.4 million. These sales provided gains of
approximately $12.4 million, after income taxes of approximately $4.4 million.

During 2005, the Company (i) disposed of, in separate transactions, 20 operating properties for an
aggregate sales price of approximately $93.3 million, (ii) transferred three operating properties
to KROP for an aggregate price of approximately $49.0 million, (iii) transferred 52 operating
properties to various joint ventures in which the Company has non-controlling interests ranging
from 15% to 50% for an aggregate price of approximately $183.1 million. For the year ended
December 31, 2005, these transactions resulted in gains of approximately $31.9 million and a loss
on sale/transfer from four of the properties for $5.2 million.

During 2004, the Company (i) disposed of, in separate transactions, 16 operating properties and one
ground lease for an aggregate sales price of approximately $81.1 million, including the assignment
of approximately $8.0 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering one of the properties; cash
proceeds of approximately $16.9 million from the sale of two of these properties were used in a
1031 exchange to acquire shopping center properties located in Roanoke, VA, and Tempe, AZ, (ii)
transferred 17 operating properties to KROP for an aggregate price of approximately $197.9 million
and (iii) transferred 21 operating properties to various co-investment ventures in which the
Company has non-controlling interests ranging from 10% to 30% for an aggregate price of
approximately $491.2 million. For the year ended December 31, 2004, these dispositions resulted in
gains of approximately $15.8 million and a loss on sale from three of the properties of
approximately $5.1 million.

As part of the Company’s periodic assessment of its real estate properties with regard to both the
extent to which such assets are consistent with the Company’s long-term real estate investment
objectives and the performance and prospects of each asset, the Company determined in 2004 that its
investment in an operating property comprised of approximately 0.1 million square feet of GLA, with
a net book value of $3.8 million, might not be fully recoverable. Based upon management’s
assessment of current market conditions and lack of demand for the property, the Company reduced
its anticipated holding period of this investment. As a result of the reduction in the anticipated
holding period, together with reassessment of the potential future operating cash flow for the
property and the effects of current market conditions, the Company determined that its investment
in this asset was not fully recoverable and recorded an adjustment of property carrying value of
approximately $3.0 million in 2004. This adjustment was included, along with the related property
operations in the line Income from discontinued operating properties, in the Company’s Consolidated
Statements of Income.

Net income for the year ended December 31, 2005, was $363.6 million, compared to $297.1 million for
the year ended December 31, 2004. On a diluted per share basis, net income increased $0.26 to
$1.52 for the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared to $1.26 for the previous year. This
increase is attributable to (i) increased income from other real estate investments, primarily from
the Company’s Preferred Equity program, (ii) an increase in equity in income of real estate joint
ventures achieved from gains on sales of joint venture operating properties and additional capital
investments in the Company’s joint venture programs for the acquisition of additional shopping
center properties throughout 2005 and 2004, (iii) increased income contributed from mortgage and
other financing receivables as compared to last year and (iv) increased gains on sale/transfer of
development and operating properties during 2005, as compared to the same period during 2004.

Tenant Concentrations

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through diversification achieved by the
geographic distribution of its properties, avoiding dependence on any



single property, and a large
tenant base. At December 31, 2006, the Company’s five largest tenants were The Home Depot, TJX
Companies, Sears Holdings, Kohl’s and Wal-Mart, which represented approximately 3.5%, 2.9%, 2.5%,
2.2% and 2.1%, respectively, of the Company’s annualized base rental revenues, including the
proportionate share of base rental revenues from properties in which the Company has less than a
100% economic interest.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company’s cash flow activities are summarized as follows (in millions):

Year Ended December 31,




Net cash flow provided by operating activities

$

455.6

$

410.8

$

365.2

Net cash flow used for investing activities

$

(246.2

)

$

(716.0

)

$

(299.6

)

Net cash flow provided by (used for)
financing activities

$

59.4

$

343.3

$

(75.6

)

Operating Activities

The Company anticipates that cash flows from operations will continue to provide adequate capital
to fund its operating and administrative expenses, regular debt service obligations and all
dividend payments in accordance with REIT requirements in both the short term and long term. In
addition, the Company anticipates that cash on hand, borrowings under its revolving credit
facilities, issuance of equity and public debt, as well as other debt and equity alternatives, will
provide the necessary capital required by the Company. Net cash flow provided by operating
activities for the year ended December 31, 2006, was primarily attributable to (i) cash flow from
the diverse portfolio of rental properties, (ii) the acquisition of operating properties during
2005 and 2006, (iii) new leasing, expansion and re-tenanting of core portfolio properties and (iv)
growth in the Company’s joint venture and Preferred Equity programs.

Investing Activities

Acquisitions and Redevelopments

During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company expended approximately $484.8 million towards
acquisition of and improvements to operating real estate. (See Note 3 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

The Company has an ongoing program to reformat and re-tenant its properties to maintain or enhance
its competitive position in the marketplace. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company
expended approximately $62.2 million in connection with these major redevelopments and re-tenanting
projects. The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these and other redevelopment
projects during 2007 will be approximately $125.0 million to $150.0 million. The funding of these
capital requirements will be provided by cash flow from operating activities and availability under
the Company’s revolving lines of credit.

Investments and Advances to Real Estate Joint Ventures

During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company expended approximately $472.7 million for
investments and advances to real estate joint ventures and received approximately $183.4 million
from reimbursements of advances to real estate joint ventures. (See Note 7 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

Ground-up Development

The Company is engaged in ground-up development projects which consists of (i) merchant building
through the Company’s wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiary, KDI, which develops neighborhood and
community shopping centers and the subsequent sale thereof upon completion, (ii) U.S. ground-up
development projects which will be held as long-term investments by the Company and (iii) various
ground-up development projects located in Mexico and Canada for long-term investment. All
ground-up development projects generally have substantial pre-leasing prior to the commencement of
construction. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had in progress a total of 45 ground-up
development projects including 23 merchant building projects, six domestic ground-up development
projects, and 16 ground-up development projects located throughout Mexico.



During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company expended approximately $619.1 million in
connection with the purchase of land and construction costs related to these projects and those
sold during 2006. These projects are currently proceeding on schedule and substantially in line
with the Company’s budgeted costs. The Company anticipates its capital commitment during 2007
toward these and other development projects will be approximately $550 million to $600 million.
The proceeds from the sales of the completed ground-up development projects, proceeds from
construction loans and availability under the Company’s revolving lines of credit are expected to
be sufficient to fund these
anticipated capital requirements. (See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

Dispositions and Transfers

During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company received net proceeds of approximately $342.8
million relating to the sale of various operating properties and ground-up development projects and
approximately $1.2 billion from the transfer of operating properties to various joint ventures.
(See Notes 3 and 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual
report on Form 10-K.)

Financing Activities

It is management’s intention that the Company continually have access to the capital resources
necessary to expand and develop its business. As such, the Company intends to operate with and
maintain a conservative capital structure with a level of debt to total market capitalization of
50% or less. As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s level of debt to total market capitalization
was 23%. In addition, the Company intends to maintain strong debt service coverage and fixed
charge coverage ratios as part of its commitment to maintaining its investment-grade debt ratings.
The Company may, from time to time, seek to obtain funds through additional equity offerings,
unsecured debt financings and/or mortgage/construction loan financings and other capital
alternatives in a manner consistent with its intention to operate with a conservative debt
structure.

Since the completion of the Company’s IPO in 1991, the Company has utilized the public debt and
equity markets as its principal source of capital for its expansion needs. Since the IPO, the
Company has completed additional offerings of its public unsecured debt and equity, raising in the
aggregate over $4.9 billion. Proceeds from public capital market activities have been used for the
purposes of, among other things, repaying indebtedness, acquiring interests in neighborhood and
community shopping centers, funding ground-up development projects, expanding and improving
properties in the portfolio and other investments. In March 2006, the Company was added to the S &
P 500 Index, an index containing the stock of 500 Large Cap corporations, most of which are U.S.
corporations.

The Company has an $850.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which is scheduled to expire
in July 2008. This credit facility has made available funds to both finance the purchase of
properties and other investments and meet any short-term working capital requirements. As of
December 31, 2006, there was no outstanding balance under this credit facility.

The Company also has a three-year CAD $250.0 million unsecured credit facility with a group of
banks. This facility bore interest at the CDOR Rate, as defined, plus 0.50%, and is scheduled to
expire in March 2008. During January 2006, the facility was further amended to reduce the
borrowing spread to 0.45% and to modify the covenant package to conform to the Company’s $850.0
million U.S. Credit Facility. Proceeds from this facility are used for general corporate purposes,
including the funding of Canadian denominated investments. As of December 31, 2006, there was no
outstanding balance under this credit facility.

Additionally, the Company has a three-year MXP 500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility.
This facility bears interest at the TIIE Rate, as defined therein, plus 1.00% and is scheduled to
expire in May 2008. Proceeds from this facility are used to fund peso denominated investments. As
of December 31, 2006, there was no outstanding balance under this credit facility.

The Company has a MTN program pursuant to which it may, from time-to-time, offer for sale its
senior unsecured debt for any general corporate purposes, including (i) funding specific liquidity
requirements in its business, including property acquisitions, development and redevelopment costs
and (ii) managing the Company’s debt maturities. (See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

During March 2006, the Company issued $300.0 million of fixed rate unsecured senior notes



under its
MTN program. This fixed rate MTN matures March 15, 2016 and bears interest at 5.783% per annum.
The proceeds from this MTN issuance were primarily used to repay a portion of the outstanding
balance under the Company’s U.S. revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes.

During June 2006, the Company entered into a third supplemental indenture, under the indenture
governing its medium-term notes and senior notes, which amended the (i) total debt test and secured
debt test by changing the asset value definition from undepreciated real estate assets to total
assets, with total assets being defined as undepreciated real
estate assets, plus other assets (but excluding goodwill and amortized debt costs) and (ii)
maintenance of unencumbered total asset value covenant by increasing the requirement of the ratio
of unencumbered total asset value to outstanding unsecured debt from 1 to 1 to 1.5 to 1.
Additionally, the same amended covenants were adopted within the Canadian supplemental indenture,
which governs the 4.45% Canadian Debentures due in 2010. As a result of the amended covenants, the
Company has increased its borrowing capacity by approximately $2.0 billion.

During August 2006, Kimco North Trust III, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, completed the
issuance of $200.0 million Canadian denominated senior unsecured notes. The notes bear interest at
5.18% and mature on August 16, 2013. The proceeds were used by Kimco North Trust III, to pay down
outstanding indebtedness under existing credit facilities, to fund long-term investments in
Canadian real estate and for general corporate purposes.

In connection with the October 31, 2006, Pan Pacific merger transaction, the Company assumed $650.0
million of unsecured notes payable, including $20.0 million of fair value debt premiums. These
notes bear interest at fixed rates ranging from 4.70% to 7.95% per annum and have maturity dates
ranging from June 29, 2007 to September 1, 2015 (see Recent
Developments — Operating Real Estate Joint Venture Investments — Pan Pacific Retail Properties Inc. and Note 7 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K).

During 2006, the Company repaid its $30.0 million 6.93% fixed rate notes, which matured on July 20,
2006, $100.0 million floating rate notes, which matured on August 1, 2006, and $55.0 million 7.50%
fixed rate notes, which matured on November 5, 2006.

In addition to the public equity and debt markets as capital sources, the Company may, from
time-to-time, obtain mortgage financing on selected properties and construction loans to partially
fund the capital needs of KDI. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had over 390 unencumbered
property interests in its portfolio.

During March 2006, the Company completed a primary public stock offering of 10,000,000 shares of
Common Stock. The net proceeds from this sale of Common Stock, totaling approximately $405.5
million (after related transaction costs of $2.5 million) were primarily used to repay the
outstanding balance under the Company’s U.S. revolving credit facility, partial repayment of the
outstanding balance under the Company’s Canadian denominated credit facility and for general
corporate purposes.

During March 2006, the shareholders of Atlantic Realty approved a proposed merger with the Company,
and the closing occurred on March 31, 2006. As consideration for this transaction, the Company
issued Atlantic Realty shareholders 1,274,420 shares of Common Stock, excluding 748,510 shares of
Common Stock that were to be received by the Company, at a price of $40.41 per share. (See Note 17
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

During May 2006, the Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3ASR, which is
effective for a term of three years, for the unlimited future offerings, from time to time, of debt
securities, preferred stock, depositary shares, common stock and common stock warrants.

On
September 25, 2006, Pan Pacific stockholders approved the proposed merger with the Company and
the closing occurred on October 31, 2006. Under the terms of the merger agreement, the Company
agreed to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Pan Pacific for a total merger consideration of
$70.00 per share. As permitted under the merger agreement, the Company elected to issue $10.00 per
share of the total merger consideration in the form of Common Stock. As such, the Company issued
9,185,847 million shares of Common Stock valued at approximately $407.7 million (see Note 7 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K).

During 2006, the Company received approximately $43.8 million through employee stock option
exercises and the dividend reinvestment program.



In connection with its intention to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes,
the Company expects to continue paying regular dividends to its stockholders. These dividends will
be paid from operating cash flows, which are expected to increase due to property acquisitions,
growth in operating income in the existing portfolio and from other investments. Since cash used
to pay dividends reduces amounts available for capital investment, the Company generally intends to
maintain a conservative dividend payout ratio, reserving such amounts as it considers necessary for
the expansion and renovation of shopping centers in its portfolio, debt reduction, the acquisition
of interests in new properties and other investments as suitable opportunities arise and such other
factors as
the Board of Directors considers appropriate. Cash dividends paid increased to $332.6 million in
2006, compared to $293.3 million in 2005 and $265.3 million in 2004.

Although the Company receives substantially all of its rental payments on a monthly basis, it
generally intends to continue paying dividends quarterly. Amounts accumulated in advance of each
quarterly distribution will be invested by the Company in short-term money market or other suitable
instruments.

Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments

The Company has debt obligations relating to its revolving credit facilities, MTNs, senior notes,
mortgages and construction loans with maturities ranging from less than one year to 29 years. As
of December 31, 2006, the Company’s total debt had a weighted average term to maturity of
approximately 5.7 years. In addition, the Company has non-cancelable operating leases pertaining
to its shopping center portfolio. As of December 31, 2006, the Company has 82 shopping center
properties that are subject to long-term ground leases where a third party owns and has leased the
underlying land to the Company to construct and/or operate a shopping center. In addition, the
Company has 20 non-cancelable operating leases pertaining to its retail store lease portfolio. The
following table summarizes the Company’s debt maturities and obligations under non-cancelable
operating leases as of December 31, 2006 (in millions):






Thereafter

Total

Long-Term Debt

$

457.0

$

302.0

$

254.5

$

241.4

$

410.2

$

1,922.2

$

3,587.3

Operating Leases

Ground Leases

$

14.9

$

14.8

$

14.3

$

12.4

$

10.1

$

175.8

$

242.3

Retail Store Leases

$

4.6

$

4.0

$

3.6

$

3.2

$

2.6

$

2.2

$

20.2

The Company has $250.0 million of medium term notes, $42.8 million of mortgage debt and $164.2
million of construction loans maturing in 2007. The Company anticipates satisfying these
maturities with a combination of operating cash flows, its unsecured revolving credit facilities,
new debt issuances and the sale of completed ground-up development projects.

The Company has issued letters of credit in connection with completion and repayment guarantees for
construction loans encumbering certain of the Company’s ground-up development projects and
guaranty of payment related to the Company’s insurance program. These letters of credit aggregate
approximately $34.9 million.

During October 2006, the Company closed on the Pan Pacific merger, which had a total value of
approximately $4.1 billion. Funding for this transaction was provided by approximately $1.3
billion of new individual non-recourse mortgage loans encumbering 51 properties, a $1.2 billion two
year credit facility provided by a consortium of banks and guaranteed by the joint venture partners
described below and the Company, the issuance of 9,185,847 shares of Common Stock valued at
approximately $407.7 million, which was based upon the average closing price of Common Stock over
the ten trading days immediately preceding the closing date, the assumption of approximately $630.0
million of unsecured bonds and approximately $289.4 million of existing non-recourse mortgage debt
encumbering 23 properties and approximately $300.0 million in cash. With respect to the $1.2
billion guarantee by the Company, PREI, as defined below, guaranteed reimbursement to the Company
of 85% of any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to make. The Company evaluated this
guarantee in connection with the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 45, Guarantor’s Accounting
and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others
and determined that the impact did not have a material effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operations.

Immediately following the merger, the Company commenced its joint venture agreements with
Prudential Real Estate Investors (“PREI”) through three separate accounts managed by PREI. In
accordance with the joint venture agreements, all Pan Pacific assets and the approximate $1.6
billion of non-recourse mortgage debt and the $1.2 billion credit



facility mentioned above were
transferred to the separate accounts. PREI contributed approximately $1.1 billion on behalf of
institutional investors in three of its portfolios. The Company holds 15% non-controlling
ownership interests in each of these joint ventures, with a total aggregate investment of
approximately $194.8 million, and will account for these investments under the equity method of
accounting. In addition, the Company will manage the portfolios and earn acquisition fees, leasing
commissions, property management fees and construction management fees.

During
2006, an entity in which the Company has a preferred equity
investment, located in Montreal, Canada,
obtained a non-recourse construction loan, which is collateralized by the respective land and
project improvements. Additionally, the Company has provided a
guaranty to the lender and the developer partner has provided an indemnity to the Company for 25%
of all debt. As of December 31, 2006, there was CAD $40.0 million (approximately USD $35.8
million) outstanding on this construction loan.

Additionally, during 2006, KROP obtained a one year $15.0 million unsecured term loan, which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.5%. This loan is guaranteed by the Company and
GECRE has guaranteed reimbursement to the Company of 80% of any guaranty payment the Company is
obligated to make.

In connection with the construction of its development projects and related infrastructure, certain
public agencies require performance and surety bonds be posted to guarantee that the Company’s
obligations are satisfied. These bonds expire upon the completion of the improvements and
infrastructure. As of December 31, 2006, there were approximately $92.5 million bonds outstanding.

Additionally, the RioCan Venture, an entity in which the Company holds a 50% non-controlling
interest, has a CAD $7.0 million (approximately USD $6.0 million) letter of credit facility. This
facility is jointly guaranteed by RioCan and the Company and had approximately CAD $3.9 million
(approximately USD $3.4 million) outstanding as of December 31, 2006, relating to various
development projects.

During 2005, a joint venture entity in which the Company has a non-controlling interest obtained a
CAD $22.5 million (approximately USD $19.3 million) credit facility to finance the construction of
a 0.1 million square foot shopping center property located in Kamloops, B.C. This facility bears
interest at Royal Bank Prime Rate (“RBP”) plus 0.5% per annum and is scheduled to mature in May
2007. The Company and its partner in this entity each have a limited and several guarantee of CAD
$7.5 million (approximately USD $64.3 million) on this facility. As of December 31, 2006, there
was CAD $21.0 million (approximately USD $18.0 million) outstanding on this facility.

During 2005, PL Retail entered into a $39.5 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which
bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.675% and was scheduled to mature in
February 2007. During 2007, the loan was extended to February
2008 at a reduced rate of LIBOR plus 0.45%. This facility is guaranteed by
the Company and the joint venture partner has guaranteed
reimbursement to the Company of 85% of any guaranty payment the
Company is obligated to make. As of December 31, 2006, there was $39.5 million
outstanding under this facility.

Additionally, during 2005, the Company acquired three operating properties and one land parcel,
through joint ventures, in which the Company holds 50% non-controlling interests. Subsequent to
these acquisitions, the joint ventures obtained four individual one-year loans aggregating $20.4
million with interest rates ranging from LIBOR plus 0.50% to LIBOR plus 0.55%. During 2006, these
term loans were extended for an additional year. These loans are jointly and severally guaranteed
by the Company and the joint venture partner.

During 2006, the Company obtained construction financing on three ground-up development projects
for an original loan commitment amount of up to $83.8 million of which approximately $36.0 million
was outstanding at December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had a total of 13
construction loans with total commitments of up to $330.9 million of which $271.0 million had been
funded to the Company. These loans had maturities ranging from two months to 31 months and
interest rates ranging from 6.87% to 7.32% at December 31, 2006.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Ground-Up Development Joint Ventures

At December 31, 2006, the Company has three ground-up development projects through unconsolidated
joint ventures in which the Company has 50% non-controlling interests. Two projects are financed
with individual non-recourse construction loans and one term loan with total aggregate loan
commitments of up to $249.4 million of which $128.6 million has been funded. These loans have
variable interest rates ranging from 5.82% to 8.25% at December 31, 2006, and maturities ranging
from four months to 10 months.



Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures

The Company has investments in various unconsolidated real estate joint ventures with varying
structures. These joint ventures operate either shopping center properties or are established for
development projects. Such arrangements are generally with third-party institutional investors,
local developers and individuals. The properties owned by the joint ventures are primarily financed
with individual non-recourse mortgage loans. Non-recourse mortgage debt is generally defined as
debt whereby the lenders’ sole recourse with respect to borrower defaults is limited to the value
of the property collateralized by the mortgage. The lender generally does not have recourse against
any other assets owned by the borrower or any of the constituent members of the borrower, except
for
certain specified exceptions listed in the particular loan documents (see Note 7 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K). These investments
include the following joint ventures:

Non-Recourse

Weighted

Kimco

Mortgage

Recourse

Number of

Average

Average

Ownership

Number of

Total GLA

Payable

Notes Payable

Encumbered

Interest

Term

Venture

Interest

Properties

(in thousands)

(in millions)

(in millions)

Properties

Rate

(months)

KimPru

15.00

%


19,645

$

1,545.1

$

1,235.3

(c)


5.73

%

63.8

KIR

45.00

%


13,996

$

1,080.7

$

14.0


7.06

%

49.9

KROP

20.00

%


3,606

$

318.9

(b)

$

15.0

(c)


6.30

%

41.8

PL Retail

15.00

%


5,809

$

682.2

$

39.5

(c)


6.48

%

30.7

KUBS

18.93

%(a)


4,994

$

592.2

$

—


5.59

%

96.7

RioCan Venture

50.00

%


8,140

$

641.4

$

—


6.32

%

69.9

(a)

Ownership % is a blended rate.

(b)

KROP has entered into a series of interest rate cap agreements to mitigate the impact
of changes in interest rates on its variable-rate mortgage agreements. Such mortgage
debt is collateralized by the individual shopping center property and is payable in
monthly installments of principal and interest.

(c)

See Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments regarding guarantees by the Company
and its joint venture partners.

The Company has various other unconsolidated real estate joint ventures with varying structures.
As of December 31, 2006, these unconsolidated joint ventures had individual non-recourse mortgage
loans aggregating approximately $2.2 billion. The Company’s pro-rata share of these non-recourse
mortgages was approximately $734.1 million. (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

Other Real Estate Investments

The Company maintains a Preferred Equity program, which provides capital to developers and owners
of real estate properties. The Company accounts for its preferred equity investments
under the equity method of accounting. As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s net investment under
the Preferred Equity Program was approximately $400.4 million relating to 215 properties. As of
December 31, 2006, these preferred equity investment properties had individual non-recourse
mortgage loans aggregating approximately $1.2 billion. Due to the Company’s preferred position in
these investments, the Company’s pro-rata share of each investment is subject to fluctuation and is
dependent upon property cash flows. The Company’s maximum exposure to losses associated with its
preferred equity investments is primarily limited to its invested capital.

During June 2002, the Company acquired a 90% equity participation interest in an existing leveraged
lease of 30 properties. The properties are leased under a long-term bond-type net lease whose
primary term expires in 2016, with the lessee having certain renewal option rights. The Company’s
cash equity investment was approximately $4.0 million. This equity investment is reported as a net
investment in leveraged lease in accordance with SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases (as amended).
The net investment in leveraged lease reflects the original cash investment adjusted by remaining
net rentals, estimated unguaranteed residual value, unearned and deferred income, and deferred
taxes relating to the investment.

As of December 31, 2006, 16 of these properties were sold, whereby the proceeds from the sales were
used to pay down the mortgage debt by approximately $29.1 million. As of



December 31, 2006, the
remaining 14 properties were encumbered by third-party non-recourse debt of approximately $53.8
million that is scheduled to fully amortize during the primary term of the lease from a portion of
the periodic net rents receivable under the net lease. As an equity participant in the leveraged
lease, the Company has no recourse obligation for principal or interest payments on the debt, which
is collateralized by a first mortgage lien on the properties and collateral assignment of the
lease. Accordingly, this debt has been offset against the related net rental receivable under the
lease.

Effects of Inflation

Many of the Company’s leases contain provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact of
inflation. Such provisions include clauses enabling the Company to receive payment of additional
rent calculated as a percentage of tenants’ gross sales above pre-determined thresholds, which
generally increase as prices rise, and/or escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates
during the terms of the leases. Such escalation clauses often include increases based upon changes
in the consumer price index or similar inflation indices. In addition, many of the Company’s
leases are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits the Company to seek to increase rents to
market rates upon renewal. Most of the Company’s leases require the tenant to pay an allocable
share of operating expenses, including common area maintenance costs, real estate taxes and
insurance, thereby reducing the Company’s exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses
resulting from inflation. The Company periodically evaluates its exposure to short-term interest
rates and foreign currency exchange rates and will, from time-to-time, enter into interest rate
protection agreements and/or foreign currency hedge agreements which mitigate, but do not
eliminate, the effect of changes in interest rates on its floating-rate debt and fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes — an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (“FIN 48”),
regarding accounting for and disclosure of uncertain tax positions. This guidance seeks to reduce
the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects of the recognition and measurement
related to accounting for income taxes. This interpretation is effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company is currently assessing the provisions of FIN 48,
but does not expect its adoption to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or
results of operations.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurement (“SFAS No. 157”), which
defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about
fair value measurement. This statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal
years beginning after November 15, 2007. The impact of adopting SFAS No. 157 is not expected to
have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations.

Additionally in September 2006, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission staff issued
Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when
Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements (“SAB 108”), which provides
interpretive guidance on how registrants should quantify financial statement misstatements. SAB
108 requires registrants to quantify misstatements using both balance sheet and income statement
approaches and to evaluate whether either approach results in quantifying an error that is material
in light of relative quantitative and qualitative factors. For transition purposes, the
registrants will be permitted to restate prior period financial statements or recognize the
cumulative effect of initially applying SAB 108 through an adjustment to beginning retained
earnings in the year of adoption. SAB 108 is effective for annual financial statements covering
the first fiscal year ending after November 15, 2006. The impact of adopting SAB 108 did not have
a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations.

In December 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. EITF 00-19-2, Accounting for Registration
Payment Arrangements. EITF 00-19-2 addresses an issuer’s accounting for registration payment
arrangements and specifies that the contingent obligation to make future payments or otherwise
transfer consideration under a registration payment arrangement, whether issued as a separate
agreement or included as a provision of a financial instrument or other agreement, should be
separately recognized and measured in accordance with FASB Statement No. 5, Accounting for
Contingencies. The guidance in EITF 00-19-2 amends FASB Statements No. 133, Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging



Activities, No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial
Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity, and FASB Interpretation No. 45,
Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of
Indebtedness of Others (“FIN 45”), to include scope exceptions for registration payment
arrangements. EITF 00-19-2 further clarifies that a financial instrument subject to a registration
payment arrangement should be accounted for in accordance with other applicable generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP) without regard to the contingent obligation to transfer consideration
pursuant to the registration payment arrangement. EITF 00-19-2 shall be effective immediately for
registration payment arrangements and the financial instruments subject to those arrangements that
are entered into or modified subsequent to the date of issuance of this EITF, or for financial
statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, and interim periods within
those fiscal years. The Company does not expect the adoption of EITF 00-19-2 to have a material
impact on the
Company’s financial position or results of operations.

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and
Financial Liabilities (“SFAS No. 159”). SFAS No. 159 permits entities to choose to measure many
financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on items for
which the fair value option has been elected are reported in earnings. SFAS No. 159 is effective
for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The Company is currently assessing the impact
of SFAS No. 159 on the Company’s financial position or results of operations.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The Company’s primary market risk exposure is interest rate risk. The following table presents the
Company’s aggregate fixed rate and variable rate domestic and foreign debt obligations outstanding
as of December 31, 2006, with corresponding weighted-average interest rates sorted by maturity
date. The information is presented in U.S. dollar equivalents, which is the Company’s reporting
currency. The instruments actual cash flows are denominated in U.S. dollars and Canadian dollars,
as indicated by geographic description ($USD equivalent in millions).

Fair






2012+

Total

Value

U.S. Dollar
Denominated

Secured Debt
Fixed Rate

$

26.5

$

94.8

$

49.2

$

19.9

$

46.7

$

304.5

$

541.6

$

555.6

Average Interest
Rate

8.06

%

7.21

%

7.83

%

8.39

%

7.42

%

6.53

%

6.99

%

Variable Rate

$

173.5

$

81.5

$

25.3

$

16.4

$

—

$

0.6

$

297.3

$

297.3

Average Interest
Rate

7.22

%

7.04

%

6.91

%

7.35

%

—

8.25

%

7.15

%

Unsecured Debt
Fixed Rate

$

250.0

$

125.7

$

180.0

$

76.5

$

363.4

$

1,445.7

$

2,441.3

$

2,457.9

Average Interest
Rate

6.83

%

4.61

%

6.98

%

5.55

%

6.36

%

5.50

%

5.83

%

Variable Rate

$

6.9

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

6.9

$

6.9

Average Interest
Rate

8.00

%

—

—

—

—

—

8.00

%

Fair






2012+

Total

Value

Canadian Dollar
Denominated

Unsecured Debt
Fixed Rate

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

128.6

$

—

$

171.5

$

300.1

$

297.9

Average Interest
Rate

—

—

—

4.45

%

—

5.18

%

4.87

%

Based on the Company’s variable-rate debt balances, interest expense would have increased by
approximately $3.0 million in 2006 if short-term interest rates were 1.0% higher.

As of December 31, 2006, the Company had Canadian investments totaling approximately CAD $801.3
million (approximately USD $687.2 million) comprised of real estate joint venture investments and
marketable securities. In addition, the Company has Mexican real estate investments of
approximately MXP 5.0 billion (approximately USD $463.2 million). The



foreign currency exchange
risk has been partially mitigated through the use of local currency denominated debt, inflation
adjusted leases, and a cross currency swap (the “CC Swap”). The Company is exposed to credit risk
in the event of non-performance by the counter-party to the CC Swap. The Company believes it has
mitigated its credit risk by entering into the CC Swap with a major financial institution.

The Company has not, and does not plan to, enter into any derivative financial instruments for
trading or speculative purposes. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had no other material
exposure to market risk.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The response to this Item 8 is included as a separate section of this annual report on Form 10-K.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

The Company’s management, with the participation of the Company’s chief executive officer
and chief financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure
controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as of the end of the
period covered by this report. Based on such evaluation, the Company’s chief executive
officer and chief financial officer have concluded that, as of the end of such period, the
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective in recording, processing,
summarizing and reporting, on a timely basis, information required to be disclosed by the
Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There have not been any changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
(as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the
fourth fiscal quarter to which this report relates that have materially affected, or are
reasonable likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting.

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision
and with the participation of our management, including our chief executive officer and chief
financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over
financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation under the
framework in Internal Control-Integrated Framework, our management concluded that our internal
control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2006.

Our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2006 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included herein.

Item 9B. Other Information

None.



PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s definitive proxy statement to be filed
with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held on May 17, 2007.

Information with respect to the Executive Officers of the Registrant follows Part I, Item 4
of this annual report on Form 10-K.

On June 14, 2006, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer submitted to the New York Stock
Exchange (the “NYSE”) the annual certification required by Section 303A.12 (a) of the NYSE
Company Manual. In addition, the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as exhibits to this Form 10-K the certifications, required pursuant to Section
302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, of its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
relating to the quality of its public disclosure.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s definitive proxy statement to be filed
with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held on May 17, 2007.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s definitive proxy statement to be filed
with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held on May 17, 2007.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s definitive proxy statement to be filed
with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held on May 17, 2007.

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company’s definitive proxy statement to be filed
with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be held on May 17, 2007.



PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

Form 10-K

Report

Page

(a)

1. Financial Statements -

The following consolidated financial information
is included as a separate section of this annual
report on Form 10-K.

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Consolidated Financial Statements

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005


Consolidated Statements of Income for the years
ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004


Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004


Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity
for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


2. Financial Statement Schedules -

Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


Schedule III — Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation


All other schedules are omitted since the required
information is not present or is not present in amounts
sufficient to require submission of the schedule.

3. Exhibits —

The exhibits listed on the accompanying Index to
Exhibits are filed as part of this report.




INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Form 10-K

Exhibits

Page

2.1

— Form of Plan of Reorganization of Kimco Realty Corporation

[Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the
Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-11
No. 33-42588].

2.2

— Agreement and Plan of Merger by and between Kimco Realty
Corporation, KRC CT Acquisition Limited Partnership, KRC
PC Acquisition Limited Partnership, Pan Pacific Retail
Properties, Inc., CT Operating Partnership L.P., and
Western/PineCreek, Ltd. dated July 9, 2006. [Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed July 28, 2006].

2.3

— Amendment No. 1 to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of
October 30, 2006, by and between Kimco Realty Corporation,
KRC CT Acquisition Limited Partnership, KRC PC Acquisition
Limited Partnership, Pan Pacific Retail Properties, Inc.,
CT Operating Partnership L.P., and Western/PineCreek, Ltd.
[Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s
Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 3, 2006].

3.1

— Articles of Amendment and Restatement of the Company,
dated August 4, 1994 [Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994].

3.2

— By-laws of the Company dated February 6, 2002, as amended
[Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the 2001 Form 10-K].

3.3

— By-laws of the Company dated February 1, 2005, as amended
[Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to the Company’s
Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 1, 2005].

3.4

— Articles Supplementary relating to the 8 1/2% Class B
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $1.00
per share, of the Company, dated July 25, 1995. [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
1995 (file #1-10899) (the “1995 Form 10-K”)].

3.5

— Articles Supplementary relating to the 8 3/8% Class C
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $1.00
per share, of the Company, dated April 9, 1996 [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4 to the Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1996].

3.6

— Articles Supplementary relating to the 6.65% Class F
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $1.00
per share, of the Company, dated May 7, 2003 [Incorporated
by reference to the Company’s filing on Form 8-A
dated June 3, 2003].

4.1

— Agreement of the Company pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A)
of Regulation S-K [Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.1 to Amendment No. 3 to the Company’s
Registration Statement on Form S-11 No. 33-42588].

4.2

— Certificate of Designations [Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4(d) to Amendment No. 1 to the Registration
Statement on Form S-3 dated September 10, 1993 (the
“Registration Statement”, Commission File No. 33-67552)].



INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)

Form 10-K

Exhibits

Page

4.3

—
Indenture dated September 1, 1993, between Kimco Realty Corporation and Bank of New York (as successor to IBJ
Schroder Bank and Trust Company) [Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4(a) to the Registration Statement].

4.4

— First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 4, 1994.
[Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the 1995
Form 10-K.]

4.5

— Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 7, 1995
[Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to the Company’s
Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 7, 1995 (the
“April 1995 8-K”)].

4.6

— Form of Medium-Term Note (Fixed Rate) [Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the 2001 Form 10-K].

4.7

— Form of Medium-Term Note (Floating Rate) [Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.7 to the 2001 Form 10-K].

4.8

— Indenture dated April 1, 2005, between Kimco North Trust III,
Kimco Realty Corporation, as Guarantor and BNY Trust Company
of Canada, as Trustee [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
4.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
April 21, 2005].

4.9

— Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 2, 2006.
[Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s
current report on Form 8-K dated June 5, 2006].

4.10

— Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 31, 2006,
among Kimco Realty Corporation, Pan Pacific Retail Properties,
Inc. and Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee
[Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s
current report on Form 8-K dated November 3, 2006].

4.11

— First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 31, 2006,
among Kimco Realty Corporation, Pan Pacific Retail Properties,
Inc. and Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee
[Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s
current report on Form 8-K dated November 3, 2006].

*4.12

— First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 2, 2006, among Kimco North Trust III, Kimco Realty Corporation, as Guarantor and BNY Trust Company of Canada, as Trustee.


*4.13

— Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 16, 2006,
among Kimco North Trust III, Kimco Realty Corporation, as Guarantor and BNY Trust Company of Canada, as Trustee.


10.1

— Management Agreement between the Company and
KC Holdings, Inc. [Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Registration Statement
on Form S-11 No. 33-47915].

10.2

— Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan [Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the 1995 Form 10-K].

10.3

— Employment Agreement between Kimco Realty Corporation and
Michael J. Flynn, dated November 1, 1998 [Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the 1998 Form 10-K].

10.4

— Restricted Equity Agreement, Non-Qualified and Incentive
Stock Option Agreement, and Price Condition Non-
Qualified and Incentive Stock Option Agreement between
Kimco Realty Corporation and Michael J. Flynn, each
dated November 1, 1995 [Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.5 to the 1995 Form 10-K].

10.5

— Employment Agreement between Kimco Realty Corporation and
Michael J. Flynn, dated July 21, 2004 [Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the Company’s Form 10-Q
filed on November 5, 2004].



INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)

Form 10-K

Exhibits

Page

10.6

—
Employment Agreement between Kimco Realty Corporation and Michael V. Pappagallo, dated January 1, 2002 [Incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the 2001 Form 10-K].

10.7

— Employment Agreement between Kimco Realty Corporation and
Jerald Friedman, dated January 13, 1998
[Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the
Company’s and the Price REIT, Inc.’s Joint Proxy
Statement/Prospectus on Form S-4 No. 333-52667].

10.8

— First Amendment to Amended and Restated Executive Employment
Agreement between Kimco Realty Corporation and
Jerald Friedman, dated January 1, 2002 [Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the 2001 Form 10-K].

10.9

— The 1998 Equity Participation Plan [Incorporated by reference
to the Company’s and The Price REIT, Inc.’s Joint Proxy/Prospectus on Form S-4 No. 333-52667].

10.10

— Employment Agreement between Kimco Realty Corporation and
David B. Henry – the Company commenced a five-year
employment agreement with Mr. Henry pursuant to which
Mr. Henry will serve as Chief Investment Officer and
has been nominated as Vice Chairman of the Board of
Directors [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11
to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on May 10, 2001].

10.11

— Employment Agreement between Kimco Realty Corporation and
David B. Henry, dated July 26, 2004 [Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the Company’s Form 10-Q
filed on November 5, 2004].

10.12

— $500,000,000 Credit Agreement dated as of June 3, 2003,
among Kimco Realty Corporation, the Several Lenders
from Time to Time Parties Hereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank
as Issuing Lender, Bank One, NA, Wachovia Bank, National
Association as Syndication Agents, UBS AG, Cayman Island
Branch, The Bank of Nova Scotia, New York Agency as
Documentation Agents, The Bank of New York, Eurohypo AG,
New York Branch, Keybank National Association, Merrill
Lynch Bank, USA, Suntrust as Co-Agents and JPMorgan Chase as Administrative Agent [Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.11 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on
August 11, 2003].

10.13

— $400,000,000 Credit Agreement dated as of October 1, 2003,
among Kimco Realty Corporation, the Several Lenders
from Time to Time Parties Hereto, Wachovia Bank, National
Association and the Bank of Nova Scotia, as Syndication
Agents, Keybank National Association as Documentation
Agent, Bank One, NA as Administrative Agent, Banc One
Capital Markets, Inc. and Scotia Capital as Co-Bookrunners
and Co-Lead Arrangers [Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.12 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed on
November 10, 2003].



INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)

Form 10-K

Exhibits

Page

10.14

— CAD $150,000,000 Credit Agreement dated September 21, 2004,
among Kimco North Trust I, North Trust II, North Trust
III, North Trust V, North Trust VI, Kimco North Loan
Trust IV, Kimco Realty Corporation, the Several Lenders
from Time to Time Parties Hereto, Royal Bank of Canada,
as Issuing Lender and Administrative Agent, The Bank of
Nova Scotia and Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication
Agents, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce as Documentation
Agent and RBC Capital Markets, as Bookrunner and Lead
Arranger [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to
the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
September 21, 2004].

10.17

— Amendment and Restated 1998 Equity Participation Plan
[Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the Company’s
2004 Form 10-K].

10.18

— CAD $250,000,000 Amended and Restated Credit Facility dated
March 31, 2005, with Royal Bank of Canada, as Issuing Lender
and Administrative Agent and various lenders [Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K dated March 31, 2005].

10.19

— $850,000,000 Amended and Restated Unsecured Revolving Credit
Facility dated July 26, 2005, with JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, as
Issuing Lender and Administrative Agent and various lenders
[Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s
Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 26, 2005].

10.20

— Employment Agreement between Kimco Realty Corporation and
Jerald Friedman, dated September 21, 2005 [Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed
on November 4, 2005.

10.21

— CAD $250,000,000 Amended and Restated Credit Facility dated
January 25, 2006, with Royal Bank of Canada, as Issuing
Lender and Administrative Agent and various lenders.

10.22

— Credit Agreement, dated as of October 30, 2006, among PK Sale
LLC, as borrower, PRK Holdings I LLC, PRK Holdings II LLC
and PK Holdings III LLC, as guarantors, Kimco Realty
Corporation, as guarantor, the lenders party hereto from
time to time, JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative
Agent and Bank of America, N.A., as Co-Syndication Agents
Scotia Banc, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association
as Co-Documentation Agents, The Royal Bank of Scotland, PLC,
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, and West LB AG, New
York Branch as Co-Managing Agents, and The Bank of New
York, Mizuho Corporate Bank (USA), Royal Bank of Canada,
and U.S. Bank, National Association, as Co-Agents
[Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s
Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 3, 2006].

*12.1

— Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges


*12.2

— Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined
Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends


*21.1

— Subsidiaries of the Company


*23.1

— Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP


*31.1

— Certification of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer,
Milton Cooper, pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


*31.2

— Certification of the Company’s Chief Financial Officer,
Michael V. Pappagallo, pursuant to Section 302 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


*32.1

— Certification of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer,
Milton Cooper, and the Company’s Chief Financial Officer,
Michael V. Pappagallo, pursuant to section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


*

Filed herewith.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

Dated: February 27, 2007

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ Martin S. Kimmel

Martin S. Kimmel

Chairman (Emeritus) of the
Board of Directors

February 27, 2007

/s/ Milton Cooper

Milton Cooper

Chairman of the Board of
Directors and Chief
Executive Officer

February 27, 2007

/s/ Michael J. Flynn

Michael J. Flynn

Vice Chairman of the Board
of Directors,
President and
Chief Operating Officer

February 27, 2007

/s/ David B. Henry

David B. Henry

Vice Chairman of the Board
of Directors and
Chief Investment Officer

February 27, 2007

/s/ Richard G. Dooley

Richard G. Dooley

Director

February 27, 2007

/s/ Joe Grills

Joe Grills

Director

February 27, 2007

/s/ F. Patrick Hughes

F. Patrick Hughes

Director

February 27, 2007

/s/ Frank Lourenso

Frank Lourenso

Director

February 27, 2007

/s/ Richard Saltzman

Richard Saltzman

Director

February 27, 2007

/s/ Michael V. Pappagallo

Michael V. Pappagallo

Executive Vice President - Chief
Financial Officer

February 27, 2007

/s/ Glenn G. Cohen

Glenn G. Cohen

Vice President - Treasurer

February 27, 2007

/s/ Paul Westbrook

Paul Westbrook

Director of Accounting

February 27, 2007



ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

ITEM 8, ITEM 15 (a) (1) and (2)

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AND

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

FORM 10-K

Page

KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules:

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005


Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004


Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the
years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004


Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity
for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Financial Statement Schedules:

II. Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


III. Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation




REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders

of Kimco Realty Corporation:

We have completed integrated audits of Kimco Realty Corporation’s consolidated
financial statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006,
in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are
presented below.

Consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index appearing
under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Kimco
Realty Corporation and its Subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”) at December 31, 2006 and
2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2006, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial
statement schedules listed in the index appearing under
Item 15(a)(2) present fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the
related consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and financial statement schedules are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of financial
statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made
by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Internal control over financial reporting

Also, in our opinion, management’s assessment, included in Management’s Report on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that the Company maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 based on criteria established in

Internal
Control — Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria.
Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in

Internal Control — Integrated Framework

issued by the COSO. The Company’s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility
is to express opinions on management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal
control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting
includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. We
believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes



those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

February 27, 2007



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(in thousands, except share information)

December 31,

December 31,



Assets:

Real Estate

Rental property

Land

$

978,819

$

686,123

Building and improvements

3,984,518

3,263,162

4,963,337

3,949,285

Less, accumulated depreciation and amortization

806,670

740,127

4,156,667

3,209,158

Real estate under development

1,037,982

611,121

Real estate, net

5,194,649

3,820,279

Investment and advances in real estate joint ventures

1,067,918

735,648

Other real estate investments

451,731

283,035

Mortgages and other financing receivables

162,669

132,675

Cash and cash equivalents

345,065

76,273

Marketable securities

202,659

206,452

Accounts and notes receivable

83,418

64,329

Deferred charges and prepaid expenses

95,163

84,022

Other assets

266,008

131,923

$

7,869,280

$

5,534,636

Liabilities & Stockholders’ Equity:

Notes payable

$

2,748,345

$

2,147,405

Mortgages payable

567,917

315,336

Construction loans payable

270,981

228,455

Accounts payable and accrued expenses

256,890

119,605

Dividends payable

93,222

78,168

Other liabilities

139,724

135,609

4,077,079

3,024,578

Minority interests

425,242

122,844

Commitments and contingencies

Stockholders’ Equity

Preferred stock, $1.00 par value, authorized 3,600,000 shares

Class F Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value, authorized 700,000 shares

Issued and outstanding 700,000 shares



Aggregate liquidation preference $175,000

Common stock, $.01 par value, authorized 300,000,000 shares

Issued 251,416,749 shares; outstanding 250,870,169 at December 31, 2006;

Issued and outstanding 228,059,056 shares at December 31, 2005

2,509

2,281

Paid-in capital

3,178,016

2,255,332

Retained earnings

140,509

59,855

3,321,734

2,318,168

Accumulated other comprehensive income

45,225

69,046

3,366,959

2,387,214

$

7,869,280

$

5,534,636

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(in thousands, except per share information)

Year Ended December 31,




Revenues from rental property

$

593,880

$

505,557

$

490,901

Rental property expenses:

Rent

11,786

10,267

10,794

Real estate taxes

75,515

64,731

63,250

Operating and maintenance

74,178

58,715

52,162

161,479

133,713

126,206

432,401

371,844

364,695

Mortgage and other financing income

18,816

27,586

15,032

Management and other fee income

40,684

30,474

25,445

Depreciation and amortization

(141,070

)

(101,432

)

(95,398

)

General and administrative expenses

(77,683

)

(56,799

)

(43,524

)

Interest, dividends and other investment income

54,417

28,350

18,701

Other income, net

9,522

5,400

10,031

Interest expense

(172,888

)

(126,901

)

(106,239

)

164,199

178,522

188,743

Provision for income taxes

(4,387

)

(165

)

(3,919

)

Income from other real estate investments

77,062

56,751

30,127

Equity in income of real estate joint ventures, net

106,930

77,454

56,385

Minority interests in income, net

(26,254

)

(12,260

)

(9,660

)

Gain on sale of development properties
net of tax of $12,155, $10,824 and $4,401, respectively

25,121

22,812

12,434

Income from continuing operations

342,671

323,114

274,110

Discontinued operations:

Income from discontinued operating properties

14,004

14,337

12,749

Minority interest from discontinued operating properties

(1,497

)

(476

)

(481

)

Loss on operating properties held for sale/sold

(1,421

)

(5,098

)

(5,064

)

Gain on disposition of operating properties, net of tax

72,042

28,918

15,823

Income from discontinued operations

83,128

37,681

23,027

Gain on transfer of operating properties

1,394

2,301

—

Loss on transfer of operating property

—

(150

)

—

Gain on sale of operating properties, net of tax

1,066


—

2,460

2,833

—

Net income

428,259

363,628

297,137

Preferred stock dividends

(11,638

)

(11,638

)

(11,638

)

Net income available to common shareholders

$

416,621

$

351,990

$

285,499

Per common share:

Income from continuing operations:

-Basic

$

1.39

$

1.39

$

1.18

-Diluted

$

1.36

$

1.36

$

1.16

Net income :

-Basic

$

1.74

$

1.55

$

1.28

-Diluted

$

1.70

$

1.52

$

1.26

Weighted average common shares outstanding:

-Basic

239,552

226,641

222,859

-Diluted

244,615

230,868

227,143

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(in thousands)

Year Ended December 31,




Net income

$

428,259

$

363,628

$

297,137

Other comprehensive income:

Change in unrealized gain/(loss) on marketable securities

(26,467

)

26,689

28,594

Change in unrealized (loss) on warrants

—

—

(8,252

)

Change in unrealized gain/(loss) on foreign currency hedge agreements


2,536

(15,102

)

Change in foreign currency translation adjustment

2,503

2,040

15,675

Other comprehensive income

(23,821

)

31,265

20,915

Comprehensive income

$

404,438

$

394,893

$

318,052

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

For the Years Ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

(in thousands, except per share information)

Retained

Earnings /

(Cumulative

Distributions

Accumulated

Total

Preferred Stock

Common Stock

Paid-in

in Excess

Other Comprehensive

Stockholders’

Issued

Amount

Issued

Amount

Capital

of Net Income)

Income

Equity

Balance, January 1, 2004


$


221,248

$

2,212

$

2,146,180

$

(30,112

)

$

16,866

$

2,135,846

Net income

297,137

297,137

Dividends ($1.16 per common share; $1.6625
Class F Depositary Share, respectively)

(270,774

)

(270,774

)

Issuance of common stock



5,419

5,421

Exercise of common stock options

3,380


46,023

46,057

Amortization of stock option expense

1,798

1,798

Other comprehensive income

20,915

20,915

Balance, December 31, 2004



224,854

2,248

2,199,420

(3,749

)

37,781

2,236,400

Net income

363,628

363,628

Dividends ($1.27 per common share; $1.6625
Class F Depositary Share, respectively)

(300,024

)

(300,024

)

Issuance of common stock



6,837

6,840

Exercise of common stock options

2,963


44,467

44,497

Amortization of stock option expense

4,608

4,608

Other comprehensive income

31,265

31,265

Balance, December 31, 2005



228,059

2,281

2,255,332

59,855

69,046

2,387,214

Net income

428,259

428,259

Dividends ($1.38 per common share; $1.6625
Class F Depositary Share, respectively)

(347,605

)

(347,605

)

Issuance of common stock

20,614


870,465

870,671

Exercise of common stock options

2,197


42,007

42,029

Amortization of stock option expense

10,212

10,212

Other comprehensive income

(23,821

)

(23,821

)

Balance, December 31, 2006


$


250,870

$

2,509

$

3,178,016

$

140,509

$

45,225

$

3,366,959

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(in thousands)

Year Ended December 31,




Cash flow from operating activities:

Net income

$

428,259

$

363,628

$

297,137

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided
by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

144,767

108,042

102,872

Loss on operating properties held for sale/sold/transferred

1,421

5,248

8,029

Gain on sale of development properties

(37,276

)

(33,636

)

(16,835

)

Gain on sale/transfer of operating properties

(77,300

)

(31,901

)

(15,823

)

Minority interests in income of partnerships, net

27,751

12,446

9,660

Equity in income of real estate joint ventures, net

(106,930

)

(77,454

)

(56,385

)

Income from other real estate investments

(54,494

)

(40,562

)

(23,571

)

Distributions from joint ventures

152,099

116,765

94,994

Cash retained from excess tax benefits

(2,926

)

—

—

Change in accounts and notes receivable

(17,778

)

(12,156

)

(1,742

)

Change in accounts payable and accrued expenses

38,619

10,606

2,850

Change in other operating assets and liabilities

(40,643

)

(10,229

)

(36,010

)

Net cash flow provided by operating activities

455,569

410,797

365,176

Cash flow from investing activities:

Acquisition of and improvements to operating real estate

(547,001

)

(431,514

)

(351,369

)

Acquisition of and improvements to real estate under development

(619,083

)

(452,722

)

(204,631

)

Investment in marketable securities

(86,463

)

(93,299

)

(70,864

)

Proceeds from sale of marketable securities

83,832

46,692

22,278

Proceeds from transferred operating/development properties

1,186,851

128,537

342,496

Investments and advances to real estate joint ventures

(472,666

)

(267,287

)

(203,569

)

Reimbursements of advances to real estate joint ventures

183,368

130,590

80,689

Other real estate investments

(254,245

)

(123,005

)

(113,663

)

Reimbursements of advances to other real estate investments

74,677

26,969

34,045

Investment in mortgage loans receivable

(154,894

)

(82,305

)

(136,637

)

Collection of mortgage loans receivable

125,003

90,709

103,819

Other investments

(123,609

)

(3,152

)

(1,551

)

Reimbursements of other investments

16,113

—

—

Settlement of net investment hedges

(953

)

(34,580

)

—

Proceeds from sale of operating properties

110,404

89,072

43,077

Proceeds from sale of development properties

232,445

259,280

156,283

Net cash flow used for investing activities

(246,221

)

(716,015

)

(299,597

)

Cash flow from financing activities:

Principal payments on debt, excluding
normal amortization of rental property debt

(61,758

)

(66,794

)

(54,322

)

Principal payments on rental property debt

(11,062

)

(8,296

)

(7,848

)

Principal payments on construction loan financings

(79,399

)

(98,002

)

(66,950

)

Proceeds from mortgage/construction loan financings

174,087

265,418

348,386

Borrowings under revolving credit facilities

317,661

210,188

336,675

Repayment of borrowings under revolving credit facilities

(653,219

)

(156,486

)

(100,000

)

Proceeds from issuance of unsecured notes

478,947

672,429

200,000

Repayment of unsecured notes/term loan

(185,000

)

(200,250

)

(514,000

)

Financing origination costs

(11,442

)

(9,538

)

—

Redemption of minority interests in real estate partnerships

(31,554

)

(21,024

)

(3,781

)

Dividends paid

(332,552

)

(293,345

)

(265,254

)

Cash retained from excess tax benefits

2,926

—

—

Proceeds from issuance of stock

451,809

48,971

51,447

Net cash flow provided by (used for) financing activities

59,444

343,271

(75,647

)

Change in cash and cash equivalents

268,792

38,053

(10,068

)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year

76,273

38,220

48,288

Cash and cash equivalents, end of year

$

345,065

$

76,273

$

38,220

Interest paid during the year (net of capitalized interest
of $22,741, $12,587, and $8,732, respectively)

$

153,664

$

121,087

$

108,117

Income taxes paid during the year

$

9,350

$

13,763

$

10,694

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Amounts relating to the number of buildings, square footage, tenant and occupancy data and
estimated project costs are unaudited.

1.

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies:

Business

Kimco Realty Corporation (the “Company” or “Kimco”), its subsidiaries, affiliates and
related real estate joint ventures are engaged principally in the operation of
neighborhood and community shopping centers which are anchored generally by discount
department stores, supermarkets or drugstores. The Company also provides property
management services for shopping centers owned by affiliated entities, various real
estate joint ventures and unaffiliated third parties.

Additionally, in connection with the Tax Relief Extension Act of 1999 (the “RMA”), which
became effective January 1, 2001, the Company is permitted to participate in activities
which it was precluded from previously in order to maintain its qualification as a Real
Estate Investment Trust (“REIT”), so long as these activities are conducted in entities
which elect to be treated as taxable subsidiaries under the Internal Revenue Code, as
amended (the “Code”), subject to certain limitations. As such, the Company, through its
taxable REIT subsidiaries, is engaged in various retail real estate related
opportunities including (i) merchant building, through its Kimco Developers, Inc.
(“KDI”) subsidiary, which is primarily engaged in the ground-up development of
neighborhood and community shopping centers and the subsequent sale thereof upon
completion, (ii) retail real estate advisory and disposition services which primarily
focuses on leasing and disposition strategies of retail real estate controlled by both
healthy and distressed and/or bankrupt retailers and (iii) acting as an agent or
principal in connection with tax deferred exchange transactions.

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through diversification
achieved by the geographic distribution of its properties, avoiding dependence on any
single property, and a large tenant base. At December 31, 2006, the Company’s single
largest neighborhood and community shopping center accounted for only 1.6% of the
Company’s annualized base rental revenues and only 0.8% of the Company’s total shopping
center gross leasable area (“GLA”). At December 31, 2006, the Company’s five largest
tenants were The Home Depot, TJX Companies, Sears Holdings, Kohl’s and Wal-Mart, which
represented approximately 3.5%, 2.9%, 2.5%, 2.2% and 2.1%, respectively, of the
Company’s annualized base rental revenues, including the proportionate share of base
rental revenues from properties in which the Company has less than a 100% economic
interest.

The principal business of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries is the
ownership, development, management and operation of retail shopping centers,
including complementary services that capitalize on the Company’s established retail real
estate expertise. The Company does not distinguish its principal business or group its
operations on a geographical basis for purposes of measuring performance. Accordingly,
the Company believes it has a single reportable segment for disclosure purposes in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
(“GAAP”).

Principles of Consolidation and Estimates

The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the
Company, its subsidiaries, all of which are wholly-owned, and all entities in which the
Company has a controlling interest, including where the Company has been determined to
be a primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity in accordance with the provisions
and guidance of Interpretation No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
(“FIN 46(R)”) or meets certain criteria of a sole general partner or managing member as
identified in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue 04-5, Investor’s
Accounting for an Investment in a Limited Partnership when the Investor is the Sole
General Partner and the Limited Partners have Certain Rights (“EITF 04-5”). All
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

GAAP requires the Company’s management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during a reporting period.
The most significant assumptions and estimates relate to the valuation of real estate,
depreciable lives, revenue recognition, the collectability of trade accounts receivable
and the realizability of deferred tax assets. Application of these assumptions requires
the exercise of judgment as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results
could differ from these estimates.

Minority Interests

Minority interests represent the portion of equity that the Company does not own in those
entities it consolidates as a result of having a controlling interest or determined that
the Company was the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity in accordance with
the provisions and guidance of FIN 46(R).

Minority interests also include partnership units issued from consolidated subsidiaries of
the Company in connection with certain property acquisitions. These units have a stated
redemption value or a redemption amount based upon the Adjusted Current Trading Price,
as defined, of the Company’s common stock (“Common Stock”) and provide the unit holders
various rates of return during the holding period. The unit holders generally have the
right to redeem their units for cash at any time after one year from issuance. The
Company typically has the option to settle redemption amounts in cash or Common Stock
for the issuance of convertible units. The Company evaluates the terms of the
partnership units issued in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of
Both Liabilities and Equity, and EITF D-98, Classification and Measurement of Redeemable
Securities, to determine if the units are mandatorily redeemable, and as such accounts
for them accordingly.

Real Estate

Real estate assets are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization.
If there is an event or a change in circumstances that indicates that the basis of a
property (including any related amortizable intangible assets or liabilities) may not be
recoverable, then management will assess any impairment in value by making a comparison
of (i) the current and projected operating cash flows (undiscounted and without interest
charges) of the property over its remaining useful life and (ii) the net carrying amount
of the property. If the current and projected operating cash flows (undiscounted and
without interest charges) are less than the carrying value of the property, the carrying
value would be adjusted to an amount to reflect the estimated fair value of the
property.

When a real estate asset is identified by management as held for sale, the Company
ceases depreciation of the asset and estimates the sales price, net of selling costs.
If, in management’s opinion, the net sales price of the asset is less than the net book
value of the asset, an adjustment to the carrying value would be recorded to reflect the
estimated fair value of the property.

Upon acquisition of real estate operating properties, the Company estimates the fair
value of acquired tangible assets (consisting of land, building and improvements) and
identified intangible assets and liabilities (consisting of above and below-market
leases, in-place leases and tenant relationships), assumed debt and redeemable units
issued in accordance with SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations (“SFAS No. 141”), at the
date of acquisition, based on evaluation of information and estimates available at that
date. Based on these estimates, the Company allocates the initial purchase price to the
applicable assets and liabilities. As final information regarding fair value of the
assets acquired and liabilities assumed is received and estimates are refined, appropriate
adjustments are made to the purchase price allocation. The allocations are finalized
within twelve months of the acquisition date.

The Company utilizes methods similar to those used by independent appraisers in
estimating the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities. The fair value of the
tangible assets of an acquired property considers the value of the property
“as-if-vacant”. The fair value reflects the depreciated replacement cost of the
permanent assets, with no trade fixtures included.



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

In allocating the purchase price to identified intangible assets and liabilities of
an acquired property, the value of above-market and below-market leases is estimated
based on the present value of the difference between the contractual amounts to be paid
pursuant to the leases and management’s estimate of the market lease rates and other
lease provisions (i.e., expense recapture, base rental changes, etc.) measured over a
period equal to the estimated remaining term of the lease. The capitalized above-market
or below-market intangible is amortized to rental income over the estimated remaining
term of the respective leases. Mortgage debt premiums are amortized
into interest
expense over the remaining term of the related debt instrument. Unit
discounts and premiums are
amortized into Minority interest in income, net over the period from the date of
issuance to the earliest redemption date of the units.

In determining the value of in-place leases, management considers current market
conditions and costs to execute similar leases in arriving at an estimate of the
carrying costs during the expected lease-up period from vacant to existing occupancy. In
estimating carrying costs, management includes real estate taxes, insurance, other
operating expenses and estimates of lost rental revenue during the expected lease-up
periods and costs to execute similar leases including leasing commissions, legal and
other related costs based on current market demand. In estimating the value of tenant
relationships, management considers the nature and extent of the existing tenant
relationship, the expectation of lease renewals, growth prospects, and tenant credit
quality, among other factors. The value assigned to in-place leases and tenant
relationships is amortized over the estimated remaining term of the leases. If a lease
were to be terminated prior to its scheduled expiration, all unamortized costs relating
to that lease would be written off.

Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight-line method over the estimated
useful lives of the assets, as follows:

Buildings

15 to 50 years

Fixtures, building and leasehold improvements
(including certain identified intangible assets)

Terms of leases or useful
lives, whichever is shorter

Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred. Significant
renovations and replacements, which improve and extend the life of the asset, are
capitalized. The useful lives of amortizable intangible assets are evaluated each
reporting period with any changes in estimated useful lives being accounted for over the
revised remaining useful life.

Real Estate Under Development

Real estate under development represents both the ground-up development of
neighborhood and community shopping center projects which are subsequently sold upon
completion and projects which the Company may hold as long-term investments. These
properties are carried at cost. The
cost of land and buildings under development includes specifically identifiable costs.
The capitalized costs include pre-construction costs essential to the development of the
property, development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes,
salaries and related costs of personnel directly involved and other costs incurred
during the period of development. The Company ceases cost capitalization when the
property is held available for occupancy upon substantial completion of tenant
improvements, but no later than one year from the completion of major construction
activity. If, in management’s opinion, the net sales price of assets held for resale or
the current and projected undiscounted cash flows of these assets to be held as
long-term investments is less than the net carrying value, the carrying value would be
adjusted to an amount to reflect the estimated fair value of the property.

Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures

The Company accounts for its investments in unconsolidated joint ventures under the
equity method of accounting as the Company exercises significant influence, but does not
control, these entities. These investments are recorded initially at cost and
subsequently adjusted for cash contributions and distributions. Earnings for each
investment are recognized in accordance with each respective investment agreement and
where applicable, based upon an allocation of the investment’s net assets at book value
as if the investment was hypothetically liquidated at the end of each reporting period.



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

The Company’s joint ventures and other real estate investments primarily consist of
co-investments with institutional and other joint venture partners in neighborhood and
community shopping center properties, consistent with its core business. These joint
ventures typically obtain non-recourse third-party financing on their property
investments, thus contractually limiting the Company’s exposure to losses to the amount
of its equity investment; and due to the lender’s exposure to losses, a lender typically
will require a minimum level of equity in order to mitigate its risk. The Company’s
exposure to losses associated with its unconsolidated joint ventures is primarily
limited to its carrying value in these investments.

On a periodic basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators that the
value of the Company’s investments in unconsolidated joint ventures may be impaired. An
investment’s value is impaired only if management’s estimate of the fair value of the
investment is less than the carrying value of the investment and such difference is
deemed to be other than temporary. To the extent impairment has occurred, the loss
shall be measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the
estimated fair value of the investment.

Other Real Estate Investments

Other real estate investments primarily consist of preferred equity investments for
which the Company provides capital to developers and owners of real estate. The Company
typically accounts for its preferred equity investments on the equity method of
accounting, whereby earnings for each investment are recognized in accordance with each
respective investment agreement and based upon an allocation of the investment’s net
assets at book value as if the investment was hypothetically liquidated at the end of
each reporting period.

Mortgages and Other Financing Receivables

Mortgages
and other financing receivables consist of loans acquired and loans originated by
the Company. Loan receivables are recorded at stated principal amounts net of any
discount or premium or deferred loan origination costs or fees. The related discounts
or premiums on mortgages and other loans purchased are amortized or accreted over the
life of the related loan receivable. The Company defers certain loan origination and
commitment fees, net of certain origination costs, and amortizes them as an adjustment
of the loan’s yield over the term of the related loan. The Company evaluates the
collectibility of both interest and principal on each loan to determine whether it is
impaired. A loan is considered to be impaired, when based upon current information and
events, it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due
according to the existing contractual terms. When a loan is considered to be impaired,
the amount of loss is calculated by comparing the recorded investment to the value
determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at the loan’s effective
interest rate or to the value of the underlying collateral if the loan is
collateralized. Interest income on performing loans is accrued as earned. Interest
income on impaired loans is recognized on a cash basis.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents (demand deposits in banks, commercial paper and certificates
of deposit with original maturities of three months or less) includes tenants’ security
deposits, escrowed funds and other restricted deposits approximating $0.6 million and
$6.7 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Cash and cash equivalent balances may, at a limited number of banks and financial
institutions, exceed insurable amounts. The Company believes it mitigates its risks by
investing in or through major financial institutions. Recoverability of investments is
dependent upon the performance of the issuers.

Marketable Securities

The Company classifies its existing marketable equity securities as
available-for-sale in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 115, Accounting for
Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. These securities are carried at fair
market value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in stockholders’ equity as a
component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (“OCI”). Gains or losses on
securities sold
are based on the specific identification method.



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

All debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity because the Company has the
positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. Held-to-maturity
securities are stated at amortized cost, adjusted for amortization of premiums and
accretion of discounts to maturity.

Deferred Leasing and Financing Costs

Costs incurred in obtaining tenant leases and long-term financing, included in
deferred charges and prepaid expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets,
are amortized over the terms of the related leases or debt agreements, as applicable.
Such capitalized costs include salaries and related costs of personnel directly involved
in successful leasing efforts.

Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable

Base rental revenues from rental property are recognized on a straight-line basis over
the terms of the related leases. Certain of these leases also provide for percentage
rents based upon the level of sales achieved by the lessee. These percentage rents are
recognized once the required sales level is achieved. Rental income may also include
payments received in connection with lease termination agreements. In addition, leases
typically provide for reimbursement to the Company of common area maintenance costs,
real estate taxes and other operating expenses. Operating expense reimbursements are
recognized as earned.

Management and other fee income consist of property management fees, leasing fees, property
acquisition and disposition fees, development fees and asset management fees. These fees
arise from contractual agreements with third parties or with entities in which the
Company has a partial non-controlling interest. Management and other
fee income, including acquisition and disposition fees, are recognized as earned
under the respective agreements. Management and other fee income related to partially owned
entities is recognized to the extent attributable to the unaffiliated interest.

Gains and losses from the sale of depreciated operating property and ground-up
development projects are generally recognized using the full accrual method in
accordance with SFAS No. 66, Accounting for Sales of Real Estate (“SFAS No. 66”),
provided that various criteria relating to the terms of sale and subsequent involvement
by the Company with the properties are met.

Gains
and losses on transfers of operating properties result from the sale
of a partial
interest in properties to unconsolidated joint ventures and are recognized using the
partial sale provisions of SFAS No. 66.

The Company makes estimates of the uncollectability of its accounts receivable
related to base rents, expense reimbursements and other revenues. The Company analyzes
accounts receivable and historical bad debt levels, customer credit worthiness and
current economic trends when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful
accounts. In addition, tenants in bankruptcy are analyzed and estimates are made in
connection with the expected recovery of pre-petition and post-petition claims. The
Company’s reported net income is directly affected by management’s estimate of the
collectability of accounts receivable.

Income Taxes

The Company has made an election to qualify, and believes it is operating so as to
qualify, as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, the Company generally
will not be subject to federal income tax, provided that distributions to its
stockholders equal at least the amount of its REIT taxable income as defined under
Section 856 through 860 of the Code.

In connection with the RMA, which became effective January 1, 2001, the Company is
permitted to participate in certain activities which it was previously precluded from in
order to maintain its qualification as a REIT, so long as these activities are conducted
in entities which elect to be treated as taxable subsidiaries under the Code. As such,
the Company is subject to federal and state income taxes on the income from these
activities.



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and
liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit
carry-forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using
enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected
to be recovered or settled.

Foreign Currency Translation and Transactions

Assets and liabilities of the Company’s foreign operations are translated using year-end
exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated using exchange rates as
determined throughout the year. Gains or losses resulting from translation are included
in OCI, as a separate component of the Company’s stockholders’ equity. Gains or losses
resulting from foreign currency transactions are translated to local currency at the
rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. The effect of the
transaction’s gain or loss is included in the caption Other income, net in the
Consolidated Statements of Income.

Derivative/Financial Instruments

The Company measures its derivative instruments at fair value and records them in the
Consolidated Balance Sheet as an asset or liability, depending on the Company’s rights
or obligations under the applicable derivative contract. In addition, the fair value
adjustments will be recorded in either stockholders’ equity or earnings in the current
period based on the designation of the derivative. The effective portions of changes in
fair value of cash flow hedges are reported in OCI and are subsequently reclassified
into earnings when the hedged item affects earnings. Changes in the fair value of
foreign currency hedges that are designated and effective as net investment hedges are
included in the cumulative translation component of OCI to the extent they are
economically effective and are subsequently reclassified to earnings when the hedged
investments are sold or otherwise disposed of. The changes in fair value of derivative
instruments which are not designated as hedging instruments and the ineffective portions
of hedges are recorded in earnings for the current period.

The Company utilizes derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to
fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and
market fluctuations
on equity securities. The Company has established policies and procedures for risk
assessment and the approval, reporting and monitoring of derivative financial instrument
activities. The Company has not entered, and does not plan to enter, into financial
instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Additionally, the Company has a policy
of only entering into derivative contracts with major financial institutions. The
principal financial instruments used by the Company are interest rate swaps, foreign
currency exchange forward contracts, cross-currency swaps and warrant contracts. These
derivative instruments were designated and qualified as cash flow, fair value or foreign
currency hedges (see Note 16).

Earnings Per Share

On July 21, 2005, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a two-for-one split (the
“Stock Split”) of the Company’s common stock which was effected in the form of a stock
dividend paid on August 23, 2005, to stockholders of record on August 8, 2005. All share
and per share data included in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and
Notes thereto have been adjusted to reflect this Stock Split.

The following table sets forth the reconciliation of earnings and the weighted
average number of shares used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share
(amounts presented in thousands, except per share data):




Computation of Basic Earnings Per Share:

Income from continuing operations

$

342,671

$

323,114

$

274,110

Gain on transfer/sale of operating
properties, net

2,460

2,833

—

Preferred stock dividends

(11,638

)

(11,638

)

(11,638

)



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

Income from continuing operations
applicable to common shares

333,493

314,309

262,472

Income from discontinued operations

83,128

37,681

23,027

Net income applicable to common shares

$

416,621

$

351,990

$

285,499

Weighted average common shares
outstanding

239,552

226,641

222,859

Basic Earnings Per Share:

Income from continuing operations

$

1.39

$

1.39

$

1.18

Income from discontinued
operations

0.35

0.16

0.10

Net income

$

1.74

$

1.55

$

1.28

Computation of Diluted Earnings Per
Share:

Income from continuing operations
applicable to common shares (a)

$

333,493

$

314,309

$

262,472

Income from discontinued operations

83,128

37,681

23,027

Net income for diluted earnings per share

$

416,621

$

351,990

$

285,499

Weighted average common shares
outstanding – Basic

239,552

226,641

222,859

Effect of dilutive securities (a):

Stock options/deferred stock awards

5,063

4,227

4,284

Shares for diluted earnings per share

244,615

230,868

227,143

Diluted Earnings Per Share:

Income from continuing operations

$

1.36

$

1.36

$

1.16

Income from discontinued
operations

0.34

0.16

0.10

Net income

$

1.70

$

1.52

$

1.26

(a)

The effect of the assumed conversion of certain convertible units had an
anti-dilutive effect upon the calculation of Income from continuing operations per
share. Accordingly, the impact of such conversions has not been included in the
determination of diluted earnings per share calculations.

In addition, there were approximately 71,250, 2,195,400 and 1,648,750 stock options
that were anti-dilutive as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Stock Compensation

The Company maintains an equity participation plan (the “Plan”) pursuant to which a
maximum of 42,000,000 shares of Common Stock may be issued for qualified and
non-qualified options and restricted stock grants. Options granted under the Plan
generally vest ratably over a three or five year term, expire ten years from the date of
grant and are exercisable at the market price on the date of grant, unless otherwise
determined by the Board of Directors at its sole discretion. Restricted stock grants
generally vest 100% on the fifth anniversary of the grant. In addition, the Plan
provides for the granting of certain options to each of the Company’s non-employee
directors (the “Independent Directors”) and permits such Independent Directors to elect
to receive deferred stock awards in lieu of directors’ fees.

Prior to January 1, 2003, the Company accounted for the Plan under the intrinsic
value-based method of accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles Board (“APB”) Opinion No.
25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations including FASB
Interpretation No. 44, Accounting for Certain Transactions involving Stock Compensation
(an interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25). Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted
the prospective method provisions of SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
– Transition and Disclosure an Amendment of



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

FASB Statement No. 123 (“SFAS No. 148”), which applies the recognition provisions
of FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation (“SFAS No. 123”) to
all employee awards granted, modified or settled after January 1, 2003.

During December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment”
(“SFAS No. 123(R)”), which is a revision of Statement 123. SFAS No. 123(R) supersedes
Opinion 25. Generally, the approach in SFAS No. 123(R) is similar to the approach
described in Statement 123. However, SFAS No. 123(R) requires all share-based payments
to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the
statement of operations based on their fair values. Pro-forma disclosure is no longer
an alternative under SFAS No. 123(R). SFAS No. 123(R) was effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 31, 2005. The Company began expensing stock based employee
compensation with its adoption of the prospective method provisions of SFAS No. 148,
effective January 1, 2003, as a result, the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) did not have a
material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations.

The non-cash expense related to stock-based employee compensation included in the
determination of net income is less than that which would have been recognized if the
fair value based method had been applied to all awards since the original effective date
of SFAS No. 123. There was no difference in amounts for the year ended December 31,
2006. The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share
if the fair value based method had been applied to all outstanding stock awards in each
period (amounts presented in thousands, except per share data):



Net income, as reported

$

363,628

$

297,137

Add: Stock based employee compensation
expense included in reported net
income

4,608

1,650

Deduct: Total stock based employee
compensation expense determined
under fair value based method
for all awards

(5,206

)

(3,316

)

Pro Forma Net Income – Basic

$

363,030

$

295,471

Earnings Per Share

Basic – as reported

$

1.55

$

1.28

Basic – pro forma

$

1.55

$

1.27

Net income for diluted earnings per share

$

351,990

$

285,499

Add: Stock based employee compensation
expense included in reported net
income

4,608

1,650

Deduct: Total stock based employee
compensation expense determined
under fair value based method
for all awards

(5,206

)

(3,316

)

Pro Forma Net Income – Diluted

$

351,392

$

283,833

Earnings Per Share

Diluted – as reported

$

1.52

$

1.26

Diluted – pro forma

$

1.52

$

1.25

The pro forma adjustments to net income and net income per diluted common share
assume fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option pricing formula. The more significant assumptions underlying the
determination of such fair values for options granted during the year ended December
2005 and 2004 were as follows:



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued



Weighted average fair value of options
granted

$

3.21

$

2.14

Weighted average risk-free interest rates

4.03

%

3.30

%

Weighted average expected option lives

4.80

3.72

Weighted average expected volatility

18.01

%

16.69

%

Weighted average expected dividend yield

5.30

%

5.59

%

New Accounting Pronouncements

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty
in Income Taxes – an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income
Taxes (“FIN 48”), regarding accounting for and disclosure of uncertain tax positions.
This guidance seeks to reduce the diversity in practice associated with certain aspects
of the recognition and measurement related to accounting for income taxes. This
interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The
Company is currently assessing the provisions of FIN 48, but does not expect its
adoption to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of
operations.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurement (“SFAS No.
157”), which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and
expands disclosures about fair value measurement. This statement is effective for
financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The
impact of adopting SFAS No. 157 is not expected to have a material impact on the
Company’s financial position or results of operations.

Additionally in September 2006, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission staff
issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year
Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements (“SAB
108”), which provides interpretive guidance on how registrants should quantify financial
statement misstatements. SAB 108 requires registrants to quantify misstatements using
both balance sheet and income statement approaches and to evaluate whether either
approach results in quantifying an error that is material in light of relative
quantitative and qualitative factors. For transition purposes, the registrants will be
permitted to restate prior period financial statements or recognize the cumulative
effect of initially applying SAB 108 through an adjustment to beginning retained
earnings in the year of adoption. SAB 108 is effective for annual financial statements
covering the first fiscal year ending after November 15, 2006. The impact of adopting
SAB 108 did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of
operations.

In December 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. EITF 00-19-2, Accounting
for Registration Payment Arrangements. EITF 00-19-2 addresses and issuer’s accounting
for registration payment arrangements and specifies that the contingent obligation to
make future payments or otherwise transfer consideration under a registration payment
arrangement, whether issued as a separate agreement or included as a provision of a
financial instrument or other agreement, should be separately recognized and measured in
accordance with FASB Statement No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The guidance in
EITF 00-19-2 amends FASB Statements No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities, No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with
Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity, and FASB Interpretation No. 45,
Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others (“FIN 45”), to include scope exceptions for
registration payment arrangements. EITF 00-19-2 further clarifies that a financial
instrument subject to a registration payment arrangement should be accounted for in
accordance with other applicable generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) without
regard to the contingent obligation to transfer consideration pursuant to the registration
payment arrangement. EITF 00-19-2 shall be effective immediately for registration payment
arrangements and the financial instruments subject to those arrangements that are entered
into or modified subsequent to the date of issuance of this EITF, or for financial
statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, and interim periods
within those fiscal years. The Company does



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

not expect the adoption of EITF 00-19-2 to have a material impact on the Company’s
financial position or results of operations.

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial
Assets and Financial Liabilities (“SFAS No. 159”). SFAS No. 159 permits entities to
choose to measure many financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value.
Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected
are reported in earnings. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
November 15, 2007. The Company is currently assessing the impact of SFAS No. 159 on the
Company’s financial position or results of operations.

2.

Real Estate:

The Company’s components of Rental property consist of the following (in thousands):

December 31,



Land

$

978,819

$

686,123

Buildings and improvements

Buildings

2,980,369

2,696,194

Building improvements

301,584

180,005

Tenant improvements

528,479

334,765

Fixtures and leasehold improvements

22,216

17,088

Other rental property (1)

151,870

35,110

4,963,337

3,949,285

Accumulated depreciation and amortization

(806,670

)

(740,127

)

Total

$

4,156,667

$

3,209,158

(1)

At December 31, 2006 and 2005, Other rental property consisted of intangible
assets including $88,328 and $23,539, respectively, of in-place leases, $15,705 and
$7,366, respectively, of tenant relationships, and $47,837 and $4,205, respectively, of
above-market leases.

In addition, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had
intangible liabilities relating to below-market leases from property acquisitions of
approximately $120.6 million and $50.1 million, respectively. These amounts are
included in the caption Other liabilities in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.

3.

Property Acquisitions, Developments and Other Investments:

Operating Properties

Acquisition of Existing Shopping Centers -

During the years 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company acquired operating properties, in separate
transactions, at aggregate costs of approximately $1.1 billion, $278.0 million and
$440.5 million, respectively.

Included in the 2006 acquisitions is the acquisition of interests in seven shopping center
properties, located in Caguas, Carolina, Mayaguez, Trujillo Alto, Ponce, Manati, and
Bayamon, Puerto Rico, valued at an aggregate $451.9 million. The properties were
acquired through the issuance of units from a consolidated subsidiary and consist of
approximately $158.6 million of floating and fixed-rate redeemable units, approximately
$45.8 million of redeemable units, which are redeemable at the option of the holder, the
assumption of approximately $131.2 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering six
of the properties and approximately $116.3 million in cash. The Company has the option
to settle the redemption of the $45.8 million redeemable units with Common Stock or
cash.

The aggregate purchase price of these Puerto Rico properties has been allocated to
the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities of the properties in accordance with SFAS
No. 141. The total purchase price includes intangible liabilities of approximately $0.6 million for the value
attributed to assumed mortgage debt premiums, net, below
market rents of approximately $37.4 million and fair value unit adjustments of
approximately $28.6 million, including unit premiums of approximately $13.5 million.



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

Ground-Up Development -

The Company is engaged in ground-up development projects which consists of (i)
merchant building through the Company’s wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiary, KDI, which
develops neighborhood and community shopping centers and the subsequent sale thereof
upon completion, (ii) U.S. ground-up development projects which will be held as
long-term investments by the Company and (iii) various ground-up development projects
located in Mexico and Canada for long-term investment . The ground-up development
projects generally have substantial pre-leasing prior to the commencement of
construction. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had in progress a total of 45
ground-up development projects including 23 merchant building projects, six domestic
ground-up development projects, and 16 ground-up development projects located throughout
Mexico. These projects are currently proceeding on schedule and substantially in line
with the Company’s budgeted costs of approximately $1.8 billion.

During the years 2006, 2005 and 2004, KDI expended approximately $287.0 million, $363.1
million and $205.2 million, respectively, in connection with the purchase of land and
construction costs related to its ground-up development projects.

These merchant building acquisition and development costs have been funded principally
through proceeds from sales of completed projects and construction financings.

During
2006, the Company acquired land in Chambersburg, PA and Anchorage, AK, in separate
transactions, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $12.2 million. The
properties will be developed into retail centers with approximately 0.7 million square
feet of GLA with total estimated project costs of approximately $62.7 million.

During June 2006, the Company acquired, through a newly formed joint venture in which the
Company has a non-controlling interest, a 0.1 million square foot development project in
Puerta Vallarta, Mexico, for a purchase price of 65.4 million Mexican Pesos
(“MXP”) (approximately USD
$5.7 million). Total estimated project costs are approximately USD $7.3 million.

During 2006, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, nine parcels of land located in
various cities throughout Mexico, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately MXP
1.3 billion (approximately USD $119.3 million). The properties were at various stages
of construction at acquisition and will be developed into retail centers aggregating
approximately 3.4 million square feet. Total estimated remaining project costs are
approximately USD $324.2 million.

During 2005, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, various parcels of land located
in Mesa, AZ and Nampa, ID for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $28.7
million. These properties will be developed into retail centers with an aggregate of
approximately 2.2 million square feet of GLA with a total estimated aggregate project
cost of approximately $190.7 million.

During May and June 2005, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, two parcels of land
located in Saltillo and Pachuca, Mexico, for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately $14.6 million. The properties will be developed into retail centers with
an aggregate total project cost of approximately $34.1 million.

During June 2005, the Company acquired land in Tustin, CA, through a newly formed joint
venture in which the Company has a 50% non-controlling interest, for a purchase price of
approximately $23.0 million. The property will be developed into a 1.0 million square
foot retail center with a total estimated project cost of approximately $176.8 million.
The purchase of the land was funded through a new construction loan which bears interest
at LIBOR plus 1.70% and is scheduled to mature in October 2007. As of December 31,
2006, this construction loan had an outstanding balance of approximately $103.0 million.
During October 2006, the Company sold two parcels, in separate
transactions, for an aggregate price of $21.7 million. No gain or loss was recognized on
these transactions.

Additionally, during 2005, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, six parcels of
land located in various cities throughout Mexico, through newly formed joint ventures in
which the Company has non-controlling interests, for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately $42.1 million. The properties were at various stages of construction at
acquisition and will be developed into retail centers with a projected total aggregate
cost of approximately $133.1 million.



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

Kimsouth -

During November 2002, the Company through its taxable REIT subsidiary, together with
Prometheus Southeast Retail Trust, completed the merger and privatization of Konover
Property Trust, which has been renamed Kimsouth Realty, Inc. (“Kimsouth”). In
connection with the merger, the Company acquired 44.5% of the common stock of Kimsouth,
which consisted primarily of 38 retail shopping center properties comprising
approximately 4.6 million square feet of GLA. Total acquisition value was approximately
$280.9 million including approximately $216.2 million in mortgage debt. The Company’s
investment strategy with respect to Kimsouth included re-tenanting, repositioning and
disposition of the properties. As of January 1, 2006, Kimsouth consisted of five
properties.

During May 2006, the Company acquired an additional 48% interest in Kimsouth for
approximately $22.9 million, which increased the Company’s total ownership to 92.5%. As
a result of this transaction, the Company became the controlling shareholder and has
therefore, commenced consolidation of Kimsouth upon the closing date. The acquisition
of the additional 48% ownership interest has been accounted for as a step acquisition
with the purchase price being allocated to the identified assets and liabilities of
Kimsouth.

As of May 12, 2006, Kimsouth had approximately $133.0 million of net operating loss
carry-forwards (“NOLs”), which may be utilized to offset future taxable income of
Kimsouth. The Company evaluated the need for a valuation allowance based on projected
taxable income and determined that a valuation allowance of approximately $34.2 million
was required. As such, a purchase price adjustment of $17.5 million was recorded (see
Note 22 for additional information).

During June 2006, Kimsouth contributed approximately $51.0 million, of which $47.2 million or
92.5% was provided by the Company, to fund its 15% non-controlling interest in a newly
formed joint venture with an investment group to acquire a portion of Albertson’s Inc.
To maximize investment returns, the investment group’s strategy with respect to this
joint venture, includes refinancing, selling selected stores and the enhancement of
operations at the remaining stores. This investment is included in Other assets in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets. During February 2007, this joint venture completed the
disposition of certain operating stores and a refinancing of the remaining assets in the
joint venture. As a result of these transactions Kimsouth received a cash distribution
of approximately $121.3 million.

During July 2006, Kimsouth contributed approximately $3.7 million to fund its 15%
non-controlling interest in a newly formed joint venture with an investment group to
acquire 50 grocery anchored operating properties. During September 2006, Kimsouth
contributed an additional $2.2 million to this joint venture to acquire an operating
property in Sacramento, CA, comprising approximately 0.1 million square feet of GLA, for
a purchase price of approximately $14.5 million. This joint venture investment is
included in Investment and advances in real estate joint ventures in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets.

During 2006, Kimsouth sold two properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $9.8
million and transferred two properties to a joint venture in which the Company has an
18% non-controlling interest for an aggregate price of approximately $54.0 million,
which included the repayment of approximately $23.1 million in mortgage debt.

During 2005, Kimsouth disposed of seven shopping center properties, in separate transactions,
for an aggregate sales price of approximately $78.9 million, including the assignment of
approximately $23.7 million of mortgage debt encumbering two of the properties. During
2005, the Company recognized pre-tax profits from the Kimsouth investment of
approximately $4.9 million, which is included in the caption Income from other real
estate investments on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income.

Selected financial information for Kimsouth prior to consolidation is as follows (in
millions):



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

December 31,


Assets:

Real estate held for sale

$

56.7

Other assets

6.5

$

63.2

Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity:

Mortgages payable

$

29.4

Other liabilities

0.7

Stockholders’ equity

33.1

$

63.2

January 1 to

Year Ended December 31,

May 12, 2006



Revenues from rental property

$

1.8

$

9.0

$

21.8

Operating expenses

(0.8

)

(6.9

)

(7.5

)

Interest

(0.8

)

(3.1

)

(7.9

)

Depreciation and amortization

—

(0.3

)

(4.5

)

Other, net

(7.7

)

(0.5

)

(0.4

)

(7.5

)

(1.8

)

1.5

Gain on disposition of properties

1.9

12.6

8.7

Adjustment of property carrying
values

—

(2.4

)

(14.3

)

Net income/(loss)

$

(5.6

)

$

8.4

$

(4.1

)

FNC Realty Corporation -

On
July 27, 2005, Frank’s Nursery and Crafts, Inc.
(“Frank’s”) emerged from bankruptcy protection pursuant to a bankruptcy court approved plan of reorganization as FNC
Realty Corporation (“FNC”). Pursuant to the plan of reorganization, the Company
received common shares of FNC representing an approximate 27% ownership interest in
exchange for its interest in Frank’s. In addition, the Company acquired an additional
24.5% interest in the common shares of FNC for cash of approximately $17.0 million,
thereby increasing the Company’s ownership interest to approximately 51%. The Company
also acquired approximately $42.0 million of fixed rate 7% convertible senior notes
issued by FNC. As a result of the increase in ownership interest from 27% to 51%, the
Company became the controlling shareholder and therefore, commenced consolidation of FNC
effective July 27, 2005.

As of July 27, 2005, FNC had approximately $154.0 million of NOLs, which may be
utilized to offset future taxable income of FNC. As Frank’s had recurring losses and
was in bankruptcy, the realization of the NOLs was uncertain. Accordingly a full
valuation allowance was previously recorded against the deferred tax asset relating to
these NOLs. Of the total amount of available NOLs, the Company has estimated
approximately $124.0 million is unrestricted and $30.0 million is restricted (limited to
utilization of $1.1 million per year).

The Company has evaluated the level of valuation allowance required and determined,
based upon the expected investment strategy for FNC, that approximately $27.0 million of
the allowance should be reduced and recorded as an adjustment to the purchase price.
(See Note 22 for additional information.)

As of July 27, 2005, FNC held interests in 55 properties with approximately $16.1
million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering 16 of the properties. These loans
bore interest at fixed rates ranging from 4.00% to 7.75% and maturity dates ranging from June
2012 through June 2022. During December 2005, FNC pre-paid, without penalty, an aggregate
$4.8 million of mortgage debt encumbering five of its properties. During 2006, FNC
pre-paid, with a pre-payment penalty of approximately $1.2 million, an aggregate $7.0
million of mortgage debt encumbering six of its properties. The mortgage debt bore
interest at a 7.75% fixed rate per annum and was scheduled to mature in August of 2014.
As of December 31, 2006, FNC had approximately



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

$2.1 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering three properties. These
remaining loans bear interest at fixed rates ranging from 7.00% to 7.31% and maturity
dates ranging from June 2012 through June 2022.

The Company’s investment strategy with respect to FNC includes re-tenanting,
re-developing and disposition of the properties. From July 27, 2005, through December
31, 2005, FNC disposed of nine properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate
sales price of approximately $9.4 million. During 2006, FNC disposed of an additional
eight properties and one out-parcel, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales
price of approximately $25.1 million. Additionally during 2006, FNC purchased one
operating property adjacent to an existing property for $3.5 million.

JPG Self Storage -

During 2005, the Company acquired ten self-storage facilities through an existing joint
venture in which the Company held an approximate 93.5% economic interest, for a purchase
price of approximately $39.9 million including the assumption of approximately $7.5
million of non-recourse fixed-rate mortgage debt encumbering three of the properties.
Upon completing this purchase, this entity owned 17 self-storage facilities located in
various states. The joint venture had cross-collateralized 14 of these properties with
approximately $44.0 million of non-recourse floating-rate mortgage debt which was
scheduled to mature in November 2007 and had an interest rate of LIBOR plus 2.75%. Based
upon the provisions of FIN 46(R), the Company had determined that this entity was a VIE.
The Company had further determined that the Company was the primary beneficiary of this
VIE and had therefore consolidated this entity for financial reporting purposes. During
November and December 2005, this entity disposed of, in separate transactions, four
self-storage properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $18.6 million
resulting in an aggregate gain of approximately $5.8 million. Proceeds from these sales
were used to pay down approximately $9.8 million of mortgage debt and provided
distributions to the partners. As a result of these transactions, the Company’s
economic interest had significantly decreased and the entity became subject to the
reconsideration provisions of FIN 46(R). Based upon this reconsideration event and the
provision of FIN 46(R), the Company determined that this entity was no longer a VIE and
therefore deconsolidated this entity and accounts for this investment under the equity
method of accounting within the Company’s Preferred Equity program.

These operating property acquisitions, development costs and other investments have
been funded principally through the application of proceeds from the Company’s public
equity and unsecured debt issuances, proceeds from mortgage and construction financings,
availability under the Company’s revolving lines of credit and issuance of various
partnership units.

4.

Dispositions of Real Estate:

Operating Real Estate -

During 2006, the Company disposed of (i) 28 operating properties and one ground lease for an
aggregate sales price of approximately $270.5 million, which resulted in an aggregate
net gain of approximately $71.7 million, net of income taxes of $2.8 million relating to
the sale of two properties, and (ii) transferred five operating properties, to joint
ventures in which the Company has 20% non-controlling interests for an aggregate price
of approximately $95.4 million, which resulted in a gain of approximately $1.4 million
from one transferred property.

During November 2006, the Company disposed of a vacant land parcel located in Bel Air, MD,
for approximately $1.8 million resulting in a $1.6 million gain on sale. This gain is
included in Other income, net on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income.

During 2005, the Company (i) disposed of, in separate transactions, 20 operating properties
for an aggregate sales price of approximately $93.3 million, (ii) transferred three
operating properties to KROP, as defined below, for an aggregate price of approximately
$49.0 million and (iii) transferred 52 operating properties to various joint ventures in
which the Company has non-controlling interests ranging from 15% to 50% for an aggregate
price of approximately $183.1 million. For the year ended December 31, 2005, these
transactions resulted in gains of approximately $31.9 million and a loss on
sale/transfer from four of the properties of approximately $5.2 million.



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

During
June 2005, the Company disposed of a vacant land parcel located in New Ridge, MD,
for approximately $5.6 million resulting in a $4.6 million gain on sale. This gain is
included in Other income, net on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of
Income.

During 2004, the Company (i) disposed of, in separate transactions, 16 operating properties
and one ground lease for an aggregate sales price of approximately $81.1 million,
including the assignment of approximately $8.0 million of non-recourse mortgage debt
encumbering one of the properties; cash proceeds of approximately $16.9 million from the
sale of two of these properties were used in a 1031 exchange to acquire shopping center
properties located in Roanoke, VA, and Tempe, AZ, (ii) transferred 17 operating
properties to KROP, as defined below, for an aggregate price of approximately $197.9
million and (iii) transferred 21 operating properties, comprising approximately 3.2
million square feet of GLA, to various co-investment ventures in which the Company has
non-controlling interests ranging from 10% to 30% for an aggregate price of
approximately $491.2 million.

Merchant Building -

During 2006, KDI sold, in separate transactions, six of its recently completed projects, its
partnership interest in one project and 30 out-parcels for approximately $260.0 million.
These sales resulted in pre-tax gains of approximately $37.3 million.

During 2005, KDI sold, in separate transactions, six of its recently completed projects, and
41 out-parcels for approximately $264.1 million. These sales resulted in pre-tax gains
of approximately $33.6 million.

During 2004, KDI sold, in separate transactions, five of its recently completed projects,
three completed phases of projects and 29 out-parcels for approximately $170.2 million.
These sales resulted in pre-tax gains of approximately $16.8 million.

5.

Adjustment of Property Carrying Values:

As part of the Company’s periodic assessment of its real estate properties with
regard to both the extent to which such assets are consistent with the Company’s
long-term real estate investment objectives and the performance and prospects of each
asset, the Company determined in December 2004 that its investment in an operating
property comprised of approximately 0.1 million square feet of GLA, with a book value of
approximately $3.8 million, net of accumulated depreciation of approximately $2.6
million, may not be fully recoverable. Based upon management’s assessment of current
market conditions and lack of demand for the property, the Company reduced its
anticipated holding period for this investment. As a result, the Company determined
that its investment in this asset was not fully recoverable and recorded an adjustment
of property carrying value of approximately $3.0 million to reflect the property’s
estimated fair value. The Company’s determination of estimated fair value was based
upon third-party purchase offers less estimated closing costs. This property was
subsequently sold during 2005 and this adjustment was included along with the related
property operations in the line Income from discontinued operations in the Company’s
Consolidated Statements of Income.

6.

Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale:

In accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets (“SFAS No. 144”) the Company reports as discontinued operations assets
held-for-sale (as defined by SFAS No. 144) as of the end of the current period and
assets sold subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 144. All results of these
discontinued operations are included in a separate component of income on the
Consolidated Statements of Income under the caption Discontinued operations. This has
resulted in certain reclassifications of 2006, 2005 and 2004 financial statement
amounts.

The components of Income from discontinued operations for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2006, are shown below. These include the results of
operations through the date of each respective sale for properties sold during 2006,
2005 and 2004 and a full year of operations for those assets classified as held-for-sale
as of December 31, 2006 (in thousands):



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued




Discontinued Operations:

Revenues from rental property

$

15,318

$

27,757

$

33,670

Rental property expenses

(2,774

)

(7,925

)

(9,369

)

Income from property operations

12,544

19,832

24,301

Depreciation and amortization

(3,697

)

(6,610

)

(7,473

)

Interest expense

(380

)

(1,382

)

(1,779

)

Income from other real estate
investments

3,705

1,192

—

Other income/(expense)

1,832

1,305

(2,300

)

Income from discontinued operating
properties

14,004

14,337

12,749

Provision for income taxes

(2,096

)

—

—

Minority interest in income from
discontinued operating properties

(1,497

)

(476

)

(481

)

Loss on operating properties held
for sale/sold

(1,421

)

(5,098

)

(5,064

)

Gain on disposition of operating
properties

74,138

28,918

15,823

Income from discontinued operations

$

83,128

$

37,681

$

23,027

During 2006, the Company reclassified as held-for-sale 13 operating properties comprising 0.8
million square feet of GLA. The aggregate book value of these properties was
approximately $36.5 million, net of accumulated depreciation of approximately $5.9
million. The book value of one property exceeded its estimated fair value by
approximately $0.6 million, and as a result, the Company recorded a loss resulting from
an adjustment of property carrying value of approximately $0.6 million. The remaining
properties had fair values exceeding their book values, and as a result, no adjustment
of property carrying value was recorded. The Company’s determination of the fair value
for each of these properties, aggregating approximately $50.0 million, is based
primarily upon executed contracts of sale with third parties less estimated selling
costs. The Company completed the sale of ten of these operating properties during 2006.

During 2005, the Company reclassified as held-for-sale four operating properties comprising
approximately 0.6 million square feet of GLA. The book value of each of these
properties, aggregating approximately $42.2 million, net of accumulated depreciation of
approximately $9.4 million, did not exceed each of their estimated fair values. As a
result, no adjustment of property carrying value was recorded. The Company’s
determination of the fair value for each of these properties, aggregating approximately
$61.4 million, was based upon executed contracts of sale with third parties less
estimated selling costs. The Company completed the sale of these properties during 2005
and 2006.

During December 2004, the Company reclassified as held-for-sale an operating property located
in Melbourne, FL, comprising approximately 0.1 million square feet of GLA. The Company
completed the sale of this property during 2005.

During 2004, the Company reclassified as held-for-sale two operating properties comprising
approximately 0.3 million square feet of GLA. The book value of these properties,
aggregating approximately $8.7 million, net of accumulated depreciation of
approximately $4.2 million, exceeded their estimated fair value. The Company’s
determination of the fair value of these properties, aggregating approximately $4.5
million, was based upon contracts of sale with third parties less estimated selling costs.
As a result, the Company had recorded a loss resulting from an adjustment of property
carrying values of $4.2 million. During 2004, the Company completed the sale of these
properties.



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

7.

Investment and Advances in Real Estate Joint Ventures:

Kimco Prudential Joint Venture (“KimPru”) -

On July 9, 2006, the Company entered into a definitive merger agreement with Pan
Pacific Retail Properties Inc. (“Pan Pacific”). Under the terms of the agreement, the
Company agreed to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Pan Pacific for total merger
consideration of $70.00 per share. As permitted under the merger agreement, the Company
elected to issue $10.00 per share of the total merger consideration in the form of
Common Stock to be based upon the average closing price of the Common Stock over ten
trading days immediately preceding the closing date.

On September 25, 2006, Pan Pacific stockholders approved the proposed merger and the
closing occurred on October 31, 2006. In addition to the merger consideration of $70.00
per share, Pan Pacific stockholders also received $0.2365 per share as a pro-rata
portion of Pan Pacific’s regular $0.64 per share dividend for each day between September
26, 2006 and the closing date.

The transaction had a total value of approximately $4.1 billion, including Pan
Pacific’s outstanding debt totaling approximately $1.1 billion. As of October 31, 2006,
Pan Pacific owned interests in 138 operating properties, which comprised approximately
19.9 million square feet of GLA, located primarily in California, Oregon, Washington and
Nevada.

Funding for this transaction was provided by approximately $1.3 billion of new individual
non-recourse mortgage loans encumbering 51 properties, a
$1.2 billion two-year credit
facility, which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.375% provided by a consortium of banks
and guaranteed by the joint venture partners described below and the Company, the
issuance of 9,185,847 shares of Common Stock valued at approximately $407.7 million,
the assumption of approximately $630.0 million of unsecured bonds and approximately
$289.4 million of existing non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering 23 properties and
approximately $300.0 million in cash. With respect to the $1.2 billion guarantee by the
Company, PREI, as defined below, guaranteed reimbursement to the Company of 85% of any
guaranty payment the Company is obligated to make.

Immediately following the merger, the Company commenced its joint venture agreements with
Prudential Real Estate Investors (“PREI”) through three separate accounts managed by
PREI. In accordance with the joint venture agreements, all Pan Pacific assets and the
respective non-recourse mortgage debt and the $1.2 billion credit facility mentioned
above were transferred to the separate accounts. PREI contributed approximately $1.1
billion on behalf of institutional investors in three of its portfolios. The Company
holds 15% non-controlling ownership interests in each of these joint ventures,
collectively, KimPru, with a total aggregate investment of approximately $194.8 million.
In addition, the Company will manage the portfolios and earn acquisition fees, leasing
commissions, property management fees and construction management fees.

The above mentioned mortgages bear interest at rates ranging from 4.92% to 8.30% and
have maturities ranging from eight months to 119 months.

During November 2006, KimPru sold an operating property for a sales price of $5.3 million.
There was no gain or loss recognized in connection with this sale.

Kimco Income REIT (“KIR”) -

The Company has a non-controlling limited partnership interest in KIR and manages the
portfolio. Effective July 1, 2006, the Company acquired an additional 1.7% limited
partnership interest in KIR, which increased the Company’s total non-controlling
interest to approximately 45.0%.

During 2006, KIR disposed of two operating properties and one land parcel, in separate
transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $15.2 million. These sales
resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $4.4 million of which the Company’s share
was approximately $1.9 million.

During 2005, KIR disposed of two operating properties and one out-parcel, in separate
transactions, for an aggregate sale price of approximately $51.2 million. These sales



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $20.2 million of which the Company’s
shares was approximately $8.7 million. In connection with the sale of one of the
operating properties, KIR incurred a $2.0 million loan defeasance charge, of which the
Company’s share was approximately $0.9 million.

Additionally during 2005, KIR purchased one shopping center property located in Delran, NJ,
for approximately $4.6 million.

In April 2005, KIR entered into a three-year $30.0 million unsecured revolving
credit facility which bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.40%. As of December 31, 2006,
there was an outstanding balance of $14.0 million under this credit facility.

As of December 31, 2006, the KIR portfolio was comprised of 66 shopping center
properties aggregating approximately 14.0 million square feet of GLA located in 19
states.

RioCan Investments -

During October 2001, the Company formed a joint venture (the “RioCan Venture”) with RioCan
Real Estate Investment Trust (“RioCan”) in which the Company has a 50% non-controlling
interest, to acquire retail properties and development projects in Canada. The
acquisition and development projects are to be sourced and managed by RioCan and are
subject to review and approval by a joint oversight committee consisting of RioCan
management and the Company’s management personnel. Capital contributions will only be
required as suitable opportunities arise and are agreed to by the Company and RioCan.

As of December 31, 2006, the RioCan Venture was comprised of 34 operating properties
consisting of approximately 8.1 million square feet of GLA.

Kimco / G.E. Joint Venture (“KROP”)

During 2001, the Company formed a joint venture (the “Kimco Retail Opportunity Portfolio” or
“KROP”) with GE Capital Real Estate (“GECRE”), in which the Company has a 20%
non-controlling interest and manages the portfolio.

During 2006, KROP acquired one operating property from the Company for an aggregate purchase
price of approximately $3.5 million.

During 2006, KROP sold three operating properties to a joint venture in which the Company has
a 20% non-controlling interest for an aggregate sales price of approximately $62.2
million. These sales resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $26.7 million. As
a result of its continued 20% ownership interest in these properties, the Company has
deferred recognition of its share of these gains. In addition, KROP sold one operating
property to a joint venture in which the Company has a 19% non-controlling interest for
an aggregate sales price of $96.0 million. This sale resulted in a gain of
approximately $42.3 million. As a result of its continued 19% ownership interest in
this property, the Company recognized 1% of the gain.

Additionally,
during 2006, KROP sold nine operating properties, one out-parcel and
one land parcel, in
separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $171.4 million.
These sales resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $49.6 million of which the
Company’s share was approximately $9.9 million.

During 2006, KROP obtained one non-recourse, non-cross collateralized variable rate mortgage
for $14.0 million on a property previously unencumbered with a rate of LIBOR plus 1.10%.

Additionally
during 2006, KROP obtained a one-year $15.0 million unsecured term loan, which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.5%. This loan is guaranteed by the
Company and GECRE has guaranteed reimbursement to the Company of 80% of any guaranty
payment the Company is obligated to make.

During 2005, KROP acquired four operating properties and one out-parcel, in separate
transactions, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $74.6 million,



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

including the assumption of approximately $26.2 million of individual non-recourse
mortgage debt encumbering two of the properties and preferred units of approximately
$4.2 million associated with another property.

During 2005, KROP disposed of three unencumbered operating properties and two out-parcels, in
separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $60.3 million.
These sales resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $18.3 million of which the
Company’s share was approximately $3.7 million.

During 2005, KROP obtained ten-year individual non-recourse, non-crossed collateralized
fixed-rate mortgages aggregating approximately $21.9 million on two of its previously
unencumbered properties with rates ranging from 5.2% to 5.3%.

During 2005, KROP obtained two non-recourse, non-crossed collateralized variable rate
mortgages for a total of $25.7 million on two properties with rates of LIBOR plus 1.30%
and 1.65% with terms of two and three years, respectively.

As of December 31, 2006, the KROP portfolio was comprised of 25 operating properties
aggregating approximately 3.6 million square feet of GLA located in 10 states.

During August 2006, the Company and GECRE agreed to market for sale the remaining properties
within the KROP venture.

Kimco/UBS
Joint Ventures (“KUBS”) -

The Company has joint venture investments with UBS Wealth Management North American
Property Fund Limited (“UBS”) in which the Company has non-controlling interests ranging
from 15% to 20%. These joint ventures, (collectively “KUBS”), were established to
acquire high quality retail properties primarily financed through the use of individual
non-recourse mortgages. Capital contributions are only required as suitable
opportunities arise and are agreed to by the Company and UBS. The Company manages the
properties.

During 2006, KUBS acquired 15 operating properties for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately $447.8 million, which included approximately $136.8 million of
non-recourse debt encumbering 13 properties, with maturities ranging from three to ten
years and bear interest at rates ranging from 4.74% to 6.20%.

Additionally during 2006, KUBS acquired one operating property from the Company, and five
operating properties from joint ventures in which the Company has 15% to 20%
non-controlling interests, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $297.0
million, including the assumption of approximately $93.2 million of non-recourse
mortgage debt, encumbering two of the properties, with maturities ranging from six to
seven years with interest rates ranging from 5.64% to 5.88%.

During 2005, KUBS acquired two operating properties for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately $30.5 million and purchased eight operating properties from the Company
for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $213.1 million. KUBS obtained
individual non-recourse mortgages on five of the properties acquired from the Company
aggregating $56.9 million.

As of December 31, 2006, the KUBS portfolio was comprised of 31 operating properties
aggregating approximately 5.0 million square feet of GLA located in 11 states.

PL Retail -

The Company acquired the Price Legacy Corporation through a newly formed joint
venture, PL Retail LLC (“PL Retail”), in which the Company has a 15% non-controlling
interest and manages the portfolio. In connection with this transaction, PL Retail
acquired 33 operating properties aggregating approximately 7.6 million square feet of
GLA located in ten states. To partially fund the acquisition, the Company provided PL Retail
approximately $30.6 million of secured mezzanine financing. This interest-only loan bore
interest at a fixed rate of 7.5% and matured in December 2006. The Company also provided
PL Retail a secured short-term promissory note of approximately $8.2 million. This
interest only note bore interest at LIBOR plus 4.50% and was scheduled to mature in June
2005. During 2005, this note was amended to bear interest at LIBOR plus 6.0% and is now
payable on demand. As of December 31, 2006, there was no outstanding balances due the
Company on the mezzanine financing or promissory note.



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

During 2006, PL Retail sold one operating property for a sales price of approximately
$42.1 million, which resulted in a gain of approximately $3.9 million of which the
Company’s share was approximately $0.6 million.

Additionally during 2006, PL Retail sold one of its operating properties to a newly formed
joint venture in which the Company has a 19% non-controlling interest for a sales price
of approximately $109.0 million. As a result of the Company’s continued ownership no
gain was recognized from this transaction. Proceeds of approximately $17.0 million from
these sales were used by PL Retail to repay the remaining balance of mezzanine financing
and the promissory note which were previously provided by the Company.

During 2005, PL Retail entered into a $39.5 million unsecured revolving credit facility,
which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.675% and was scheduled to mature
in February 2007. During 2007, the loan was extended to February
2008 at a reduced rate of LIBOR plus 0.45%. This facility
is guaranteed by the Company and the joint venture partner has
guaranteed reimbursement to the Company of 85% of any guaranty
payment the Company is obligated to make. As of December 31, 2006,
there was $39.5 million outstanding under this facility.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, PL Retail disposed of nine operating properties, in
separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $81.4 million,
which represented the approximate carrying values of the properties. Proceeds of
approximately $22.0 million were used to partially repay the mezzanine financing and
promissory note that were provided by the Company.

As of December 31, 2006, PL Retail consisted of 23 operating properties aggregating
approximately 5.8 million square feet of GLA located in seven states.

Other Real Estate Joint Ventures –

The
Company and its subsidiaries have investments in and advances to various other
real estate joint ventures. These joint ventures are engaged primarily in the operation
and development of shopping centers which are either owned or held under long-term
operating leases.

During 2006, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, 36 operating properties and one
ground lease, through joint ventures in which the Company has non-controlling interests.
These properties were acquired for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $726.7
billion, including approximately $419.5 million of non-recourse mortgage debt
encumbering 20 of the properties. The Company’s aggregate investment in these joint
ventures was approximately $90.4 million. Details of these transactions are as follows
(in thousands):

Purchase Price

Month

Property Name

Location

Acquired

Cash

Debt

Total

GLA

Stabilus

Saltillo,

Jan-06

$2,600

$—

$2,600


Building

Cahuila,

Mexico

American

Chihuahua & San

Feb-06

12,200

—

12,200


Industries

Luis Postosi,

(3 Locations)

Mexico

Crème de la

Allen &

Feb-06

2,409

7,229

9,638


Crème

Colleyville,

(2 Locations)

TX

Five free-standing

CO, OR, NM,

Mar-06

7,000

—

7,000


locations

NY

Edgewater Commons

Edgewater, NJ

Mar-06

44,104

74,250

118,354


Long Gate

Ellicot City,

Mar-06

36,330

40,200

76,530


Shopping Ctr

MD



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

Purchase Price

Month

Property Name

Location

Acquired

Cash

Debt

Total

GLA

Clackamas

Clakamas, OR

Mar-06

35,240

42,550

77,790


Promenade

Westmont

Various,

Mar-06

16,066

69,572

85,638


Portfolio

Canada

(8 Locations)

Crow Portfolio

FL and TX

Apr-06

46,698

66,200

112,898


(3 Locations)

Great Northeast

Philadelphia, PA

Apr-06

36,500

—

36,500


Plaza

Cessna Building

Chihuahua,

Apr-06

2,060

—

2,060


Mexico

Crème de la

Coppell, TX

Jun-06

1,325

4,275

5,600


Crème

Westmont

Houston, TX

Jun-06

14,000

47,200

61,200


Portfolio

Werner II

Juarez,

Jun-06

1,800

—

1,800


Mexico

Cypress Towne

Cypress, TX

Aug-06

13,332

25,650

38,982


Center

Bustleton Dunkin

Philadelphia, PA

Aug-06

1,000

—

1,000


Donuts (ground

lease)

American

Juarez,

Aug-06

8,000

—

8,000


Industries

Mexico

American Industries

Chihuahua,

Nov-06

3,152

—

3,152


(ITT)

Mexico

American Industries

Juarez,

Nov-06

2,174

—

2,174


(Columbus)

Mexico

American Industries

Chihuahua,

Nov-06

3,100

—

3,100


(Zodiac)

Mexico

Conroe

Conroe, TX

Dec-06

18,150

42,350

60,500


Marketplace

$307,240

$419,476

$726,716

4,457

During January 2006, the Company transferred 50% of its 60% interest in an operating property
in Guadalajara, Mexico, to a joint venture partner for approximately $12.8 million,
which approximated its carrying value. As a result of this transaction, the Company now
holds a 30% non-controlling interest and continues to account for its investment under
the equity method of accounting.

During June 2006, the Company transferred 50% of its 60% interest in a development property
located in Tijuana, Baja California, Mexico, to a joint venture partner for
approximately $6.4 million, which approximated its carrying value. As a result of this
transaction, the Company now holds a 30% non-controlling interest and continues to
account for its investment under the equity method of accounting.

During August 2006, the Company sold 50% of its 100% interest in a development property
located in Monterrey, Mexico, to a joint venture partner for approximately $9.6



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

million, which approximated its carrying value. The Company accounts for its remaining
50% interest under the equity method of accounting.

During 2006, joint ventures in which the Company has non-controlling interests ranging from
10% to 50%, disposed of, in separate transactions, six properties for an aggregate sales
price of approximately $62.4 million. These sales resulted in an aggregate gain of
approximately $8.1 million, of which the Company’s share was approximately $2.0 million.

During 2005, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, 69 operating properties through
joint ventures in which the Company has non-controlling interests. These properties
were acquired for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $641.1 million, including
approximately $317.0 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering 57 of the
properties. The Company’s aggregate investment in these joint ventures was
approximately $124.0 million. Details of these transactions are as follows (in
thousands):

Purchase Price

Month

Property Name

Location

Acquired

Cash

Debt

Total

GLA

Kmart Building

Hillsborough, NJ

Apr-05

$

2,100

$

1,900

(a)

$

4,000


Hyatt Regency

Cancun,

May-05

19,700

—

19,700


Cancun

Mexico

Fremont Hub

Freemont, CA

Jun-05(b)

80,654

42,500

123,154


One City Center

Houston, TX

Jul-05

14,600

76,500

91,100


The Grove at

Lakeland, FL

Jul-05

8,000

—

8,000


Lakeland

North Quincy

Quincy, MA

Jul-05

7,204

7,796

15,000


Riverside Center

St. Augustine, FL

Aug-05

5,560

—

5,560


Greeley S.C.

Greeley, CO

Sept-05

21,000

—

21,000


American Industries

Various,

Oct-05

110,500

167,037

277,537

5,608

Portfolio

Mexico

(57 properties)

Docstone Commons

Stafford, VA

Nov-05

17,525

—

17,525


MacArthur Towne
Center

Whitehall, PA

Nov-05

17,150

—

17,150


The Center at East

East

Northport

Northport, NY

Nov-05

9,000

—

9,000


Cambridge Crossing

Troy, MI

Dec-05

11,108

21,257

32,365


$

324,101

$

316,990

$

641,091

7,955

(a)

This loan is jointly and severally guaranteed by the joint venture partners,
including the Company.

(b)

The Company acquired an additional 25% interest in this joint venture.

During March 2005, the Company transferred 50% of the Company’s 95% interest in a developed
property located in Huehuetoca, Mexico, to a joint venture partner for approximately
$5.3 million, which approximated its carrying value. As a result of this transaction,
the Company now holds a 47.5% non-controlling interest and has deconsolidated the
investment. The Company accounts for its investment under the



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

equity method of accounting.

During July 2005, the Company transferred a developed property located in Reynosa, Mexico, to
a newly formed joint venture in which the Company has a 50% non-controlling interest,
for a price of approximately $6.9 million. The Company accounts for this investment
under the equity method of accounting.

During September 2005, the Company transferred 45 operating properties, comprising
approximately 0.3 million square feet of GLA, located in Virginia and Maryland to a
newly formed unconsolidated joint venture in which the Company has a 15% non-controlling
interest. The transfer price was approximately $85.3 million including the assignment
of approximately $65.0 million of cross-collateralized non-recourse mortgage debt
encumbering all of the properties.

During 2005, the Company transferred, in separate transactions, five operating properties
comprising approximately 0.7 million square feet of GLA, to newly formed joint ventures
in which the Company has 20% non-controlling interests, for an aggregate price of
approximately $85.6 million, including the assignment of approximately $40.2 million of
mortgage debt encumbering three of the properties.

Summarized financial information for these real estate joint ventures is as follows (in
millions):

December 31,



Assets:

Real estate, net

$

11,858.0

$

6,470.4

Other assets

418.4

308.5

$

12,276.4

$

6,778.9

Liabilities and Partners’ Capital:

Mortgages payable

$

6,931.5

$

4,443.6

Notes payable

1,388.5

58.7

Construction loans

24.2

69.6

Other liabilities

176.8

144.0

Minority interest

107.1

81.9

Partners’ capital

3,648.3

1,981.1

$

12,276.4

$

6,778.9

Year Ended December 31,




Revenues from rental property

$

1,007.1

$

759.0

$

545.8

Operating expenses

(287.6

)

(214.0

)

(155.6

)

Interest

(323.7

)

(247.1

)

(171.0

)

Depreciation and amortization

(223.3

)

(153.7

)

(97.1

)

Other, net

(13.1

)

(8.4

)

(5.8

)

(847.7

)

(623.2

)

(429.5

)

Income from continuing operations

159.4

135.8

116.3

Discontinued Operations:

Income/(loss) from discontinued
operations

8.1

(1.7

)

1.8

Gain on dispositions of properties

134.6

52.5

20.2

Net income

$

302.1

$

186.6

$

138.3

Other liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets include accounts
with certain real estate joint ventures totaling approximately $13.5 million and $13.2
million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company and its subsidiaries
have varying equity interests in these real estate joint ventures, which may differ



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

from their proportionate share of net income or loss recognized in accordance with
GAAP.

The Company’s maximum exposure to losses associated with its unconsolidated joint
ventures is primarily limited to its carrying value in these investments. As of
December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company’s carrying value in these investments
approximated $1.1 billion and $735.6 million, respectively.

8.

Other Real Estate Investments:

Preferred Equity Capital -

The Company maintains a Preferred Equity program, which provides capital to
developers and owners of real estate properties. During 2006 the Company provided, in
separate transactions, an aggregate of approximately $223.9 million in investment
capital to developers and owners of 101 real estate properties. During 2005, the
Company provided, in separate transactions, an aggregate of approximately $84.3 million
in investment capital to developers and owners of 79 real estate properties. As of
December 31, 2006, the Company’s net investment under the Preferred Equity program was
approximately $400.4 million relating to 215 properties. For the years ended December
31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company earned approximately $40.1 million, including $12.2
million of profit participation earned from 16 capital transactions, $32.8 million,
including $12.6 million of profit participation earned from six capital transactions,
and $11.4 million, including $3.9 million of profit participation earned from four
capital transactions, respectively,from these investments.

Summarized financial information relating to the Company’s preferred equity investments is as
follows (in millions):

December 31,



Assets:

Real estate, net

$

1,683.8

$

945.0

Other assets

113.4

65.5

$

1,797.2

$

1,010.5

Liabilities and Partners’
Capital:

Notes and mortgages payable

$

1,239.7

$

703.3

Other liabilities

55.2

19.7

Partners’ capital

502.3

287.5

$

1,797.2

$

1,010.5

Year Ended December 31,




Revenues from Rental Property

$

177.6

$

118.5

$

61.6

Operating expenses

(58.6

)

(42.0

)

(19.4

)

Interest

(61.6

)

(38.9

)

(21.2

)

Depreciation and amortization

(34.2

)

(19.3

)

(9.6

)

Other, net

(4.4

)

(1.2

)

(0.3

)

(158.8

)

(101.4

)

(50.5

)

18.8

17.1

11.1

Gain on disposition of properties

49.4

49.8

4.4

Net income

$

68.2

$

66.9

$

15.5

The Company’s maximum exposure to losses associated with its preferred equity
investments is primarily limited to its invested capital. As of December 31, 2006 and
2005, the Company’s invested capital in its preferred equity investments approximated $400.4 million
and $225.9 million, respectively.

Investment in Retail Store Leases -

The Company has interests in various retail store leases relating to the anchor store



premises in neighborhood and community shopping centers. These premises have been
sublet to retailers who lease the stores pursuant to net lease agreements. Income from
the investment in these retail store leases during the years ended December 31, 2006,
2005 and 2004, was approximately $1.3 million, $9.1 million and $3.9 million,
respectively. These amounts represent sublease revenues during the years ended December
31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, of approximately $8.2 million, $17.8 million and $13.3 million,
respectively, less related expenses of $5.7 million, $7.4 million and $8.0 million,
respectively, and an amount which, in management’s estimate, reasonably provides for the
recovery of the investment over a period representing the expected remaining term of the
retail store leases. The Company’s future minimum revenues under the terms of all
non-cancelable tenant subleases and future minimum obligations through the remaining
terms of its retail store leases, assuming no new or renegotiated leases are executed
for such premises, for future years are as follows (in millions): 2007, $7.4 and $4.6;
2008, $6.6 and $4.0; 2009, $5.8 and $3.6; 2010, $5.0 and $3.2; 2011, $4.0 and $2.6; and
thereafter, $2.8 and $2.2, respectively.

Leveraged Lease -

During June 2002, the Company acquired a 90% equity participation interest in an existing
leveraged lease of 30 properties. The properties are leased under a long-term bond-type
net lease whose primary term expires in 2016, with the lessee having certain renewal
option rights. The Company’s cash equity investment was approximately $4.0 million.
This equity investment is reported as a net investment in leveraged lease in accordance
with SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases (as amended).

From 2002 to 2005, 14 of these properties were sold, whereby the proceeds from the
sales were used to pay down the mortgage debt by approximately $27.1 million.

During 2006, an additional two properties were sold, whereby the proceeds from the sales were
used to pay down the mortgage debt by approximately $1.2 million. As of December 31,
2006, the remaining 14 properties were encumbered by third-party non-recourse debt of
approximately $48.4 million that is scheduled to fully amortize during the primary term
of the lease from a portion of the periodic net rents receivable under the net lease.

As an equity participant in the leveraged lease, the Company has no recourse
obligation for principal or interest payments on the debt, which is collateralized by a
first mortgage lien on the properties and collateral assignment of the lease.
Accordingly, this obligation has been offset against the related net rental receivable
under the lease.

At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company’s net investment in the leveraged lease
consisted of the following (in millions):



Remaining net rentals

$

62.3

$

68.9

Estimated unguaranteed residual value

40.5

43.8

Non-recourse mortgage debt

(48.4

)

(52.8

)

Unearned and deferred income

(50.7

)

(55.9

)

Net investment in leveraged lease

$

3.7

$

4.0

9.

Mortgages and Other Financing Receivables:

During January 2006, the Company provided approximately $16.0 million as its share of a $50.0
million junior participation in a $700.0 million first mortgage loan, in connection with
a private investment firm’s acquisition of a retailer. This loan
participation bore interest at LIBOR plus 7.75% per annum and had a
two-year term with a
one-year extension option and was collateralized by certain real estate interests of the
retailer. During June 2006, the borrower elected to pre-pay the outstanding loan balance
of approximately $16.0 million in full satisfaction of this loan.



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

Additionally, during January 2006, the Company provided approximately $5.2 million as its
share of an $11.5 million term loan to a real estate developer for the acquisition of a
59 acre land parcel located in San Antonio, TX. This loan is interest only at a fixed
rate of 11.0% for a term of two years payable monthly and collateralized by a first
mortgage on the subject property. As of December 31, 2006, the outstanding balance on
this loan was approximately $5.2 million.

During February 2006, the Company committed to provide a one year $17.2 million credit
facility at a fixed rate of 8.0% for a term of nine months and 9.0% for the remaining
term to a real estate investor for the recapitalization of a discount and entertainment
mall that it currently owns. During 2006, this facility was fully paid and was
terminated.

During April 2006, the Company provided two separate mortgages aggregating $14.5 million on a
property owned by a real estate investor. Proceeds were used to payoff the existing
first mortgage, buyout the existing partner and for redevelopment of the property. The
mortgages bear interest at 8.0% per annum and mature in 2008 and 2013. These mortgages
are collateralized by the subject property. As of December 31, 2006, the aggregate
outstanding balance on these mortgages was approximately $15.0 million, including $0.5
million of accrued interest.

During May 2006, the Company provided a CAD $23.5 million collateralized credit facility at a
fixed rate of 8.5% per annum for a term of two years to a real estate company for the
execution of its property acquisitions program. The credit facility is guaranteed by
the real estate company. The Company was issued 9,811 units, valued at approximately
USD $0.1 million, and warrants to purchase up to 0.1 million shares of the real estate
company as a loan origination fee. During August 2006, the Company increased the credit
facility to CAD $45.0 million and received an additional 9,811 units, valued at
approximately USD $0.1 million, and warrants to purchase up to 0.1 million shares of the
real estate company. As of December 31, 2006, the outstanding balance on this credit
facility was approximately CAD $3.6 million (approximately USD $3.1 million).

During September 2005, a newly formed joint venture, in which the Company had an 80%
interest, acquired a 90% interest in a $48.4 million mortgage receivable for a purchase
price of approximately $34.2 million. This loan bore interest at a rate of three-month
LIBOR plus 2.75% per annum and was scheduled to mature on January 12, 2010. A 626-room
hotel located in Lake Buena Vista, FL collateralized the loan. The Company had
determined that this joint venture entity was a VIE and had further determined that the
Company was the primary beneficiary of this VIE and had therefore consolidated it for
financial reporting purposes. During March 2006, the joint venture acquired the
remaining 10% of this mortgage receivable for a purchase price of approximately $3.8
million. During June 2006, the joint venture accepted a pre-payment of approximately
$45.2 million from the borrower as full satisfaction of this loan.

During August 2006, the Company provided $8.8 million as its share of a $13.2 million
12-month term loan to a retailer for general corporate purposes. This loan bears
interest at a fixed rate of 12.50% with interest payable monthly and a balloon payment
for the principal balance at maturity. The loan is collateralized by the underlying
real estate of the retailer. Additionally, the Company funded $13.3 million as its
share of a $20.0 million revolving Debtor-in-Possession facility to this retailer. The
facility bears interest at LIBOR plus 3.00% and has an unused line fee of 0.375%. This
credit facility is collateralized by a first priority lien on all the retailer’s assets.
As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s share of the outstanding balance on this loan
and credit facility was approximately $7.6 million and $4.9 million, respectively.

During September 2006, the Company provided a MXP 57.3 million (approximately USD $5.3
million) loan to an owner of an operating property in Mexico. The loan, which is
collateralized by the property, bears interest at 12.0% per annum and matures in 2016.
The Company is entitled to a participation feature of 25% of annual cash flows after
debt service and 20% of the gain on sale of the property. As of December 31, 2006, the
outstanding balance on this loan was approximately MXP 57.8 million (approximately USD
$5.3 million).

During November 2006, the Company committed to provide a MXP 124.8 million (approximately USD
$11.5 million) loan to an owner of a land parcel in Acapulco, Mexico. The loan, which
is collateralized with an operating property owned by the borrower, bears interest at
10% per annum and matures in 2016. The Company is entitled to a participation feature
of 20% of excess cash flows and gains on sale of the property. As of December 31, 2006, the
outstanding balance on this loan was MXP 12.8 million (approximately USD $1.2 million).



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

During December 2006, the Company provided $5.0 million as its share of a one-year $27.5
million mortgage loan to a real estate developer. The proceeds were used to payoff the
existing debt. The loan is collateralized by a parcel of land and bears interest at a
fixed rate of 13%, which is payable monthly with any unpaid accrued interest and
principal payable at maturity. As of December 31, 2006, the outstanding balance on this
loan was $5.0 million.

During May 2002, the Company provided a secured $15 million three-year term loan and a
secured $7.5 million revolving credit facility to Frank’s at an interest rate of 10.25%
per annum collateralized by 40 real estate interests. Interest was payable quarterly in
arrears. During 2003, the revolving credit facility was amended to increase the total
borrowing capacity to $17.5 million. During January 2004, the revolving loan was further
amended to provide up to $33.75 million of borrowings from the Company. During
September 2004, Frank’s filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy
Code. The Company committed to provide an additional $27.0 million of
Debtor-in-Possession financing with a term of one year at an interest rate of Prime plus
1.00% per annum. During July 2005, Frank’s emerged from bankruptcy as FNC and repaid
all outstanding amounts owed to the Company under the revolving credit facility and
Debtor-in-Possession financing (See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K).

During April 2005, the Company provided a construction loan commitment of up to MXP 53.5
million (approximately USD $5.0 million) to a developer for the construction of a new
retail center in Acapulco, Mexico. The loan bears interest at a fixed rate of 11.75%
and provides for an additional 20% participation of property cash flow, as defined.
This facility is collateralized by the related property and matures in May 2015. As of
December 31, 2006, there was approximately MXP 53.5 million (USD $4.9 million)
outstanding on this loan.

Additionally, during April 2005, a newly formed joint venture, in which the Company has a 50%
non-controlling interest, provided a retailer with a three-year $28.0 million revolving
line of credit at a floating interest rate of Prime plus 5.5% per annum. The facility
also provides for a 3.0% unused line fee and a 2.50% origination fee. The facility is
collateralized by certain real estate interests of the borrower. As of December 31,
2006, the outstanding balance on this facility was $25.5 million of which the Company’s
share was $12.8 million.

During May 2005, a newly formed joint venture, in which the Company has a 44.38%
non-controlling interest, provided Debtor-in-Possession financing to a healthcare
facility that recently filed for protection under the bankruptcy code and is closing its operations. The term of
this loan was two years and bore interest at prime plus 2.5%. The
loan was
collateralized by a hospital building, a six-story commercial building, a 12-story
133-unit apartment complex and various other building structures. During April 2006,
the healthcare facility paid the outstanding balance on the loan and the loan was
terminated.

Additionally, during May 2005, the Company acquired four mortgage loans collateralized by
individual properties with an aggregate face value of approximately $16.6 million for
approximately $14.3 million. These performing loans, which provide for monthly payments
of principal and interest, bear interest at a fixed-rate of 7.57% and mature on June 1,
2019. As of December 31, 2006, there was an aggregate of approximately $13.8 million
outstanding on these loans.

During October 2005, the Company provided a construction loan commitment of up to $38.1
million to a developer for acquisition and redevelopment of a retail center located in
Richland Township, PA. The loan is interest only at a rate of LIBOR
plus 2.20% and matures in October of 2007. As of December 31, 2006, the outstanding balance
on this loan was approximately $12.6 million.

During March 2002, the Company provided a $50.0 million ten-year loan to Shopko Stores, Inc.,
at an interest rate of 11.0% per annum collateralized by 15 properties. The Company
received principal and interest payments on a monthly basis. During January 2003, the
Company sold a $37.0 million participation interest in this loan to an unaffiliated
third party. The interest rate on the $37.0 million participation interest is a
variable rate based on LIBOR plus 3.50%. The Company continued to act as the servicer
for the full amount of the loan. During December 2005, Shopko elected to prepay the
outstanding loan balance of approximately $46.7 million in full satisfaction of this
loan. Shopko, also paid a prepayment penalty to the Company of



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

$14.0 million.

During December 2005, the Company provided a construction loan commitment of up to MXP 39.9
million (approximately USD $3.7 million) to a developer for the construction of a new
retail center in Magno Deco, Mexico. The loan bears interest at a fixed
rate of 11.75% and provides for an additional 20% participation of property cash flow, as
defined. This loan is collateralized by the related property and matures in May 2015. As
of December 31, 2006, there was approximately MXP 30.3 million (USD $2.8 million)
outstanding on this loan.

During July 2004, the Company provided an $11.0 million five-year term loan to a retailer at
a floating interest rate of Prime plus 3.0% per annum or, at the borrower’s election,
LIBOR plus 5.5% per annum. The facility was interest only, payable monthly in arrears
and was collateralized by certain real estate interests of the borrower. During
December 2005, the borrower elected to prepay the outstanding loan balance of $11.0
million in full satisfaction of this loan.

During September 2004, the Company acquired a $3.5 million mortgage receivable for $2.7
million. The interest rate on this mortgage loan was Prime plus 1.0% per annum with
principal and interest paid monthly. This loan was scheduled to
mature in February 2006 and was
collateralized by a shopping center comprising 0.3 million square feet of GLA in
Wilkes-Barre, PA. During May 2005, the borrower elected to prepay the outstanding loan
balance in full satisfaction of this loan.

10.

Marketable Securities:

The amortized cost and estimated fair values of securities available-for-sale and
held-to-maturity at December 31, 2006 and 2005, are as follows (in thousands):

December 31, 2006

Gross

Gross

Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Cost

Gains

Losses

Estimated Fair Value

Available-for-sale:

Equity securities

$

82,910

$

38,718

$

(1,775

)

$

119,853

Held-to-maturity:

Other debt securities

82,806

3,451

(639

)

85,618

Total marketable securities

$

165,716

$

42,169

$

(2,414

)

$

205,471

December 31, 2005

Gross

Gross

Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Cost

Gains

Losses

Estimated Fair Value

Available-for-sale:

Equity securities

$

85,613

$

63,466

$

(56

)

$

149,023

Held-to-maturity:

Other debt securities

57,429

3,615

(1,953

)

59,091

Total marketable securities

$

143,042

$

67,081

$

(2,009

)

$

208,114

As of December 31, 2006, the contractual maturities of Other debt securities
classified as held-to-maturity are as follows: within one year, $1.5 million; after one
year through five years, $36.7 million; after five years through 10 years, $27.0 million
and after 10 years, $17.6 million. Actual maturities may differ from contractual
maturities as issuers may have the right to prepay debt obligations with or without
prepayment penalties.

11.

Notes Payable:



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

The Company has implemented a medium-term notes (“MTN”) program pursuant to which it
may, from time to time, offer for sale its senior unsecured debt for any general
corporate purposes, including (i) funding specific liquidity requirements in its
business, including property acquisitions, development and redevelopment costs, and (ii)
managing the Company’s debt maturities.

As of December 31, 2006, a total principal amount of approximately $1.4 billion in
senior fixed-rate MTNs was outstanding. These fixed-rate notes had maturities ranging
from five months to nine years as of December 31, 2006, and bear interest at rates
ranging from 3.95% to 7.90%. Interest on these fixed-rate senior unsecured notes is
payable semi-annually in arrears. Proceeds from these issuances were primarily used for
the acquisition of neighborhood and community shopping centers, the expansion and
improvement of properties in the Company’s portfolio and the repayment of certain debt
obligations of the Company.

During March 2006, the Company issued $300.0 million of fixed rate unsecured senior notes
under its MTN program. This fixed rate MTN matures March 15, 2016 and bears interest at
5.783% per annum. The proceeds from this MTN issuance were primarily used to repay a
portion of the outstanding balance under the Company’s U.S. revolving credit facility
and for general corporate purposes.

During June 2006, the Company entered into a third supplemental indenture, under the
indenture governing its medium-term notes and senior notes, which amended the (i) total
debt test and secured debt test by changing the asset value definition from
undepreciated real estate assets to total assets, with total assets being defined as
undepreciated real estate assets, plus other assets (but excluding goodwill and
amortized debt costs) and (ii) maintenance of unencumbered total asset value covenant by
increasing the requirement of the ratio of unencumbered total asset value to outstanding
unsecured debt from 1 to 1 to 1.5 to 1. Additionally, the same amended covenants were
adopted within the Canadian supplemental indenture, which governs the 4.45% Canadian
Debentures due in 2010. In connection with the consent solicitation, the Company
incurred costs aggregating approximately $5.8 million, of which $1.8 million was related
to costs paid to third parties, which were expensed. The remaining $4.0 million was
related to fees paid to note holders, which were capitalized and are being amortized
over the remaining term of the notes.

During
2006, the Company repaid its (i) $30.0 million 6.93% fixed rate notes, which matured on
July 20, 2006, (ii) $100.0 million floating rate notes, which matured August 1, 2006 and
(iii) $55.0 million 7.50% fixed rate notes, which matured on November 5, 2006.

During August 2006, Kimco North Trust III, a wholly-owned entity of the Company, completed
the issuance of $200.0 million Canadian denominated senior unsecured notes. The notes
bear interest at 5.18% and mature on August 16, 2013. The proceeds were used by Kimco
North Trust III, to pay down outstanding indebtedness under the existing Canadian credit
facility and to fund long-term investments in Canadian real estate.

In connection with the October 31, 2006 Pan Pacific merger transaction, the Company
assumed $650.0 million of unsecured notes payable, including $20.0 million of fair value
debt premiums. These notes bear interest at fixed rates ranging from 4.70% to 7.95% per
annum and have maturity dates ranging from June 29, 2007 to September 1, 2015.

During February 2005, the Company issued $100.0 million of fixed-rate unsecured senior notes
under its MTN program. This fixed-rate MTN matures in February 2015 and bears interest
at 4.904% per annum. The proceeds from this MTN issuance were primarily used for the
repayment of all $20.0 million of the Company’s fixed-rate notes that matured in April
2005, which bore interest at 7.91%, all $10.25 million of the Company’s fixed-rate notes
that matured in May 2005, which bore interest at 7.30%, and partial repayment of the
Company’s $100.0 million fixed-rate notes which matured in June 2005, and bore interest
at 6.73%.

During June 2005, the Company issued $200.0 million of fixed-rate unsecured senior notes
under its MTN program. This fixed-rate MTN matures in June 2014 and bears interest at
4.82% per annum. The proceeds from this issuance were primarily used to repay a portion
of the outstanding balance under the Company’s U.S. revolving credit facility and for
general corporate purposes.



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

During November 2005, the Company issued an aggregate $250.0 million of fixed-rate unsecured
senior notes under its MTN program. The Company issued a $150.0 million MTN which
matures in November 2015 and bears interest at 5.584% per annum and a $100.0 million MTN
which matures in February 2011 and bears interest at 5.304% per annum. Proceeds from
these MTN issuances were used for general corporate purposes and to repay a portion of
the outstanding balance under the Company’s U.S. revolving credit facility. A portion
of the outstanding balance related to the repayment of the Company’s $50.0 million 7.68%
fixed-rate notes, which matured on November 1, 2005 and repayment of the Company’s $20.0
million 6.83%
fixed-rate notes, which matured on November 14, 2005.

During April 2005, Kimco North Trust III completed the issuance of $150.0 million Canadian
denominated senior unsecured notes. The notes bear interest at 4.45% and mature on
April 21, 2010. The Company has provided a full and unconditional guarantee of the
notes. The proceeds were used by Kimco North Trust III to pay down outstanding
indebtedness under existing credit facilities, to fund long-term investments in Canadian
real estate and for general corporate purposes.

As of December 31, 2006, the Company had a total principal amount of $1.3 billion in
fixed-rate unsecured senior notes. These fixed-rate notes had maturities ranging from
six months to nine years as of December 31, 2006, and bear interest at rates ranging
from 4.45% to 7.95%. Interest on these fixed-rate senior unsecured notes is payable
semi-annually in arrears.

The scheduled maturities of all unsecured notes payable as of December 31, 2006, were
approximately as follows (in millions): 2007, $256.9; 2008, $125.7; 2009, $180.0; 2010,
$205.1; 2011, $363.4 and thereafter, $1,617.2.

The Company has an $850.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit
Facility”), which is scheduled to expire in July 2008. Under the Credit Facility funds
may be borrowed for general corporate purposes, including the funding of (i) property
acquisitions, (ii) development and redevelopment costs and (iii) any short-term working
capital requirements. Interest on borrowings under the Credit Facility accrue at a
spread (currently 0.45%) to LIBOR and fluctuates in accordance with changes in the
Company’s senior debt ratings. As part of this Credit Facility, the Company has a
competitive bid option whereby the Company may auction up to $425.0 million of its
requested borrowings to the bank group. This competitive bid option provides the
Company the opportunity to obtain pricing below the currently stated spread to LIBOR of
0.45%. A facility fee of 0.125% per annum is payable quarterly in arrears. In addition,
the Company has a $200.0 million sub-limit which provides it the opportunity to borrow
in alternative currencies such as Pounds Sterling, Japanese Yen or Euros. Pursuant to
the terms of the Credit Facility, the Company, among other things, is (i) subject to
maintaining certain maximum leverage ratios on both unsecured senior corporate debt and
minimum unencumbered asset and equity levels and (ii) restricted from paying dividends
in amounts that exceed 95% of funds from operations, as defined. As of December 31,
2006, there was no outstanding balance under the Credit Facility.

Additionally, the Company has a CAD $250.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility with a
group of banks. This facility originally bore interest at the CDOR Rate, as defined,
plus 0.50% and is scheduled to expire in March 2008. During January 2006, the facility
was amended to reduce the borrowing spread to 0.45% and to modify the covenant package
to conform to the Company’s $850.0 million U.S. credit facility. Proceeds from this
facility are used for general corporate purposes including the funding of
Canadian-denominated investments. As of December 31, 2006, there was no outstanding
balance under this facility.

The Company also has a three-year MXP 500.0 million unsecured revolving credit
facility. This facility bears interest at the TIIE Rate, as defined, plus 1.00% and is
scheduled to expire in May 2008. Proceeds from this facility are used to fund
peso-denominated investments. As of December 31, 2006, there was no outstanding balance
under this facility.

In accordance with the terms of the Indenture, as amended, pursuant to which the
Company’s senior unsecured notes have been issued, the Company is (a) subject to
maintaining certain maximum leverage ratios on both unsecured senior corporate and
secured debt, minimum debt service coverage ratios and minimum equity levels and (b)
restricted from paying dividends in amounts that exceed by more than $26.0 million the



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

funds from operations, as defined, generated through the end of the calendar quarter
most recently completed prior to the declaration of such dividend; however, this
dividend limitation does not apply to any distributions necessary to maintain the
Company’s qualification as a REIT providing the Company is in compliance with its total
leverage limitations.

12.

Mortgages Payable:

During 2006, the Company (i) obtained an aggregate of approximately $52.7 million of
individual non-recourse mortgage debt on five operating properties, (ii) assumed
approximately $253.6 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the
acquisition of 19 operating properties, including approximately $2.9 million of fair
value debt adjustments, (iii) consolidated approximately $27.1 million of non-recourse
mortgage debt relating to the purchase of additional ownership interests in various
entities, (iv) paid off approximately $61.9 million of individual non-recourse mortgage
debt that encumbered 16 operating properties, and (v) assigned approximately $3.9
million of non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the sale of an operating property.

During 2005, the Company (i) obtained an aggregate of approximately $95.6 million of
individual non-recourse mortgage debt on 53 operating properties, (ii) assumed
approximately $79.7 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the
acquisition of 11 operating properties, including approximately $6.3 million of fair
value debt adjustments, (iii) consolidated approximately $33.2 million of non-recourse
mortgage debt relating to the purchase of additional ownership interest in various
entities, (iv) assigned approximately $119.8 million of individual non-recourse mortgage
debt relating to the transfer of 49 operating properties to various co-investment
ventures in which the Company has non-controlling interests ranging from 10% to 30%, (v)
paid off approximately $66.9 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt that
encumbered 11 operating properties, (vi) deconsolidated approximately $41.4 million of
non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the reduction of the Company’s economic interest
in a joint venture and (vii) assigned approximately $7.8 million of non-recourse
mortgage debt relating to the sale of an operating property.

Mortgages payable, collateralized by certain shopping center properties and related tenants’
leases, are generally due in monthly installments of principal and/or interest which
mature at various dates through 2035. Interest rates range from approximately 4.95% to
10.50% (weighted-average interest rate of 7.0% as of December 31, 2006). The scheduled
principal payments of all mortgages payable, excluding unamortized fair value debt
adjustments of approximately $14.3 million, as of December 31, 2006, were approximately
as follows (in millions): 2007, $45.1; 2008, $95.3; 2009, $56.0; 2010, $29.3; 2011,
$38.8 and thereafter, $289.1.

13.

Construction Loans Payable:

During 2006, the Company obtained construction financing on three ground-up development
projects for an aggregate original loan commitment amount of up to $83.8 million, of
which approximately $36.0 million was outstanding at December 31, 2006. The Company
assigned a $7.2 million construction loan, which bore interest at LIBOR plus 1.75% and
was scheduled to mature in November 2006, in connection with the sale of its partnership
interest in one project. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had a total of 13
construction loans with total commitments of up to $330.9 million, of which $271.0
million had been funded. These loans had maturities ranging from two to 31 months and
variable interest rates ranging from 6.87% to 7.32% at December 31, 2006. These
construction loans are collateralized by the respective projects and associated tenants’
leases. The scheduled maturities of all construction loans payable as of December 31,
2006, were approximately as follows (in millions): 2007, $164.3; 2008, $81.5 and 2009,
$25.2.

During 2005, the Company obtained a term loan and construction financing on two ground-up
development projects for an aggregate original loan commitment amount of up to $50.5
million, of which approximately $22.4 million was outstanding at December 31, 2005. As
of December 31, 2005, the Company had a total of 15 construction loans with total
commitments of up to $343.5 million, of which $228.5 million had been funded. These
loans had maturities ranging from four to 31 months and variable interest rates ranging
from 6.04% to 6.64% at December 31, 2005. These construction loans are



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

collateralized
by the respective projects and associated tenants’ leases. The scheduled maturities of
all construction loans payable as of December 31, 2005, were approximately as follows
(in millions): 2006, $87.7; 2007, $86.3 and 2008, $54.5.

14.

Minority Interests:

Minority interests represent the portion of equity that the Company does not own in those
entities it consolidates as a result of having a controlling interest or determined that
the Company was the primary beneficiary of variable interest entity in accordance with
the provisions and guidance of FIN 46(R).

Minority interests includes approximately $233.0 million of units, including premiums of
approximately $13.5 million and a fair market value adjustment of approximately $15.1
million (the “Units”), related to interests acquired in seven shopping center properties
located throughout Puerto Rico during 2006. The properties were acquired through the
issuance of approximately $158.6 million of non-convertible units, approximately $45.8
million of convertible units, the assumption of approximately $131.2 million of non-recourse debt and
$116.3 million in cash. The Company is restricted from disposing
of these assets, other than through a tax free transaction, until
November 2015.

The Units consist of (i) approximately 81.8 million Preferred A Units par value $1.00
per unit, which pay the holder a return of 7.0% per annum on the Preferred A Par Value
and are redeemable for cash by the holder at anytime after one year or callable by the
Company any time after six months and contain a promote feature based upon an increase
in net operating income of the properties capped at a 10.0% increase, (ii) 2,000 Class A
Preferred Units, par value $10,000 per unit, which pay the holder a return equal to
LIBOR plus 2.0% per annum on the Class A Preferred Par Value and are redeemable for cash
by the holder at anytime after November 30, 2010, (iii) 2,627 Class B-1 Preferred Units,
par value $10,000 per unit, which pay the holder a
return equal to 7.0% per annum on the Class B-1 Preferred Par Value and are redeemable by
the holder at anytime after November 30, 2010, for cash or at the Company’s option, shares
of the Company’s common stock, equal to the Cash Redemption Amount, as defined, (iv) 5,673
Class B-2 Preferred Units, par value $10,000 per unit, which pay the holder a return
equal to 7.0% per annum on the Class B-2 Preferred par value and are redeemable for cash
by the holder at anytime after November 30, 2010 and (v) 640,001 Class C DownReit Units,
valued at an issuance price of $30.52 per unit which pay the holder a return at a rate
equal to the Company’s common stock dividend and are redeemable by the holder at anytime
after November 30, 2010, for cash or at the Company’s option, shares of the Company’s
common stock equal to the Class C Cash Amount, as defined.

Also included in Minority interests are approximately $41.6 million, including a
discount of $0.3 million and a fair market value adjustment of $3.8 million, in
redeemable units (the “Redeemable Units”), issued by the Company related to the
acquisition of two shopping center properties located in Bay Shore and Centereach, NY
during 2006. The properties were acquired through the issuance of $24.2 million of
Redeemable Units, which are redeemable at the option of the holder; approximately $14.0
million of fixed rate Redeemable Units and the assumption of approximately $23.4 million
of non-recourse debt. The Redeemable Units consist of (i) 13,963 Class A Units, par
value $1,000 per unit, which pay the holder a return of 5% per annum of the Class A par
value and are redeemable for cash by the holder at anytime after April 3, 2011 or
callable by the Company anytime after April 3, 2016, and (ii) 647,758 Class B Units,
valued at an issuance price of $37.24 per unit, which pay the holder a return at a rate
equal to the Company’s common stock dividend and are redeemable by the holder at anytime
after April 3, 2007 for cash or at the option of the Company for Common Stock at a ratio
of 1:1, or callable by the Company anytime after April 3, 2026. The Company is restricted from disposing
of these assets, other than through a tax free transaction, until
April 2016 and April 2026 for the Centereach, NY, and Bay Shore, NY, assets,
respectively.

Minority interests also includes 138,015 convertible units issued during 2006, by the
Company, which are valued at approximately $5.3 million, including a fair market value
adjustment of $0.3 million, related to an interest acquired in an office building
located in Albany, NY. These units are redeemable at the option of the holder after one
year for cash or at the option of the Company for the Company’s common stock at a ratio
of 1:1. The holder is entitled to a distribution equal to the dividend rate of the
Company’s common stock. The Company is restricted from disposing
of these assets, other than through a tax free transaction, until
January 2017.

Minority interests also includes approximately 4.8 million convertible units (the



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

“Convertible Units”) issued by the Company valued at $80.0 million related to an
interest acquired in a shopping center property located in Daly City, CA, in 2002. The
Convertible Units are convertible at a ratio of 1:1 into Common Stock and are entitled
to a distribution equal to the dividend rate of the Company’s common stock multiplied by
1.1057.

15.

Fair Value Disclosure of Financial Instruments:

All financial instruments of the Company are reflected in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheets at amounts which, in management’s estimation based upon an
interpretation of available market information and valuation methodologies, reasonably
approximate their fair values except those listed below, for which fair values are
reflected. The valuation method used to estimate fair value for fixed-rate debt and
minority interests relating to mandatorily redeemable non-controlling interests
associated with finite-lived subsidiaries of the Company is based on discounted cash
flow analyses. The fair values for marketable securities are based on published or
securities dealers’ estimated market values. Such fair value estimates are not
necessarily indicative of the amounts that would be realized upon disposition. The
following are financial instruments for which the Company’s estimate of fair value
differs from the carrying amounts (in thousands):

December 31,



Carrying

Estimated

Carrying

Estimated

Amounts

Fair Value

Amounts

Fair Value

Marketable Securities

$

202,659

$

205,471

$

206,452

$

208,114

Notes Payable

$

2,748,345

$

2,762,751

$

2,147,405

$

2,172,031

Mortgages Payable

$

567,917

$

581,846

$

315,336

$

330,897

Mandatorily
Redeemable Minority
Interests
(termination dates
ranging from 2019 –
2027)

$

1,263

$

4,436

$

1,782

$

4,934

16.

Financial Instruments — Derivatives and Hedging:

The Company is exposed to the effect of changes in interest rates, foreign currency
exchange rate fluctuations and market value fluctuations of equity securities. The
Company limits these risks by following established risk management policies and
procedures including the use of derivatives.

The principal financial instruments generally used by the Company are interest rate
swaps, foreign currency exchange forward contracts, cross currency swaps and equity
warrant contracts. The Company, from time to time, hedges the future cash flows of its
floating-rate debt instruments to reduce exposure to interest rate risk principally
through interest rate swaps with major financial institutions.

During 2006, the Company entered into two interest rate swaps, with notional amounts of $21.5
million and $6.25 million, respectively. The interest rate swaps are designated as cash
flow hedges and mature in 2016 and 2009, respectively. The change in fair value of the
interest rate swaps representing unrealized losses recorded in OCI, as of December 31,
2006, was approximately $0.1 million.

As of December 31, 2005, the Company had foreign currency forward contracts
designated as net investment hedges of its Canadian investments in real estate
aggregating approximately CAD $5.2 million. During 2006, the Company settled its
remaining CAD forward contracts. In addition, the Company had a cross currency interest
rate swap with an aggregate notional amount of approximately MXP 82.4 million
(approximately USD $7.6 million) designated as a hedge of its Mexican real estate
investments at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

The Company has designated these foreign currency agreements as net investment hedges
of the foreign currency exposure of its net investment in Canadian and Mexican real



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

estate operations. These agreements are highly effective in reducing the exposure to
fluctuations in exchange rates. As such, gains and losses on these net investment
hedges were reported in the same manner as a translation adjustment in accordance with
SFAS No. 52, Foreign Currency Translation. During 2006 and 2005, respectively, $0.2
million and $0.7 million of unrealized losses and $0.3 and $3.2 million of unrealized
gains were included in the cumulative translation adjustment relating to the Company’s
net investment hedges of its Canadian and Mexican investments.

During 2001, the Company acquired warrants to purchase 2.5 million shares of common stock of
a Canadian REIT. The Company designated the warrants as a cash flow hedge of the
variability in expected future cash outflows upon purchasing the common stock. The
change in fair value of the warrants representing unrealized gains was recorded in OCI.
The net unrealized gains, since inception recorded in OCI as of December 31, 2004, were
approximately $12.5 million. The Company exercised its warrants in October of 2004.
During 2006, the Company sold 0.53 million shares of common stock of the Canadian REIT
(2005: 0.2 million) resulting in a reclassification of $2.1 million of OCI balance to
earnings as Other income, net (2005: $0.7 million).

The following tables summarize the notional values and fair values of the Company’s
derivative financial instruments as of December 31, 2006 and 2005:

As of December 31, 2006

Notional

Fair Value

Hedge Type

Value

Rate

Maturity

(in millions USD)

MXP cross currency swap – net
investment

MXP 82.4 million

7.227

%

10/07

$

0.10

Interest rate swaps – cash flow

$6.25 million - $21.5 million

6.455% - 6.669

%

3/09 - 3/16

$

(0.10

)

Interest rate caps – marked to
market

$53.8 million - $150 million

6.500

%

7/09 - 8/08

$

0.03

As of December 31, 2005

Notional

Fair Value

Hedge Type

Value

Rate

Maturity

(in millions USD)

Foreign currency
forwards – net
investment

CAD $5.2 million

1.4013

%

7/06

($0.80

)

MXP cross currency
swap – net
investment

MXP 82.4 million

7.227

%

10/07

($0.20

)

As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, these derivative instruments were
reported at their fair value as other liabilities of ($0.1) million and ($1.0) million
and other assets of $0.1 million and $0.0 million. The Company expects to reclassify to
earnings less than $1.0 million of the current OCI balance during the next 12 months.

17.

Preferred Stock, Common Stock and Convertible Unit Transactions:

During March 2006, the Company completed a primary public stock offering of 10,000,000 shares
of the Company’s common stock. The net proceeds from this sale of Common Stock,
totaling approximately $405.5 million (after related transaction costs of $2.5 million)
were primarily used to repay the outstanding balance under the Company’s U.S. revolving
credit facility, partial repayment of the outstanding balance under the Company’s
Canadian denominated credit facility and for general corporate purposes.

During March 2006, the shareholders of Atlantic Realty Trust (“Atlantic Realty”) approved the
proposed merger with the Company and the closing occurred on March 31, 2006. As
consideration for this transaction, the Company issued Atlantic Realty shareholders
1,274,420 shares of Common Stock, excluding 748,510 shares of Common Stock that were to
be received by the Company, at a price of $40.41 per share.

On September 25, 2006, Pan Pacific stockholders approved the proposed merger with
the Company and the closing occurred on October 31, 2006. Under the terms of the merger



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

agreement, the Company agreed to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Pan Pacific
for total merger consideration of $70.00 per share. As permitted under the merger
agreement, the Company elected to issue $10.00 per share of the total merger
consideration in the form of Common Stock. As such, the Company issued 9,185,847 shares
of Common Stock valued at $407.7 million, which was based upon the average closing price
of the Common Stock over the ten trading days immediately preceding the closing date.

During 2006, the Company acquired interests in seven shopping center properties located
throughout Puerto Rico. The properties were acquired through the issuance of
approximately $158.6 million of non-convertible units, approximately $45.8 million of
convertible units, approximately $131.2 million of non-recourse debt and $116.3 million
in cash.

The convertible units consist of (i) 2,627 Class B-1 Preferred Units, par value
$10,000 per unit and 640,001 Class C DownREIT Units, valued at an issuance price of
$30.52 per unit. Both the Class B-1 Units and the Class C DownREIT Units are redeemable
by the holder at anytime after November 30, 2010 for cash or at
the Company’s option, shares of the Company’s common stock.

The number of shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Class B-1
Preferred Units would be equal to the Class B-1 Cash Redemption Amount, as defined,
which ranges from $6,000 to $14,000 per Class B-1 Preferred Unit depending on the Common
Stock’s Adjusted Current Trading Price, as defined, divided by the average daily market
price for the 20 consecutive trading days immediately preceding the redemption date.

Prior to January 1, 2009, the number of shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion
of the Class C DownREIT Units would be equal to the Class C Cash Amount which equals the
number of Class C DownREIT Units being redeemed, multiplied by the Adjusted Current
Trading Price, as defined. After January 1, 2009, if the Adjusted Current Trading Price
is greater than $36.62 then the Class C Cash Amount shall be an amount equal to the
Adjusted Current Trading Price per Class C DownREIT Unit. If the Adjusted Current
Trading Price is greater than $24.41 but less than $36.62, then the Class C Cash Amount
shall be an amount equal to $30.51 per Class C DownREIT Unit; or is less than $24.41,
then the Class C Cash Amount shall be an amount per Class C DownREIT Unit equal to the
Adjusted Current Trading Price Multiplied by 1.25.

During April 2006, the Company acquired interests in two shopping center properties, located
in Bay Shore and Centereach, NY, valued at an aggregate $61.6 million. The properties
were acquired through the issuance of units from a consolidated subsidiary and consist
of approximately $24.2 million of Redeemable Units, which are redeemable at the option
of the holder, approximately $14.0 million of fixed rate Redeemable Units and the
assumption of approximately $23.4 million of non-recourse mortgage debt. The Company has
the option to settle the redemption of the $24.2 million redeemable units with Common
Stock, at a ratio of 1:1, or cash.

During June 2006, the Company acquired an interest in an office property, located in Albany,
NY, valued at approximately $39.9 million. The property was acquired through the
issuance of approximately $5.0 million of redeemable units from a consolidated
subsidiary, which are redeemable at the option of the holder after one year, and the
assumption of approximately $34.9 million of non-recourse mortgage debt. The Company
has the option to settle the redemption with Common Stock, at a ratio of 1:1, or cash.

During June 2003, the Company issued 7,000,000 Depositary Shares (the “Class F Depositary
Shares”), each such Class F Depositary Share representing a one-tenth fractional
interest of a share of the Company’s 6.65% Class F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Stock, par value $1.00 per share (the “Class F Preferred Stock”). Dividends on the
Class F Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable quarterly in arrears at the rate of
6.65% per annum based on the $25.00 per share initial offering price, or $1.6625 per
annum. The Class F Depositary Shares are redeemable, in whole or part, for cash on or
after June 5, 2008, at the option of the Company, at a redemption price of $25.00 per
Depositary Share, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon. The Class F Depositary
Shares are not convertible or exchangeable for any other property or securities of the
Company.

Voting Rights — As to any matter on which the Class F Preferred Stock, (“Preferred Stock”)
may vote, including any action by written consent, each share of Preferred



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

Stock shall
be entitled to 10 votes, each of which 10 votes may be directed separately by the holder
thereof. With respect to each share of Preferred Stock, the holder thereof may
designate up to 10 proxies, with each such proxy having the right to vote a whole number
of votes (totaling 10 votes per share of Preferred Stock). As a result, each Class F
Depositary Share is entitled to one vote.

Liquidation Rights — In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
affairs of the Company, the Preferred Stock holders are entitled to be paid, out of the
assets of the Company legally available for distribution to its stockholders, a
liquidation preference of $250.00 per share ($25.00 per Class F Depositary Share), plus
an amount equal to any accrued and unpaid dividends to the date of payment, before any
distribution of assets is made to holders of the Company’s common stock or any other
capital stock that ranks junior to the Preferred Stock as to liquidation rights.

During October 2002, the Company acquired an interest in a shopping center property located
in Daly City, CA, valued at $80.0 million, through the issuance of approximately 4.8
million Convertible Units which are convertible at a ratio of 1:1 into the Company’s
common stock. The unit holder has the right to convert the Convertible Units at any
time after one year. In addition, the Company has the right to mandatorily require a
conversion after ten years. If at the time of conversion the common stock price for the
20 previous trading days is less than $16.785 per share, the unit holder would be
entitled to additional shares; however, the maximum number of additional shares is
limited to 503,932 based upon a floor Common Stock price of $15.180. The Company has
the option to settle the conversion in cash. Dividends on the Convertible Units are
paid quarterly at the rate of the Company’s common stock dividend multiplied by 1.1057.

18.

Supplemental Schedule of Non-Cash Investing/Financing Activities:

The following schedule summarizes the non-cash investing and financing activities of
the Company for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (in thousands):




Acquisition of real estate interests by issuance
of Common Stock and/or assumption of debt

$

1,627,058

$

73,400

$

151,987

Acquisition of real estate interest by issuance
of redeemable units

$

247,475

$

—

$

28,349

Disposition/transfer of real estate interest by
assignment of downREIT units

$

—

$

4,236

$

24,114

Acquisition of real estate interests through
proceeds held in escrow

$

140,802

$

—

$

69,681

Disposition/transfer of real estate interests by
assignment of mortgage debt

$

293,254

$

166,108

$

320,120

Proceeds held in escrow through sale of real
estate interest

$

39,210

$

19,217

$

9,688

Acquisition of real estate through the issuance
of an unsecured obligation

$

10,586

$

—

$

—

Notes received upon disposition of real estate
interests

$

—

$

—

$

6,277

Declaration of dividends paid in succeeding period

$

93,222

$

78,169

$

71,497

Consolidation of FNC:

Increase in real estate and other
assets

$

—

$

57,812

$

—



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued




Increase in mortgage payable and
other liabilities

$

—

$

57,812

$

—

Consolidation of Kimsouth:

Increase in real estate and other
assets

$

28,377

$

—

$

—

Increase in mortgage payable and
other liabilities

$

28,377

$

—

$

—

19.

Transactions with Related Parties:

The Company, along with its joint venture partner, provided KROP short-term interim
financing for all acquisitions by KROP for which a mortgage was not in place at the time
of closing. All such financing had maturities of less than one year and bore interest at
rates ranging from LIBOR plus 2.0% to LIBOR plus 4.0%. As of December 31, 2006 and
2005, KROP had no outstanding short-term interim financing amounts due to GECRE or the
Company. The Company earned approximately $61,000 and $24,000 during 2006 and 2005,
respectively, related to such interim financing.

During 2006, the Company, along with its joint venture partner, provided Kimco Retail
Opportunity Portfolio II (“KROP II”) short-term interim financing for all acquisitions
by KROP II for which a mortgage was not in place at the time of closing. All such
financing had maturities of less than one year and bore interest at a rate of LIBOR plus
2.0%. At December 31, 2006, KROP II had a total of approximately $22.2 million of
outstanding short-term interim financing due to GECRE and the Company, of which the
Company’s share is 50%. The Company earned approximately $248,000 during 2006, related to
such interim financing.

The Company provides management services for shopping centers owned principally by
affiliated entities and various real estate joint ventures in which certain stockholders
of the Company have economic interests. Such services are performed pursuant to
management agreements which provide for fees based upon a percentage of gross revenues
from the properties and other direct costs incurred in connection with management of the
centers.

In December 2004, in conjunction with the Price Legacy transaction, the Company,
which holds a 15% non-controlling interest, provided the acquiring joint venture
approximately $30.6 million of secured mezzanine financing. This interest-only loan
bore interest at a fixed rate of 7.5% per annum payable monthly in
arrears and was scheduled to mature in December 2006. The Company also provided PL Retail a secured short-term promissory
note for approximately $8.2 million. This interest only note bore interest at LIBOR
plus 4.5% and was scheduled to mature in June 2005. During 2005, this note was amended
to bear interest at LIBOR plus 6.0% and is payable on demand. During 2006, PL Retail
fully repaid the Company the mezzanine financing and the promissory note.

Reference is made to Note 7 for additional information regarding transactions with related
parties.

20.

Commitments and Contingencies:

The Company and its subsidiaries are primarily engaged in the operation of shopping
centers which are either owned or held under long-term leases which expire at various
dates through 2087. The Company and its subsidiaries, in turn, lease premises in these
centers to tenants pursuant to lease agreements which provide for terms ranging
generally from 5 to 25 years and for annual minimum rentals plus incremental rents based
on operating expense levels and tenants’ sales volumes. Annual minimum rentals plus
incremental rents based on operating expense levels comprised approximately 99% of total
revenues from rental property for each of the three years ended December 31, 2006, 2005
and 2004.

The future minimum revenues from rental property under the terms of all
non-cancellable tenant leases, assuming no new or renegotiated leases are executed for
such premises, for future years are approximately as follows (in millions): 2007,
$436.5; 2008, $401.7; 2009, $363.5; 2010, $321.3; 2011, $276.5 and thereafter, $1,461.5.

Minimum rental payments under the terms of all non-cancelable operating leases pertaining to
the Company’s shopping center portfolio for future years are



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

approximately as follows
(in millions): 2007, $14.9; 2008, $14.8; 2009, $14.2; 2010, $12.4; 2011, $10.1 and
thereafter, $175.8.

During
October 2006, the Company completed the Pan Pacific merger, which had a total value of
approximately $4.1 billion. Funding for this transaction was provided by approximately
$1.3 billion of new individual non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering 51 properties, a
$1.2 billion two year credit facility provided by a consortium of banks and guaranteed
by the joint venture partners described below and the Company, the issuance of 9,185,847
shares of Common Stock valued at approximately $407.7 million, which was based upon the
average closing price of Common Stock over the ten trading days immediately preceding
the closing date, the assumption of approximately $630.0 million of unsecured bonds and
approximately $289.4 million of existing non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering 23
properties and approximately $300.0 million in cash. With respect to the $1.2 billion
guarantee by the Company, PREI, as defined below, guaranteed reimbursement to the
Company of 85% of any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to make. The Company
evaluated this guarantee in connection with the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 45,
Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others and determined that the impact did not have a
material effect on the Company’s financial position or results
of operations.

Immediately following the merger, the Company commenced its joint venture agreements with
Prudential Real Estate Investors (“PREI”) through three separate accounts managed by
PREI. In accordance with the joint venture agreements, all Pan Pacific assets and the
respective non-recourse mortgage debt and the $1.2 billion credit facility mentioned
above were transferred to the separate accounts. PREI contributed approximately $1.1
billion on behalf of institutional investors in three of its portfolios. The Company
holds 15% non-controlling ownership interests in each of these joint ventures,
collectively KimPru, with a total aggregate investment of approximately $194.8 million,
and will account for these investments under the equity method of accounting. In
addition, the Company will manage the portfolios and earn acquisition fees, leasing
commissions, property management fees and construction management fees.

During
2006, an entity in which the Company has a preferred equity investment, located in Montreal, Canada,
obtained a non-recourse construction loan, which is collateralized by the respective
land and project improvements. Additionally, the Company has provided
a guaranty to
the lender and the developer partner has provided an indemnity to the Company for 25% of
all debt. As of December 31, 2006, there was CAD $40.0 million (approximately USD $35.8
million) outstanding on this construction loan.

Additionally,
during 2006, KROP obtained a one-year $15.0 million unsecured
term loan, which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.5%. This loan is guaranteed by the
Company and GECRE has guaranteed reimbursement to the Company of 80% of any guaranty
payment the Company is obligated to make.

The Company has issued letters of credit in connection with completion and repayment
guarantees for construction loans encumbering certain of the Company’s ground-up
development projects and guaranty of payment related to the Company’s insurance program.
These letters of credit aggregate approximately $34.9 million.

In connection with the construction of its development projects and related
infrastructure, certain public agencies require performance and surety bonds be posted
to guarantee that the Company’s obligations are satisfied. These bonds expire upon the
completion of the improvements and infrastructure. As of December 31, 2006, there were
approximately $92.5 million bonds outstanding.

Additionally, the RioCan Venture, an entity in which the Company holds a 50% non-controlling
interest, has a CAD $7.0 million (approximately USD $6.0 million) letter of credit
facility. This facility is jointly guaranteed by RioCan and the Company and had
approximately CAD $3.9 million (approximately USD $3.4 million) outstanding as of
December 31, 2006, relating to various development projects.

During 2005, a joint venture entity in which the Company has a non-controlling interest



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

obtained a CAD $22.5 million (approximately USD $19.3 million) credit facility to
finance the construction of a 0.1 million square foot shopping center located in
Kamloops, B.C. This facility bears interest at the Canadian Prime
Rate plus 0.5% per annum and is scheduled
to mature in May 2007. The Company and its partner in this entity each have a limited
and several guarantee of CAD $7.5 million (approximately USD $6.4 million) related to
this facility. As of December 31, 2006, there was CAD $21.0 million (approximately USD
$18.0 million) outstanding on this facility.

Additionally, during 2005, the Company acquired three operating properties and one land
parcel, through joint ventures in which the Company holds 50% non-controlling interests.
Subsequent to these acquisitions, the joint ventures obtained four one year term loans
aggregating $20.4 million with interest rates ranging from LIBOR plus 0.50% to LIBOR
plus 0.55%. During 2006, these term loans were extended for an additional year. These
loans are jointly and severally guaranteed by the Company and the joint venture partner.

During 2005, PL Retail entered into a $39.5 million unsecured revolving credit facility,
which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.675% and was scheduled to mature in
February 2007. During 2007, the loan was extended to February
2008 at a reduced rate of LIBOR plus 0.45%. This facility
is guaranteed by the Company and the joint venture partner has
guaranteed reimbursement to the Company of 85% of any guaranty
payment the Company is obligated to make. As of December 31, 2006,
there was $39.5 million outstanding under this facility.

The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the
ordinary course of business. These matters are generally covered by insurance.
Management believes that the final outcome of such matters will not have a material
adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations or liquidity of the
Company.

21.

Incentive Plans:

The Company maintains a stock option plan (the “Plan”) pursuant to which a maximum of
42,000,000 shares of the Company’s common stock may be issued for qualified and
non-qualified options. Options granted under the Plan generally vest ratably over a
three or five-year term, expire ten years from the date of grant and are exercisable at
the market price on the date of grant, unless otherwise determined by the Board at its
sole discretion. In addition, the Plan provides for the granting of certain options to
each of the Company’s non-employee directors (the “Independent Directors”) and permits
such Independent Directors to elect to receive deferred stock awards in lieu of
directors’ fees.

During December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment”
(“SFAS No. 123(R)”), which is a revision of Statement 123. SFAS No. 123(R) supersedes
Opinion 25. Generally, the approach in SFAS No. 123(R) is similar to the approach
described in Statement 123. However, SFAS No. 123(R) requires all share-based payments
to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the
statement of operations based on their fair values. Pro-forma disclosure is no longer
an alternative under SFAS No. 123(R). SFAS No. 123(R) is effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 31, 2005. The Company began expensing stock based employee
compensation with its adoption of the prospective method provisions of SFAS No. 148,
effective January 1, 2003, as a result, the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) did not have a
material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations.

The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option pricing formula. The more significant assumptions underlying the
determination of such fair values for options granted during 2006, 2005 and 2004 were as
follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Weighted average fair value of options granted

$

5.55

$

3.21

$

2.14

Weighted average risk-free interest rates

4.72

%

4.03

%

3.30

%

Weighted
average expected option lives (in years)

6.50

4.80

3.72



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

Year Ended December 31,




Weighted average expected volatility

17.70

%

18.01

%

16.69

%

Weighted average expected dividend yield

4.39

%

5.30

%

5.59

%

Information with respect to stock options under the Plan for the years ended December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004, is as follows:

Weighted-Average

Exercise Price

Shares

Per Share

Options outstanding, January 1, 2004

15,111,610

$

15.62

Exercised

(3,379,748

)

$

13.63

Granted

3,887,500

$

27.72

Forfeited

(379,790

)

$

19.25

Options outstanding, December 31, 2004

15,239,572

$

19.06

Exercised

(2,963,910

)

$

14.23

Granted

2,515,200

$

31.15

Forfeited

(239,566

)

$

23.59

Options outstanding, December 31, 2005

14,551,296

$

22.06

Exercised

(2,196,947

)

$

17.80

Granted

2,805,650

$

39.91

Forfeited

(366,406

)

$

28.13

Options outstanding, December 31, 2006

14,793,593

$

25.93

Options exercisable -

December 31, 2004

8,135,762

$

14.95

December 31, 2005

8,167,681

$

17.63

December 31, 2006

8,826,881

$

20.37

The exercise prices for options outstanding as of December 31, 2006, range from $9.46
to $46.88 per share. The weighted-average remaining contractual life for options
outstanding as of December 31, 2006, was approximately 7.3 years. Options to purchase
5,969,396, 3,817,066, and 6,332,266 shares of the Company’s common stock were available
for issuance under the Plan at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Cash received from options exercised under the Plan was approximately $39.1 million,
$42.2 million and $46.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004,
respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during 2006, 2005 and 2004
was approximately $42.2 million, $46.2 million, and $36.2 million, respectively.

The Company recognized stock options expense of $10.2 million, $4.6 million and $1.7
million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. As of
December 31, 2006, the Company had $25.6 million of total unrecognized compensation cost
related to unvested stock compensation granted under the Company’s Plan. That cost is
expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 2.7 years.

The Company maintains a 401(k) retirement plan covering substantially all officers
and employees, which permits participants to defer up to the maximum allowable amount
determined by the Internal Revenue Service of their eligible compensation. This
deferred compensation, together with Company matching contributions, which generally
equal employee deferrals up to a maximum of 5% of their eligible compensation (capped at
$170,000), is fully vested and funded as of December 31, 2006. The Company
contributions to the plan were approximately $1.3 million, $1.1 million and $1.0 million
for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

22.

Income Taxes:

The Company elected to qualify as a REIT in accordance with the Code commencing with
its taxable year which began January 1, 1992. To qualify as a REIT, the Company must
meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement
that it currently distribute at least 90% of its adjusted REIT taxable income to its
stockholders. It is management’s intention to adhere to these requirements and maintain
the Company’s REIT status. As a REIT, the Company generally will not be



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

subject to
corporate federal income tax, provided that distributions to its stockholders equal at
least the amount of its REIT taxable income as defined under the Code. If the Company
fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it will be subject to federal income
taxes at regular corporate rates (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) and
may not be able to qualify as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years. Even if the
Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT, the Company is subject to certain state and
local taxes on its income and property and federal income and excise taxes on its
undistributed taxable income. In addition, taxable income from non-REIT activities
managed through taxable REIT subsidiaries is subject to federal, state and local income
taxes.

Reconciliation between GAAP Net Income and Federal Taxable Income:

The following table reconciles GAAP net income to taxable income for the years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (in thousands):




(Estimates)

(Actual)

(Actual)

GAAP net income

$

427,000

$

363,628

$

297,137

Less: GAAP net income of taxable REIT subsidiaries

(33,795

)

(21,666

)

(19,396

)

GAAP net income from REIT operations (a)

393,205

341,962

277,741

Net book depreciation in excess of tax depreciation

22,563

9,865

4,716

Deferred/prepaid/above and below market rents, net

(15,438

)

(7,398

)

(7,200

)

Exercise of non-qualified stock options

(21,994

)

(29,144

)

(28,022

)

Book/tax differences from investments in real estate joint ventures

(8,586

)

(19,048

)

(6,350

)

Book/tax difference on sale of property

(50,164

)

(14,181

)

(18,799

)

Valuation adjustment of foreign currency contracts


2,537

(21,697

)

Book adjustment of property carrying values


—

7,116

Other book/tax differences, net

(11,586

)

6,773

8,419

Adjusted taxable income subject to 90% dividend
requirements

$

308,792

$

291,366

$

215,924

Certain amounts in the prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current year
presentation.

(a)  — All adjustments to “GAAP net income from REIT operations” are net of amounts
attributable to minority interest and taxable REIT subsidiaries.

Reconciliation between Cash Dividends Paid and Dividends Paid Deductions (in
thousands):

For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2004 cash dividends paid exceeded the
dividends paid deduction and amounted to $333,111 and $265,254, respectively. For the
year ended December 31, 2005, cash dividends paid were equal to the dividend paid
deduction and amounted to $293,345.

Characterization of Distributions:

The following characterizes distributions paid for the years ended December 31, 2006,
2005 and 2004, (in thousands):




Preferred Dividends

Ordinary income

$

8,200


%

$

10,009


%

$

11,638


%

Capital gain

3,438


%

1,629


%

—

—

$

11,638


%

$

11,638


%

$

11,638


%



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued




Common Dividends

Ordinary income

$

211,803


%

$

242,268


%

$

210,501


%

Capital gain

89,856


%

39,439


%

—

—

Return of capital

19,255


%

—

—

43,115


%

$

320,914


%

$

281,707


%

$

253,616


%

Total dividends
distributed

$

332,552

$

293,345

$

265,254

Taxable REIT Subsidiaries (“TRS”):

The Company is subject to federal, state and local income taxes on the income from
its TRS activities, which include Kimco Realty Services (“KRS”), a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company and the consolidated entities of FNC, Kimsouth and Blue Ridge
Real Estate Company/Big Boulder Corporation.

Income taxes have been provided for on the asset and liability method as required by SFAS No.
109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Under the asset and liability method, deferred income
taxes are recognized for the temporary differences between the financial reporting basis
and the tax basis of the TRS assets and liabilities.

The Company’s taxable income for book purposes and provision for income taxes
relating to the Company’s TRS and taxable entities which have been consolidated for
accounting reporting purposes, for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, are
summarized as follows (in thousands):




Income before income taxes

$

54,522

$

32,920

$

27,716

Less provision for income taxes:

Federal

17,581

9,446

6,939

State and local

3,146

1,808

1,381

Total tax provision

20,727

11,254

8,320

GAAP net income from taxable REIT subsidiaries

$

33,795

$

21,666

$

19,396

The Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2006 and 2005, were
as follows (in millions):



Deferred tax assets:

Operating losses

$

97.3

$

59.4

Other

17.3

16.3

Valuation allowance

(68.0

)

(33.8

)

Total deferred tax assets

46.6

41.9

Deferred tax liabilities

(8.6

)

(12.8

)

Net deferred tax assets

$

38.0

$

29.1

Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are included in the caption Other assets and
Other liabilities on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2006
and 2005. Operating losses and the valuation allowance are due to the Company’s
consolidation of FNC and Kimsouth for accounting and reporting purposes. At December
31, 2006, FNC had approximately $138.4 million of net operating loss carry forwards that
expire from 2022 through 2025, with a tax value of approximately $54.0 million. A
valuation allowance of $33.8 million has been established for a portion of these
deferred tax assets. At December 31, 2006, Kimsouth had approximately $111.1 million of
net operating loss carrying forwards that expire from 2021 to 2023, with a tax value of
approximately $43.3 million. A valuation allowance for $34.2 million has been
established for a portion of these deferred tax assets. Other deferred tax assets and
deferred tax liabilities relate primarily to differences in the timing of the
recognition of income/(loss) between the GAAP and tax basis of accounting for (i) real
estate joint ventures, (ii) other real estate investments and (iii) other deductible
temporary differences. The Company believes that, based on its operating strategy and
consistent history of profitability, it is more likely than not that the net deferred
tax assets of $38.0 million will be realized on future tax



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

returns, primarily from the
generation of future taxable income.

The income tax provision differs from the amount computed by applying the statutory
federal income tax rate to taxable income before income taxes as follows (in thousands):




Federal provision at statutory tax
rate (35%)

$

19,083

$

11,522

$

9,700

State and local taxes, net of federal
benefit

3,544

2,140

1,801

Other

(1,900

)

(2,408

)

(3,181

)

$

20,727

$

11,254

$

8,320

23.

Supplemental Financial Information:

The following represents the results of operations, expressed in thousands except per
share amounts, for each quarter during the years 2006 and 2005:

2006 (Unaudited)

Mar. 31

June 30

Sept. 30

Dec. 31

Revenues from rental property (1)

$

138,107

$

147,847

$

150,673

$

157,253

Net income

$

96,195

$

108,738

$

91,427

$

131,899

Net income per common share:

Basic

$

.41

$

.44

$

.37

$

.52

Diluted

$

.40

$

.43

$

.36

$

.51

2005 (Unaudited)

Mar. 31

June 30

Sept. 30

Dec. 31

Revenues from rental property (1)

$

124,916

$

122,443

$

125,803

$

132,396

Net income

$

86,780

$

83,837

$

85,343

$

107,668

Net income per common share:

Basic

$

.37

$

.36

$

.36

$

.46

Diluted

$

.37

$

.35

$

.36

$

.44

(1)

All periods have been adjusted to reflect the impact of operating properties sold
during 2006 and 2005 and properties classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2006,
which are reflected in the caption Discontinued operations on the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Income.

Accounts and notes receivable in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets net of
estimated unrecoverable amounts, were approximately $8.5 million at December 31, 2006
and 2005.

24.

Pro Forma Financial Information (Unaudited):

As discussed in Notes 3, 4 and 5, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries
acquired and disposed of interests in certain operating properties during 2006. The pro
forma financial information set forth below is based upon the Company’s historical
Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005,
adjusted to give effect to these transactions at the beginning of each year.

The pro forma financial information is presented for informational purposes only and
may not be indicative of what actual results of operations would have been had the
transactions occurred at the beginning of each year, nor does it purport to represent
the results of operations for future periods. (Amounts presented in millions, except
per share figures.)



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

Year ended December 31,



Revenues from rental property

$

630.5

$

601.0

Net income

$

316.1

$

247.6

Net income per common share:

Basic

$

1.27

$

1.04

Diluted

$

1.24

$

1.02



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

For Years Ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004

(in thousands)

Adjustments

Balance at

Charged

to

beginning of

to

valuation

Balance at end

period

expenses

accounts

Deductions

of period

Year Ended December
31, 2006
Allowance for
uncollectable
accounts

$

8,500

$


$

—

($715

)

$

8,500

Allowance for
deferred tax asset

$

33,783

$

—

$

34,235

$

—

$

68,018

Year Ended December
31, 2005
Allowance for
uncollectable
accounts

$

8,650

$

1,296

$

—

($1,446

)

$

8,500

Allowance for
deferred tax asset

$

—

$

—

$

33,783

$

—

$

33,783

Year Ended December
31, 2004
Allowance for
uncollectable
accounts

$

9,650

$

1,335

$

—

($2,335

)

$

8,650



KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

DECEMBER 31, 2006

INITIAL COST

TOTAL COST,

DATE OF

BUILDING AND

SUBSEQUENT

BUILDINGS AND

ACCUMULATED

NET OF ACCUMULATED

CONSTRUCTION(C)

PROPERTIES

LAND

IMPROVEMENT

TO ACQUISITION

LAND

IMPROVEMENTS

TOTAL

DEPRECIATION

DEPRECIATION

ENCUMBRANCES

ACQUISITION(A)

KDI-GLENN SQUARE

3,306,779

—

14,117,647

3,306,779

14,117,647

17,424,426

—

17,424,426

—


(C)

HOOVER

279,106

7,735,873

—

279,106

7,735,873

8,014,979

1,388,649

6,626,330

—


(A)

KDI-MAIN STREET AT ANTHEM

7,305,430

—

(7,342,975

)

—

(37,545

)

(37,545

)

—

(37,545

)

—


(C)

KDI-CHANDLER AUTO MALLS

9,318,595

—

(1,353,674

)

7,313,506

651,415

7,964,921

—

7,964,921

—


(C)

KDI-GILBERT, AZ

13,484,719

—

931,862

13,484,719

931,862

14,416,581

—

14,416,581

—


(C)

KIMCO MESA 679, INC. AZ

2,915,000

11,686,291

1,648,831

2,915,000

13,335,122

16,250,122

2,916,226

13,333,897

—


(A)

MESA RIVERVIEW

750,000

—

71,361,393

750,000

70,611,393

71,361,393

—

71,361,393

—


(C)

MESA RIVERVIEW (AUTO
OFFICE)

14,250,000

—

10,147,324

6,896,360

3,250,964

10,147,324

—

10,147,324

—


(C)

KDI-ANA MARIANA POWER
CENTER

30,043,645

—

457,016

30,043,645

457,016

30,500,661

—

30,500,661

—


(C)

METRO SQUARE

4,101,017

16,410,632

731,478

4,101,017

17,142,110

21,243,127

4,490,123

16,753,004

—


(A)

PEORIA CROSSING

7,212,588

—

(598,039

)

161,583

1,320,131

1,481,714

—

1,481,714

—


(C)

HAYDEN PLAZA NORTH

2,015,726

4,126,509

5,442,501

2,015,726

9,569,010

11,584,736

1,680,898

9,903,838

—


(A)

PHOENIX, COSTCO

5,324,501

21,269,943

411,556

5,324,501

21,681,499

27,006,000

4,664,949

22,341,051

—


(A)

PHOENIX

2,450,341

9,802,046

626,141

2,450,341

10,428,187

12,878,528

2,504,979

10,373,549

—


(A)

KDI-ASANTE RETAIL CENTER

8,702,635

—

7,379,113

15,178,232

903,516

16,081,748

—

16,081,748

11,112,252


(C)

ALHAMBRA, COSTCO

4,995,639

19,982,557

23,838

4,995,639

20,006,395

25,002,034

4,417,658

20,584,376

—


(A)

MADISON PLAZA

5,874,396

23,476,190

121,916

5,874,396

23,598,106

29,472,502

5,194,196

24,278,306

—


(A)

CHULA VISTA, COSTCO

6,460,743

25,863,153

11,674,917

6,460,743

37,538,070

43,998,813

6,153,451

37,845,362

—


(A)

CORONA HILLS, COSTCO

13,360,965

53,373,453

938,162

13,360,965

54,311,615

67,672,580

11,973,725

55,698,855

—


(A)

EAST AVENUE MARKET PLACE

1,360,457

3,055,127

—

1,360,457

3,266,687

4,627,144

847,286

3,779,859

2,239,861


(A)

LABAND VILLAGE SC

5,600,000

11,709,367

52,368

5,600,000

13,554,533

19,154,533

791,416

18,363,117

9,421,689


(A)

CUPERTINO VILLAGE

19,886,099

46,534,919

—

19,886,099

50,777,287

70,663,386

4,307,483

66,355,903

37,673,530


(A)

ELK GROVE VILLAGE

1,770,000

7,470,136

—

1,770,000

8,037,998

9,807,997

1,843,427

7,964,570

2,360,180


(A)

WATERMAN PLAZA

784,851

1,762,508

—

784,851

1,884,558

2,669,409

958,332

1,711,076

1,610,823


(A)

GOLD COUNTRY CENTER

3,272,211

7,348,280

—

3,272,211

7,857,130

11,129,341

310,640

10,818,702

—


(A)

LA MIRADA THEATRE CENTER

8,816,741

35,259,965

(7,645,005

)

6,888,679

29,543,022

36,431,701

6,121,139

30,310,562

—


(A)

YOSEMITE NORTH SHOPPING
CTR

2,120,247

4,761,355

—

2,120,247

5,099,371

7,219,617

688,342

6,531,275

—


(A)

RALEY’S UNION SQUARE

1,185,909

2,663,149

—

1,185,909

2,847,566

4,033,476

502,090

3,531,386

—


(A)

SOUTH NAPA MARKET PLACE

1,100,000

22,159,086

—

1,100,000

28,912,086

30,012,086

1,496,202

28,515,883

—


(A)

PLAZA DI NORTHRIDGE

12,900,000

40,574,842

58,946

12,900,000

47,138,712

60,038,712

2,913,446

57,125,266

30,312,269


(A)

POWAY CITY CENTRE

5,854,585

13,792,470

5,848,839

7,247,814

19,794,075

27,041,889

1,248,919

25,792,969

—


(A)

NORTH POINT PLAZA

1,299,733

2,918,760

—

1,299,733

3,125,967

4,425,700

812,012

3,613,689

—


(A)

RED BLUFF SHOPPING CTR

1,410,936

3,168,485

—

1,410,936

3,393,421

4,804,358

599,204

4,205,153

—


(A)

TYLER STREET

3,039,565

7,098,219

—

3,039,565

7,746,660

10,786,226

353,766

10,432,460

—


(A)

THE CENTRE

3,403,724

13,625,899

229,311

3,403,724

14,487,961

17,891,685

2,518,036

15,373,649

7,188,887


(A)

SANTA ANA, HOME DEPOT

4,592,364

18,345,257

—

4,592,364

18,345,257

22,937,621

4,031,904

18,905,717

—


(A)

FULTON MARKET PLACE

2,966,018

6,920,710

13,991

2,966,018

6,934,701

9,900,719

471,956

9,428,763

—


(A)

MARIGOLD SC

15,300,000

25,563,978

69,179

15,300,000

29,374,319

44,674,319

2,315,579

42,358,740

18,863,389


(A)

TRUCKEE CROSSROADS

2,140,000

8,255,753

—

2,140,000

8,614,953

10,754,953

1,454,887

9,300,067

4,303,662


(A)

WESTLAKE SHOPPING CENTER

16,174,307

64,818,562

53,540,787

16,174,307

118,359,350

134,533,656

7,042,158

127,491,498

—


(A)

VILLAGE ON THE PARK

2,194,463

8,885,987

4,831,125

2,194,463

13,717,112

15,911,575

2,149,714

13,761,861

—


(A)

AURORA QUINCY

1,148,317

4,608,249

212,313

1,148,317

4,820,562

5,968,879

1,081,782

4,887,097

—


(A)

AURORA EAST BANK

1,500,568

6,180,103

160,719

1,500,568

6,340,822

7,841,390

1,440,236

6,401,154

—


(A)

SPRING CREEK COLORADO

1,423,260

5,718,813

26,244

1,423,260

5,745,057

7,168,317

1,323,412

5,844,906

—


(A)

DENVER WEST 38TH STREET

161,167

646,983

—

161,167

646,983

808,150

147,900

660,250

—


(A)

ENGLEWOOD PHAR MOR

805,837

3,232,650

137,553

805,837

3,370,203

4,176,040

749,509

3,426,532

—


(A)

FORT COLLINS

1,253,497

7,625,278

92,777

1,253,497

7,718,055

8,971,552

1,336,053

7,635,498

2,686,974


(A)

HERITAGE WEST

1,526,576

6,124,074

141,245

1,526,576

6,265,319

7,791,895

1,418,552

6,373,343

—


(A)

WEST FARM SHOPPING CENTER

5,805,969

23,348,024

415,114

5,805,969

23,763,138

29,569,107

5,097,758

24,471,349

—


(A)

FARMINGTON PLAZA

433,713

1,211,800

1,585,527

433,713

2,797,327

3,231,040

37,522

3,193,518

524,641


(A)

N.HAVEN, HOME DEPOT

7,704,968

30,797,640

319,211

7,704,968

31,116,851

38,821,819

6,784,715

32,037,104

—


(A)

SOUTHINGTON PLAZA

376,256

1,055,168

298,889

376,256

1,354,057

1,730,312

35,637

1,694,675

524,641


(A)

WATERBURY

2,253,078

9,017,012

288,016

2,253,078

9,305,028

11,558,106

3,097,639

8,460,466

—


(A)

DOVER

122,741

66,738

4,800,180

3,024,375

1,965,285

4,989,659

1,258

4,988,402

—


(A)

ELSMERE

—

3,185,642

—

—

3,185,642

3,185,642

3,185,641


—


(C)

ALTAMONTE SPRINGS

770,893

3,083,574

167,155

770,893

3,250,729

4,021,622

884,992

3,136,630

—


(A)

BOCA RATON

573,875

2,295,501

1,366,142

573,875

3,661,643

4,235,518

1,379,695

2,855,823

—


(A)

BRADENTON

125,000

299,253

333,571

125,000

632,824

757,824

417,506

340,317

—


(C)

BAYSHORE GARDENS,
BRADENTON FL

2,901,000

11,738,955

460,115

2,901,000

12,199,070

15,100,070

2,722,353

12,377,717

—


(A)

BRADENTON PLAZA

527,026

765,252

13,879

527,026

779,132

1,306,157

29,116

1,277,041

—


(A)

CORAL SPRINGS

710,000

2,842,907

3,245,002

710,000

6,087,909

6,797,909

1,642,801

5,155,108

—


(A)



INITIAL COST

TOTAL COST,

DATE OF

BUILDING AND

SUBSEQUENT

BUILDINGS AND

ACCUMULATED

NET OF ACCUMULATED

CONSTRUCTION(C)

PROPERTIES

LAND

IMPROVEMENT

TO ACQUISITION

LAND

IMPROVEMENTS

TOTAL

DEPRECIATION

DEPRECIATION

ENCUMBRANCES

ACQUISITION(A)

CORAL SPRINGS

1,649,000

6,626,301

219,424

1,649,000

6,845,725

8,494,725

1,572,377

6,922,348

—


(A)

CURLEW CROSSING S.C.

5,315,955

12,529,467

30,000

5,315,955

13,693,537

19,009,492

829,780

18,179,712

—


(A)

EAST ORLANDO

491,676

1,440,000

2,930,067

1,007,882

3,853,861

4,861,743

2,209,085

2,652,658

—


(C)

FERN PARK

225,000

902,000

3,025,821

225,000

3,927,821

4,152,821

2,102,649

2,050,172

—


(C)

REGENCY PLAZA

2,410,000

9,671,160

388,193

2,410,000

10,059,353

12,469,353

1,811,085

10,658,267

—


(A)

FLINT PLAZA

11,585,549

1,355,467

5,981,890

11,130,783

7,792,122

18,922,906

—

18,922,906

14,710,134


(C)

SHOPPES AT AMELIA
CONCOURSE

7,600,000

—

7,053,650

1,566,552

13,087,098

14,653,650

—

14,653,650

—


(C)

AVENUES WALKS

26,984,546

—

5,625,805

33,895,717

507,842

34,403,559

—

34,403,559

—


(C)

KISSIMMEE

1,328,536

5,296,652

1,155,116

1,328,536

6,451,768

7,780,304

1,935,919

5,844,385

—


(A)

LAUDERDALE LAKES

342,420

2,416,645

3,331,150

342,420

5,747,795

6,090,215

3,732,030

2,358,184

—


(C)

MERCHANTS WALK

2,580,816

10,366,090

650,218

2,580,816

11,016,308

13,597,125

1,520,184

12,076,941

—


(A)

LARGO

293,686

792,119

1,226,846

293,686

2,018,965

2,312,651

1,760,590

552,062

—


(C)

LEESBURG

—

171,636

193,651

—

365,287

365,287

282,773

82,514

—


(C)

LARGO EAST BAY

2,832,296

11,329,185

1,312,083

2,832,296

12,641,268

15,473,564

5,305,674

10,167,891

—


(A)

LAUDERHILL

1,002,733

2,602,415

11,005,853

1,774,443

12,836,558

14,611,001

6,988,296

7,622,706

—


(C)

THE GROVES

2,606,246

5,989,072

—

2,606,246

6,533,981

9,140,227

262,838

8,877,390

—


(A)

MELBOURNE

—

1,754,000

3,071,347

—

4,825,347

4,825,347

2,338,349

2,486,999

—


(C)

GROVE GATE

365,893

1,049,172

1,207,100

365,893

2,256,272

2,622,165

1,735,989

886,176

—


(C)

NORTH MIAMI

732,914

4,080,460

10,758,731

732,914

14,839,191

15,572,105

6,157,482

9,414,622

—


(A)

MILLER ROAD

1,138,082

4,552,327

1,795,567

1,138,082

6,347,894

7,485,976

5,048,237

2,437,739

—


(A)

MARGATE

2,948,530

11,754,120

3,282,235

2,948,530

15,036,355

17,984,885

4,666,947

13,317,938

—


(A)

MT. DORA

1,011,000

4,062,890

139,971

1,011,000

4,202,861

5,213,861

991,026

4,222,835

—


(A)

PLANTATION CROSSING

7,524,800

—

6,723,720

7,312,496

8,312,082

15,624,578

—

15,624,578

—


(C)

ORLANDO

923,956

3,646,904

1,903,145

1,172,119

5,301,886

6,474,005

1,664,269

4,809,736

—


(A)

RENAISSANCE CENTER

9,104,379

36,540,873

4,646,372

9,104,379

41,187,245

50,291,624

10,346,020

39,945,603

—


(A)

SAND LAKE

3,092,706

12,370,824

1,652,055

3,092,706

14,022,879

17,115,585

4,375,027

12,740,559

—


(A)

ORLANDO

560,800

2,268,112

3,105,465

580,030

5,354,347

5,934,377

1,194,408

4,739,969

—


(A)

OCALA

1,980,000

7,927,484

3,646,930

1,980,000

11,574,414

13,554,414

2,597,629

10,956,785

—


(A)

POMPANO BEACH

97,169

874,442

1,447,922

97,169

2,322,364

2,419,533

1,431,352

988,181

—


(C)

ST. PETERSBURG

—

917,360

984,890

—

1,902,250

1,902,250

791,756

1,110,494

—


(C)

TUTTLE BEE SARASOTA

254,961

828,465

1,747,305

254,961

2,575,770

2,830,731

1,847,936

982,795

—


(C)

SOUTH EAST SARASOTA

1,283,400

5,133,544

3,448,652

1,440,264

8,425,332

9,865,596

3,372,812

6,492,785

—


(A)

SANFORD

1,832,732

9,523,261

5,792,853

1,832,732

15,316,114

17,148,846

6,512,738

10,636,107

—


(A)

STUART

2,109,677

8,415,323

512,225

2,109,677

8,927,548

11,037,225

2,818,396

8,218,829

—


(A)

SOUTH MIAMI

1,280,440

5,133,825

2,779,817

1,280,440

7,913,642

9,194,082

2,093,093

7,100,989

—


(A)

TAMPA

5,220,445

16,884,228

2,056,968

5,220,445

18,941,196

24,161,641

3,538,408

20,623,232

—


(A)

VILLAGE COMMONS S.C.

2,192,331

8,774,158

570,782

2,192,331

9,344,940

11,537,271

1,885,063

9,652,207

—


(A)

MISSION BELL SHOPPING
CENTER

5,056,426

11,843,119

1,496,650

5,067,033

14,407,866

19,474,899

2,812,464

16,662,435

—


(A)

WEST PALM BEACH

550,896

2,298,964

875,172

550,896

3,174,136

3,725,032

818,773

2,906,258

—


(A)

THE SHOPS AT WEST
MELBOURNE

2,200,000

8,829,541

3,712,903

2,200,000

12,542,444

14,742,444

2,451,766

12,290,677

—


(A)

AUGUSTA

1,482,564

5,928,122

2,135,086

1,482,564

8,063,208

9,545,772

1,894,670

7,651,101

—


(A)

SAVANNAH

2,052,270

8,232,978

1,224,027

2,052,270

9,457,005

11,509,275

3,149,729

8,359,546

—


(A)

SAVANNAH

652,255

2,616,522

481,673

652,255

3,098,195

3,750,450

839,018

2,911,431

—


(A)

KIHEI CENTER

3,406,707

7,663,360

—

3,406,707

8,206,468

11,613,175

2,128,350

9,484,825

—


(A)

CLIVE

500,525

2,002,101

—

500,525

2,002,101

2,502,626

560,418

1,942,208

—


(A)

KDI-METRO CROSSING

3,013,647

—

1,923,942

3,013,647

1,923,942

4,937,589

—

4,937,589

—


(C)

SOUTHDALE SHOPPING CENTER

1,720,330

6,916,294

2,709,610

1,720,330

9,625,904

11,346,234

1,536,471

9,809,764

3,675,843


(A)

DES MOINES

500,525

2,559,019

37,079

500,525

2,596,098

3,096,623

706,213

2,390,410

—


(A)

DUBUQUE

—

2,152,476

10,848

—

2,163,324

2,163,324

506,110

1,657,214

—


(A)

WATERLOO

500,525

2,002,101

2,869,100

500,525

4,871,201

5,371,726

1,008,709

4,363,017

—


(A)

TREASURE VALLEY
MARKETPLACE

—

—

16,539,451

2,223,568

17,033,923

19,257,490

—

19,257,490

—


(C)

NAMPA (HORSHAM) FUTURE
DEV.

6,501,240

—

5,092,116

11,553,014

187,852

11,740,866

—

11,740,866

—


(C)

ALTON, BELTLINE HWY

329,532

1,987,981

59,934

329,532

2,047,915

2,377,447

809,720

1,567,727

—


(A)

AURORA, N. LAKE

2,059,908

9,531,721

232,059

2,059,908

9,763,780

11,823,688

2,055,934

9,767,754

—


(A)

KRC ARLINGTON HEIGHT

1,983,517

9,178,272

(5,168,281

)

1,983,517

4,009,991

5,993,508

1,665,573

4,327,935

—


(A)

BLOOMINGTON

805,521

2,222,353

5,163,864

805,521

7,386,217

8,191,738

4,254,545

3,937,193

—


(C)

BELLEVILLE, WESTFIELD
PLAZA

—

5,372,253

—

—

5,372,253

5,372,253

1,159,275

4,212,978

—


(A)

BRADLEY

500,422

2,001,687

—

500,422

2,001,687

2,502,109

651,510

1,850,599

—


(A)

CALUMET CITY

1,479,217

8,815,760

13,376,133

1,479,217

22,191,893

23,671,110

2,322,081

21,349,030

—


(A)

COUNTRYSIDE

—

4,770,671

1,137,295

1,101,670

4,806,296

5,907,966

1,094,981

4,812,985

—


(A)

CARBONDALE

—

500,000

—

—

500,000

500,000

102,564

397,436

—


(A)

CHICAGO

—

2,687,046

633,471

—

3,320,517

3,320,517

701,916

2,618,602

—


(A)

CHAMPAIGN, NEIL ST.

230,519

1,285,460

82,606

230,519

1,368,066

1,598,585

269,928

1,328,657

—


(A)

ELSTON

1,010,375

5,692,211

—

1,010,375

5,692,211

6,702,586

1,216,069

5,486,517

—


(A)

S. CICERO

—

1,541,560

149,203

—

1,690,763

1,690,763

399,526

1,291,237

—


(A)

CRYSTAL LAKE, NW HWY

179,964

1,025,811

317,841

180,269

1,343,347

1,523,616

263,230

1,260,385

—


(A)

CRYSTAL LAKE PLAZA

353,768

—

156,133

353,768

1,340,821

1,694,589

21,572

1,673,016

—


(A)



INITIAL COST

TOTAL COST,

DATE OF

BUILDING AND

SUBSEQUENT

BUILDINGS AND

ACCUMULATED

NET OF ACCUMULATED

CONSTRUCTION(C)

PROPERTIES

LAND

IMPROVEMENT

TO ACQUISITION

LAND

IMPROVEMENTS

TOTAL

DEPRECIATION

DEPRECIATION

ENCUMBRANCES

ACQUISITION(A)

BUTTERFIELD SQUARE

1,601,960

6,637,926

299,681

1,603,277

6,936,290

8,539,567

1,895,323

6,644,245

—


(A)

DOWNERS PARK PLAZA

2,510,455

10,164,494

613,196

2,510,455

10,777,690

13,288,145

2,218,478

11,069,667

—


(A)

DOWNER GROVE

811,778

4,322,956

1,716,868

811,778

6,039,824

6,851,602

1,134,099

5,717,503

—


(A)

ELGIN

842,555

2,108,674

2,153,483

842,555

4,262,157

5,104,712

2,900,791

2,203,921

—


(C)

FOREST PARK

—

2,335,884

—

—

2,335,884

2,335,884

554,164

1,781,720

—


(A)

FAIRVIEW HTS, BELLVILLE
RD.

—

11,866,880

1,856,567

—

13,723,447

13,723,447

2,748,135

10,975,312

—


(A)

GENEVA

500,422

12,917,712

64,567

500,422

12,982,279

13,482,701

2,919,208

10,563,493

9,127,530


(A)

LAKE ZURICH PLAZA

233,698

1,265,023

85,631

233,698

1,350,654

1,584,352

22,646

1,561,706

—


(A)

MATTERSON

950,515

6,292,319

10,513,842

950,515

16,806,161

17,756,676

2,603,909

15,152,766

—


(A)

MT. PROSPECT

1,017,345

6,572,176

3,557,866

1,017,345

10,130,042

11,147,387

2,016,348

9,131,039

—


(A)

MUNDELEIN, S. LAKE

1,127,720

5,826,129

42,333

1,129,634

5,866,548

6,996,182

1,259,516

5,736,666

—


(A)

NORRIDGE

—

2,918,315

—

—

2,918,315

2,918,315

686,670

2,231,645

—


(A)

NAPERVILLE

669,483

4,464,998

70,678

669,483

4,535,676

5,205,159

1,011,199

4,193,960

—


(A)

NAPERVILLE PLAZA

239,486

—

102,631

239,486

1,255,084

1,494,570

19,362

1,475,208

—


(A)

OTTAWA

137,775

784,269

506,179

137,775

1,290,448

1,428,223

967,991

460,231

—


(C)

ORLAND PARK, S. HARLEM

476,972

2,764,775

1,178,170

476,972

3,942,945

4,419,917

731,273

3,688,644

—


(A)

OAK LAWN

1,530,111

8,776,631

246,192

1,530,111

9,022,823

10,552,934

2,044,022

8,508,912

14,142,584


(A)

OAKBROOK TERRACE

1,527,188

8,679,108

2,972,827

1,527,188

11,651,935

13,179,123

2,251,462

10,927,661

—


(A)

PEORIA

—

5,081,290

2,372,084

—

7,453,374

7,453,374

1,425,092

6,028,282

—


(A)

FREESTATE BOWL

343,723

1,129,198

(311,854

)

252,723

998,099

1,250,822

267,229

983,593

—


(A)

ROUND LAKE BEACH PLAZA

790,129

1,634,148

230,085

790,129

1,864,232

2,654,361

64,060

2,590,302

—


(A)

SKOKIE

—

2,276,360

9,488,383

2,628,440

9,136,303

11,764,743

1,344,855

10,419,888

7,653,438


(A)

KRC STREAMWOOD

181,962

1,057,740

181,885

181,962

1,239,625

1,421,587

246,599

1,174,988

—


(A)

WOODGROVE FESTIVAL

5,049,149

20,822,993

1,839,352

5,049,149

22,662,345

27,711,494

4,876,207

22,835,288

—


(A)

WAUKEGAN

203,427

1,161,847

37,012

203,772

1,198,514

1,402,286

240,147

1,162,139

—


(A)

WAUKEGAN PLAZA

349,409

883,975

137,657

349,409

1,021,632

1,371,041

12,609

1,358,431

—


(A)

PLAZA EAST

1,236,149

4,944,597

2,820,843

1,140,849

7,860,740

9,001,589

1,947,136

7,054,453

—


(A)

GREENWOOD

423,371

1,883,421

1,810,529

423,371

3,693,950

4,117,321

2,385,117

1,732,204

—


(C)

GRIFFITH

—

2,495,820

981,912

1,001,100

2,476,632

3,477,732

593,845

2,883,887

—


(A)

LAFAYETTE

230,402

1,305,943

158,525

230,402

1,464,468

1,694,870

1,493,542

201,328

—


(C)

LAFAYETTE

812,810

3,252,269

3,915,570

2,379,198

5,601,451

7,980,649

937,481

7,043,168

—


(A)

KIMCO LAFAYETTE MARKET
PLACE

4,184,000

16,752,165

243,806

4,184,000

16,995,971

21,179,971

3,827,418

17,352,553

—


(A)

KRC MISHAWAKA 895

378,088

1,999,079


378,730

1,999,079

2,377,809

430,561

1,947,248

—


(A)

MERRILLVILLE PLAZA

197,415

765,630

105,180

197,415

870,810

1,068,225

13,444

1,054,781

—


(A)

SOUTH BEND, S. HIGH ST.

183,463

1,070,401

196,858

183,463

1,267,259

1,450,722

249,032

1,201,690

—


(A)

OVERLAND PARK

1,183,911

6,335,308

142,374

1,185,906

6,475,687

7,661,593

1,352,678

6,308,915

—


(A)

BELLEVUE

405,217

1,743,573

138,965

405,217

1,882,538

2,287,755

1,788,306

499,449

—


(A)

FLORENCE PLAZA

176,796

678,383

61,761

176,796

740,144

916,941

15,260

901,680

—


(A)

LEXINGTON

1,675,031

6,848,209

5,179,737

1,551,079

12,151,898

13,702,977

3,972,287

9,730,690

—


(A)

PADUCAH MALL, KY

—

1,047,281

(123,196

)

—

924,085

924,085

287,189

636,896

—


(A)

HAMMOND AIR PLAZA

3,813,873

15,260,609

1,700,209

3,813,873

16,960,818

20,774,691

4,008,532

16,766,159

—


(A)

KIMCO HOUMA 274, LLC

1,980,000

7,945,784

146,784

1,980,000

8,092,568

10,072,568

1,483,146

8,589,422

—


(A)

LAFAYETTE

2,115,000

8,508,218

9,209,638

3,678,274

16,154,581

19,832,856

3,396,792

16,436,064

—


(A)

GREAT BARRINGTON

642,170

2,547,830

7,042,117

751,124

9,480,993

10,232,117

2,306,238

7,925,879

—


(A)

SHREWSBURY SHOPPING CENTER

1,284,168

5,284,853

4,506,918

1,284,168

9,791,771

11,075,939

1,426,249

9,649,690

—


(A)

CLUB CENTRE AT PIKESVILLE

1,630,003

5,354,041

(67,088

)

1,626,003

5,716,588

7,342,591

963,013

6,379,578

4,925,190


(A)

WILDE LAKE

1,468,038

5,869,862

93,315

1,468,038

5,963,177

7,431,214

730,641

6,700,574

—


(A)

LYNX LANE

1,019,035

4,091,894

85,071

1,019,035

4,176,965

5,196,000

530,563

4,665,437

—


(A)

CLINTON BANK BUILDING

141,964

466,369

(200,070

)

82,964

362,370

445,335

145,003

300,331

—


(A)

CLINTON BOWL

39,779

130,716

(6,141

)

38,779

135,963

174,742

62,263

112,479

—


(A)

VILLAGES AT URBANA

3,190,074

6,067

8,562,954

4,828,774

6,930,322

11,759,096

—

11,759,096

—


(A)

GAITHERSBURG

244,890

6,787,534

264,386

244,890

7,051,920

7,296,810

1,263,721

6,033,089

—


(A)

HAGERSTOWN

541,389

2,165,555

2,064,346

541,389

4,229,901

4,771,290

2,310,698

2,460,592

—


(C)

SHAWAN PLAZA

4,500,000

21,859,285

(2,815,081

)

4,466,000

20,764,459

25,230,459

3,111,073

22,119,386

12,783,946


(A)

LAUREL

349,562

1,398,250

1,017,085

349,562

2,415,335

2,764,897

829,917

1,934,980

—


(A)

LAUREL

274,580

1,100,968

283,421

274,580

1,384,389

1,658,969

1,238,294

420,675

—


(C)

SOUTHWEST MIXED USE
PROPERTY

403,034

1,325,126

173,667

361,034

1,646,035

2,007,069

648,604

1,358,465

—


(A)

NORTH EAST STATION

—

—

869,385

869,385

—

869,385

—

869,385

—


(A)

OWINGS MILLS PLAZA

303,911

1,370,221

42,483

303,911

1,412,704

1,716,615

33,707

1,682,908

—


(A)

PERRY HALL

3,733,309

12,245,774

(843,035

)

3,339,309

11,839,740

15,179,048

2,002,237

13,176,811

5,274,165


(A)

TIMONIUM SHOPPING CENTER

6,000,000

24,282,998

6,897,299

7,331,195

32,185,642

39,516,837

7,410,134

32,106,703

9,165,899


(A)

WALDORF BOWL

225,099

739,362

25,548

235,099

813,688

1,048,787

151,905

896,882

—


(A)

WALDORF FIRESTONE

73,127

240,625

(54,099

)

57,127

221,621

278,748

42,958

235,791

—


(A)

BANGOR, ME

403,833

1,622,331

93,752

403,833

1,716,083

2,119,916

219,039

1,900,878

—


(A)

MALLSIDE PLAZA

6,930,996

16,172,325

—

6,930,996

17,650,938

24,581,935

476,784

24,105,150

—


(A)

CLAWSON

1,624,771

6,578,142

2,788,198

1,624,771

9,366,340

10,991,111

2,846,947

8,144,164

—


(A)

WHITE LAKE

2,300,050

9,249,607

1,684,082

2,300,050

10,933,689

13,233,739

2,915,470

10,318,269

—


(A)



INITIAL COST

TOTAL COST,

DATE OF

BUILDING AND

SUBSEQUENT

BUILDINGS AND

ACCUMULATED

NET OF ACCUMULATED

CONSTRUCTION(C)

PROPERTIES

LAND

IMPROVEMENT

TO ACQUISITION

LAND

IMPROVEMENTS

TOTAL

DEPRECIATION

DEPRECIATION

ENCUMBRANCES

ACQUISITION(A)

CANTON TWP PLAZA

163,740

926,150

334,254

163,740

1,260,403

1,424,144

19,293

1,404,851

—


(A)

CLINTON TWP PLAZA

175,515

714,279

56,952

175,515

771,231

946,746

22,230

924,516

—


(A)

DEARBORN HEIGHTS PLAZA

162,319

497,791

(59,383

)

135,889

464,839

600,728

12,450

588,278

—


(A)

FARMINGTON

1,098,426

4,525,723

2,889,118

1,098,426

7,414,841

8,513,267

2,090,319

6,422,948

—


(A)

GRAND RAPIDS PLAZA

74,898

429,076

34,050

74,898

463,126

538,025

30,959

507,065

—


(A)

LIVONIA

178,785

925,818

812,303

178,785

1,738,121

1,916,906

763,546

1,153,360

—


(C)

LANSING PLAZA

245,014

406,349

102,534

245,014

508,883

753,897

11,032

742,865

—


(A)

MUSKEGON

391,500

958,500

825,035

391,500

1,783,535

2,175,035

1,488,281

686,754

—


(A)

OKEMOS PLAZA

166,706

591,193

134,569

166,706

725,762

892,468

10,032

882,436

1,094,978


(A)

TAYLOR

1,451,397

5,806,263

275,289

1,451,397

6,081,552

7,532,949

2,012,126

5,520,824

—


(A)

WALKER

3,682,478

14,730,060

1,919,480

3,682,478

16,649,540

20,332,018

5,297,052

15,034,966

—


(A)

EDEN PRAIRIE PLAZA

882,596

911,373

132,722

882,596

1,044,094

1,926,690

23,756

1,902,934

—


(A)

FOUNTAINS AT ARBOR LAKES

28,585,296

66,699,024

—

28,585,296

72,797,220

101,382,516

—

101,382,516

—


(A)

ROSEVILLE PLAZA

132,842

957,340

257,487

132,842

1,214,827

1,347,669

19,734

1,327,936

—


(A)

ST. PAUL PLAZA

699,916

623,966

149,427

699,916

773,393

1,473,310

12,469

1,460,841

—


(A)

BRIDGETON

—

2,196,834

—

—

2,196,834

2,196,834

521,075

1,675,759

—


(A)

CREVE COEUR,
WOODCREST/OLIVE

1,044,598

5,475,623

615,905

960,813

6,175,312

7,136,126

1,306,574

5,829,551

—


(A)

CRYSTAL CITY, MI

—

234,378

—

—

234,378

234,378

49,199

185,179

—


(A)

INDEPENDENCE, NOLAND DR.

1,728,367

8,951,101

106,779

1,731,300

9,054,947

10,786,247

1,946,308

8,839,939

—


(A)

NORTH POINT SHOPPING
CENTER

1,935,380

7,800,746

243,325

1,935,380

8,044,071

9,979,451

1,642,062

8,337,389

6,876,989


(A)

KIRKWOOD

—

9,704,005

10,644,466

—

20,348,471

20,348,471

4,499,026

15,849,445

—


(A)

KANSAS CITY

574,777

2,971,191

246,276

574,777

3,217,467

3,792,244

741,642

3,050,603

—


(A)

LEMAY

125,879

503,510

3,271,994

451,155

3,450,228

3,901,383

642,690

3,258,693

—


(C)

GRAVOIS

1,032,416

4,455,514

10,766,773

1,032,416

15,222,287

16,254,703

6,011,879

10,242,825

—


(C)

ST.
CHARLES-UNDERDEVELOPED
LAND, MO

431,960

—

1,190,814

863,920

758,855

1,622,774

112,813

1,509,961

—


(A)

SPRINGFIELD

2,745,595

10,985,778

5,020,854

2,904,022

15,848,205

18,752,227

4,258,397

14,493,830

—


(A)

KMART PARCEL

905,674

3,666,386

4,933,942

905,674

8,600,328

9,506,002

929,021

8,576,981

2,711,372


(A)

KRC ST. CHARLES

—

550,204

—

—

550,204

550,204

112,862

437,341

—


(A)

ST. LOUIS, CHRISTY BLVD.

809,087

4,430,514

1,574,193

809,087

6,004,707

6,813,794

1,067,753

5,746,041

—


(A)

OVERLAND

—

4,928,677

723,008

—

5,651,685

5,651,685

1,228,803

4,422,882

—


(A)

ST. LOUIS

—

5,756,736

509,242

—

6,265,978

6,265,978

1,431,399

4,834,579

—


(A)

ST. LOUIS

—

2,766,644

93,298

—

2,859,942

2,859,942

665,321

2,194,621

—


(A)

ST. PETERS

1,182,194

7,423,459

6,973,151

1,053,694

14,525,110

15,578,804

4,272,381

11,306,423

—


(A)

SPRINGFIELD,GLENSTONE AVE.

—

608,793

1,706,851

—

2,315,644

2,315,644

364,074

1,951,570

—


(A)

KDI-TURTLE CREEK

11,535,281

—

30,998,666

9,429,577

31,281,970

40,711,547

—

40,711,547

30,866,914


(C)

BURLINGTON COMMERCE PARK

1,330,894

—

(237,042

)

1,093,852

—

1,093,852

—

1,093,852

—


(C)

CHARLOTTE

919,251

3,570,981

1,056,129

919,251

4,627,110

5,546,361

1,318,718

4,227,642

—


(A)

CHARLOTTE

1,783,400

7,139,131

738,843

1,783,400

7,877,974

9,661,374

2,562,894

7,098,480

—


(A)

TYVOLA RD.

—

4,736,345

5,357,991

—

10,094,336

10,094,336

5,526,506

4,567,831

—


(A)

CROSSROADS PLAZA

767,864

3,098,881

—

767,864

3,098,881

3,866,744

437,130

3,429,615

—


(A)

KIMCO CARY 696, INC.

2,180,000

8,756,865

405,993

2,256,799

9,086,059

11,342,858

2,005,422

9,337,436

—


(A)

DURHAM

1,882,800

7,551,576

1,318,543

1,882,800

8,870,119

10,752,919

2,338,380

8,414,539

—


(A)

LANDMARK STATION S.C.

1,200,000

4,808,785

264,027

1,200,000

5,072,812

6,272,812

928,968

5,343,844

—


(A)

HILLSBOROUGH CROSSING

2,750,820

—

(2,231,425

)

519,395

—

519,395

—

519,395

—


(A)

SHOPPES AT MIDWAY
PLANTATION

6,681,212

—

17,215,720

6,393,384

24,451,025

30,844,409

—

30,844,409

25,526,045


(C)

RALEIGH

5,208,885

20,885,792

9,177,798

5,208,885

30,063,590

35,272,475

7,509,272

27,763,203

—


(A)

WAKEFIELD COMMONS II

6,506,450

—

(3,237,167

)

2,357,636

911,647

3,269,283

—

3,269,283

—


(C)

WAKEFIELD CROSSINGS

3,413,932

—

(2,655,215

)

591,362

167,355

758,717

—

758,717

—


(C)

EDGEWATER PLACE

3,150,000

—

8,508,755

3,062,768

8,595,987

11,658,755

—

11,658,755

9,313,298


(C)

WINSTON-SALEM

540,667

719,655

5,064,520

540,667

5,784,175

6,324,842

2,330,546

3,994,295

—


(C)

SORENSON PARK PLAZA

5,104,294

—

21,186,765

4,484,739

32,665,176

37,149,915

—

37,149,915

—


(C)

NEW LONDON CENTER

4,323,827

10,088,930

85,815

4,323,827

11,097,161

15,420,988

443,828

14,977,160

—


(A)

ROCKINGHAM

2,660,915

10,643,660

10,368,382

2,660,915

21,012,042

23,672,957

5,569,404

18,103,553

—


(A)

BRIDGEWATER NJ

1,982,481

(3,666,959

)

3,443,995

1,982,481

5,200,423

7,182,904

2,168,623

5,014,282

—


(C)

BAYONNE BROADWAY

1,434,737

3,347,719

—

1,434,737

6,149,103

7,583,839

383,994

7,199,846

—


(A)

BRICKTOWN PLAZA

344,884

1,008,941

—

344,884

1,008,941

1,353,826

29,050

1,324,775

—


(A)

BRIDGEWATER PLAZA

350,705

1,361,524

101,306

350,705

1,462,830

1,813,535

36,161

1,777,374

—


(A)

CHERRY HILL

2,417,583

6,364,094

1,315,749

2,417,583

7,679,843

10,097,426

4,628,717

5,468,709

—


(C)

MARLTON PIKE

—

4,318,534

—

—

4,318,534

4,318,534

1,144,227

3,174,307

—


(A)

CINNAMINSON

652,123

2,608,491

2,617,003

652,123

5,225,494

5,877,617

1,215,918

4,661,699

—


(A)

DEBTFORD PLAZA

221,316

962,891

3,809,954

930,785

4,063,377

4,994,162

20,590

4,973,572

—


(A)

HILLSBOROUGH

11,886,809

—

(6,880,755

)

5,006,054

—

5,006,054

—

5,006,054

—


(C)

HOLMDEL TOWNE CENTER

10,824,624

43,301,494

920,225

10,824,624

44,221,719

55,046,343

4,509,215

50,537,128

—


(A)

HOLMDEL COMMONS

16,537,556

38,759,952

173,617

16,537,556

42,355,514

58,893,070

4,029,333

54,863,737

—


(A)

HOWELL PLAZA

311,384

1,143,159

372,545

311,384

1,515,704

1,827,088

32,321

1,794,767

—


(A)

KENVILLE PLAZA

385,907

1,209,864


385,907

1,210,777

1,596,684

47,324

1,549,360

—


(A)

STRAUSS DISCOUNT AUTO

1,225,294

91,203

1,528,655

1,228,794

1,616,358

2,845,153

138,195

2,706,957

—


(A)



INITIAL COST

TOTAL COST,

DATE OF

BUILDING AND

SUBSEQUENT

BUILDINGS AND

ACCUMULATED

NET OF ACCUMULATED

CONSTRUCTION(C)

PROPERTIES

LAND

IMPROVEMENT

TO ACQUISITION

LAND

IMPROVEMENTS

TOTAL

DEPRECIATION

DEPRECIATION

ENCUMBRANCES

ACQUISITION(A)

NORTH BRUNSWICK

3,204,978

12,819,912

13,855,228

3,204,978

26,675,140

29,880,118

7,060,995

22,819,123

—


(A)

PISCATAWAY TOWN CENTER

3,851,839

15,410,851

304,718

3,851,839

15,715,569

19,567,408

3,426,430

16,140,978

—


(A)

RIDGEWOOD

450,000

2,106,566

991,591

450,000

3,098,157

3,548,157

821,885

2,726,272

—


(A)

SEA GIRT PLAZA

457,039

1,308,010

126,595

457,039

1,434,605

1,891,644

26,019

1,865,624

—


(A)

WESTMONT

601,655

2,404,604

9,714,226

601,655

12,118,830

12,720,485

2,895,750

9,824,735

—


(A)

WEST LONG BRANCH PLAZA

64,976

1,700,782

134,157

64,976

1,834,939

1,899,915

9,021

1,890,894

—


(A)

SYCAMORE PLAZA

1,404,443

5,613,270

258,749

1,404,443

5,872,019

7,276,462

1,391,821

5,884,641

—


(A)

PLAZA PASEO DEL-NORTE

4,653,197

18,633,584

408,760

4,653,197

19,042,344

23,695,541

4,193,272

19,502,268

—


(A)

JUAN TABO, ALBUQUERQUE

1,141,200

4,566,817

293,273

1,141,200

4,860,090

6,001,290

1,033,782

4,967,508

—


(A)

COMP USA CENTER

2,581,908

5,798,092

—

2,581,908

6,199,596

8,781,504

1,093,128

7,688,376

3,625,367


(A)

DEL MONTE PLAZA

2,489,429

5,590,415

—

2,489,429

5,609,915

8,099,344

250,528

7,848,817

4,780,807


(A)

KEY BANK BUILDING

1,500,000

40,834,553

—

1,500,000

40,834,553

42,334,553

890,898

41,443,656

34,728,563


(A)

BRIDGEHAMPTON

1,811,752

3,107,232

23,212,279

1,811,752

26,319,511

28,131,263

10,736,369

17,394,893

—


(C)

TWO GUYS AUTO GLASS

105,497

436,714

—

105,497

436,714

542,211

41,964

500,247

—


(A)

GENOVESE DRUG STORE

564,097

2,268,768

—

564,097

2,268,768

2,832,865

218,446

2,614,419

—


(A)

KINGS HIGHWAY

2,743,820

6,811,268

91,934

2,743,820

7,681,681

10,425,501

639,118

9,786,383

2,995,114


(A)

HOMEPORT-RALPH AVENUE

4,414,466

11,339,857

29,407

4,414,466

14,416,868

18,831,334

910,281

17,921,053

6,423,450


(A)

BAYRIDGE

2,569,768

6,251,197

7,910

2,569,768

12,419,230

14,988,997

740,373

14,248,625

4,063,657


(A)

BELLMORE

1,272,269

3,183,547

—

1,272,269

3,565,350

4,837,619

268,517

4,569,102

994,679


(A)

STRAUSS CASTLE HILL PLAZA

310,864

725,350


310,864

967,178

1,278,042

38,435

1,239,607

—


(A)

STRAUSS UTICA AVENUE

347,633

811,144

—

347,633

1,081,575

1,429,208

42,982

1,386,226

—


(A)

MARKET AT BAY SHORE

12,359,621

30,707,802

—

12,359,621

33,344,521

45,704,142

1,228,332

44,475,810

15,743,692


(A)

KING KULLEN PLAZA

5,968,082

23,243,404

872,739

5,968,082

24,116,143

30,084,225

5,792,380

24,291,846

—


(A)

KDI-CENTRAL ISLIP TOWN
CENTER

13,733,950

1,266,050

(4,055,273

)

5,088,852

5,855,875

10,944,727

—

10,944,727

9,380,000


(C)

PATHMARK SC

6,714,664

17,359,161

—

6,714,664

18,791,623

25,506,287

426,342

25,079,945

7,556,933


(A)

ELMONT

3,011,658

7,606,066

12,500

3,011,658

9,791,389

12,803,047

711,448

12,091,599

3,674,675


(A)

ELMONT PLAZA

—

230,118

2,097,597

—

2,327,715

2,327,715

—

2,327,715

—


(A)

FRANKLIN SQUARE

1,078,541

2,516,581

—

1,078,541

5,148,300

6,226,841

317,098

5,909,742

—


(A)

HAMPTON BAYS

1,495,105

5,979,320

200,028

1,495,105

6,179,348

7,674,453

3,295,931

4,378,522

—


(A)

HICKSVILLE

3,542,739

8,266,375

—

3,542,739

9,346,754

12,889,493

689,168

12,200,325

—


(A)

STRAUSS LIBERTY AVENUE

305,969

713,927

—

305,969

952,623

1,258,592

37,112

1,221,479

—


(A)

DOUGLASTON SHOPPING CENTER

3,277,254

13,161,218

54,282

3,277,254

13,215,500

16,492,754

1,268,659

15,224,095

—


(A)

STRAUSS MERRICK BLVD

450,582

1,051,359

—

450,582

1,402,872

1,853,454

55,750

1,797,704

—


(A)

MANHASSET VENTURE LLC

4,567,003

19,165,808

25,643,839

4,421,939

44,954,711

49,376,650

6,967,831

42,408,819

—


(A)

MASPETH QUEENS-DUANE READE

1,872,013

4,827,940

—

1,872,013

5,759,126

7,631,139

395,421

7,235,718

2,919,604


(A)

MASSAPEQUA

1,880,816

4,388,549

10,400

1,880,816

5,340,410

7,221,226

430,160

6,791,066

—


(A)

STRAUSS EAST 14TH STREET

1,455,653

3,396,523

—

1,455,653

4,523,534

5,979,187

176,226

5,802,961

—


(A)

367-369 BLEEKER STREET

1,425,000

4,958,097

(1,015,820

)

1,051,787

4,315,490

5,367,277

114,105

5,253,172

1,208,509


(A)

92 PERRY STREET

2,106,250

6,318,750

1,079,222

2,106,250

7,397,972

9,504,222

313,184

9,191,038

6,850,000


(A)

37 GREENWICH STREET

800,000

2,400,000

820,652

800,000

3,220,652

4,020,652

164,164

3,856,488

2,208,125


(A)

82 CHRISTOPHER STREET

972,813

2,974,676

262,894

972,813

3,237,570

4,210,382

88,521

4,121,861

3,080,995


(A)

625 BROADWAY

11,171,756

26,107,291

—

11,171,756

26,107,291

37,279,047

642,577

36,636,470

27,750,000


(A)

387 BLEEKER STREET

925,875

3,072,608

—

925,875

3,072,608

3,998,483

67,252

3,931,232

2,960,000


(A)

19 GREENWICH STREET

1,262,500

3,930,801

—

1,262,500

3,930,801

5,193,301

32,287

5,161,014

4,040,000


(A)

PREF. EQUITY 100 VANDAM

5,125,000

16,143,321

—

5,125,000

16,143,321

21,268,321

70,086

21,198,235

16,400,000


(A)

AMERICAN MUFFLER SHOP

76,056

325,567

—

76,056

325,567

401,624

31,216

370,408

—


(A)

PLAINVIEW

263,693

584,031

9,737,515

263,693

10,321,546

10,585,239

3,865,239

6,720,000

—


(C)

POUGHKEEPSIE

876,548

4,695,659

12,592,263

876,548

17,287,922

18,164,470

6,602,635

11,561,835

—


(C)

STRAUSS JAMAICA AVENUE

1,109,714

2,589,333

—

1,109,714

3,185,511

4,295,225

124,032

4,171,193

—


(A)

SYOSSET, NY

106,655

76,197

1,572,763

106,655

1,542,305

1,648,960

743,561

905,398

—


(C)

STATEN ISLAND

2,280,000

9,027,951

5,111,389

2,280,000

14,139,340

16,419,340

6,584,158

9,835,182

—


(A)

STATEN ISLAND

2,940,000

11,811,964

979,416

3,148,424

12,582,956

15,731,380

2,871,010

12,860,370

1,026,036


(A)

STATEN ISLAND PLAZA

5,600,744

6,788,460

206,870

5,600,744

6,995,330

12,596,073

63,076

12,532,997

—


(A)

HYLAN PLAZA

28,723,536

38,232,267

—

28,723,536

71,565,974

100,289,510

3,737,195

96,552,315

—


(A)

STOP N SHOP STATEN ISLAND

4,558,592

10,441,408

—

4,558,592

10,597,256

15,155,848

761,060

14,394,788

—


(A)

WEST GATES

1,784,718

9,721,970

(2,043,308

)

1,784,718

7,678,662

9,463,380

3,151,151

6,312,228

—


(A)

WHITE PLAINS

1,777,775

4,453,894

92,200

1,777,775

6,461,999

8,239,774

556,070

7,683,704

3,660,577


(A)

YONKERS

871,977

3,487,909

—

871,977

3,487,909

4,359,886

1,028,858

3,331,028

—


(A)

STRAUSS ROMAINE AVENUE

782,459

1,825,737

—

782,459

2,436,158

3,218,617

96,813

3,121,804

—


(A)

AKRON WATERLOO

437,277

1,912,222

4,113,885

437,277

6,026,107

6,463,384

2,432,440

4,030,944

—


(C)

WEST MARKET ST.

560,255

3,909,430

230,155

560,255

4,139,585

4,699,840

2,289,775

2,410,065

—


(A)

BARBERTON

505,590

1,948,135

3,326,621

505,590

5,274,756

5,780,346

2,226,968

3,553,378

—


(C)

BRUNSWICK

771,765

6,058,560

852,717

771,765

6,911,277

7,683,042

5,734,804

1,948,238

—


(C)

BEAVERCREEK

635,228

3,024,722

3,082,832

635,228

6,107,554

6,742,782

4,121,534

2,621,249

—


(A)

CANTON

792,985

1,459,031

4,695,392

792,985

6,154,423

6,947,408

3,816,062

3,131,346

—


(C)

CAMBRIDGE

—

1,848,195

944,192

473,060

2,319,327

2,792,387

1,970,902

821,485

—


(C)

MORSE RD.

835,386

2,097,600

2,755,845

835,386

4,853,445

5,688,831

2,533,696

3,155,135

—


(A)



INITIAL COST

TOTAL COST,

DATE OF

BUILDING AND

SUBSEQUENT

BUILDINGS AND

ACCUMULATED

NET OF ACCUMULATED

CONSTRUCTION(C)

PROPERTIES

LAND

IMPROVEMENT

TO ACQUISITION

LAND

IMPROVEMENTS

TOTAL

DEPRECIATION

DEPRECIATION

ENCUMBRANCES

ACQUISITION(A)

HAMILTON RD.

856,178

2,195,520

3,844,831

856,178

6,040,351

6,896,529

2,988,260

3,908,269

—


(A)

OLENTANGY RIVER RD.

764,517

1,833,600

2,340,830

764,517

4,174,430

4,938,947

2,607,867

2,331,080

—


(A)

W. BROAD ST.

982,464

3,929,856

3,177,920

969,804

7,120,436

8,090,240

3,472,437

4,617,803

—


(A)

RIDGE ROAD

1,285,213

4,712,358

10,596,361

1,285,213

15,308,719

16,593,932

3,704,743

12,889,189

—


(A)

GLENWAY AVE

530,243

3,788,189

527,010

530,243

4,315,198

4,845,441

2,400,385

2,445,056

—


(A)

SPRINGDALE

3,205,653

14,619,732

5,281,146

3,205,653

19,900,878

23,106,531

8,429,273

14,677,258

—


(A)

GLENWAY CROSSING

699,359

3,112,047

1,232,339

699,359

4,344,386

5,043,745

606,756

4,436,989

—


(A)

HIGHLAND RIDGE PLAZA

1,540,000

6,178,398

141,991

1,540,000

6,320,389

7,860,389

1,144,372

6,716,017

—


(A)

HIGHLAND PLAZA

702,074

667,463

62,771

702,074

730,234

1,432,308

16,045

1,416,263

—


(A)

MONTGOMERY PLAZA

530,893

1,302,656

101,300

530,893

1,403,956

1,934,849

37,625

1,897,224

—


(A)

SHILOH SPRING RD.

—

1,735,836

2,115,145

—

3,850,981

3,850,981

2,471,209

1,379,772

—


(C)

OAKCREEK

1,245,870

4,339,637

4,247,233

1,245,870

8,586,870

9,832,740

4,835,711

4,997,029

—


(A)

SALEM AVE.

665,314

347,818

5,427,664

665,314

5,775,482

6,440,796

2,775,623

3,665,173

—


(A)

KETTERING

1,190,496

4,761,984

681,244

1,190,496

5,443,228

6,633,724

2,961,406

3,672,318

—


(A)

KENT, OH

6,254

3,028,914

—

6,254

3,028,914

3,035,168

1,382,403

1,652,766

—


(A)

KENT

2,261,530

—

—

2,261,530

—

2,261,530

—

2,261,530

—


(A)

MENTOR

503,981

2,455,926

2,141,841

480,945

4,620,804

5,101,748

2,115,976

2,985,773

—


(A)

MIDDLEBURG HEIGHTS

639,542

3,783,096

1,794,990

639,542

5,578,085

6,217,627

2,339,453

3,878,174

—


(A)

MENTOR ERIE COMMONS.

2,234,474

9,648,000

5,226,308

2,234,474

14,874,308

17,108,782

6,185,190

10,923,593

—


(A)

MALLWOODS CENTER

294,232

—

(496,786

)

294,232

1,184,543

1,478,775

126,755

1,352,020

—


(C)

NORTH OLMSTED

626,818

3,712,045

35,000

626,818

3,747,045

4,373,862

1,941,540

2,432,323

—


(A)

ORANGE OHIO

3,783,875

—

(2,494,268

)

921,704

367,904

1,289,608

—

1,289,608

—


(C)

UPPER ARLINGTON

504,256

2,198,476

8,858,290

1,255,544

10,305,478

11,561,022

6,069,265

5,491,757

—


(C)

WICKLIFFE

610,991

2,471,965

1,412,913

610,991

3,884,878

4,495,869

1,069,035

3,426,834

—


(A)

CHARDON ROAD

481,167

5,947,751

2,116,096

481,167

8,063,846

8,545,014

2,891,592

5,653,422

—


(A)

WESTERVILLE

1,050,431

4,201,616

7,674,134

1,050,431

11,875,750

12,926,181

4,357,398

8,568,783

—


(A)

EDMOND

477,036

3,591,493

8,900

477,036

3,600,393

4,077,429

819,267

3,258,162

—


(A)

CENTENNIAL PLAZA

4,650,634

18,604,307

1,195,555

4,650,634

19,799,862

24,450,496

4,473,623

19,976,873

—


(A)

TULSA

20,038

80,101

11,500

20,038

91,601

111,639

31,540

80,099

—


(A)

KDI-MCMINNVILLE

4,062,327

—

15,575

4,062,327

15,575

4,077,902

—

4,077,902

—


(C)

ALLEGHENY

—

30,061,177

59,094

—

30,120,271

30,120,271

1,787,030

28,333,241

—


(A)

CHIPPEWA

2,881,525

11,526,101

153,289

2,881,525

11,679,390

14,560,916

2,076,287

12,484,629

10,133,416


(A)

BROOKHAVEN PLAZA

254,694

973,318

95,158

254,694

1,068,476

1,323,170

20,978

1,302,192

—


(A)

CARNEGIE

—

3,298,908

17,747

—

3,316,655

3,316,655

595,297

2,721,358

—


(A)

CENTER SQUARE

731,888

2,927,551

1,105,299

731,888

4,032,850

4,764,738

1,103,925

3,660,813

—


(A)

CHAMBERSBURG CROSSING

9,090,288

—

12,228,092

9,090,288

12,228,092

21,318,381

—

21,318,381

—


(C)

WEST MIFFLIN

475,815

1,903,231

724,416

475,815

2,627,647

3,103,462

822,617

2,280,845

—


(A)

EAST STROUDSBURG

1,050,000

2,372,628

1,130,354

1,050,000

3,502,982

4,552,982

2,778,903

1,774,079

—


(C)

EXTON

176,666

4,895,360

—

176,666

4,895,360

5,072,026

878,655

4,193,372

—


(A)

EXTON

731,888

2,927,551

—

731,888

2,927,551

3,659,439

775,677

2,883,762

—


(A)

EASTWICK

889,001

2,762,888

3,074,728

889,001

6,228,275

7,117,276

1,485,463

5,631,813

4,424,640


(A)

EXTON PLAZA

294,378

1,404,778

543,604

294,378

1,948,382

2,242,761

22,247

2,220,513

—


(A)

FEASTERVILLE

520,521

2,082,083

38,692

520,521

2,120,775

2,641,296

549,352

2,091,944

—


(A)

GETTYSBURG

74,626

671,630

101,519

74,626

773,149

847,775

745,069

102,706

—


(A)

HARRISBURG, PA

452,888

6,665,238

3,929,363

452,888

10,594,600

11,047,488

4,940,524

6,106,964

—


(A)

HAMBURG

439,232

—

2,023,428

494,982

1,967,677

2,462,660

239,992

2,222,667

2,468,267


(C)

HAVERTOWN

731,888

2,927,551

73,609

731,888

3,001,160

3,733,048

775,677

2,957,371

—


(A)

NORRISTOWN

686,134

2,664,535

3,417,876

774,084

5,994,461

6,768,545

3,625,355

3,143,190

—


(A)

NEW KENSINGTON

521,945

2,548,322

676,040

521,945

3,224,362

3,746,307

2,800,815

945,492

—


(A)

PHILADELPHIA

731,888

2,927,551

—

731,888

2,927,551

3,659,439

775,677

2,883,762

—


(A)

GALLERY, PHILADELPHIA PA

—

—

258,931

—

258,931

258,931

9,154

249,777

—


(A)

PHILADELPHIA PLAZA

209,197

1,373,843

66,856

209,197

1,440,699

1,649,896

40,827

1,609,068

—


(A)

STRAUSS WASHINGTON AVENUE

424,659

990,872

—

424,659

1,459,693

1,884,352

58,068

1,826,285

—


(A)

RICHBORO

788,761

3,155,044

11,865,661

976,439

14,833,027

15,809,466

6,775,418

9,034,047

—


(A)

SPRINGFIELD

919,998

4,981,589

1,736,014

919,998

6,717,603

7,637,601

4,684,638

2,952,964

—


(A)

UPPER DARBY

231,821

927,286

4,859,638

231,821

5,715,674

5,947,495

1,344,901

4,602,594

3,476,502


(A)

WEST MIFFLIN

1,468,341

—

—

1,468,341

—

1,468,341

—

1,468,341

—


(A)

WHITEHALL

—

5,195,577

9,231

—

5,204,808

5,204,808

1,376,607

3,828,201

—


(A)

E. PROSPECT ST.

604,826

2,755,314

317,917

604,826

3,073,231

3,678,057

2,880,268

797,789

—


(A)

W. MARKET ST.

188,562

1,158,307

—

188,562

1,158,307

1,346,869

1,158,307

188,562

—


(A)

REXVILLE TOWN CENTER

24,872,982.01

48,688,161

—

24,872,982

53,998,328

78,871,310

377,877

78,493,433

42,451,136


(A)

PLAZA CENTRO — COSTCO

3,627,973.00

10,752,213

—

3,627,973

11,974,834

15,602,807

795,800

14,807,006

—


(A)

PLAZA CENTRO — MALL

19,873,263.00

58,719,179

—

19,873,263

65,414,868

85,288,131

4,358,182

80,929,949

—


(A)

PLAZA CENTRO — RETAIL

5,935,566.00

16,509,748

—

5,935,566

18,384,355

24,319,921

1,220,763

23,099,158

—


(A)

PLAZA CENTRO — SAM’S CLUB

6,643,224.27

20,224,758

—

6,643,224

20,224,758

26,867,982

1,262,925

25,605,057

—


(A)

LOS COLOBOS — BUILDERS
SQUARE

4,404,593.26

9,627,903

—

4,404,593

9,627,903

14,032,497

363,367

13,669,130

7,304,699


(A)

LOS COLOBOS — KMART

4,594,943.60

10,120,147

—

4,594,944

12,644,125

17,239,069

379,270

16,859,799

7,315,466


(A)



INITIAL COST

TOTAL COST,

DATE OF

BUILDING AND

SUBSEQUENT

BUILDINGS AND

ACCUMULATED

NET OF ACCUMULATED

CONSTRUCTION(C)

PROPERTIES

LAND

IMPROVEMENT

TO ACQUISITION

LAND

IMPROVEMENTS

TOTAL

DEPRECIATION

DEPRECIATION

ENCUMBRANCES

ACQUISITION(A)

LOS COLOBOS I

12,890,882.27

26,046,669

—

12,890,882

26,046,669

38,937,551

1,640,275

37,297,276

—


(A)

LOS COLOBOS II

14,893,698.00

30,680,556

—

14,893,698

33,704,508

48,598,206

2,204,131

46,394,075

—


(A)

WESTERN PLAZA — MAYAQUEZ
ONE

10,857,773.27

12,252,522

—

10,857,773

12,252,522

23,110,295

338,166

22,772,129

9,678,724


(A)

WESTERN PLAZA — MAYAGUEZ
TWO

16,874,344.73

19,911,045

—

16,874,345

19,911,045

36,785,390

945,733

35,839,657

18,953,139


(A)

MANATI VILLA MARIA SC

2,781,446.91

5,673,119

—

2,781,447

6,276,755

9,058,202

315,766

8,742,436

5,213,411


(A)

PONCE TOWN CENTER

14,432,778.36

28,448,754

—

14,432,778

31,550,757

45,983,535

257,627

45,725,908

24,760,654


(A)

TRUJILLO ALTO PLAZA

12,053,673.25

24,445,858

—

12,053,673

24,445,858

36,499,532

786,770

35,712,762

15,058,522


(A)

MARSHALL PLAZA, CRANSTON
RI

1,886,600

7,575,302

1,159,684

1,886,600

8,734,986

10,621,586

1,952,235

8,669,351

—


(A)

CHARLESTON

730,164

3,132,092

5,200,440

730,164

8,332,532

9,062,696

3,238,723

5,823,973

—


(C)

CHARLESTON

1,744,430

6,986,094

4,200,489

1,744,430

11,186,583

12,931,013

2,832,039

10,098,974

—


(A)

FLORENCE

1,465,661

6,011,013

124,757

1,465,661

6,135,770

7,601,431

1,456,806

6,144,625

—


(A)

GREENVILLE

2,209,812

8,850,864

2,728,910

2,209,812

11,579,774

13,789,586

2,095,501

11,694,084

—


(A)

NORTH CHARLESTON

744,093

2,974,990

96,365

744,093

3,071,355

3,815,448

508,558

3,306,890

1,805,315


(A)

N. CHARLESTON

2,965,748

11,895,294

1,106,031

2,965,748

13,001,325

15,967,073

2,771,980

13,195,093

—


(A)

KDI-HARPETH VILLAGE SC

4,119,997

—

7,854,978

4,119,997

7,854,978

11,974,975

—

11,974,975

10,822,492


(C)

MADISON

—

4,133,904

2,740,302

—

6,874,206

6,874,206

4,649,731

2,224,475

—


(C)

HICKORY RIDGE COMMONS

596,347

2,545,033

7,624

596,347

2,552,656

3,149,004

423,641

2,725,362

—


(A)

TROLLEY STATION

3,303,682

13,218,740

56,327

3,303,682

13,275,067

16,578,749

2,800,969

13,777,780

10,058,782


(A)

RIVERGATE STATION

7,135,070

19,091,078

479,413

7,135,070

21,086,144

28,221,214

2,952,468

25,268,746

15,763,373


(A)

MARKET PLACE AT RIVERGATE

2,574,635

10,339,449

723,016

2,574,635

11,062,465

13,637,100

2,404,392

11,232,708

—


(A)

RIVERGATE, TN

3,038,561

12,157,408

2,990,848

3,038,561

15,148,256

18,186,817

2,942,825

15,243,992

—


(A)

CENTER OF THE HILLS, TX

2,923,585

11,706,145

643,559

2,923,585

12,349,704

15,273,289

2,643,970

12,629,319

—


(A)

ARLINGTON

3,160,203

2,285,377

—

3,160,203

2,285,377

5,445,580

536,234

4,909,346

—


(A)

DOWLEN CENTER

2,244,581

—

(1,147,870

)

484,828

611,883

1,096,711

—

1,096,711

1,000


(C)

BURLESON

9,974,390

810,314

1,202,906

4,035,540

7,952,071

11,987,611

—

11,987,611

—


(C)

BAYTOWN

500,422

2,431,651

437,342

500,422

2,868,993

3,369,415

689,091

2,680,323

—


(A)

LAS TIENDAS PLAZA

8,678,107

—

12,845,144

8,678,107

16,055,029

24,733,136

—

24,733,136

—


(C)

CORPUS CHRISTI, TX

—

944,562

3,207,999

—

4,152,561

4,152,561

574,225

3,578,336

—


(A)

DALLAS

1,299,632

5,168,727

6,458,500

1,299,632

11,627,227

12,926,859

9,177,177

3,749,682

—


(C)

MONTGOMERY PLAZA

6,203,205

—

55,352,474

6,203,205

55,352,474

61,555,679

—

61,555,679

46,617,703


(C)

PRESTON LEBANON CROSSING

13,552,180

—

1,248,546

13,552,180

1,248,546

14,800,726

—

14,800,726

—


(C)

KDI-LAKE PRAIRIE TOWN
CROSSING

7,897,491

—

8,700,164

7,897,491

8,700,164

16,597,655

—

16,597,655

10,547,333


(C)

CENTER AT BAYBROOK

6,941,017

27,727,491

3,733,191

7,063,186

31,338,513

38,401,699

6,126,072

32,275,627

—


(A)

HARRIS COUNTY

1,843,000

7,372,420

986,803

2,003,260

8,198,963

10,202,223

1,914,254

8,287,969

—


(A)

SHARPSTOWN COURT

1,560,010

6,245,807

238,807

1,560,010

6,484,613

8,044,623

1,292,762

6,751,861

5,550,073


(A)

CYPRESS TOWNE CENTER

6,033,932

—

1,018,165

2,609,606

4,442,490

7,052,097

—

7,052,097

—


(C)

SHOPS AT VISTA RIDGE

3,257,199

13,029,416

145,900

3,257,199

13,175,316

16,432,515

2,904,274

13,528,241

17,050,406


(A)

VISTA RIDGE PLAZA

2,926,495

11,716,483

1,959,391

2,926,495

13,675,874

16,602,369

2,850,781

13,751,588

—


(A)

VISTA RIDGE PHASE II

2,276,575

9,106,300

55,435

2,276,575

9,161,735

11,438,310

1,911,471

9,526,839

—


(A)

SOUTH PLAINES PLAZA, TX

1,890,000

7,577,145

(34,040

)

1,890,000

7,543,105

9,433,105

1,725,914

7,707,191

—


(A)

LAKE WORTH TOWNE CROSSING

8,000,000

—

(8,065,668

)

200,000

(265,668

)

(65,668

)

—

(65,668

)

—


(C)

MESQUITE

520,340

2,081,356

752,043

520,340

2,833,399

3,353,739

815,589

2,538,151

—


(A)

MESQUITE TOWN CENTER

3,757,324

15,061,644

1,510,446

3,757,324

16,572,090

20,329,414

3,580,098

16,749,315

—


(A)

NEW BRAUNSFELS

840,000

3,360,000

—

840,000

3,360,000

4,200,000

302,099

3,897,901

—


(A)

FORUM AT OLYMPIA
PARKWAY-DEV

668,781

—

(8,488,052

)

—

(195,000

)

(195,000

)

—

(195,000

)

—


(C)

PARKER PLAZA

7,846,946

—

—

7,846,946

—

7,846,946

—

7,846,946

—


(C)

PLANO

500,414

2,830,835

—

500,414

2,830,835

3,331,249

738,437

2,592,812

—


(A)

WEST OAKS

500,422

2,001,687

26,291

500,422

2,027,978

2,528,400

562,435

1,965,966

—


(A)

MARKET STREET AT WOODLANDS

10,920,168

—

95,312,000

10,920,168

95,312,000

106,232,168

—

106,232,168

72,750,000


(C)

OGDEN

213,818

855,275

3,642,126

874,898

4,497,401

5,372,299

1,442,037

3,930,263

—


(C)

COLONIAL HEIGHTS

125,376

3,476,073

32,420

125,376

3,508,493

3,633,869

631,045

3,002,824

—


(A)

MANASSAS

1,788,750

7,162,661

328,193

1,788,750

7,490,854

9,279,604

1,770,537

7,509,067

—


(A)

RICHMOND

82,544

2,289,288

280,600

82,544

2,569,889

2,652,432

301,113

2,351,319

—


(A)

RICHMOND

670,500

2,751,375

—

670,500

2,751,375

3,421,875

634,132

2,787,743

—


(A)

VALLEY VIEW SHOPPING
CENTER

3,440,018

8,054,004

—

3,440,018

8,787,875

12,227,893

652,215

11,575,678

—


(A)

MANCHESTER SHOPPING CENTER

2,722,461

6,403,866

(3,694

)

2,722,461

6,980,964

9,703,425

948,172

8,755,253

—


(A)

HAZEL DELL TOWNE CENTER

9,340,819

—

31,982,471

9,248,310

32,074,981

41,323,290

—

41,323,290

28,851,573


(C)

CHARLES TOWN

602,000

3,725,871

10,528,897

602,000

14,254,768

14,856,768

6,591,442

8,265,325

—


(A)

MARTINSBURG

242,634

1,273,828

628,937

242,634

1,902,765

2,145,399

1,684,421

460,978

—


(A)

RIVERWALK PLAZA

2,708,290

10,841,674

132,299

2,708,290

10,973,973

13,682,263

2,217,703

11,464,560

—


(A)

BLUE RIDGE

12,346,900

71,529,796

(2,182,806

)

8,722,990

72,970,900

81,693,890

10,022,052

71,671,838

15,099,760


(A)

MEXICO-MEXICALI-BAJA
WALMART

12,332,348

—

295,722

12,332,348

295,722

12,628,069

—

12,628,069

—


(C)

MEXICO- MOTOROLA

47,272,528

—

948,703

47,272,528

948,703

48,221,231

—

48,221,231

—


(C)

MEXICO-WAL-MART JUAREZ II

8,895,242

—

—

8,895,242

—

8,895,242

—

8,895,242

—


(C)

MEXICO-LINDAVISTA

19,352,453

—

3,816,316

19,352,453

3,816,316

23,168,769

—

23,168,769

—


(C)

MEXICO- SAN PEDRO

3,309,654

13,238,616

—

3,309,654

13,238,616

16,548,270

—

16,548,270

—


(A)

MEXICO-CUAUTLA

7,570,049

—

—

7,570,049

—

7,570,049

—

7,570,049

—


(C)



INITIAL COST

TOTAL COST,

DATE OF

BUILDING AND

SUBSEQUENT

BUILDINGS AND

ACCUMULATED

NET OF ACCUMULATED

CONSTRUCTION(C)

PROPERTIES

LAND

IMPROVEMENT

TO ACQUISITION

LAND

IMPROVEMENTS

TOTAL

DEPRECIATION

DEPRECIATION

ENCUMBRANCES

ACQUISITION(A)

MEXICO-NUEVO LAREDO

10,627,540

—

—

10,627,540

—

10,627,540

—

10,627,540

—


(C)

MEXICO — PACHUCA WAL-MART

3,621,985

—

6,727,594

3,870,291

6,479,288

10,349,579

256,057

10,093,522

—


(C)

MEXICO-SAN LUIS POTOSI

5,787,073

6,860,642

378,729

6,152,067

6,874,377

13,026,444

627,546

12,398,898

—


(A)

MEXICO- SALTILLO II

11,150,023

—

20,328,926

11,365,226

20,113,723

31,478,949

158,906

31,320,043

—


(C)

MEXICO-PLAZA SAN JUAN

9,631,035

—

859,123

9,631,035

859,123

10,490,158

—

10,490,158

—


(C)

MEXICO- TECAMAC II

9,472,195

—

743,765

9,472,195

743,765

10,215,960

—

10,215,960

—


(C)

BALANCE OF PORTFOLIO

99,452,005

4,492,127

84,271,579

101,652,305

58,819,925

160,472,230

18,994,560

141,477,670

—

VARIOUS

$

1,460,714,635

$

4,540,604,390

$

6,001,319,025

$

806,670,237

$

5,194,648,788

$

838,898,291

Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:

Buildings

to 50 years

Fixtures, building and leasehold improvements

Terms of leases or useful lives, whichever is shorter

(including certain identified intangible assets)

The aggregate cost for Federal income tax purposes was approximately $ 5.3 billion at December 31, 2006.

The changes in total real estate assets for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 are as
follows:




Balance, beginning of period

$

4,560,405,547

$

4,092,222,479

$

4,174,664,893

Acquisitions

2,719,840,791

490,125,913

672,421,546

Improvements

505,353,494

410,280,045

195,580,447

Transfers from (to) unconsolidated joint ventures

(1,358,078,215

)

(103,573,817

)

(748,974,957

)

Sales

(421,493,264

)

(299,944,373

)

(193,948,762

)

Assets held for sale

(4,709,328

)

(28,704,700

)

(4,555,688

)

Adjustment of property carrying values

—

—

(2,965,000

)

Balance, end of period

$

6,001,319,025

$

4,560,405,547

$

4,092,222,479

The changes in accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 are as
follows:




Balance, beginning of period

$

740,127,307

$

634,641,781

$

568,988,445

Depreciation for year

138,279,032

98,591,658

96,584,738

Transfers from (to) unconsolidated joint ventures

(331,447

)

27,812,350

(14,133,515

)

Sales

(69,627,527

)

(19,903,904

)

(15,909,487

)

Assets held for sale

(1,777,128

)

(1,014,578

)

(888,400

)

Balance, end of period

$

806,670,237

$

740,127,307

$

634,641,781

128