
10-K405
ANNUAL REPORT




               UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           Washington, D.C.  20549
                                  FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
 X   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
- ---  ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED] 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998

                                     OR

- ---  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED] 
For the transition period from __________ to __________               

Commission file number 1-10899
                       --------------------------------------------------- 
                           Kimco Realty Corporation
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Maryland                                13-2744380
- -------------------------------     --------------------------------------      
  (State of incorporation)             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

3333 New Hyde Park Road, New Hyde Park, NY            11042-0020
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Address of principal executive offices)                Zip Code

Registrant's telephone number, including area code (516)869-9000 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                              Name of each exchange on
       Title of each class                        which registered  
       -------------------                    ------------------------

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share         New York Stock Exchange 
- --------------------------------------         ------------------------

Depositary Shares, each representing 
one-tenth of a share of 7-3/4% Class A
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, 
par value $1.00 per share.                     New York Stock Exchange 
- --------------------------                     ------------------------

Depositary Shares, each representing 
one-tenth of a share of 8-1/2% Class B
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, 
par value $1.00 per share.                     New York Stock Exchange 
- --------------------------                     ------------------------

Depositary Shares, each representing 
one-tenth of a share of 8-3/8% Class C
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, 
par value $1.00 per share.                     New York Stock Exchange 
- --------------------------                     ------------------------

Depositary Shares, each representing 
one-tenth of a share of 7-1/2% Class D
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, 
par value $1.00 per share.                     New York Stock Exchange 
- --------------------------                     ------------------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                   None
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
                               (Title of class)

         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (i) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (ii) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X  No 
                                             ---    ---
         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  X
                             ---
         The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of
the registrant was approximately $2.0 billion based upon the closing price on
the New York Stock Exchange for such stock on March 1, 1999.

                  (APPLICABLE ONLY TO CORPORATE REGISTRANTS)
         Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's
classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.
                    60,168,783 shares as of March 1, 1999.

                                 Page 1 of 69




                         


                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


Part III incorporates certain information by reference to the Registrant's
definitive proxy statement to be filed with respect to the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders expected to be held on May 20, 1999.

Index to Exhibits begins on page 37.









                              
                                                                        Form
                                                                        10-K
                                                                       Report
Item No.                                                                Page
- --------                                                               ------
                                    PART I

 1.      Business . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4

 2.      Properties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15

 3.      Legal Proceedings. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16

 4.      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  . . . .   16

         Executive Officers of the Registrant . . . . . . . . . . . .   25


                                   PART II

 5.      Market for the Registrant's Common Equity
           and Related Shareholder Matters  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27

 6.      Selected Financial Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28

 7.      Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
           Condition and Results of Operations  . . . . . . . . . . .   30

7A.      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. .  34

 8.      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  . . . . . . . .   34

 9.      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
           Accounting and Financial Disclosure  . . . . . . . . . . .   34



                                   PART III

10.      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant . . . . .   35

11.      Executive Compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35

12.      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
           Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35

13.      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions . . . . . . .   35



                                   PART IV

14.      Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports on
           Form 8-K . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   36








                                    PART I


                          FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS


This annual report on Form 10-K, together with other statements and
information publicly disseminated by Kimco Realty Corporation (the "Company"or
"Kimco") contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company intends such
forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for
forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and include this statement for purposes of complying with
these safe harbor provisions. Forward-looking statements, which are based on
certain assumptions and describe our future plans, strategies and
expectations, are generally identifiable by use of the words "believe,"
"expect," "intend," "anticipate," "estimate," "project" or similar
expressions. You should not rely on forward-looking statements since they
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are, in
some cases, beyond the Company's control and which could materially affect
actual results, performances or achievements. Factors which may cause actual
results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not
limited to,(i) general economic and local real estate conditions, (ii)
financing risks, such as the inability to obtain equity or debt financing on
favorable terms, (iii) changes in governmental laws and regulations, (iv) the
level and volatility of interest rates (v) the availability of suitable
acquisition opportunities and (vi) increases in operating costs. Accordingly,
there is no assurance that the Company's expectations will be realized.

Item 1.  Business

General Kimco Realty Corporation is one of the nation's largest owners and
operators of neighborhood and community shopping centers. As of March 1, 1999,
the Company's portfolio was comprised of 440 property interests including 368
neighborhood and community shopping center properties, two regional malls, 60
retail store leases, three parcels of undeveloped land, one distribution
center, one stand-alone retail warehouse and five projects under development
comprising a total of approximately 57.2 million square feet of leasable space
located in 40 states. The Company believes its portfolio of neighborhood and
community shopping center properties is the largest (measured by gross
leasable area, "GLA") currently held by any publicly-traded real estate
investment trust ("REIT"). The Company is a self-administered REIT and manages
its properties through present management, which has owned and operated
neighborhood and community shopping centers for more than 30 years. The
Company has not engaged, nor does it expect to retain, any REIT advisors in
connection with the operation of its properties.

The Company's executive offices are located at 3333 New Hyde Park Road, New
Hyde Park, New York 11042-0020 and its telephone number is (516)869-9000.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, the term the "Company" as used herein
is intended to include subsidiaries of the Company.

History The Company began operations through its predecessor, The Kimco
Corporation, which was organized in 1966 upon the contribution of several
shopping center properties owned by its principal stockholders. In 1973, these
principals formed the Company as a Delaware corporation, and in 1985, the
operations of The Kimco Corporation were merged into the Company. The Company
completed its initial public stock offering (the "IPO") in November 1991, and
reorganized as a Maryland corporation during 1994.

The Company's growth through its first fifteen years resulted primarily from
the ground-up development and construction of its shopping centers. By 1981,
the Company had assembled a portfolio of 77 properties that provided an
established source of income and positioned the Company for an expansion of
its asset base. At that time, the Company revised its strategy to focus on the
acquisition of existing shopping centers because it believed that better
opportunities existed to create value through the redevelopment and
re-tenanting of existing shopping centers. Furthermore, the Company's
management believed that existing properties with below market-rate leases
were available in the market at attractive prices. As a result of this
strategy, the Company has developed only two of the 291 neighborhood and
community shopping centers added to the portfolio since 1981, as compared with
68 of the 77 properties owned prior to that time.







During 1998, the Company, through a merger transaction, completed the
acquisition of The Price REIT, Inc., a Maryland corporation (the "Price REIT")
(see Recent Developments - Price REIT Merger). Prior to the merger, Price REIT
was a self-administered and self-managed equity REIT that was primarily
focused on the acquisition, development, management and redevelopment of large
retail community shopping center properties concentrated in the western part
of the United States. With the completion of the Price REIT merger, the
Company expanded its presence in certain western states including California,
Arizona and Washington. In addition, Price REIT had strong ground-up
development capabilities. These development capabilities, coupled with the
Company's own construction management expertise, provides the Company, on a
selective basis, the ability to pursue ground-up development opportunities.

Investment and Operating Strategy The Company's investment objective has been
to increase cash flow, current income and, consequently, the value of its
existing portfolio of properties, and to seek continued growth through (i) the
strategic re-tenanting, renovation and expansion of its existing centers, (ii)
the selective acquisition of established income-producing real estate
properties and properties requiring significant re-tenanting and
redevelopment, primarily in neighborhood and community shopping centers and
(iii)the selective acquisition of land parcels for the development of
neighborhood and community shopping centers in geographic regions in which the
Company presently operates. The Company intends to consider investments in
other real estate sectors and in geographic markets where it does not
presently operate should suitable opportunities arise.

The Company's neighborhood and community shopping center properties are
designed to attract local area customers and typically are anchored by a
supermarket, discount department store or drugstore tenant offering day-to-day
necessities rather than high-priced luxury items. The Company may either
purchase or lease income-producing properties in the future, and may also
participate with other entities in property ownership through partnerships,
joint ventures or similar types of co-ownership. Equity investments may be
subject to existing mortgage financing and other indebtedness or such
financing or indebtedness may be incurred in connection with acquiring such
investments. Any such financing or indebtedness will have priority over the
Company's equity interest in such property. The Company may make loans to
joint ventures in which it may or may not participate in the future.

While the Company has historically held its properties for long-term
investment, and accordingly has placed strong emphasis on its ongoing program
of regular maintenance, periodic renovation and capital improvement, it is
possible that properties in the portfolio may be sold, in whole or in part, as
circumstances warrant, subject to REIT qualification rules.

The Company emphasizes equity real estate investments, but may, at its
discretion, invest in mortgages, other real estate interests and other
investments. The mortgages in which the Company may invest may be either first
mortgages, junior mortgages or other mortgage-related securities.

The Company may legally invest in the securities of other issuers, for the
purpose, among others, of exercising control over such entities, subject to
the gross income and asset tests necessary for REIT qualification. The Company
may, on a selective basis, acquire all or substantially all securities or
assets of other REITs or similar entities where such investments would be
consistent with the Company's investment policies. In any event, the Company
does not intend that its investments in securities will require it to register
as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The
Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through
diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its properties and
a large tenant base. At December 31, 1998, the Company's single largest
neighborhood and community shopping center accounted for only 1.5% of the
Company's annualized base rental revenues and only 1.0% of the Company's total
shopping center GLA. At December 31, 1998, the Company's five largest tenants
include Kmart Corporation, The Home Depot, Kohls, Toys/Kids R' Us and TJX
Companies, which represent approximately 13.7%, 3.0%, 2.5%, 1.8% and 1.5%,
respectively, of the Company's annualized base rental revenues.

The Company intends to maintain a conservative debt capitalization with a
ratio of debt to total market capitalization of approximately 50% or less. As
of December 31, 1998, the Company had a debt to total market capitalization
ratio of approximately 32%.







The Company has authority to offer shares of capital stock or other senior
securities in exchange for property and to repurchase or otherwise reacquire
its common stock or any other securities and may engage in such activities in
the future. At all times, the Company intends to make investments in such a
manner as to be consistent with the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), to qualify as a REIT unless, because of
circumstances or changes in the Code (or in Treasury Regulations), the Board
of Directors determines that it is no longer in the best interests of the
Company to qualify as a REIT.

The Company's policies with respect to the aforementioned activities may be
reviewed and modified from time to time by the Company's Board of Directors
without the vote of the Company's stockholders.

Competition As one of the original participants in the growth of the shopping
center industry and one of the nation's largest owners and operators of
neighborhood and community shopping centers, the Company has established close
relationships with a large number of major national and regional retailers and
maintains a broad network of industry contacts. Management is associated with
and/or actively participates in many shopping center and REIT industry
organizations. Notwithstanding these relationships, there are numerous
commercial developers, real estate companies, financial institutions and other
investors that compete with the Company in seeking properties for acquisition
and tenants who will lease space in these properties.

Capital Resources Since the completion of the Company's IPO in 1991, the
Company has utilized the public debt and equity markets as its principal
source of capital. Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional
offerings of its public unsecured debt and equity, raising in the aggregate
over $1.9 billion for the purposes of repaying indebtedness, acquiring
interests in neighborhood and community shopping centers and for expanding and
improving properties in the portfolio.

During August 1998, the Company established a $215 million, unsecured
revolving credit facility, which is scheduled to expire in August 2001. This
credit facility, which replaced both the Company's $100 million unsecured
revolving credit facility and $150 million interim credit facility, has made
available funds to both finance the purchase of properties and meet any
short-term working capital requirements. As of December 31, 1998 there were no
borrowings outstanding under the Company's unsecured revolving credit
facility.

The Company has also implemented a $200 million medium-term notes program (the
"MTN program") pursuant to which it may from time to time offer for sale its
senior unsecured debt for any general corporate purposes, including (i)
funding specific liquidity requirements in its business, including property
acquisitions, development and redevelopment costs, and (ii) managing the
Company's debt maturities. (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

In addition to the public debt and equity markets as capital sources, the
Company may, from time to time, obtain mortgage financing on selected
properties. As of December 31, 1998, the Company had over 300 unencumbered
property interests in its portfolio.

Additionally, on August 31, 1998, the Company filed a shelf registration on
Form S-3 for up to $750 million of debt securities, preferred stock,
depositary shares, common stock and common stock warrants. As of March 1,
1999, the Company had approximately $493.2 million available for issuance
under this shelf registration statement.

It is management's intention that the Company continually have access to the
capital resources necessary to expand and develop its business. Accordingly,
the Company may seek to obtain funds through additional equity offerings,
unsecured debt financings and/or mortgage financings in a manner consistent
with its intention to operate with a conservative debt capitalization policy.

The Company anticipates that cash flows from operations will continue to
provide adequate capital to fund its operating and administrative expenses,
regular debt service obligations and all dividend payments in accordance with
REIT requirements in both the short-term and long-term. In addition, the
Company anticipates that cash on hand, borrowings under its revolving credit
facility, issuance of equity and public debt, as well as other debt and equity
alternatives, will provide the necessary capital required by the Company.






Inflation and Other Business Issues Many of the Company's leases contain
provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation. Such
provisions include clauses enabling the Company to receive payment of
additional rent calculated as a percentage of tenants' gross sales above
predetermined thresholds ("Percentage Rents"), which generally increase as
prices rise, and/or escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates
during the terms of the leases. Such escalation clauses include increases in
the consumer price index or similar inflation indices. In addition, many of
the Company's leases are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits the
Company to seek to increase rents upon renewal to market rates. Most of the
Company's leases require the tenant to pay an allocable share of operating
expenses, including common area maintenance costs, real estate taxes and
insurance, thereby reducing the Company's exposure to increases in costs and
operating expenses resulting from inflation. The Company periodically
evaluates its exposure to short-term interest rates and will, from time to
time, enter into interest rate protection agreements which mitigate, but do
not eliminate, the effect of changes in interest rates on its floating-rate
debt.

As an owner of real estate, the Company is subject to risks arising in
connection with the underlying real estate, including, among other factors,
defaults or nonrenewal of tenant leases, the financial condition and stability
of tenants, retailing trends, environmental matters and changes in real estate
and zoning laws. The success of the Company also depends upon trends in the
economy, including, but not limited to, interest rates, the availability of
financing and capital on satisfactory terms, income tax laws, governmental
regulations and legislation and population trends.

Operating Practices Nearly all operating functions, including leasing, legal,
construction, data processing, maintenance, finance and accounting, are
administered by the Company from its executive offices in New Hyde Park, New
York. The Company believes it is critical to have a management presence in its
principal areas of operation; accordingly, the Company also maintains regional
offices in Boca Raton, Orlando and Tampa, Florida; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania;
Dayton and Cleveland, Ohio; Chicago, Illinois; Charlotte, North Carolina;
Phoenix, Arizona and Los Angeles, California. A total of 199 persons are
employed at the Company's executive and regional offices.

The Company's regional offices are generally staffed by a manager and the
support personnel necessary to both function as local representatives for
leasing and promotional purposes and to complement the corporate office
efforts to ensure that property inspection and maintenance objectives are
achieved. The regional offices are important in reducing the time necessary to
respond to the needs of the Company's tenants. Leasing and maintenance
personnel from the corporate office also conduct regular inspections of each
shopping center.

The Company also employs a total of 59 persons at several of its larger
properties in order to more effectively administer its maintenance and
security responsibilities.

Management Information Systems Virtually all operating activities are
supported by a sophisticated computer software system designed to provide
management with operating data necessary to make informed business decisions
on a timely basis. These proprietary systems are continually expanded and
enhanced by the Company and reflect a commitment to quality management and
tenant relations. The Company has integrated an advanced mid-range computer
with personal computer technology, creating a management information system
that facilitates the development of property cash flow budgets, forecasts and
related management information.

Qualification as a REIT The Company has elected, commencing with its taxable
year which began January 1, 1992, to qualify as a REIT under Sections 856
through 860 of the Code. If, as the Company believes, it is organized and
operates in such a manner so as to qualify and remain qualified as a REIT
under the Code, the Company generally will not be subject to Federal income
tax, provided that distributions to its stockholders equal at least the amount
of its REIT taxable income as defined under the Code.

Recent Developments

Price REIT Merger --

On January 13, 1998, the Company, REIT Sub, Inc., a Maryland corporation and a
wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ("Merger Sub") and Price REIT, signed a
definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger dated January 13, 1998, as amended
March 5, 1998 and May 14, 1998 (the "Merger Agreement"). On June 19, 1998,
upon approval by the shareholders of the Company and Price REIT, Price REIT
was merged into Merger Sub, whereupon the separate existence of Price REIT
ceased (the "Merger").







In connection with the Merger, the Company acquired interests in 43
properties, located in 17 states, consisting of 39 retail community centers,
one stand-alone retail warehouse, one project under development and two
undeveloped land parcels, containing approximately 8.0 million square feet of
GLA. The overall occupancy rate of the retail community centers was
approximately 98%.

For financial reporting purposes, the Merger was accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement each
share of Price REIT common stock was exchanged for one share of Kimco common
stock and .36 shares of depositary shares (the "Class D Depositary Shares"),
each Class D Depositary Share representing a one-tenth fractional interest in
a new issue of Kimco 7.5% Class D Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, par
value $1.00 per share (the "Class D Preferred Stock"). On June 19, 1998, the
Company issued 11,921,992 shares of its common stock and 429,159 shares of
Class D Preferred Stock (represented by 4,291,590 Class D Depositary Shares)
in connection with the Merger. The total Merger consideration was
approximately $960 million, including the assumption of approximately $310
million of debt. Management has allocated the purchase price based on the fair
value of assets and liabilities assumed. Such allocations are based on
preliminary estimates, and are subject to revision.

Additionally, in connection with the Merger, on May 18,1998, the Company
entered into a purchase agreement with Price REIT and LB I Group Inc., an
affiliate of Lehman Brothers Inc. ("LB I"), under which LB I agreed to
purchase $65 million Class A Floating Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock of Price
REIT ("Price REIT Preferred Stock"). In connection with the purchase
agreement, Price REIT issued 65,000 shares of Price REIT Preferred Stock to LB
I (with a total liquidation preference and purchase price of $65 million). As
part of the Merger, the Company assumed Price REIT's obligations under the
purchase agreement and, as part of the Merger consideration, the Price REIT
Preferred Stock was exchanged for 650,000 depositary shares (the "Class E
Depositary Shares"), each representing a one-tenth fractional interest in
65,000 shares of a new issue of Kimco Floating Rate Class E Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share (the "Class E Preferred
Stock").

Dividends on the Class D Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable
quarterly in arrears at the rate per depositary share equal to the greater of
(i) 7.5% per annum based on a $25 per share initial value, or $1.875 per
share, or (ii) the cash dividends on the shares of the Company's common stock
into which a Class D Depositary Share is convertible plus $.0275 per quarter.
The Class D Depositary Shares are convertible at any time into the Company's
common stock at a conversion price of $40.25 per share of common stock or a
conversion rate of 0.62112 for each Class D Depositary Share. The Class D
Depositary Shares may be redeemed in whole, or from time to time, in part, on
any date on or after June 19, 2001 at the option of the Company if, for any 20
trading days within any period of 30 consecutive trading days, including the
last trading day of such period, the average closing price per share of the
Company's common stock exceeds 120% of the conversion price or $48.30 per
share.

The dividend rate on the Class E Preferred Stock was equal to LIBOR plus 2%
per annum, adjusted quarterly, and had an initial dividend rate of 7.68% per
annum. The Class E Preferred Stock was redeemable at the option of the Company
for 150 days after its issuance at a price equal to the liquidation preference
of $1,000 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends. The Company exercised
its option in November 1998 to redeem all of the Class E Preferred Stock for
$65.065 million, representing the liquidation preference of $65 million and
approximately $65,000 of accrued dividends. (See Note 3 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form
10-K.)

Shopping Center Acquisitions -

In January 1998, the Company acquired seven properties, in separate
transactions, consisting of: (i) Village on the Park I and II, adjoining
shopping centers located in Aurora, Colorado, which are anchored by TJ Maxx
and contain approximately 146,000 square feet of GLA; (ii) Phar-Mor Plaza,
located in Englewood, Colorado, which is anchored by Phar-Mor and contains
approximately 80,000 square feet of GLA; (iii) Heritage West Shopping Center,
located in Lakewood, Colorado, which is anchored by Safeway Stores and
contains approximately 83,000 square feet of GLA; (iv) Quincy Place Shopping
Center, located in Aurora, Colorado, which is anchored by Blockbuster and
contains approximately 44,000 square feet of GLA; (v) Spring Creek Shopping
Center, located in Colorado Springs, Colorado, which is anchored by Cub Foods
and contains approximately 108,000 square feet of GLA; (vi) East Bank Shopping
Center, located in Aurora, Colorado, which is anchored by Albertson's and
contains approximately 111,000 square feet of GLA; and (vii) West 38th Street
Shopping Center, a single tenant property, located in Denver, Colorado,
occupied by Payless Drugs comprising approximately 18,000 square feet of GLA.
These properties were acquired for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately $43.9 million, including the






assumption of  approximately  $1.4 million and $2.8 million of mortgage debt 
encumbering Phar-Mor Plaza and Quincy Place Shopping Center, respectively.

In February 1998, the Company acquired The Shoppes at West Melbourne, located
in West Melbourne, Florida, for a purchase price of approximately $11.0
million. The shopping center contains approximately 148,000 square feet of GLA
and is anchored by Service Merchandise.

In March 1998, the Company acquired three properties, in separate
transactions, consisting of (i) Marshalls Plaza, (ii) South Plains Plaza and
(iii) Poca Fiesta Shopping Center. Marshalls Plaza, located in Cranston, Rhode
Island, is anchored by Marshalls and contains approximately 130,000 square
feet of GLA. South Plains Plaza, located in Lubbock, Texas, is anchored by
PetsMart and OfficeMax and contains approximately 108,000 square feet of GLA.
Poca Fiesta Shopping Center, located in Mesa, Arizona, is anchored by Ross
Stores, and contains approximately 136,000 square feet of GLA. These
properties were acquired for an aggregate purchase price of approximately
$33.5 million, including the assumption of approximately $6.6 million and
$10.0 million of mortgage debt encumbering South Plains Plaza and Poca Fiesta
Shopping Center, respectively.

In April 1998, the Company acquired Wellington Park Shopping Center for a
purchase price of approximately $10.9 million. Wellington Park Shopping
Center, located in Cary, North Carolina, is anchored by Lowes Food and
contains approximately 103,000 square feet of GLA.

In May 1998, the Company acquired three properties, Bayshore Gardens Shopping
Center, Lafayette Marketplace and the Phar-Mor building, in separate
transactions, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $37.1 million,
which included the issuance of partnership units valued at approximately $5.0
million in connection with the Bayshore Gardens acquisition. Bayshore Gardens
Shopping Center, located in Bradenton, Florida, is anchored by Publix and TJ
Maxx, and contains approximately 163,000 square feet of GLA. Lafayette
Marketplace, located in Lafayette, Indiana, is anchored by Michaels and
Staples, and contains approximately 190,000 square feet of GLA. The Phar-Mor
building, located in Greenville, South Carolina, is a 60,000 square foot
building adjacent to a property previously acquired by the Company in December
1997 and is occupied by Phar-Mor.

In July 1998, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, three
neighborhood and community shopping centers comprising approximately 381,000
square feet of GLA in three states, for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately $35.3 million. The properties acquired include (i) Shoppes at
Rivergate, (ii)Center of the Hills and (iii) Juan Tabo Plaza. Shoppes at
Rivergate, located in Goodlettsville, Tennessee, is anchored by Uptons
Department Store and Stein Mart and contains approximately 171,000 square feet
of GLA. Center of the Hills, located in Austin, Texas, is anchored by H.E.B.
Grocery and contains approximately 153,000 square feet of GLA. Juan Tabo
Plaza, located in Albuquerque, New Mexico, is anchored by Walgreens and
contains approximately 57,000 square feet of GLA.

In September, 1998, the Company acquired Northwest Square located in Columbus,
Ohio for approximately $15.1 million. This shopping center is anchored by
Borders Books and contains approximately 113,000 square feet of GLA.

In October 1998, the Company acquired 3 shopping centers, in separate
transactions, for approximately $51.0 million, including the assumption of
approximately $28.4 million of mortgage debt in connection with two of the
acquisitions. The properties acquired include (i) Oak Park Commons located in
Plainfield, New Jersey; (ii) Trolley Station, located in Memphis, Tennessee
and (iii) Vista Ridge Plaza, located in Lewisville, Texas. Oak Park Commons is
anchored by A&P Supermarkets and Sears Hardware, and contains approximately
137,000 square feet of GLA. Trolley Station is anchored by Toys R' Us and
OfficeMax, and contains approximately 167,000 square feet of GLA. Vista Ridge
Plaza is anchored by Drug Emporium and contains approximately 94,000 square
feet of GLA.

During November, 1998, the Company acquired Westgate Plaza and North Point
Shopping Center, in separate transactions, for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately $33.0 million, $22.1 million of which was financed with mortgage
debt on one of the properties. Westgate Plaza, located in Amarillo, Texas, is
anchored by Kmart and Builders Square, and contains approximately 238,000
square feet of GLA. North Point Shopping Center, located in Joplin, Missouri,
is anchored by Hobby Lobby, and contains approximately 147,000 square feet of
GLA.






During December, 1998, the Company acquired three properties, in separate
transactions, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $32.2 million.
Santee Town Center Promenade, located in Santee, California is anchored by
Office Depot and Ross Stores, and contains approximately 97,000 square feet of
GLA. Village Commons Shopping Center, located in Tallahassee, Florida, is
anchored by Stein Mart and Ben Franklin and contains approximately 106,000
square feet of GLA. The Piers Shopping Center located in Port Richey, Florida,
is anchored by Staples and Circuit City and contains approximately 103,000
square feet of GLA.

Venture Stores, Inc. Properties Acquisition -

In August 1997, certain subsidiaries of the Company acquired certain real
estate assets from Venture Stores, Inc. ("Venture") consisting of interests in
49 fee and leasehold properties totaling approximately 5.9 million square feet
of leasable area located in seven states. The aggregate price was
approximately $130 million, consisting of $70.5 million in cash and the
assumption of approximately $59.5 million of existing mortgage debt on certain
of these properties. Simultaneously with this transaction, the Company entered
into a long-term unitary net lease with Venture covering all premises occupied
by Venture on these properties. As a result of this transaction, Venture was
the primary or sole tenant at 60 of the Company's locations as of December 31,
1997.

In January 1998, Venture filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the United
States Bankruptcy Code. On April 27, 1998, Venture announced it would
discontinue its retail operations and that it had reached an agreement to sell
its leasehold position at 89 locations to the Company, including 56 properties
pursuant to two unitary leases already in place with the Company, 30
properties pursuant to a master lease with Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
("Metropolitan Life") and three properties leased by Venture from others. The
purchase price for the leasehold positions was $95.0 million, less certain
closing adjustments, but is subject to upward adjustment based on the
Company's success in re-tenanting the properties over a two-year period. On
July 17, 1998, the Company purchased the leasehold positions with an initial
cash payment to Venture of approximately $50 million. Simultaneous with this
transaction, the Company leased 46 of these locations to Kmart Corporation. As
a result of these additional leases to Kmart Corporation, Kmart Corporation
accounted for approximately 13.7% of the Company's annualized base rental
revenues as of December 31, 1998.

The Company also reached an agreement with Metropolitan Life to purchase the
30 fee and leasehold positions which were leased by Metropolitan Life to
Venture, for an aggregate purchase price of $167.5 million. This transaction
was completed on July 1, 1998.

During August 1998, the Company acquired from Venture five additional
leasehold positions, including two leases already in place with the Company,
for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $2.2 million. Simultaneous
with this transaction, the Company leased these five locations, along with
five other former Venture locations, to a national retailer.

As of December 31, 1998, the Company has leased substantially all of the
vacant space at 76 locations and sold 2 of the locations acquired in the above
transactions (See Recent Developments - Property Dispositions). The Company is
currently negotiating with other major retailers concerning the re-tenanting
of the remaining locations.

The Company, as a regular part of its business operations, will continue to
actively seek properties for acquisition, which have below market-rate leases
or other cash flow growth potential.

Property Developments and Redevelopments -

The Company has an ongoing program to reformat and re-tenant its properties to
maintain or enhance its competitive position in the marketplace. During 1998,
the Company substantially completed the redevelopment and re-tenanting of
various shopping centers, most notably, its properties in Richboro,
Pennsylvania; Mesa, Arizona; Upper Arlington, Ohio; Orlando, Florida and
Charleston, South Carolina. The Company expended approximately $40 million in
connection with its major redevelopment and re-tenanting projects during 1998.
The Company is currently involved in redeveloping several other shopping
centers, including its properties in Salem, New Hampshire; North Miami,
Florida and Manhasset, New York. The Company anticipates its capital
commitment toward these and other redevelopment projects will be approximately
$30 million during 1999.






As of December 31, 1998, the Company was in progress on three ground-up
development projects located in Bridgewater, New Jersey, Houston, Texas and
Cedar Hill, Texas. These projects were substantially pre-leased prior to the
commencement of construction. During 1998, the Company expended approximately
$28.6 million in connection with the purchase of land and construction costs
related to these projects. The Company anticipates its capital commitment
toward these and other development projects including projects scheduled to
begin in early 1999 in Chandler, Arizona and San Antonio, Texas, will be
approximately $120 million during 1999.

Each development and redevelopment project represents an opportunity for the
Company to capitalize on its leasing, site planning, design and construction
expertise. These projects, which are currently proceeding on schedule and in
line with the Company's budgeted costs, are expected to contribute to growth
in the Company's funds from operations in the future.

Property Dispositions -

During January 1998, the Company disposed of a property in Pinellas Park,
Florida. Proceeds from the disposition totaling approximately $2.3 million,
together with an additional $7.1 million cash investment, were used to acquire
an exchange shopping center property located in Cranston, Rhode Island during
March 1998.

During December 1998, the Company disposed of a vacant distribution center and
adjacent facility located in O'Fallon, Missouri, which were acquired as part
of the Venture transactions, for $10 million, which amount approximated their
net book value.

Kimco Select Investments -

Kimco Select Investments, a New York general partnership ("Kimco Select"), was
formed in 1997 to provide the Company, through its 90% ownership interest, the
opportunity to make investments outside of its core neighborhood and community
shopping center business. Although potential investments may be largely
retail-focused, Kimco Select may invest in other asset categories. Kimco
Select will focus on investments where the intrinsic value in the underlying
assets may provide potentially superior returns relative to the inherent risk.
These investments may be in the form of direct ownership of real estate,
mortgage loans, public and private debt and equity securities that Kimco
Select believes are undervalued, unoccupied properties, properties leased to
weak or bankrupt tenants and other assets.

Kimco Select is managed by David M. Samber, formerly President and Chief
Operating Officer of the Company, who owns the remaining 10% ownership
interest in Kimco Select. The Company has made an initial commitment of $35
million towards investments by Kimco Select and may increase its commitment as
management deems appropriate.

During January 1998, Kimco Select, through a partnership investment, acquired
fee interests in three properties from a retailer in the Chicago, IL market
comprising approximately 516,000 square feet of GLA for an aggregate purchase
price of approximately $23.7 million. These properties include approximately
70,000 square feet of showroom space and adjoining warehouses of approximately
100,000 square feet at each location. Simultaneous with this transaction, the
Company leased, to a national furniture retailer, the showroom portion of each
property under individual long-term leases. The Company is currently planning
the redevelopment of the warehouse portion of each property.

During 1998, Kimco Select, through a partnership investment, acquired a
leasehold position and expended approximately $2.4 million to construct a
50,000 square foot ambulatory care facility, which is anchored by Wellness
Place, a regional health care provider, and contains complementary retail
space. This property is located in Trexlertown, Pennsylvania.

During 1997, Kimco Select through a partnership investment, acquired an
interest in a multi-story building in Eastwick, PA. This 39,000 square foot
property, and a 53,000 square foot property in Upper Darby, PA previously
acquired, have been redeveloped as ambulatory care facilities, which are
anchored by Mercy Health Corporation, a leading regional health care system
and contain complementary retail space. During 1998, Kimco Select obtained
mortgage financing of $9.0 million on these properties. This fixed-rate
non-recourse mortgage bears interest at 7% per annum and matures in 2008.
Through December 31, 1998, acquisition and redevelopment costs related to
these two properties totaled approximately $13 million.






Kimco Select has also acquired (i) various first mortgage loan participations,
(ii) certain public bonds and (iii) joint venture interests in two entities
which own 3 office buildings in Miami, FL. The aggregate acquisition costs
related to these investments was approximately $4.3 million.

Other Transactions -

During 1998, the Company invested approximately $19.0 million in a partnership
which acquired and leased-back 11 automotive dealerships. The Company has a
50% interest in this partnership.

In December 1998, the Company invested approximately $3.6 million in a
partnership which acquired a shopping center property in Bronx, New York for
approximately $34 million, including mortgage debt of approximately $27
million. The Company has a 50% interest in this partnership.

In addition, the Company acquired a first mortgage on a shopping center in
Manhasset, New York for approximately $21 million and has entered into a
contract to acquire fee title to this property.

Financings -

Unsecured Debt. During 1998, the Company issued an aggregate principal amount
of $290 million of unsecured notes under its MTN program. These unsecured
notes are comprised of (i) $100 million seven-year fixed-rate notes bearing
interest at 6.73% per annum and maturing in June 2005, (ii) $30 million
eight-year fixed-rate notes bearing interest at 6.93% per annum and maturing
in July 2006, (iii) $60 million two-year floating-rate notes bearing interest
at Libor plus .15% per annum and maturing in August 2000 and (iv) $100 million
ten-year Remarketed Reset notes bearing interest initially at LIBOR plus .30%
and maturing in August 2008. The Company has entered into interest rate swap
agreements which have effectively fixed the interest rate on the $60 million
floating-rate notes and $100 million Remarketed Reset notes at 5.91% per annum
and 5.92% per annum, respectively. The net proceeds from these issuances were
used to repay indebtedness and for the acquisition of neighborhood and
community shopping centers. (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)

Mortgage Financing. During November 1998, the Company obtained mortgage
financing aggregating approximately $272.3 million on 20 of its properties.
The mortgages are non-recourse, non-cross collateralized ten-year first
mortgages, which bear interest at an average fixed rate of 6.585%. These
properties were financed in anticipation of the commencement of the New
Investment Vehicle (See Recent Developments-New Investment Vehicle). The net
proceeds from these mortgages were used primarily for the acquisition of
neighborhood and community shopping centers.

Credit Facility. On August 21, 1998, the Company established a $215 million
unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility") with a group of
banks. The Credit Facility is scheduled to expire in August 2001. Under the
terms of the Credit Facility, funds may be borrowed for general corporate
purposes, including (i) funding property acquisitions and (ii) development and
redevelopment costs. Interest on borrowings under the Credit Facility accrues
at a spread (currently .50%) to LIBOR, which fluctuates in accordance with
change in the Company's senior debt ratings. This Credit Facility replaced the
Company's (i) $100 million unsecured revolving credit facility and (ii) $150
million interim credit facility.

Equity. During 1998, the Company completed 16 public stock offerings issuing
an aggregate 7.6 million shares of common stock at prices ranging from
$36.0625 to $39.6875 per share. The net proceeds from these sales of common
stock, totaling approximately $278.3 million (after related transaction costs
of approximately $11.5 million), have been used primarily for the acquisition
of neighborhood and community shopping centers and the redemption of the Class
E Preferred Stock issued in connection with the Merger. (See Notes 2 and 3 of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report
on Form 10-K.)






New Investment Vehicle

In view of recent market conditions, the Company has decided to explore the
creation of a new entity that would invest in real estate that it believes
would be more appropriately financed through greater leverage than the Company
traditionally uses. These properties would include, but not be limited to,
fully developed properties with strong, stable cash flows from credit-worthy
retailers with long-term leases that have limited near-term potential for
growth through redevelopment or re-tenanting. The Company has preliminarily
established from our existing portfolio an initial portfolio of properties
with an estimated net equity value of approximately $110 million for this
entity. The Company has reached an agreement in principle with an
institutional investor to participate in this new investment vehicle. The
investors' initial capital commitment will equal the equity value of the
initial portfolio to be contributed by the Company. The agreement in principle
is subject to completion and final approval by the Company and the investor.

KC Holdings, Inc.

To facilitate the Company's November 1991 IPO, forty-six shopping center
properties and certain other assets, together with indebtedness related
thereto, were transferred to subsidiaries of KC Holdings, Inc. ("KC Holdings")
a newly formed corporation that is owned by the stockholders of the Company
prior to the IPO. The Company, although having no ownership interest in KC
Holdings or its subsidiary companies, was granted ten-year, fixed-price
options to reacquire the real estate assets owned by KC Holdings'
subsidiaries, subject to any liabilities outstanding with respect to such
assets at the time of an option exercise. As of December 31, 1998, KC
Holdings' subsidiaries had conveyed fourteen shopping center properties back
to the Company and had disposed of ten additional centers in transactions with
third parties. The members of the Company's Board of Directors who are not
also shareholders of KC Holdings unanimously approved the purchase of each of
the fourteen shopping centers that have been reacquired by the Company from KC
Holdings. (See Notes 10 and 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) The Company manages
18 of KC Holdings' 22 shopping center properties pursuant to a management
agreement. KC Holdings' other four shopping center properties are managed by
unaffiliated joint venture partners.

Acquisition Option -

The Company holds 10-year acquisition options which expire in November 2001 to
reacquire interests in the 22 shopping center properties owned by KC Holdings'
subsidiaries. The option exercise prices are fixed and payable in shares of
the Company's common stock or, in the event payment in the form of common
stock could jeopardize the Company's status as a REIT, an equivalent value in
cash. If the Company exercises its options to acquire all the remaining
shopping center properties, the maximum aggregate amount payable to KC
Holdings would be approximately $11.1 million, or approximately 280,000 shares
of the Company's common stock (assuming shares valued at the closing price on
the NYSE of $39.69 per share as of December 31, 1998). The Company would
acquire the properties subject to any existing mortgage indebtedness and other
liabilities on the properties. The acquisition options enable the Company to
obtain any appreciation in the value of these properties over the option
exercise prices, while eliminating the Company's interim exposure to leverage
and operating risks.

The option exercise prices for the shopping center properties are generally
equal to 10% of KC Holdings' share of the mortgage debt which was outstanding
on the properties at the date of the IPO. If, however, the market value of the
Company's common stock at the time an option is exercised is less than $13.33
per share (the IPO price), then the option exercise price will decline
proportionately (subject to maximum reduction of 50%).

The 22 shopping center properties subject to the acquisition options are held
in 8 subsidiaries of KC Holdings. Thirteen of these properties are subject to
a single lease and/or a single cross-collateralized mortgage and are therefore
held by a single subsidiary. Four of the properties, which are owned in two
separate joint ventures and managed by unaffiliated joint venture partners,
are held by two additional subsidiaries, and the remaining five shopping
center properties are each held by separate subsidiaries. The Company may
exercise its acquisition options separately with respect to each subsidiary.

The acquisition options may be exercised by either (i) a majority of the
Company's directors who are not also stockholders of KC Holdings, provided
that the pro forma annualized net cash flows of the properties to be acquired
exceed the dividend yield on the shares issued to exercise each option, or
(ii) a majority of the Company's stockholders who are not also stockholders of
KC Holdings.





KC Holdings' subsidiaries may sell any of the properties subject to the
acquisition options to any third party unaffiliated with KC Holdings or its
stockholders, provided that KC Holdings provides the Company with a 30-day
right of first refusal notice with regard to such sale. KC Holdings may cause
such a selling subsidiary to distribute any sale proceeds to KC Holdings or
its stockholders, provided that the option exercise price with respect to such
subsidiary is reduced by the amount that is distributed, and further provided
that no amount may be distributed so as to cause the option exercise price for
any subsidiary to be reduced to less than $1.

Each of KC Holdings' subsidiaries may pay dividends to KC Holdings to the
extent of net operating cash flow. In addition, any KC Holdings subsidiary may
make distributions to KC Holdings in excess of net operating cash flow,
provided that the option exercise price with respect to such subsidiary is
reduced by the amount of such distribution, and further provided that no
amount may be distributed so as to cause the option exercise price for any
subsidiary to be reduced to less than $1. KC Holdings may increase the
indebtedness in its subsidiaries for the purpose of improving, maintaining,
refinancing or operating the related shopping center properties. Such
indebtedness may include borrowings from the stockholders of KC Holdings.

In the event of a complete casualty or a condemnation of a property held by
any of KC Holdings' subsidiaries, the acquisition option will terminate with
respect to such property and the option shall continue to be effective with
respect to any other properties held by such subsidiary.

Each of KC Holdings' subsidiaries has agreed with the Company that it will
engage in no activities other than in connection with the ownership,
maintenance and improvement of the properties that it owns and only to the
extent that the Company could engage in such activities without receiving or
earning non-qualifying income (in excess of certain limits) under the REIT
provisions of the Code or without otherwise impairing the Company's status as
a REIT. In addition, KC Holdings has covenanted not to engage in any other
real estate activity. The Company has agreed not to make loans to KC Holdings
or its subsidiaries.

Subsequent Events

Property Acquisitions / Disposition -

During January and February 1999, the Company acquired five neighborhood and
community shopping center properties comprising approximately .7 million
square feet of GLA for approximately $79.0 million, including the assumption
of $8.5 million of mortgage debt encumbering one of the properties. These
properties are primarily anchored by supermarket or discount department store
tenants, including Kmart Corporation, Kroger and TJ Maxx.

The Company disposed of a property in Morrisville, PA during February 1999.
Cash proceeds from the disposition totaling $1.6 million approximated the
property's net book value.

Financings -

During February 1999, the Company issued $130 million 6-7/8% fixed-rate Senior
Notes due 2009. Interest on the notes is payable semi-annually in arrears. The
notes were sold at 99.85% of par value. Net proceeds from this issuance,
totaling approximately $128.9 million, after related transaction costs of
approximately $.9 million, were used, in part, to repay $100 floating-rate
senior notes that matured during February 1999 and for general corporate
purposes.

Exchange Listings
The Company's common stock, Class A Depositary Shares, Class B Depositary
Shares, Class C Depositary Shares and Class D Depositary Shares are traded on
the NYSE under the trading symbols "KIM", "KIMprA", "KIMprB", "KIMprC" and
"KIMprD" respectively.






Item 2.  Properties

Real Estate Portfolio As of January 1, 1999 the Company's real estate
portfolio was comprised of approximately 56.7 million square feet of GLA in
365 neighborhood and community shopping center properties, two regional malls,
61 retail store leases, three parcels of undeveloped land, one distribution
center, one stand-alone retail warehouse and three projects under development,
located in 40 states. Neighborhood and community shopping centers comprise the
primary focus of the Company's current portfolio, representing approximately
98% of the Company's total shopping center GLA. As of January 1, 1999,
approximately 91% of the Company's neighborhood and community shopping center
space was leased, and the average annualized base rent per leased square foot
of the neighborhood and community shopping center portfolio was $7.97.

The Company's neighborhood and community shopping center properties, generally
owned and operated through subsidiaries or joint ventures, had an average size
of approximately 135,000 square feet as of January 1, 1999. The Company
retains its shopping centers for long-term investment and consequently pursues
a program of regular physical maintenance together with major renovations and
refurbishing to preserve and increase the value of its properties. These
projects usually include renovating existing facades, installing uniform
signage, resurfacing parking lots and enhancing parking lot lighting. During
1998, the Company capitalized approximately $6.1 million in connection with
these property improvements.

The Company's neighborhood and community shopping centers are usually
"anchored" by a national or regional discount department store, supermarket or
drugstore. As one of the original participants in the growth of the shopping
center industry and one of the nation's largest owners and operators of
shopping centers, the Company has established close relationships with a large
number of major national and regional retailers. National and regional
companies that are tenants in the Company's shopping center properties include
Kmart Corporation, Kohl's, The Home Depot, WalMart, TJX Companies, Toys/Kids
R' Us, Shopko, Ames, A & P and Costco.

A substantial portion of the Company's income consists of rent received under
long-term leases. Most of the leases provide for the payment of fixed base
rentals monthly in advance and for the payment by tenants of an allocable
share of the real estate taxes, insurance, utilities and common area
maintenance expenses incurred in operating the shopping centers. Although a
majority of the leases require the Company to make roof and structural repairs
as needed, a number of tenant leases place that responsibility on the tenant,
and the Company's standard small store lease provides for roof repairs to be
reimbursed by the tenant as part of common area maintenance. The Company's
management places a strong emphasis on sound construction and safety at its
properties.

Approximately 1,600 of the Company's 4,100 leases also contain provisions
requiring the payment of additional rent calculated as a percentage of
tenants' gross sales above predetermined thresholds. Percentage Rents
accounted for approximately 2% of the Company's revenues from rental property
for the year ended December 31, 1998.

Minimum base rental revenues and operating expense reimbursements accounted
for approximately 98% of the Company's total revenues from rental property for
the year ended December 31, 1998. The Company's management believes that the
average base rent per square foot for many of the Company's existing leases is
generally lower than the prevailing market-rate base rents in the geographic
regions where the Company operates, reflecting the potential for future
growth.






The Company has been able to capitalize on the below market-rate leases in its
existing shopping center portfolio to obtain increases in rental revenues
through the renewal of leases or strategic re-tenanting of space. From January
1, 1998 to December 31, 1998, excluding the effect of (i) 1998 acquisitions
and (ii) the acquisition of Price REIT, the Company increased the average base
rent per leased square foot on its portfolio of neighborhood and community
shopping centers from $6.31 to $7.00, an increase of $.69 per square foot,
which was attributable to (i) general leasing activity within the existing
portfolio and (ii) the re-leasing of the Venture locations in connection with
the acquisition of 94 leasehold positions (See Recent Developments Venture
Stores, Inc. Properties Acquisitions). The effect of 1998 acquisitions,
including the acquisition of Price REIT which had an average rent per square
foot of $10.19 at the time of the acquisition, increased the overall rent per
leased square foot of the shopping center portfolio by $.97, thus bringing the
average rent per leased square foot to $7.97 as of December 31, 1998. The
average annual base rent per leased square foot for new leases executed in
1998 was $9.30.

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through geographic
and tenant diversity. No single neighborhood and community shopping center
accounted for more than 1.0% of the Company's total shopping center GLA or
more than 1.5% of total annualized base rental revenues as of December 31,
1998. The Company's five largest tenants include Kmart Corporation, The Home
Depot, Kohl's, Toys/Kids R' Us and TJX Companies, which represent
approximately 13.7%, 3.0%, 2.5%, 1.8% and 1.5%, respectively, of the
annualized base rental revenues at December 31, 1998. The Company maintains an
active leasing and capital improvement program that, combined with the high
quality of the locations, has made, in management's opinion, the Company's
properties attractive to tenants.

The Company's management believes its experience in the real estate industry
and its relationships with numerous national and regional tenants gives it an
advantage in an industry where ownership is fragmented among a large number of
property owners.

Retail Store Leases In addition to our neighborhood and community shopping
centers, as of January 1, 1999, we had interests in retail store leases
totaling approximately 5.5 million square feet of anchor stores in 61
neighborhood and community shopping centers located in 24 states. As of
January 1, 1999, approximately 93% of the space in these anchor stores had
been sublet to retailers that lease the stores under net lease agreements
providing for average annualized base rental payments to us of $4.14 per
square foot. Our average annualized base rental payments under our retail
store leases to the land owners of such subleased stores is approximately
$2.75 per square foot. The average remaining primary term of our retail store
leases (and similarly the remaining primary terms of our sublease agreements
with the tenants currently leasing such space) is approximately 4 years,
excluding options to renew the leases for terms which generally range from 5
to 25 years.

Ground-Leased Properties The Company has 54 shopping center properties that
are subject to long-term ground leases where a third party owns and has leased
the underlying land to the Company (or an affiliated joint venture) to
construct and/or operate a shopping center. The Company or the joint venture
pays rent for the use of the land and generally is responsible for all costs
and expenses associated with the building and improvements. At the end of
these long-term leases, unless extended, the land together with all
improvements revert to the land owner.

Undeveloped Land The Company owns certain unimproved land tracts that it
intends to develop as new shopping centers (See Recent Developments - Property
Developments and Redevelopments) and owns parcels of land adjacent to certain
of its existing shopping centers that are held for possible expansion. At
times, should circumstances warrant, the Company may develop or dispose of
these parcels.

The table on pages 17 to 24 sets forth more specific information with respect
to each of the Company's shopping center properties as of December 31, 1998.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

The Company is not presently involved in any litigation nor to its knowledge
is any litigation threatened against the Company or its subsidiaries that, in
management's opinion, would result in any material adverse effect on the
Company's ownership, management or operation of its properties, or which is
not covered by the Company's liability insurance.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.




                                 PROPERTY CHART








                                 PROPERTY CHART







                                 PROPERTY CHART








                                                     PROPERTY CHART








                                 PROPERTY CHART







                                 PROPERTY CHART







7                                 PROPERTY CHART






                                 PROPERTY CHART





(1)  PERCENT LEASED INFORMATION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1998 OR DATE OF ACQUISITION
     IF ACQUIRED SUBSEQUENT TO DECEMBER 31, 1998.
(2)  THE TERM "JOINT VENTURE" INDICATES THAT THE COMPANY OWNS THE PROPERTY IN
     CONJUNCTION WITH ONE OR MORE JOINT VENTURE PARTNERS. THE DATE INDICATED IS
     THE EXPIRATION DATE OF ANY GROUND LEASE AFTER GIVING AFFECT TO ALL RENEWAL
     PERIODS.
(3)  DENOTES REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(4)  DENOTES GROUND-UP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(5)  DENOTES UNDEVELOPED LAND
(6)  SOLD OR TERMINATED SUBSEQUENT TO DECEMBER 31, 1998
(7)  THE COMPANY HOLDS INTEREST IN VARIOUS RETAIL STORE LEASES RELATED TO THE
     ANCHOR STORE PREMISES IN NEIGHBORHOOD AND COMMUNITY SHOPPING CENTERS.







                     Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth information with respect to the ten executive
officers of the Company as of March 1, 1999.

   Name                  Age       Position                           Since

Milton Cooper            70        Chairman of the Board of            1991
                                   Directors and Chief
                                   Executive Officer

Michael J. Flynn         63        Vice Chairman of the                1996
                                   Board of Directors and
                                   President and Chief                 1997
                                   Operating Officer

Joseph K. Kornwasser     51        Director and                        1998
                                   Senior Executive
                                   Vice President

Glenn G. Cohen           35        Treasurer                           1997

Joseph V. Denis          47        Vice President -                    1993
                                   Construction 

Jerald Friedman          54        Executive Vice President            1998

Bruce M. Kauderer        52        Vice President - Legal              1995
                                   General Counsel and                 1997
                                   Secretary

Lawrence Kronenberg      42        Vice President                      1998

Michael V. Pappagallo    40        Vice President -                    1997
                                   Chief Financial Officer

Alex Weiss               41        Vice President -                    1988
                                   Management Information
                                   Systems

Michael J. Flynn has been President and Chief Operating Officer since January 2,
1997, Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors since January 2, 1996 and a
Director of the Company since December 1, 1991.  Mr. Flynn was Chairman of the
Board and President of Slattery Associates, Inc. for more than five years prior
to joining the Company.

Joseph K. Kornwasser has been a Director and Senior Executive Vice President
of the Company since June 1998. Mr. Kornwasser was President, Chief Executive
Officer and a director of Price REIT from August 1993 to June 1998. From 1984
until 1994, Mr. Kornwasser was Managing General Partner of Kornwasser and
Friedman Shopping Center Properties, a commercial real estate development
company.

Glenn G. Cohen has been Treasurer of the Company since June 1997.  Mr. Cohen
served as Director of Accounting and Taxation of the Company from June 1995 to
June 1997.  Prior to joining the Company in June 1995, Mr. Cohen served as Chief
Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer for U.S. Balloon Manufacturing
Co., Inc. from August 1993 to June 1995.

Joseph V. Denis has been a Vice President of the Company since October 1993.
Mr. Denis was President and Chief Operating Officer of Konover Construction
Company, and previously held various positions with such company as a project
and construction manager, for more than five years prior to joining the
Company in June 1993.

Jerald Friedman has been Executive Vice President of the Company since June
1998. Mr. Friedman was Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
Officer of Price REIT from January 1, 1997 to June 1998. From 1994 through
1996, Mr. Friedman was the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of K & F
Development Company, an affiliate of Price REIT. From 1984 until 1994, Mr.
Friedman was a General Partner of Kornwasser and Friedman Shopping Center
Properties, a commercial real estate development company.





Bruce M. Kauderer has been a Vice President of the Company since June 1995 and
since December 15, 1997, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company.  Mr.
Kauderer was a founder of and partner with Kauderer & Pack P.C. from 1992 to
June 1995 and a Partner with Fink Weinberger, P.C. for more than five years
prior to 1992.

Lawrence Kronenberg has been a Vice President of the Company since June 1998.
Mr. Kronenberg had served as Executive Vice President, Finance of Price REIT
from January 1,1997 to June 1998. From 1993 through 1996, Mr. Kronenberg
served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of K & F
Development Company, an affiliate of Price REIT.

Michael V. Pappagallo has been a Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
the Company since May 27, 1997. Mr. Pappagallo was Chief Financial Officer of
GE Capital's Commercial Real Estate Financial and Services business from
September 1994 to May 1997 and held various other positions within GE Capital
for more than five years prior to joining the Company.

The executive officers of the Company serve in their respective capacities for
approximate one-year terms and are subject to re-election by the Board of
Directors, generally at the time of the Annual Meeting of the Board of
Directors following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.


















                                   PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Shareholder
         Matters

Market Information The following table sets forth the common stock offerings
completed by the Company during the three year period ended December 31, 1998.
The Company's common stock was sold for cash at the following offering prices
per share.


     Offering Date                         Offering Price(s)

   February 1996                           $26.50
   September 1997                          $35.50
   April 1998 (4 Offerings)                $36.0625, $36.025, $36.25
                                             and $36.625, respectively
   May 1998                                $38.4375
   July 1998 (3 Offerings)                 $38.2575, $38.56 and
                                           $39.4375, respectively
   September 1998                          $38.75
   November 1998 (4 offerings)             $39.00, $39.00, $39.6875
                                             and $39.6875, respectively
   December 1998 (3 offerings)             $38.25 for each offering

The table below sets forth, for the quarterly periods indicated, the high and
low sales prices per share reported on the NYSE Composite Tape for the
Company's common stock. The Company's common stock is traded under the trading
symbol "KIM ".

                                 Stock Price
               Period              High      Low


        1997:
        First Quarter             $34.63     $31.75
        Second Quarter            $33.38     $30.25
        Third Quarter             $36.19     $31.75
        Fourth Quarter            $35.50     $30.50

        1998:
        First Quarter             $35.94     $33.44
        Second Quarter            $41.00     $34.88
        Third Quarter             $41.63     $34.75
        Fourth Quarter            $40.25     $33.75

Holders The approximate number of holders of record of the Company's common
stock, par value $.01 per share, was 1,552 as of March 1, 1999.

Dividends Since the IPO, the Company has paid regular quarterly dividends to
its stockholders.

Quarterly dividends at the rate of $.43 per share were declared and paid on
December 2, 1996 and January 15, 1997, March 17, 1997 and April 15, 1997, June
16, 1997 and July 15, 1997 and September 15, 1997 and October 15, 1997,
respectively. Quarterly dividends at the increased rate of $.48 per share were
declared and paid on December 1, 1997 and January 15, 1998 and March 16, 1998
and April 15, 1998, respectively. On May 21, 1998 and June 22, 1998 the
Company declared a dividend of $.42 per share and $.06 per share,
respectively. These dividends were paid on July 2, 1998 and July 15, 1998,
respectively. The dividends for this quarter were paid in two installments in
order to provide Kimco shareholders the full $.48 per share dividend as well
as provide the Price REIT shareholders a pro-rated dividend for the period
following the effective date of the Merger. The Company declared and paid a
dividend of $.48 per share on September 15, 1998 and October 15, 1998,
respectively. In addition, the Company declared and paid a special $.05 per
share dividend on October 29, 1998 and December 1, 1998, respectively. Also on
October 29, 1998, the Company declared its dividend payable during the first
quarter of 1999 at the increased rate of $.57 per share payable January 15,
1999 to shareholders of record January 4, 1999. This $.57 per share dividend,
if annualized, would equal $2.28 per share or an annual yield of approximately
5.9% based on the closing price of $38.75 of the Company's common stock on the
NYSE as of March 1, 1999.






The Company has determined that 100% of the dividends paid during 1998 and
1997 totaling $1.97 and $1.72 per share, respectively, represented ordinary
dividend income to its stockholders.

While the Company intends to continue paying regular quarterly dividends,
future dividend declarations will be at the discretion of the Board of
Directors and will depend on the actual cash flow of the Company, its
financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution
requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and such other factors as
the Board of Directors deems relevant. The actual cash flow available to pay
dividends will be affected by a number of factors, including the revenues
received from rental properties, the operating expenses of the Company, the
interest expense on its borrowings, the ability of lessees to meet their
obligations to the Company and any unanticipated capital expenditures.

In addition to its common stock offerings, the Company has capitalized the
growth in its business through the issuance of unsecured fixed and
floating-rate medium-term notes, underwritten bonds, mortgage debt,
convertible preferred stock and perpetual preferred stock. Borrowings under
the Company's revolving credit facility have also been an interim source of
funds to both finance the purchase of properties and meet any short-term
working capital requirements. The various instruments governing the Company's
issuance of its unsecured public debt, bank debt, mortgage debt and preferred
stock impose certain restrictions on the Company with regard to dividends,
voting, liquidation and other preferential rights available to the holders of
such instruments. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" and Notes 7 and 12 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.

The Company does not believe that the preferential rights available to the
holders of its Class A, Class B, Class C and Class D Preferred Stock, the
financial covenants contained in its public bond Indenture, as amended, or its
revolving credit agreement will have any adverse impact on the Company's
ability to pay dividends in the normal course to its common stockholders or to
distribute amounts necessary to maintain its qualification as a REIT.

The Company maintains a dividend reinvestment program pursuant to which common
and preferred stockholders may elect to automatically reinvest their dividends
to purchase shares of the Company's common stock. The Company may, from time
to time, either (i) repurchase shares of its common stock in the open market,
or (ii) issue new shares of its common stock, for the purpose of fulfilling
its obligations under this dividend reinvestment program.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

The following table sets forth selected, historical consolidated financial
data for the Company and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
Financial Statements of the Company and Notes thereto included in this annual
report on Form 10-K.

The Company believes that the book value of its real estate assets, which
reflects the historical costs of such real estate assets less accumulated
depreciation, is not indicative of the current market value of its properties.
Historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future
operating performance.







(1) Does not include revenues from rental property relating to unconsolidated
joint ventures or revenues relating to the investment in retail store leases.

(2) Most industry analysts and equity REITs, including the Company, generally
consider funds from operations ("FFO") to be an appropriate supplemental
measure of the performance of an equity REIT. In March 1995, the National
Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") modified the
definition of FFO, among other things, to eliminate adding back amortization
of deferred financing costs and depreciation of non-real estate items to net
income when computing FFO. The Company adopted this new method as of January
1, 1996. FFO is defined as net income applicable to common shares before
depreciation and amortization, extraordinary items, gains or losses on sales
of real estate, plus FFO of unconsolidated joint ventures determined on a
consistent basis. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating
activities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
therefore should not be considered an alternative for net income as a measure
of results of operations, or for cash flows from operations calculated in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as a measure of
liquidity. In addition, the comparability of the Company's FFO with the FFO
reported by other REITs may be affected by the differences that may exist
regarding certain accounting policies relating to expenditures for repairs and
other recurring items.

(3) Includes $.9 million or $0.02 per share in 1998, $.2 million or $0.01 per
share in 1997 and $.8 million or $0.02 per share in 1996 relating to
non-recurring gains from the disposition of shopping center properties in each
year.

(4) Does not include the Company's investment in retail store leases.










Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
         and Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this annual report on Form
10-K. Historical results and percentage relationships set forth in the
Consolidated Statements of Income contained in the Consolidated Financial
Statements, including trends which might appear, should not be taken as
indicative of future operations.

Results of Operations

        Comparison 1998 to 1997

Revenues from rental property increased approximately $139.9 million, or 70.3%
to $338.8 million for the year ended December 31, 1998, as compared with
$198.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1997. This increase resulted
primarily from the combined effect of (i) the acquisition of 62 shopping
center properties and 3 retail properties during 1998 providing revenues from
rental property of $35.5 million,(ii) the full year impact related to the 63
property interests acquired in 1997 providing incremental revenues of $42.1
million, (iii) the acquisition of the Price REIT as of June 19, 1998 (the
"Price REIT Acquisition") providing revenues of $52.9 million and (iv) new
leasing, re-tenanting and completion of certain property redevelopments within
the portfolio providing improved rental rates.

Rental property expenses, including depreciation and amortization, increased
approximately $92.3 million, or 80.1%, to $207.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 1998, as compared with $115.2 million for the preceding calendar
year. The rental property expense components of rent, real estate taxes and
depreciation and amortization increased $7.7 million, $19.1 million and $21.3
million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 1998 as compared to the
preceding year. These rental property expense increases are primarily due to
the 62 shopping center properties and 3 retail properties acquired during
1998, the Price REIT Acquisition and the incremental costs related to the 63
property interests acquired during 1997. Interest expense increased
approximately $33.2 million between the respective periods reflecting higher
average outstanding borrowings during calendar year 1998 resulting from (i)
the issuance of an aggregate $290 million unsecured medium-term notes during
1998, (ii) the assumption of approximately $49.2 million of mortgage debt in
connection with the acquisition of certain property interests during 1998, as
compared to the preceding year, (iii) the aggregate of $281.3 million of
mortgage financing obtained in 1998 in connection with 22 property interests
and (iv) the assumption of approximately $250 million of unsecured debt and
$60 million of mortgage debt in connection with the Price REIT Acquisition.
These increased borrowings were offset, in part, by the July 1998 repayment of
$50 million medium-term notes which matured and the repayment of approximately
$79.2 million of mortgage debt during 1998.

The Company has interests in various retail store leases relating to the
anchor store premises in neighborhood and community shopping centers. These
premises have been substantially sublet to retailers which lease the stores
pursuant to net lease agreements. Income from the investment in retail store
leases during the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997 was $3.7 million and
$3.6 million, respectively.

General and administrative expenses increased approximately $6.9 million to
$18.6 million for the year ended December 31, 1998, as compared to $11.7
million for the preceding calendar year. The increase during 1998 is due
primarily to an increase in senior management and staff levels and other
personnel costs in connection with the growth of the Company, including
approximately $3.0 million attributable to the Price REIT Acquisition.

During 1998, the Company disposed of a property in Pinellas Park, FL. Cash
proceeds from the disposition totaling $2.3 million, together with an
additional $7.1 million cash investment, were used to acquire an exchange
shopping center property located in Cranston, RI.

Additionally, during December 1998, the Company disposed of a vacant
distribution center and adjacent facility located in O'Fallon, Missouri, which
were acquired as part of the Venture transactions, for $10 million, which
amount approximated their net book value.

During 1998, the Company prepaid certain mortgage loans resulting in
extraordinary charges of approximately $4.9 million, or on a per-basic share
and diluted share basis, $.10 and $.09, respectively, representing the
premiums paid and other costs written-off in connection with the early
satisfaction of these mortgage loans.






Net income for the year ended December 31, 1998 of approximately $122.3
million represented a substantial improvement of approximately $36.5 million,
as compared with net income of approximately $85.8 million for the preceding
calendar year. After adjusting for the gains on the sale of shopping center
properties during both periods and the extraordinary loss during 1998, net
income for 1998 increased by $40.7 million, or $.24 per basic share, compared
to 1997. This substantially improved performance was primarily attributable to
the Company's strong property acquisition program, the Price REIT Acquisition
and internal growth from redevelopments, re-tenanting of the Venture portfolio
and increased leasing activity which strengthened operating profitability.

Results of Operations

  Comparison of 1997 to 1996

Revenues from rental property increased approximately $30.8 million, or 18.3%
to $198.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1997, as compared with
$168.1 million for the year ended December 31, 1996. This increase resulted
primarily from the combined effect of (i) the acquisition of 63 property
interests during 1997 providing revenues from rental property of $20.1
million, (ii) the full year impact related to the 39 property interests
acquired in 1996 and (iii) new leasing and re-tenanting within the portfolio
at improved rental rates providing an increase in the overall occupancy level
from 87% at December 31, 1996 to 90% at December 31, 1997.

Rental property expenses, including depreciation and amortization, increased
approximately $18.2 million, or 18.8%, to $115.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 1997, as compared with $97.0 million for the preceding calendar
year. Rent, real estate taxes and depreciation and amortization charges
contributed significantly to this net increase in rental property expenses
(increasing $3.5 million, $6.5 million and $3.0 million, respectively, for the
year ended December 31, 1997 as compared to the preceding year) primarily due
to the 63 property interests acquired during 1997 and the 39 property
interests acquired during 1996. Interest expense increased approximately $4.7
million between the respective periods reflecting higher average outstanding
borrowings during calendar year 1997 resulting from (i) the issuance of an
aggregate $100 million unsecured medium-term notes during 1997 and (ii) the
assumption of approximately $73.2 million of mortgage debt in connection with
the acquisition of certain property interests during 1997, as compared to the
preceding year.

The Company has interests in various retail store leases relating to the
anchor store premises in neighborhood and community shopping centers. These
premises have been substantially sublet to retailers which lease the stores
pursuant to net lease agreements. Income from the investment in retail store
leases during the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996 was $3.6 million in
each year.

General and administrative expenses increased approximately $1.3 million to
$11.6 million for the year ended December 31, 1997, as compared to $10.3
million for the preceding calendar year. This increase is primarily
attributable to increased senior management and staff levels during 1997 and
1996.

During 1997, the Company disposed of a property in Troy, OH. Cash proceeds
from the disposition totaling $1.6 million, together with an additional $8.3
million cash investment, were used to acquire an exchange shopping center
property located in Ocala, FL.

Net income for the year ended December 31, 1997 of approximately $85.8 million
represented an improvement of approximately $12.0 million, as compared with
net income of approximately $73.8 million for the preceding calendar year.
After adjusting for the gains on the sale of shopping center properties during
both periods, net income for 1997 increased by $12.6 million, or $.20 per
basic share, compared to 1996. This substantially improved performance was
primarily attributable to property acquisitions and redevelopments and
increased leasing activity which strengthened operating profitability.

Liquidity and Capital Resources Since the completion of the Company's IPO in
1991, the Company has utilized the public debt and equity markets as its
principal source of capital. Since the IPO, the Company has completed
additional offerings of its public unsecured debt and equity, raising in the
aggregate over $1.9 billion for the purposes of repaying indebtedness,
acquiring interests in neighborhood and community shopping centers and for
expanding and improving properties in the portfolio.






During August 1998, the Company established a $215 million, unsecured
revolving credit facility, which is scheduled to expire in August 2001. This
credit facility, which replaced both the Company's $100 million unsecured
revolving credit facility and $150 million interim credit facility, has made
available funds to both finance the purchase of properties and meet any
short-term working capital requirements. As of December 31, 1998 there were no
borrowings outstanding under the Company's revolving credit facility.

The Company has also implemented a $200 million MTN program pursuant to which
it may from time to time offer for sale its senior unsecured debt for any
general corporate purposes, including (i) funding specific liquidity
requirements in its business, including property acquisitions, development and
redevelopment costs and (ii) managing the Company's debt maturities. (See Note
7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual
report on Form 10-K.)

In addition to the public equity and debt markets as capital sources, the
Company may, from time to time, obtain mortgage financing on selected
properties. As of December 31, 1998, the Company had over 300 unencumbered
property interests in its portfolio.

During 1998, the Company filed a shelf registration on Form S-3 for up to $750
million of debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares, common stock
and common stock warrants. As of March 1, 1999, the Company had approximately
$493.2 million available for issuance under this shelf registration statement.

In connection with its intention to continue to qualify as a REIT for Federal
income tax purposes, the Company expects to continue paying regular dividends
to its stockholders. These dividends will be paid from operating cash flows
which are expected to increase due to property acquisitions and growth in
rental revenues in the existing portfolio and from other sources. Since cash
used to pay dividends reduces amounts available for capital investment, the
Company generally intends to maintain a conservative dividend payout ratio,
reserving such amounts as it considers necessary for the expansion and
renovation of shopping centers in its portfolio, debt reduction, the
acquisition of interests in new properties as suitable opportunities arise,
and such other factors as the Board of Directors considers appropriate.

Cash dividends paid increased to $113.9 million in 1998, compared to $82.6
million in 1997 and $69.8 million in 1996. The Company's dividend payout
ratio, based on funds from operations on a per-basic common share basis, for
1998, 1997 and 1996 was approximately 64.2%, 65.4% and 65.8%, respectively.

Although the Company receives substantially all of its rental payments on a
monthly basis, it generally intends to continue paying dividends quarterly.
Amounts accumulated in advance of each quarterly distribution will be invested
by the Company in short-term money market or other suitable instruments.

The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward ground-up development
and redevelopment projects during 1999 will be approximately $150 million. It
is management's intention that the Company continually have access to the
capital resources necessary to expand and develop its business. Accordingly,
the Company may seek to obtain funds through additional equity offerings,
unsecured debt financings and/or mortgage financings in a manner consistent
with its intention to operate with a conservative debt capitalization policy.

The Company anticipates that cash flows from operations will continue to
provide adequate capital to fund its operating and administrative expenses,
regular debt service obligations and all dividend payments in accordance with
REIT requirements in both the short-term and long-term. In addition, the
Company anticipates that cash on hand, borrowings under its revolving credit
facility, issuance of equity and public debt, as well as other debt and equity
alternatives, will provide the necessary capital required by the Company. Cash
flows from operations as reported in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
increased to $158.7 million for 1998 from $125.1 million for 1997 and $101.9
million for 1996.




Effects of Inflation Many of the Company's leases contain provisions designed
to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation. Such provisions include clauses
enabling the Company to receive Percentage Rents, which generally increase as
prices rise, and/or escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates
during the terms of the leases. Such escalation clauses include increases in
the consumer price index or similar inflation indices. In addition, many of
the Company's leases are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits the
Company to seek to increase rents upon renewal to market rates. Most of the
Company's leases require the tenant to pay an allocable share of operating
expenses, including common area maintenance costs, real estate taxes and
insurance, thereby reducing the Company's exposure to increases in costs and
operating expenses resulting from inflation. The Company periodically
evaluates its exposure to short-term interest rates and will, from time to
time, enter into interest rate protection agreements which mitigate, but do
not eliminate, the effect of changes in interest rates on its floating-rate
debt.

Year 2000 Issue

Like most corporations, the Company depends upon its business and technical
information systems in operating its business. Many computer systems process
dates using two digits to identify the year, and some systems are unable to
properly process dates beginning with the year 2000. This problem is commonly
referred to as the "Year 2000" issue.

The Company has completed the assessment phase of its systems as to Year 2000
compliance and functionality. The Company has substantially completed the
identification and review of computer hardware and software suppliers and is
currently verifying the Year 2000 compliance of third-party suppliers, vendors
and service providers that the Company has deemed important to the ongoing
operations of the business. The Company has substantially completed the
modification of its software applications and is in the final phase of
testing. The Company anticipates our systems, including hardware and software,
will be Year 2000 compliant by the end of the second quarter of 1999.

The total costs to date related to the Year 2000 issue have been immaterial to
our operations. These costs have been expensed as incurred and consist
primarily of internal staff costs and other related expenses. We do not
believe that the remaining costs expected to be incurred in addressing the
Year 2000 issue will have a material adverse effect on our financial
conditions or results of operation.

Based upon the substantial progress made to date, the Company does not
anticipate delays in finalizing internal Year 2000 compliance issues. However,
the Company cannot guarantee that our third party vendors, partners or others
will be Year 2000 compliant. If the Company or such third party vendors,
partners and others encounter problems in addressing the Year 2000 issue, our
ability to operate our properties and to bill and collect our revenues in a
timely manner could be materially adversely affected. The Company is currently
addressing the development of a contingency plan in the event that our systems
or the systems of third party vendors, partners or others fail to resolve the
Year 2000 issue.

New Accounting Pronouncements

During 1998, the Company adopted the provisions of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 130 - "Reporting Comprehensive Income" ("SFAS 130") which
established standards for reporting and displaying comprehensive income and
its components and the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131 -
"Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information"("SFAS
131") which established standards for reporting information about operating
segments. The provisions of SFAS 130 and SFAS 131 had no impact on the
consolidated financial statements of the Company.

In 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Financial Accounting
Standards No. 133 - "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities" ("SFAS 133"), which is effective for years beginning after June
15, 1999. The management of the Company believes that the implementation of
SFAS 133 will not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated
financial statements.

In addition, during 1998, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee of the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued Statement of
Position 98-5, "Reporting on the Costs of Start-Up Activities" ("SOP 98-5")
and Statement of Position 98-1 "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software
Developed or Obtained for Internal Use" ("SOP 98-1"), each of which is
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1998. SOP 98-5
requires that certain costs incurred in connection with start-up activities be
expensed. SOP 98-1 provides guidance on whether the costs of computer software
developed or obtained for internal use should be capitalized or expensed. The
management of the Company believes that, when adopted, SOP 98-5 and SOP 98-1
will not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial
statements.



Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

As of December 31, 1998, the Company had approximately $279.1 million of
floating-rate debt outstanding. The interest rate risk on $260 million of such
debt has been mitigated through the use of interest rate swap agreements (the
"Swaps") with major financial institutions. The Company is exposed to credit
risk in the event of non-performance by the counter-parties to the Swaps. The
Company believes it mitigates its credit risk by entering into these Swaps
with major financial institutions.

The Company believes the interest rate risk represented by the remaining $19.1
million of floating-rate debt is not material in relation to the total debt
outstanding of the Company or its market capitalization.

The Company has not, and does not plan to, enter into any derivative financial
instruments for trading or speculative purposes. As of December 31, 1998, the
Company had no other material exposure to market risk.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The response to this Item 8 is included as a separate section of this annual
report on Form 10-K.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and 
         Financial Disclosure

None.









                                   PART III


Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement
to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be
held on May 20, 1999.

Information with respect to the Executive Officers of the Registrant follows
Part I, Item 4 of this annual report on Form 10-K.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement
to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be
held on May 20, 1999.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement
to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be
held on May 20, 1999.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement
to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Stockholders expected to be
held on May 20, 1999.









                                   PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K


(a)  1. Financial Statements -                                        Form 10-K 
            The following consolidated financial information            Report 
            is included as a separate section of this annual              Page 
            report on Form 10-K.                                        --------
                                                         
        Report of Independent Accountants                                  42

        Consolidated Financial Statements

          Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1998 and 1997     43

          Consolidated Statements of Income for the years
            ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996                         44

          Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
            for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996           45

          Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
            December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996                               46

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                       47

     2.    Financial Statement Schedules -

           Schedule II -  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                64
           Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation         65

           All other schedules are omitted since the required information
           is not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to
           require submission of the schedule.

     3.    Exhibits

           The exhibits listed on the accompanying Index to
           Exhibits are filed as part of this report.                      37

(b)      Reports on Form 8-K

A current report on Form 8-K was filed on November 10, 1998 to disclose (i) the
Remarketing Agreement, dated as of August 11, 1998 between the Company and a
Financial institution; (ii) the Company's new $215 million unsecured credit
facility, (iii) the Underwriting and Terms Agreement dated July 9, 1998 between
the Company and an underwriter and (iv) the Underwriting and Terms Agreement
dated November 4, 1998 between the Company and an underwriter.

A current report on Form 8-K was filed on November 17, 1998 to disclose (i)
the Underwriting and Terms Agreement dated November 12, 1998 between the
Company and an underwriter and (ii) the Underwriting and Terms Agreement dated
November 12, 1998 between the Company and an underwriter.

A current report on Form 8-K was filed on December 4, 1998 to disclose certain
historical financial information for certain properties acquired during
September and October 1998 and pro forma financial information for (i) all
shopping centers acquired during the ten months ended October 1998 and (ii)
the Merger.











                              INDEX TO EXHIBITS
                                                                      Form 10-K
 Exhibits                                                                  Page



   2.1   --  Form of Plan of Reorganization of Kimco Realty Corporation
                 [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the
                 Company's Registration Statement on Form S-11
                 No. 33-42588].

   2.2   --  Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 13, 1998,
             among Kimco Realty Corporation, REIT Sub, Inc. and
             The Price REIT, Inc. (the "Merger Agreement").
             [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the
             Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 21, 1998].

   2.3   --  First Amendment to the Merger Agreement, dated as
                 of March 5, 1998, among Kimco Realty Corporation,
                 REIT Sub, Inc. and The Price REIT, Inc.
                 [Incorporated by reference to the Company's Exhibit
                 99.1 of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
                 filed January 21, 1998.]

   2.4   --  Second Amendment to the Merger Agreement, dated
                 as of May 14, 1998, among Kimco Realty Corporation,
                 REIT Sub, Inc. and The Price REIT, Inc.
                 [Incorporated by reference to the Company's and The
                 Price REIT, Inc.'s Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus
                 on Form S-4 No. 333-52667].

   3.1   --  Articles of Amendment and Restatement of the
                 Company, dated August 4, 1994 [Incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Annual
                 Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                 1994].

   3.2   --  By-laws of the Company, as amended dated August 4, 1994.

   3.3   --  Articles Supplementary relating to the 8 1/2%
                 Class B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par
                 value $1.00 per share, of the Company, dated July
                 25, 1995. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3
                 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 year ended December 31, 1995 (file #1-10899) (the
                 "1995 Form 10-K")].

   3.4   --  Articles Supplementary relating to the 8 3/8%
                 Class C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par
                 value $1.00 per share, of the Company, dated April
                 9, 1996 [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4
                 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                 year ended December 31, 1996].

   3.5   --  Articles Supplementary relating to the 7 1/2%
                 Class D Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, par
                 value $1.00 per share, of the Company, dated May
                 14, 1998 [Incorporated by reference to the
                 Company's and The Price REIT, Inc.'s Joint
                 Proxy/Prospectus on Form S-4 No. 333-52667].

   4.1   --  Agreement of the Company pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) 
                 of Regulation S-K [Incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 4.1 to Amendment No. 3 to the Company's
                 Registration Statement on Form S-11 No. 33-42588].

   4.2   --  Certificate of Designations [Incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 4(d) to Amendment No. 1 to the Registration
                 Statement on Form S-3 dated September 10, 1993 (the
                 "Registration Statement", Commission File No. 33-67552)].








INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)
                                                                      Form 10-K
                                                                      Page
Exhibits

   4.3   --  Indenture dated September 1, 1993 between Kimco
                 Realty Corporation and IBJ Schroder Bank and Trust
                 Company [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a)
                 to the Registration Statement].

   4.4   --  First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 4, 1994.
                 [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the 1995
                 Form 10-K.]

   4.5   --  Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April
                 7, 1995 [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a)
                 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
                 April 7, 1995 (the "April 1995 8-K")].

   4.6   --  Form of Medium-Term Note (Fixed Rate) [Incorporated by reference
                 to Exhibit 4(b) to the April 1995 8-K].

   4.7   --  Form of Medium-Term Note (Floating Rate)
                 [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to the
                 April 1995 8-K].

   4.8   --  Form of Remarketed Reset Note [Incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 4(j) to the Company's Current
                 Report on Form 8-K dated March 26, 1999].

  10.1   --  Form of Acquisition Option Agreement between the Company
                 and the subsidiary named therein [Incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Amendment No. 3 to the
                 Company's Registration Statement on Form S-11
                 No. 33-42588].

  10.2   --  Management Agreement between the Company and
                 KC Holdings, Inc. [Incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Registration Statement
                 on Form S-11 No. 33-47915].

  10.3   --  Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan
                 [Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
                 1995 Form 10-K.]

 *10.4   --  Employment Agreement between Kimco Realty
                 Corporation and Michael J. Flynn, dated
                 November 1, 1998.                                         

  10.5   --  Restricted Equity Agreement, Non-Qualified
                 and Incentive Stock Option Agreement, and
                 Price Condition Non-Qualified and Incentive
                 Stock Option Agreement between Kimco Realty
                 Corporation and Michael J. Flynn, each dated
                 November 1, 1995 [Incorporated by reference to
                 Exhibit 10.5 to the 1995 Form 10-K].

  10.6   --  Employment Agreement between Kimco Realty Corporation and
                 Michael V. Pappagallo, dated April 30, 1997 [Incor-
                 porated by Reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Company's
                 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
                 31, 1997].

  10.7   --  Employment Agreement between Kimco Realty Corporation and
                 Joseph K. Kornwasser, dated January 13, 1998
                 [Incorporated by Reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the
                 Company's and the Price REIT, Inc.'s Joint Proxy
                 Statement/Prospectus on Form S-4 No. 333-52667].







INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)
                                      
                                                                      Form 10-K
                                                                      Page

  10.8   --  Employment Agreement between Kimco Realty Corporation and
                 Jerald Friedman, dated January 13, 1998
                 [Incorporated by Reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the
                 Company's and the Price REIT, Inc.'s Joint Proxy
                 Statement/Prospectus on Form S-4 No. 333-52667].

  10.9   --  Credit Agreement among Kimco Realty Corporation, The
                 Several Banks, financial institutions
                 and other entities from Time to Time Parties Hereto,
                 Chase Manhattan Bank and The First National
                 Bank of Chicago, as Co-Managers and Chase
                 Manhattan Bank, as Administrative Agent,
                 dated as of August 11, 1998.  [Incorporated by
                 reference to Exhibit 4(b) to the Company's
                 Current Report of Form 8-K filed November 10, 1998].

  10.10  --  Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan
                 [Incorporated by reference to the Company's and The
                 Price REIT, Inc.'s Joint Proxy/Prospectus on Form
                 S-4 No. 333-52667].

 *12.1   --  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed
                 Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.                    77

 *12.2   --  Computation of Ratio of Funds from Operations to Combined
                 Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends.              78

 *21.1   --  Subsidiaries of the Company                                   79

 *23.1   --  Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP                         87








- --------------------------------------------------------
   *   Filed herewith.







                                  SIGNATURES


   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities
   Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be
   signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION
                                                       (Registrant)


                                                By:  /s/ Milton Cooper
                                                ----------------------------
                                                       Milton Cooper
                                                 Chief Executive Officer

   Dated:  March 26, 1999


   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
   report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
   Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

   Signature                      Title                          Date



   /s/  Martin S. Kimmel         Chairman (Emeritus) of    March 26, 1999
   ---------------------------   the Board of Directors
         Martin S. Kimmel        


   /s/  Milton Cooper            Chairman of the Board     March 26, 1999
   ---------------------------   of Directors and Chief
         Milton Cooper           Executive Officer
                                 

   /s/  Michael J. Flynn         Vice Chairman of the      March 26, 1999
   ---------------------------   Board of Directors,
         Michael J. Flynn        President and
                                 Chief Operating Officer
                                 

   /s/  Joseph K. Kornwasser     Director and Senior       March 26, 1999
   ----------------------------
         Joseph K. Kornwasser    Executive Vice President

   /s/  Richard G. Dooley        Director                  March 26, 1999
   ---------------------------
         Richard G. Dooley


   /s/  Joe Grills               Director                 March 26, 1999
   --------------------------- 
        Joe Grills


   /s/  Frank Lourenso           Director                 March 26, 1999  
   ---------------------------
       Frank Lourenso



   /s/  Michael V. Pappagallo    Chief Financial Officer   March 26, 1999
   ---------------------------
         Michael V. Pappagallo


   /s/  Glenn G. Cohen           Treasurer                 March 26, 1999
   ---------------------------
       Glenn G. Cohen


   /s/  Ruth Mitteldorf          Director of Accounting    March 26, 1999
   ---------------------------   and Taxation
         Ruth Mitteldorf         











                          ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                       ITEM 8, ITEM 14 (a) (1) and (2)

                        INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                       
                                     AND

                                  
                        FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                                   -------

                                                                     FORM 10-K
                                                                      Page No.


   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



   Report of Independent Accountants                                       42

   Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules:

     Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1998 and 1997          43

     Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
         December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996                                  44

     Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
         for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996              45

     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
         December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996                                  46

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                            47

     Financial Statement Schedules:

         II.      Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                        64
         III.  Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation                    65









                      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS



   To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
     Kimco Realty Corporation:

   In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the
   accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
   position of Kimco Realty Corporation and Subsidiaries at December 31, 1998
   and 1997, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash
   flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1998, in
   conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, in
   our opinion, the financial statement schedules listed in the accompanying
   index present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
   therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial
   statements. These financial statements and financial statement schedules
   are the responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility is
   to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement
   schedules based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements
   in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards which require that
   we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
   the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
   includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
   disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting
   principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
   evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
   our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.


                                            /S/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP



   New York, New York
   February 26, 1999







                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                -----------------





        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.



                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                                ----------------




        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.




                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
              For the Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

                         ------------------------------










        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.




                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                            -------------------------








        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
                             financial statements.



                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.       Summary of Significant Accounting Policies:

         Business

         Kimco Realty Corporation (the "Company" or "Kimco"), its
             subsidiaries, affiliates and related real estate joint ventures
             are engaged principally in the operation of neighborhood and
             community shopping centers which are anchored generally by
             discount department stores, supermarkets or drugstores.
             Additionally, the Company provides management services for
             shopping centers owned by affiliated entities and various real
             estate joint ventures.

         The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through
             diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its
             properties, avoiding dependence on any single property, and a
             large tenant base. At December 31, 1998, the Company's single
             largest neighborhood and community shopping center accounted for
             only 1.5% of the Company's annualized base rental revenues and
             only 1.0% of the Company's total shopping center gross leasable
             area ("GLA"). At December 31, 1998, the Company's five largest
             tenants include Kmart Corporation, The Home Depot, Kohl's,
             Toys/Kids R' Us and TJX Companies, which represented
             approximately 13.7%, 3.0%, 2.5%, 1.8% and 1.5%, respectively, of
             the Company's annualized base rental revenues.

         Principles of Consolidation and Estimates

         The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the
             accounts of the Company, its subsidiaries, all of which are
             wholly-owned, and all majority-owned partnerships. All
             significant intercompany balances and transactions have been
             eliminated in consolidation.

         Generally accepted accounting principles require the Company's
             management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
             reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of
             contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of
             revenues and expenses during a reporting period. Actual results
             may differ from such estimates. The most significant assumptions
             and estimates relate to depreciable lives, valuation of real
             estate and the recoverability of trade accounts receivable.

         Real Estate

         Realestate assets are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation
             and amortization. If there is an event or a change in
             circumstances that indicates that the basis of the Company's
             property may not be recoverable, the Company will assess any
             impairment in value by making a comparison of (i) the current and
             projected operating cash flows (undiscounted and without interest
             charges) of the property over its remaining useful life and (ii)
             the net carrying amount of the property. If the current and
             projected operating cash flows (undiscounted and without interest
             charges) are less than the carrying value of its property, the
             carrying value would be written down to an amount to reflect the
             fair value of the property.

         Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight-line
             method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as follows:

             Buildings                             15 to 39 years
             Fixtures and leasehold improvements   Terms of leases or useful
                                                     lives, whichever is shorter




                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued


         Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as
             incurred. Significant renovations are capitalized.

         Investments in Real Estate Joint Ventures

         Investments in real estate joint ventures are accounted for on the
             equity method.

         Deferred Leasing and Financing Costs

         Costs incurred in obtaining tenant leases and long-term financing,
             included in deferred charges and prepaid expenses in the
             accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, are amortized over the
             terms of the related leases or debt agreements, as applicable.

         Revenue Recognition

         Minimum revenues from rental property are recognized on a
             straight-line basis over the terms of the related leases.

         Income Taxes

         The Company and its subsidiaries file a consolidated Federal income
             tax return. The Company has made an election to qualify, and
             believes it is operating so as to qualify, as a Real Estate
             Investment Trust (a "REIT") for Federal income tax purposes.
             Accordingly, the Company generally will not be subject to Federal
             income tax, provided that distributions to its stockholders equal
             at least the amount of its REIT taxable income as defined under
             the Code.

         Per Share Data

         In  1997 the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Financial
             Accounting Standards No. 128 "Earnings Per Share". Statement 128
             replaced the presentation of primary and fully diluted earnings
             per share ("EPS") pursuant to Accounting Principles Board Opinion
             No. 15 with the presentation of basic and diluted EPS. Basic EPS
             excludes dilution and is computed by dividing net income
             available to common shareholders by the weighted average number
             of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS reflects
             the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other
             contracts to issue common shares were exercised or converted into
             common shares and then shared in the earnings of the Company.

         The following table sets forth the reconciliation between basic and
             diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding for each
             period:





                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         The effect of the conversion of the Class D Preferred Stock (as
             defined in Note 3) would have an anti-dilutive effect upon the
             calculation of net income per common share. Accordingly, the
             impact of such conversion has not been included in the
             determination of diluted net income per common share.

         New Accounting Pronouncements

         During 1998, the Company adopted the provisions of Financial
             Accounting Standards No. 130 - "Reporting Comprehensive Income"
             ("SFAS 130") which established standards for reporting and
             displaying comprehensive income and its components and the
             provisions of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131 -
             "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
             Information"("SFAS 131") which established standards for
             reporting information about operating segments. The provisions of
             SFAS 130 and SFAS 131 had no impact on the accompanying
             Consolidated Financial Statements.

         In 1998 the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Financial
             Accounting Standards No. 133 "Accounting for Derivative
             Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS 133"), which is
             effective for years beginning after June 15, 1999. The management
             of the Company believes that the implementation of SFAS 133 will
             not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated
             financial statements.

         In addition, during 1998, the Accounting Standards Executive
             Committee of the American Institute of Certified Public
             Accountants issued Statement of Position 98-5, "Reporting on the
             Costs of Start-Up Activities" ("SOP 98-5"), and Statement of
             Position 98-1, "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software
             Developed or Obtained for Internal Use" ("SOP 98-1"), each of
             which is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
             1998. SOP 98-5 requires that certain costs incurred in connection
             with start-up activities be expensed. SOP 98-1 provides guidance
             on whether the costs of computer software developed or obtained
             for internal use should be capitalized or expensed. The
             management of the Company believes that, when adopted, SOP 98-5
             and SOP 98-1 will not have a material impact on the Company's
             consolidated financial statements.

2.  Property Acquisitions:

         Shopping Centers-

         During the years 1998, 1997 and 1996 certain subsidiaries of the
             Company acquired real estate interests, in separate transactions,
             in various shopping center properties at aggregate costs of
             approximately $303 million, $146 million and $39 million,
             respectively.

         Venture Stores, Inc. Properties Transactions-

         During January 1996, certain subsidiaries of the Company entered into
             two sale-leaseback transactions with Venture Stores, Inc.
             ("Venture") pursuant to which it acquired fee title to 16 retail
             properties located in Texas, Iowa, Oklahoma, Illinois and Kansas
             for a purchase price of $40 million. Simultaneously, the Company
             executed two long-term unitary net leases with Venture covering
             the 16 locations. During July 1997, the Company consented to the
             modification of these two unitary net lease agreements whereby
             the Company entered into two unitary net lease



                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

           agreements with another retailer on 9 of the locations and a new
             unitary lease with Venture on the remaining 7 locations.

         In  August 1997, certain subsidiaries of the Company acquired certain
             real estate assets from Venture consisting of interests in 49 fee
             and leasehold properties totaling approximately 5.9 million
             square feet of leasable area located in seven states. The
             aggregate price was approximately $130 million, consisting of
             $70.5 million in cash and the assumption of approximately $59.5
             million of existing mortgage debt on certain of these properties.
             Simultaneously with this transaction, the Company entered into a
             long-term unitary net lease with Venture covering all premises
             occupied by Venture on these properties. As a result of this
             transaction, Venture was the primary or sole tenant at 60 of the
             Company's locations as of December 31, 1997.

         In  January 1998, Venture filed for protection under Chapter 11 of
             the United States Bankruptcy Code. On April 27, 1998, Venture
             announced it would discontinue its retail operations and that it
             had reached an agreement to sell its leasehold position at 89
             locations to the Company, including 56 properties pursuant to two
             unitary leases already in place with the Company, 30 properties
             pursuant to a master lease with Metropolitan Life Insurance
             Company ("Metropolitan Life") and three properties leased by
             Venture from others. The purchase price for the leasehold
             positions was $95.0 million, less certain closing adjustments,
             but is subject to upward adjustment based on the Company's
             success in re-tenanting the properties over a two-year period. On
             July 17, 1998, the Company purchased the leasehold positions with
             an initial cash payment to Venture of approximately $50 million.
             Simultaneous with this transaction, the Company leased 46 of
             these locations to Kmart Corporation.

         The Company also reached an agreement with Metropolitan Life to
             purchase the 30 fee and leasehold positions which were leased by
             Metropolitan Life to Venture, for an aggregate purchase price of
             $167.5 million. This transaction was completed on July 1, 1998.

         During August 1998, the Company acquired from Venture five additional
             leasehold positions, including two leases already in place with
             the Company, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately
             $2.2 million. Simultaneous with this transaction, the Company
             leased these five locations, along with five other former Venture
             locations, to another national retailer.

         As of December 31, 1998, the Company has leased substantially all of
             the vacant space at 76 locations and sold 2 of the locations
             acquired in the above transactions (See Recent Developments -
             Property Dispositions). The Company is currently negotiating with
             other major retailers concerning the re-tenanting of the
             remaining locations.

         Retail Property Acquisitions-

         During January 1998, the Company, through a partnership interest,
             acquired fee interest in three properties from a retailer in the
             Chicago, IL market comprising approximately 516,000 square feet
             of GLA for a aggregate purchase price of approximately $23.7
             million. These properties include approximately 70,000 square
             feet of showroom space and adjoining warehouses of approximately
             100,000 square feet at each location. Simultaneous with this
             transaction, the Company leased, to a national furniture
             retailer, the showroom portion of each property under individual
             long-term leases. The Company is currently planning the
             redevelopment of the warehouse portion of each property.



                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         During August 1996, certain subsidiaries of the Company acquired
             interests in 16 retail properties, including 2 properties to
             which the Company and its affiliates already held fee title, for
             $21.8 million in cash. These property interests were acquired
             from a retailer which had elected to discontinue operation of its
             discount department store division.

         These acquisitions have been funded principally through the
             application of proceeds from the Company's public unsecured debt
             and equity offerings and proceeds from mortgage financings. (See
             Notes 7, 8 and 12.)

         Other Acquisitions-

         During December 1998, the Company acquired a first mortgage on a
             shopping center in Manhasset, New York for approximately $21
             million and has entered into a contract to acquire fee title to
             this property.

3.  Price REIT Merger:

         On  January 13, 1998, the Company, REIT Sub, Inc., a Maryland
             corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ("Merger
             Sub") and The Price REIT, Inc., a Maryland corporation, ("Price
             REIT"), signed a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger dated
             January 13, 1998, as amended March 5, 1998 and May 14, 1998, (the
             "Merger Agreement"). On June 19, 1998, upon approval by the
             shareholders of the Company and the shareholders of Price REIT,
             Price REIT was merged into Merger Sub, whereupon the separate
             existence of Price REIT ceased (the "Merger"). For financial
             reporting purposes, the Merger was accounted for using the
             purchase method of accounting.

         Prior to the Merger, Price REIT was a self-administered and
             self-managed equity REIT that was primarily focused on the
             acquisition, development, management and redevelopment of large
             community shopping center properties concentrated in the western
             part of the United States . In connection with the Merger, the
             Company acquired interests in 43 properties, consisting of 39
             retail community centers, one stand-alone retail warehouse, one
             project under development and two undeveloped land parcels,
             located in 17 states containing approximately 8.0 million square
             feet of GLA. The overall occupancy rate of the retail community
             centers was 98%.

         In  connection with the Merger, holders of Price REIT common stock
             received one share of Kimco common stock and 0.36 shares of Kimco
             Class D Depositary Shares (the "Class D Depositary Shares"), each
             Class D Depositary Share representing a one-tenth fractional
             interest in a new issue of Kimco 7.5% Cumulative Convertible
             Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share (the "Class D
             Preferred Stock"), for each share of Price REIT common stock. On
             June 19, 1998, the Company issued 11,921,992 shares of its common
             stock and 429,159 shares of Class D Preferred Stock (represented
             by 4,291,590 Class D Depositary Shares) in connection with the
             Merger. Additionally, in connection with the Merger, the Company
             issued 65,000 shares of a new issue of Kimco Class E Floating
             Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share ((the
             "Class E Preferred Stock"), represented by 650,000 Class E
             Depositary Shares, (the "Class E Depositary Shares")), each Class
             E Depositary Share representing a one-tenth fractional interest
             in the Class E Preferred Stock. The Class E Preferred Stock was
             redeemable at the option of the Company for 150 days after its
             issuance at a price equal to the liquidation preference of $1,000
             per share plus accrued and unpaid




                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

             dividends. The Company exercised its option in November 1998 to
             redeem all of the Class E Preferred Stock for $65.065 million
             representing the liquidation preference of $65 million and
             approximately $65,000 of accrued dividends (See Note 12).

         The total Merger consideration was approximately $960 million,
             including the assumption of approximately $310 million of debt.
             Management has allocated the purchase price based on the fair
             value of assets and liabilities assumed. Such allocations are
             based on preliminary estimates, and are subject to revision.

4.    Investment in Retail Store Leases:

         The Company has interests in various retail store leases relating to
             the anchor store premises in neighborhood and community shopping
             centers. These premises have been substantially sublet to
             retailers which lease the stores pursuant to net lease
             agreements. Income from the investment in these retail store
             leases during the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997 was
             approximately $3.7 million and $3.6 million, respectively. These
             amounts represent sublease revenues during the years ended
             December 31, 1998 and 1997 of approximately $20.2 million and
             $20.9 million, respectively, less related expenses of $14.9
             million and $15.2 million, respectively, and an amount, which in
             management's estimate, reasonably provides for the recovery of
             the investment over a period representing the expected remaining
             term of the retail store leases. The Company's future minimum
             revenues under the terms of all noncancellable tenant subleases
             and future minimum obligations through the remaining terms of its
             retail store leases, assuming no new or renegotiated leases are
             executed for such premises, for future years are as follows (in
             millions of dollars): 1999, $18.3 and $13.7; 2000, $17.1 and
             $12.5; 2001, $13.9 and $10.1; 2002, $10.3 and $7.3; 2003, $7.0
             and $4.5 and thereafter, $8.7 and $1.7, respectively.

5.       Investments and Advances in Real Estate Joint Ventures:

         The Company and its subsidiaries have investments in and advances to
             various real estate joint ventures. These joint ventures are
             engaged primarily in the operation of shopping centers which are
             either owned or held under long-term operating leases.

         During 1998, in connection with the Merger, the Company acquired two
             additional joint venture interests. The Company also invested
             approximately $19.0 million in a partnership which has acquired
             and leased-back 11 automotive dealerships and invested
             approximately $3.6 million in a partnership which acquired a
             shopping center for approximately $34 million, including mortgage
             debt of approximately $27 million. The Company has a 50% interest
             in each of these partnerships.



                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         Summarized financial information for the recurring operations of
             these real estate joint ventures is as follows (in millions of
             dollars):

                                                              December 31,
                                                      --------------------------
                                                         1998            1997
                                                      -----------     ----------
             Assets:
                  Real estate, net                      $168.2           $58.3
                  Other assets                            20.3             7.8
                                                      -----------     ----------

                                                        $188.5           $66.1
                                                      ===========     ==========

             Liabilities and Partners'
             Capital/(Deficit):
                  Mortgages payable                     $104.3           $63.5
                  Other liabilities                       24.7            19.7
                  Partners' Capital/(Deficit)             59.5           (17.1)
                                                      -----------     ----------

                                                        $188.5           $66.1
                                                      ===========     ==========


                                                       Year Ended December 31,
                                                   -----------------------------
                                                     1998       1997      1996
                                                   -------     ------   --------

             Revenues from rental property          $26.8      $14.8     $11.2

             Operating expenses                      (9.7)      (3.6)     (2.9)
             Mortgage interest                       (6.2)      (3.1)     (2.5)
             Depreciation and amortization           (2.9)      (2.2)     (2.2)
             Other, net                                .1       (1.8)     (1.3)
                                                     ------     -----     -----

                  Net income                         $8.1       $4.1      $2.3
                                                     ======     ======    ====

         Other liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets
             include accounts with certain real estate joint ventures totaling
             approximately $5.0 million and $5.1 million at December 31, 1998
             and 1997, respectively. The Company and its subsidiaries have
             varying equity interests in these real estate joint ventures
             which may differ from their proportionate share of net income or
             loss recognized in accordance with generally accepted accounting
             principles.

6.       Cash and Cash Equivalents:

         Cashand cash equivalents (demand deposits in banks, commercial paper
             and certificates of deposit with original maturities of three
             months or less) includes tenants' security deposits, escrowed
             funds and other restricted deposits approximating $.1 million and
             $10.1 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

         Cashand cash equivalent balances may, at a limited number of banks
             and financial institutions, exceed insurable amounts. The Company
             believes it mitigates its risks by investing in or through major
             financial institutions. Recoverability of investments is
             dependent upon the performance of the issuers.



                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

7.       Notes Payable:

         The Company has implemented a $200 million unsecured medium-term
             notes ("MTN") program pursuant to which it may, from time to
             time, offer for sale its senior unsecured debt for any general
             corporate purposes, including (i) funding specific liquidity
             requirements in its business, including property acquisition,
             development and redevelopment costs, and (ii) managing the
             Company's debt maturities.

         During June and July 1998, the Company issued an aggregate $130
             million of fixed-rate unsecured medium-term notes under its MTN
             program (the "June and July MTNS"). The June and July MTNs mature
             in June 2005 and July 2006, respectively, and bear interest at
             6.73% and 6.93% per annum, respectively. Interest on these notes 
             is payable semi-annual in arrears.

         As of December 31, 1998, a total principal amount of $290.25
             million, including the June and July MTNs, in fixed-rate senior
             unsecured MTNs had been issued under the MTN program primarily
             for the acquisition of neighborhood and community shopping
             centers and the expansion and improvement of properties in the
             Company's portfolio. These fixed-rate notes had maturities
             ranging from seven to twelve years at the time of issuance and
             bear interest at rates ranging from 6.70% to 7.91%. Interest on
             these fixed-rate senior unsecured notes is payable semi-annually
             in arrears.

         During August 1998, the Company issued $60 million of floating-rate
             MTNs which mature in August 2000 and bear interest at LIBOR plus
             .15% per annum. The interest rate resets quarterly and is payable
             quarterly in arrears. Concurrent with the issuance of these
             MTN's, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement
             for the term of these MTNs, which effectively fixed the interest
             rate at 5.91% per annum. The proceeds from this MTN issuance were
             used to prepay certain mortgage loans with a principal amount of
             approximately $57 million bearing interest at 10.54% per annum
             plus prepayment premiums of approximately $4.9 million
            (See Note 9).

         Additionally during August 1998, the Company issued $100 million of
             remarketed reset notes under its MTN program. The remarketed
             reset notes mature in August 2008 and bear interest initially at
             a floating rate of LIBOR plus .30% per annum. After an initial
             period of one year, the interest rate spread applicable to each
             subsequent period will be determined pursuant to a remarketing
             agreement between the Company and a financial institution. The
             interest rate resets quarterly and is payable quarterly in
             arrears. Concurrent with this issuance, the Company entered into
             an interest rate swap agreement which effectively fixed the
             interest rate at 5.92% per annum during the initial one-year
             period. The proceeds from the MTN issuance were used, in part, to
             repay $50 million MTNs that matured in July 1998.

         In connection with the Price REIT Merger, the Company assumed $205
             million of fixed-rate unsecured senior notes consisting of: (i)
             $50 million which mature in June 2004 and bear interest at
             7.125%, (ii) $55 million which mature November 2006 and bear
             interest at 7.5% and (iii) $100 million which mature November
             2000 and bear interest at 7.25% (collectively, "the Price REIT
             Notes"). Interest is payable on the Price REIT Notes
             semi-annually in arrears.



                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         As of December 31, 1998, the Company had outstanding $100 million in
             floating rate senior notes due 1999 bearing interest at LIBOR
             plus .50%. Interest on these floating-rate, senior unsecured
             notes resets quarterly and is payable quarterly in arrears.
             During 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate swap
             agreement which effectively fixed the interest rate at 6.165% per
             annum for the remaining term of these notes (See Note 18).

         As of December 31, 1998, the Company had $100 million in 6.5%
             fixed-rate unsecured Senior Notes due 2003. Interest on these
             senior unsecured notes is paid semi-annually in arrears.

         The scheduled maturities of all unsecured senior notes payable as of
             December 31, 1998, are approximately as follows (in millions of
             dollars): 1999, $100.0; 2000, $160.0; 2003, $100.0 and
             thereafter, $495.25.

         In accordance with the terms of the Indenture, as amended, pursuant
             to which the Company's senior, unsecured notes have been issued,
             the Company is (a) subject to maintaining certain maximum
             leverage ratios on both unsecured senior corporate and secured
             debt, minimum debt service coverage ratios and minimum equity
             levels, and (b) restricted from paying dividends in amounts that
             exceed by more than $26 million the funds from operations, as
             defined, generated through the end of the calendar quarter most
             recently completed prior to the declaration of such dividend;
             however, this dividend limitation does not apply to any
             distributions necessary to maintain the Company's qualification
             as a REIT providing the Company is in compliance with its total
             leverage limitations.

         The Company maintains a $215 million, unsecured revolving credit
             agreement with a group of banks. Borrowings under this facility
             are available for general corporate purposes, including the
             funding of property acquisitions, development and redevelopment
             costs. Interest on borrowings accrues at a spread (currently
             .50%) to LIBOR or money-market rates, as applicable, which
             fluctuates in accordance with changes in the Company's senior
             debt ratings. A fee approximating .20% per annum is payable on
             that portion of the facility which remains unused. Pursuant to
             the terms of the agreement, the Company, among other things, is
             (a) subject to maintaining certain maximum leverage ratios on
             both unsecured senior corporate and secured debt, a minimum debt
             service coverage ratio and minimum unencumbered asset and equity
             levels, and (b) restricted from paying dividends in amounts that
             exceed 90% of funds from operations, as defined, plus 10% of the
             Company's stockholders' equity determined in accordance with
             generally accepted accounting principles. There were no
             borrowings outstanding under this facility at December 31, 1998.
             This revolving credit facility is scheduled to expire in August
             2001.

8.       Mortgages Payable:

         During 1998, the Company obtained mortgage financing aggregating
             approximately $272.3 million on 20 of its properties. These
             mortgages are non-recourse, non-cross collateralized, ten-year
             fixed-rate first mortgages, bearing interest at a weighted
             average rate of 6.585% per annum over the term of the loans. The
             proceeds from the mortgages were used primarily for the
             acquisition of neighborhood and community shopping centers.

         In  addition, the Company, through an affiliated entity, obtained
             mortgage financing of approximately $9 million on two other
             properties. These ten-year fixed-rate mortgages bear interest at
             7% per annum for the term of the loans.



                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         Mortgages payable, collateralized by certain shopping center
             properties and related tenants' leases, are generally due in
             monthly installments of principal and/or interest which mature at
             various dates through 2023. Interest rates range from
             approximately 6.57% to 10.5% (weighted average interest rate of
             7.27% as of December 31, 1998). The scheduled maturities of all
             mortgages payable as of December 31, 1998, are approximately as
             follows (in millions of dollars): 1999, $28.8; 2000, $16.5; 2001,
             $4.8; 2002, $8.0; 2003, $6.0 and thereafter, $370.2.

         Three of the Company's properties are encumbered by approximately
             $13.5 million in floating-rate, tax-exempt mortgage bond
             financing. The rates on the bonds are reset annually, at which
             time bondholders have the right to require the Company to
             repurchase the bonds. The Company has engaged a remarketing agent
             for the purpose of offering for resale those bonds that are
             tendered to the Company. All bonds tendered for redemption in the
             past have been remarketed and the Company has arrangements,
             including letters of credit, with banks to both collateralize the
             principal amount and accrued interest on such bonds and to fund
             any repurchase obligations.

9.       Extraordinary Items:

         During 1998, the Company prepaid certain mortgage loans resulting in
             extraordinary charges of approximately $4.9 million, or, on a
             per-basic share and diluted share basis, $.10 and $.09,
             respectively, representing the premiums paid and other costs
             written-off in connection with the early satisfaction of these
             mortgage loans.

10.      KC Holdings, Inc.:

         To facilitate the Company's November 1991 initial public stock
             offering(the "IPO"), forty-six shopping center properties and
             certain other assets, together with indebtedness related thereto,
             were transferred to subsidiaries of KC Holdings, Inc. ("KC
             Holdings"), a newly-formed corporation that is owned by the
             stockholders of the Company prior to the IPO. The Company
             continues to manage eighteen of these shopping center properties
             and was granted ten-year, fixed-price options to reacquire the
             real estate assets owned by KC Holdings' subsidiaries, subject to
             any liabilities outstanding with respect to such assets at the
             time of an option exercise. As of December 31, 1998, KC Holdings'
             subsidiaries had conveyed 14 shopping centers back to the Company
             and had disposed of ten additional centers in transactions with
             third parties. The members of the Company's Board of Directors
             who are not also shareholders of KC Holdings unanimously approved
             the purchase of each of the 14 shopping centers that have been
             reacquired by the Company from KC Holdings.

         Selected financial information for the twenty-two property interests
             owned by KC Holdings' subsidiaries as of and for the year ended
             December 31, 1998, is as follows: Real estate, net of accumulated
             depreciation and amortization, $54.7 million; Notes and mortgages
             payable, $58.8 million; Revenues from rental property, $11.7
             million; Income from rental operations, $.3 million, after
             depreciation and amortization deductions of $2.1 million; Income
             adjustment for real estate joint ventures, net, $.6 million.



                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

11.      Fair Value Disclosure of Financial Instruments:

         All financial instruments of the Company are reflected in the
             accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets at amounts which, in
             management's estimation based upon an interpretation of available
             market information and valuation methodologies (including
             discounted cash flow analyses with regard to fixed rate debt)
             considered appropriate, reasonably approximate their fair values.
             Such fair value estimates are not necessarily indicative of the
             amounts that would be realized upon disposition of the Company's
             financial instruments.

12.      Preferred and Common Stock Issuances:

         During April and May 1998, the Company completed the sale of an
             aggregate 3,039,507 shares of common stock in five separate
             transactions consisting of (i) a primary public stock offering of
             460,000 shares of common stock priced at $36.0625 per share, and
             (ii) four direct placements of 415,945 shares, 546,075 shares,
             837,000 shares and 780,487 shares of common stock priced at
             $36.0625, $36.625, $36.25 and $38.4375 per share, respectively.
             The shares of common stock sold in the direct placements were
             deposited in separate unit investment trusts. The net proceeds
             from these offerings totaled approximately $106.0 million, after
             related transaction costs of approximately $5.9 million.

         During July 1998, the Company completed the sale of an aggregate
             1,315,498 shares of common stock in three separate transactions
             consisting of (i) a primary public stock offering of 510,000
             shares of common stock priced at $39.4375 per share and (ii) two
             direct placements of 375,000 and 430,498 shares of common stock
             priced at $38.2575 and $38.56 per share, respectively. The net
             proceeds from these offerings totaled approximately $49.9
             million, after related transaction costs of approximately $1.2
             million.

         During September 1998, the Company completed the sale of an aggregate
             750,000 shares of common stock priced at $38.75 per share in a
             primary public stock offering. In addition, during October 1998,
             the Company sold an additional 112,500 shares of common stock
             pursuant to an election by the underwriter to exercise, in full,
             their over-allotment option. The net proceeds from these sales of
             common stock totaled approximately $31.6 million, after related
             transaction costs of approximately $1.8 million.

         During November 1998, the Company completed the sale of an aggregate
             1,395,000 shares of common stock in four separate transactions
             consisting of primary public stock offerings of 650,000 shares,
             170,000 shares, 475,000 shares and 100,000 shares of common stock
             priced at $39.6875, $39.6875, $39.00 and $39.00 per share,
             respectively. The net proceeds from these sales of common stock
             totaled approximately $52.4 million after related transaction
             costs of approximately $2.5 million.

         During December 1998, the Company completed the sale of an aggregate
             1,005,800 shares of common stock in three direct placements. The
             transactions were each priced at $38.25 per share and provided
             net proceeds to the Company of approximately $38.4 million, after
             related transaction costs of approximately $.1 million.

         On September 30, 1997, the Company completed a primary public stock
             offering of 4,000,000 shares of common stock at $35.50 per share.
             The net proceeds from this sale of common stock totaled
             approximately $134.5 million, after related transaction costs of
             approximately $7.5 million.




                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         The net proceeds from these common stock offerings have been used for
             general corporate purposes, including the acquisition of
             neighborhood and community shopping centers, the expansion and
             improvement of certain properties in the Company's portfolio, and
             the redemption of the Class E Preferred Stock issued in
             connection with the Merger.

         During June 1998, in connection with the Merger, the Company issued
             4,291,590 Class D Depositary Shares (each such depositary share
             representing a one-tenth fractional interest in the Class D
             Preferred Stock) and 650,000 Class E Depositary Shares (each
             depositary share representing a one-tenth fractional interest in
             the Class E Preferred Stock). During November 1998, the Company
             exercised its option to redeem all of the Class E Preferred
             Stock (represented by the Class E Depositary Shares). (See Note
             3.)

         Dividends on the Class D Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable
             at the rate per depositary share equal to the greater of (i) 7.5%
             per annum based upon a $25 per share initial value or $1.875 per
             share or (ii) the cash dividend on the shares of the Company's
             common stock into which a Class D Depositary Share is convertible
             plus $0.0275 per quarter. The Class D Depositary Shares are
             convertible into the Company's common stock at a conversion price
             of $40.25 per share of common stock at any time by the holder and
             may be redeemed by the Company at the conversion price in shares
             of the Company's common stock at any time after June 19, 2001 if,
             for any 20 trading days within any period of 30 consecutive
             trading days, including the last day of such period, the average
             closing price per share of the Company's common stock exceeds
             120% of the conversion price or $48.30 per share, subject to
             certain adjustments.

         The dividend rate on the Class E Preferred Stock (represented by the
             Class E Depositary Shares) was equal to LIBOR plus 2% per annum,
             adjusted quarterly, and had an initial dividend rate of 7.68% per
             annum.

         The Class D Preferred Stock (represented by the Class D Depositary
             Shares outstanding) ranks pari passu with the Company's 7-3/4%
             Class A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, 8-1/2% Class B
             Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock and the 8-3/8% Class C
             Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock as to voting rights,
             priority for receiving dividends and liquidation preferences as
             set forth below.

         At December 31, 1998, the Company has outstanding 3,000,000
             Depositary Shares (the "Class A Depositary Shares"), each such
             Class A Depositary Share representing a one-tenth fractional
             interest of a share of the Company's 7-3/4% Class A Cumulative
             Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share(the "Class
             A Preferred Stock"), 2,000,000 Depositary Shares (the "Class B
             Depositary Shares"), each such Class B Depositary Share
             representing a one-tenth fractional interest of a share of the
             Company's 8-1/2% Class B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
             par value $1.00 per share (the "Class B Preferred Stock"),
             4,000,000 Depositary Shares ("the Class C Depositary Shares"),
             each such Class C Depositary Share representing a one-tenth
             fractional interest of a share of the Company's 8-3/8% Class C
             Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share
             (the "Class C Preferred Stock").



                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         Dividends on the Class A Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable
             quarterly in arrears at the rate of 7-3/4% per annum based on the
             $25 per share initial offering price, or $1.9375 per depositary
             share. The Class A Depositary Shares are redeemable, in whole or
             in part, for cash on or after September 23, 1998 at the option of
             the Company, at a redemption price of $25 per depositary share,
             plus any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon. The Class A
             Depositary Shares are not convertible or exchangeable for any
             other property or securities of the Company. The Class A
             Preferred Stock (represented by the Class A Depositary Shares
             outstanding) ranks pari passu with the Company's Class B
             Preferred Stock, Class C Preferred Stock and Class D Preferred
             Stock as to voting rights, priority for receiving dividends and
             liquidation preferences as set forth below.

         Dividends on the Class B Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable
             quarterly in arrears at the rate of 8-1/2% per annum based on the
             $25 per share initial offering price, or $2.125 per depositary
             share. The Class B Depositary Shares are redeemable, in whole or
             in part, for cash on or after July 15, 2000 at the option of the
             Company at a redemption price of $25 per depositary share, plus
             any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon. The redemption price of
             the Class B Preferred Stock may be paid solely from the sale
             proceeds of other capital stock of the Company, which may include
             other classes or series of preferred stock. The Class B
             Depositary Shares are not convertible or exchangeable for any
             other property or securities of the Company. The Class B
             Preferred Stock (represented by the Class B Depositary Shares
             outstanding) ranks pari passu with the Company's Class A
             Preferred Stock, Class C Preferred Stock and Class D Preferred
             Stock as to voting rights, priority for receiving dividends and
             liquidation preferences as set forth below.

         Dividends on the Class C Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable
             quarterly in arrears at the rate of 8-3/8% per annum based on the
             $25 per share initial offering price, or $2.0938 per depositary
             share. The Class C Depositary Shares are redeemable, in whole or
             in part, for cash on or after April 15, 2001 at the option of the
             Company at a redemption price of $25 per depositary share, plus
             any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon. The redemption price of
             the Class C Preferred Stock may be paid solely from the sale
             proceeds of other capital stock of the Company, which may include
             other classes or series of preferred stock. The Class C
             Depositary Shares are not convertible or exchangeable for any
             other property or securities of the Company. The Class C
             Preferred Stock (represented by the Class C Depositary Shares
             outstanding) ranks pari passu with the Company's Class A
             Preferred Stock, Class B Preferred Stock and Class D Preferred
             Stock as to voting rights, priority for receiving dividends and
             liquidation preferences as set forth below.

         Voting Rights - As to any matter on which the Class A Preferred
             Stock, Class B Preferred Stock, Class C Preferred Stock and Class
             D Preferred Stock (collectively, the "Preferred Stock") may vote,
             including any action by written consent, each share of Preferred
             Stock shall be entitled to 10 votes, each of which 10 votes may
             be directed separately by the holder thereof. With respect to
             each share of Preferred Stock, the holder thereof may designate
             up to 10 proxies, with each such proxy having the right to vote a
             whole number of votes (totaling 10 votes per share of Preferred
             Stock). As a result, each Class A, each Class B, each Class C and
             each Class D Depositary Share is entitled to one vote.




                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         Liquidation Rights - In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or
             winding up of the affairs of the Company, the Preferred Stock
             holders are entitled to be paid, out of the assets of the Company
             legally available for distribution to its stockholders, a
             liquidation preference of $250.00 per share ($25 per Class A,
             Class B, Class C and Class D Depositary Share, respectively),
             plus an amount equal to any accrued and unpaid dividends to the
             date of payment, before any distribution of assets is made to
             holders of the Company's common stock or any other capital stock
             that ranks junior to the Preferred Stock as to liquidation
             rights.

13.      Dispositions of Real Estate:

         During January 1998, the Company disposed of a property in Pinellas
             Park, Florida. Proceeds from the disposition totaling
             approximately $2.3 million, together with an additional $7.1
             million cash investment, were used to acquire an exchange
             shopping center property located in Cranston, Rhode Island.

         During December 1998, the Company disposed of a vacant distribution
             center and adjacent facility located in O'Fallon, Missouri, which
             were acquired as part of the Venture transactions, for $10
             million, which amount approximated their net book value.

14.      Transactions with Related Parties:

         The Company provides management services for shopping centers owned
             principally by affiliated entities and various real estate joint
             ventures in which certain stockholders of the Company have
             economic interests.

         Such services are performed pursuant to management agreements which
             provide for fees based upon a percentage of gross revenues from
             the properties and other direct costs incurred in connection with
             management of the centers. The Consolidated Statements of Income
             include management fee income from KC Holdings of approximately
             $.6 million during each of the three years ending December 31,
             1998, 1997, and 1996.

         Reference is made to Notes 5 and 10 for additional information
             regarding transactions with related parties.

15.      Commitments and Contingencies:

         The Company and its subsidiaries are engaged in the operation of
             shopping centers which are either owned or held under long-term
             leases which expire at various dates through 2076. The Company
             and its subsidiaries, in turn, lease premises in these centers to
             tenants pursuant to lease agreements which provide for terms
             ranging generally from 5 to 25 years and for annual minimum
             rentals plus incremental rents based on operating expense levels
             and tenants' sales volumes. Annual minimum rentals plus
             incremental rents based on operating expense levels comprised
             approximately 98%, 98% and 97% of total revenues from rental
             property for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996,
             respectively.

         The future minimum revenues from rental property under the terms of
             all noncancellable tenant leases, assuming no new or renegotiated
             leases are executed for such premises, for future years are
             approximately as follows (in millions of dollars): 1999, $337.1;
             2000, $319.2; 2001, $297.3; 2002, $276.1; 2003, $253.5 and
             thereafter, $2,321.6.




                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         Minimum rental payments under the terms of all noncancellable
             operating leases pertaining to its shopping center portfolio for
             future years are approximately as follows (in millions of
             dollars): 1999, $13.5; 2000, $12.9; 2001, $11.6; 2002, $10.7;
             2003, $9.6 and thereafter $169.1.

16.      Incentive Plans:

         The Company maintains a stock option plan (the "Plan") pursuant to
             which a maximum 6,000,000 shares of the Company's common stock
             may be issued for qualified and non-qualified options. Options
             granted under the Plan generally vest ratably over a three-year
             term, expire ten years from the date of grant and are exercisable
             at the market price on the date of grant, unless otherwise
             determined by the Board in its sole discretion. In addition, the
             Plan provides for the granting of certain options to each of the
             Company's non-employee directors (the "Independent Directors")
             and permits such Independent Directors to elect to receive
             deferred stock awards in lieu of directors' fees.

         Information with respect to stock options under the Plan for the
             years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 is as follows:




         The exercise prices for options outstanding as of December 31, 1998
             range from $13.33 to $39.94 per share. The weighted average
             remaining contractual life for options outstanding as of December
             31, 1998 was approximately 7.8 years. Options to purchase
             2,316,420, 329,673 and 800,373 shares of the Company's common
             stock were available for issuance under the Plan at December 31,
             1998, 1997 and 1996 respectively.

         The Company has elected to adopt the disclosure-only provisions of
             Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 "Accounting
             for Stock-Based Compensation". Accordingly, no compensation cost
             has been recognized with regard to options granted under the Plan
             in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income. If
             stock-based compensation costs had been recognized based on the
             estimated fair values at the dates of grant for options awarded
             during 1998, 1997 and 1996 net income and net income per common
             share for these calendar years would have been reduced by
             approximately $1.4 million or $.03 per basic share, $.7 million,
             or $.02 per basic share and $.4 million, or $.01 per basic share,
             respectively.



                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         These pro forma adjustments to net income and net income per basic
             common share assume fair values of each option grant estimated
             using the Black-Scholes option pricing formula. The more
             significant assumptions underlying the determination of such fair
             values for options grantedduring 1998, 1997 and 1996 include: (i)
             weighted average risk-free interest rates of 5.07%, 6.18% and
             6.24%, respectively; (ii) weighted average expected option lives
             of 5.6 years, 8.2 years and 7.25 years, respectively; (iii) an
             expected volatility of 15.76%, 15.65% and 15.79%, respectively,
             and (iv) an expected dividend yield of 6.40%, 6.44% and 6.82%,
             respectively. The per share weighted average fair value at the
             dates of grant for options awarded during 1998, 1997 and 1996 was
             $2.86, $3.02 and $2.50, respectively.

         The Company maintains a 401(k) retirement plan covering substantially
             all officers and employees which permits participants to defer up
             to a maximum 10% of their eligible compensation. This deferred
             compensation, together with Company matching contributions which
             generally equal employee deferrals up to a maximum of 5%, is
             fully vested and funded as of December 31, 1998. Company
             contributions to the plan totaled less than $.3 million for each
             of the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.

17.      Supplemental Financial Information:

         The following represents the results of operations, expressed in
             thousands except per share amounts, for each quarter during years
             1998 and 1997.





                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued

         Interest paid during years 1998, 1997 and 1996 approximated $60.7 
             million,  $29.9 million and $26.9 million, respectively.

         Accounts and notes receivable in the accompanying Consolidated
             Balance Sheets are net of estimated unrecoverable amounts of
             approximately $3.2 million and $1.8 million, respectively, at
             December 31, 1998 and 1997.

18.      Subsequent Events:

         Property Acquisitions / Dispositions

         In January and February 1999, the Company acquired five neighborhood
             and community shopping center properties comprising approximately
             .7 million square feet of GLA in four states for an aggregate
             price of approximately $79.0 million, including the assumption of
             $8.5 million of mortgage debt encumbering one of the properties.

         During February 1999, the Company disposed of a property in
             Morrisville, Pennsylvania. Cash proceeds from the disposition
             totaling $1.6 million approximated its net book value.

         Financings

         During February 1999, the Company issued $130 million of 6-7/8%
             fixed-rate Senior Notes due 2009. Interest on the notes is
             payable semi-annually in arrears. The notes were sold at 99.85%
             of par value. Net proceeds from the issuance totaling
             approximately $128.9 million, after related transaction costs of
             approximately $.9 million, were used, in part, to repay $100
             million floating-rate senior notes that matured during February
             1999 and for general corporate purposes.

19.      Pro Forma Financial Information (Unaudited):

         As discussed in Notes 2, 3 and 13, the Company and certain of its
             subsidiaries acquired and disposed of interests in shopping
             center properties during 1998. The pro forma financial
             information set forth below is based upon the Company's
             historical Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
             December 31, 1998 and 1997, adjusted to give effect to these
             transactions as of January 1, 1997.

         The pro forma financial information is presented for informational
             purposes only and may not be indicative of what actual results of
             operations would have been had the transactions occurred on
             January 1, 1997, nor does it purport to represent the results of
             operations for future periods. (Amounts presented in millions of
             dollars, except per share figures.)

            Years ended December 31,                      1998         1997
                                                          ----          ----

            Revenues from rental property                $410.0        $349.4
            Income before extraordinary items            $149.1        $139.8
            Net income                                   $144.2        $139.8

            Per common Share:

                Income before extraordinary items:
                     Basic                               $2.13         $2.20
                     Diluted                             $2.11         $2.18
                Net income:
                     Basic                               $2.04         $2.20
                     Diluted                             $2.02         $2.18




                   KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

               For Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996









                    KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDARIES
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1998

                                                                    SCHEDULE III





































Depreciation and amortization of the Company's investment in buildings and
improvements reflected in the statements of income is calculated over the
estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:

   Buildings.................... 15 to 39 years
   Improvements................. Terms of leases or useful lives, 
                                 whichever is shorter

The aggregate cost for Federal income tax purposes was approximately $2,730
million at December 31, 1998.

The changes in total real estate assets for the years ended December 31, 1998,
1997 and 1996 are as follows:





The changes in accumulated depreciation for the years ended December 31, 1998,
1997 and 1996 are as follows:





