
10-K405
FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1999




               UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended September 30, 1999  OR

[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from __________ to ____________

Commission File Number   1-10042

                           ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

    TEXAS AND VIRGINIA                       75-1743247
  (State or other jurisdiction of          (IRS Employer
  incorporation or organization)         Identification No.)

  Three Lincoln Centre, Suite 1800
  5430 LBJ Freeway, Dallas, Texas               75240
  (Address of principal executive offices)    (Zip code)

  Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
                                (972) 934-9227

  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                        Name of each exchange
     Title of each class                 on which registered
     -------------------                ----------------------
     Common stock, No Par Value         New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                     None

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes  X  No
                                                ---    ---

                                  "continued"


          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

          The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates
of the registrant was $660,086,573 as of November 24, 1999.  On November 24,
1999 the registrant had 31,316,186 shares of common stock outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

          Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the
year ended September 30, 1999 are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and
IV of this report.

          Portions of the registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement to be filed
for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on February 9, 2000 are incorporated by
reference into Part III of this report.


                           ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
                          ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
                 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1999
                                                                                                 Page no.

Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements                5

                                    PART I

Item 1.  Business                                                        6

           Acquisitions and Mergers                                      8

           Operating Statistics                                          9

           Utility Energy Services and Propane Data                     14

           Gas Sales                                                    15

           Gas Supply                                                   16

           Regulation and Rates                                         18

           Competition                                                  22

           Employees                                                    23

Item 2.  Properties                                                     23

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings                                              24

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a
         Vote of Security Holders                                       24

Executive Officers of the Registrant                                    25

                                    PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity
         and Related Stockholder Matters                                26

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data                                        26

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of
         Financial Condition and Results of Operations                  26

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
         about Market Risk                                              26



                                                                  Page no.


Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                    27

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
         on Accounting and Financial Disclosure                         27

                                   PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers
         of the Registrant                                              28

Item 11. Executive Compensation                                         28

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
         Owners and Management                                          28

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions                 28

                                    PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules,
         and Reports on Form 8-K                                        29



Cautionary Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995

     The matters discussed or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section
21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements
of historical facts included in this Report regarding the Company's financial
position, business strategy and plans and objectives of management of the
Company for future operations, are forward-looking statements made in good faith
by the Company and are intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability
established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used
in this Report or in any of the Company's other documents or oral presentations,
the words "anticipate," "expect," "estimate," "plans," "believes," "objective,"
"forecast," "goal" or other similar words are intended to identify forward-
looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
expressed or implied in the statements relating to the Company's operations,
markets, services, rates, recovery of costs, availability of gas supply, and
other factors. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to,
national, regional, and local economic and competitive conditions, regulatory
and business trends and decisions, technological developments, Year 2000 issues,
inflation rates, weather conditions, and other uncertainties, all of which are
difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the control of the Company.

     Accordingly, while the Company believes that the expectations reflected in
the forward-looking statements are reasonable, there can be no assurance that
such expectations will be realized or will approximate actual results.



                                    PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

     Atmos Energy Corporation (the "Company") was organized under the laws of
the State of Texas in 1983 as a subsidiary of Pioneer Corporation ("Pioneer")
for the purposes of owning and operating Pioneer's natural gas distribution
business in Texas. Immediately following the transfer of such business, which
had been operated by Pioneer and its predecessors since 1906, Pioneer
distributed the outstanding stock of the Company, then known as Energas Company,
to Pioneer shareholders. In September 1988, the Company changed its name from
Energas Company to Atmos Energy Corporation. As a result of its merger with
United Cities Gas Company in July 1997, the Company became incorporated in the
Commonwealth of Virginia as well as the State of Texas.

     The Company distributes and sells natural gas and propane to approximately
1,078,000 residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural, and other
customers. The Company distributes and sells natural gas through approximately
1,038,000 meters in 802 cities, towns, and communities in service areas located
in Texas, Louisiana, Kentucky, Colorado, Kansas, Illinois, Tennessee, Iowa,
Virginia, Georgia, South Carolina and Missouri. The Company also transports gas
for others through parts of its distribution system. It also distributes propane
to approximately 40,000 customers in Kentucky, North Carolina, Virginia, and
Tennessee.

     The Company's Texas distribution system is operated through its Energas
Company division (the "Energas Division") and covers an area having a population
of approximately 950,000 people. The economy of the area is based primarily on
oil and gas production and agriculture. The principal cities served by the
Energas Division include Amarillo, Lubbock, Midland, and Odessa. At September
30, 1999, the Company had approximately 316,000 regulated and non-regulated
meters in service in Texas.

     The Company's Louisiana distribution system is operated through its Trans
Louisiana Gas Company division (the "Trans La Division") and covers an area
having a population of approximately 250,000 people. The economy of the area is
based primarily on oil and gas production, agriculture, and food processing. The
principal cities served by the Trans La Division are Lafayette, Pineville, and
Natchitoches. At September 30, 1999, the Company had approximately 81,000 meters
in service in Louisiana.

     The Company's Kentucky distribution system is operated through its Western
Kentucky Gas Company division (the "Western Kentucky Division") and covers an
area having a population of approximately 680,000 people. The economy of the
area is based primarily on industry and agriculture. The principal cities served
by the Western Kentucky Division include Bowling Green, Owensboro, and



Paducah. At September 30, 1999, the Company had approximately 180,000 meters in
service in Kentucky.

     The Company's distribution systems in Colorado and parts of Kansas and
Missouri are operated through its Greeley Gas Company division (the "Greeley
Division") and covers an area having a combined population of approximately
530,000 people. The economies of the areas served are based on oil and gas
production, agriculture and resort business. The principal cities and counties
served by the Greeley Division include Greeley, Durango and Lamar, Colorado;
Bonner Springs, Herington and Ulysses, Kansas; and Wyandotte and Johnson
Counties in Kansas. At September 30, 1999 the Greeley Division had approximately
202,000 meters in service.

     The Company operates natural gas distribution systems in Georgia, Illinois,
Iowa, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and Missouri through its United Cities
Gas Company division (the "United Cities Division") and covers an area having a
combined population of approximately 6.4 million people. The economies of the
areas served include customers engaged in the manufacture of asphalt,
automobiles, auto parts, chemicals, electronics, food products, metals, textiles
and wire, among others. The division also serves several colleges and a major
army base. The principal cities served by the United Cities Division include
Franklin and Murfreesboro, Tennessee; Hannibal, Missouri; and Gainesville and
Columbus, Georgia. At September 30, 1999, the United Cities Division had
approximately 259,000 meters in service.

     The Company also operates certain non-regulated businesses through various
wholly-owned subsidiaries. One subsidiary, Atmos Storage, Inc. ("Storage"),
provides natural gas storage services. It owns natural gas storage fields in
Kentucky and Kansas to supplement natural gas used by customers in Kansas,
Tennessee, and other states.

     Another subsidiary, Atmos Energy Marketing, LLC, owns a 45% interest in
Woodward Marketing, LLC ("WMLLC"), a Delaware limited liability company that
provides natural gas services. WMLLC provides gas marketing and energy
management services to industrial customers, municipalities and local
distribution companies, including the Trans La, Western Kentucky and United
Cities Divisions.

     In addition, Atmos Energy Services, Inc. markets gas to industrial and
irrigation customers primarily in West Texas through Enermart Energy Services
Trust ("Enermart") and to industrial customers in Louisiana, and is developing
plans for marketing various non-regulated services and products.

     United Cities Propane Gas, Inc. ("Propane") is engaged primarily in the
retail distribution of propane ("LP") gas, and on a much smaller scale, the
wholesale supply of LP gas. It exited



the direct merchandising and repair of propane gas appliances in 1999. Propane
currently has operation and storage centers and storefront offices located in
Tennessee, Kentucky, and North Carolina, with a total company storage capacity
of approximately 2.5 million gallons. As of September 30, 1999, Propane served
approximately 40,000 customers in the states listed above as well as Virginia.
During the three-year period ended September 30, 1999, the propane operations
added approximately 10,900 customers through acquisitions of six propane
distribution companies and a propane transport company.

     Finally, Atmos Leasing Inc. and Atmos Energy Marketing, LLC, leases real
estate and vehicles to the United Cities Division and leases appliances to
residential customers.

     The natural gas distribution business is subject to a number of factors,
many of which affect the Company from time to time. These include (i) the
ongoing need to obtain adequate and timely rate relief from regulatory
authorities to recover costs of service and earn a fair return on invested
capital; (ii) inherent seasonality of the business; (iii) competition with
alternate fuels; (iv) competition with other gas sources for industrial
customers, including the ability of some customers to bypass the Company's
facilities, which could result in loss of revenues and reduction in the
Company's net income; and (v) possible volatility in the supply and price of
natural gas and propane. The propane distribution business is also subject to
seasonality and competition with alternate fuels and other suppliers.

ACQUISITIONS AND MERGERS

     Since its organization in 1983, the Company has sought to expand its
customer base and to diversify the weather patterns, local economic conditions,
and regulatory environments to which its operations are subject.  As part of
this strategy, the Company acquired Trans Louisiana Gas Company, Inc. ("TLG") in
January 1986, Western Kentucky Gas Utility Corporation ("WKG") in December 1987,
Greeley Gas Company ("GGC") in December 1993, Oceana Heights Gas Company of
Thibodaux, Louisiana in November 1995 and United Cities Gas Company ("UCGC") in
July 1997. Subsequent to September 30, 1999, the Company entered into a
definitive agreement with Southwestern Energy Company ("Southwestern") on
October 15, 1999 to acquire the Missouri natural gas distribution assets of
Associated Natural Gas, a division of Arkansas Western Gas, which is a wholly-
owned subsidiary of Southwestern.  Under the terms of the agreement, the Company
will purchase the Missouri gas system for approximately $32.0 million in cash
plus working capital adjustments.  This transaction, which will add
approximately 48,000 customers, is expected to be completed by mid-year 2000,
subject to approvals by the Missouri Public Service Commission and the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission.



     The Company continues to consider and pursue, where appropriate, additional
acquisitions of natural gas distribution properties and other business
opportunities.  For further information regarding the UCGC merger, see Note 2 of
notes to consolidated financial statements in the Company's Annual Report to
Shareholders.

OPERATING STATISTICS

     The table on the following page reflects the operating statistics of Atmos
including the United Cities Division for fiscal 1999 and 1998 and the restated
operating statistics for 1997, 1996 and 1995 on a pooled basis with UCGC. It is
followed by two tables of utility sales and operating statistics by business
unit for 1999 and 1998, respectively. Certain prior year amounts have been
reclassified to conform with the current year presentation.



                           ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
                       CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATISTICS


See footnotes on page 13.



        UTILITY SALES AND STATISTICAL DATA BY BUSINESS UNIT - 1999 (1)



See footnotes on page 13.



        UTILITY SALES AND STATISTICAL DATA BY BUSINESS UNIT - 1998 (1)



See footnotes on page 13.



Notes to preceding tables:
- --------------------------

     (1) These tables present data for Atmos' five utility business units.
Their operations include the regulated local distribution companies located in
their respective service areas.

     (2) A heating degree day is equivalent to each degree that the average of
the high and the low temperatures for a day is below 65 degrees.  The greater
the number of heating degree days, the colder the climate.  Heating degree days
are used in the natural gas industry to measure the relative coldness of weather
experienced and to compare relative temperatures between one geographic area and
another.  Normal degree days are based on 30-year average National Weather
Service data for selected locations.

     (3) Volumes are reported as metered in million cubic feet ("MMcf").

     (4) The number of employees excludes 427 and 391 Atmos shared services and
customer support center employees and 164 and 186 non-utility employees in 1999
and 1998, respectively.



UTILITY, ENERGY SERVICES AND PROPANE DATA

          The following table summarizes certain information regarding the
operation of the utility, energy services and propane segments of the Company
for each of the three years as of and for the period ended September 30, 1999.
Amounts for 1997 have been restated to reflect the pooling of interests with
UCGC on July 31, 1997.


                                               Energy
                                   Utility    Services  Propane     Total
                                  ----------  --------  --------  ----------
                                                (In thousands)
       Operating revenues (1)     $  617,313   $49,939  $22,944   $  690,196
       Operating income (loss)        49,000     5,782     (543)      54,239
       Net income (loss)              10,800     7,813     (869)      17,744
       Identifiable assets (1)     1,125,691    71,115   33,731    1,230,537

       Operating revenues (1)     $  738,445   $80,672  $29,091   $  848,208
       Operating income              100,665    11,595      619      112,879
       Net income (loss)              43,332    11,999      (66)      55,265
       Identifiable assets (1)     1,052,225    52,616   36,549    1,141,390

       Operating revenues (1)     $  805,252   $68,389  $33,194   $  906,835
       Operating income               61,213     4,991      405       66,609
       Net income (loss)              19,739     4,189      (90)      23,838
       Identifiable assets (1)     1,002,690    62,511   23,110    1,088,311

       (1)  Net of intersegment eliminations

       The utility segment is comprised of the Company's five regulated utility
divisions: Energas Division, Greeley Division, Trans La Division, United Cities
Division and Western Kentucky Division.

       The energy services segment is currently composed of four parts.  Atmos
Storage Inc., owns underground storage fields in Kansas and Kentucky and
provides storage services to the United Cities Division and Greeley Division and
other non-regulated customers.  Atmos Energy Services, Inc., markets gas to
irrigation and industrial customers in West Texas through Enermart Energy
Services Trust, and to industrial customers in Louisiana and is developing plans
for marketing various non-regulated services and products.  Atmos Energy
Marketing, LLC, owns the Company's 45% investment in WMLLC, a gas marketing and
energy management services business.  Atmos Leasing, Inc., leases buildings and
vehicles to the United Cities Division and gas appliances to residential
customers.



     The propane segment includes United Cities Propane Gas, Inc., which is
primarily engaged in the retail and wholesale distribution of propane gas in
Tennessee, Kentucky, North Carolina and Virginia.

GAS SALES

     The Company's natural gas distribution business is seasonal and highly
dependent on weather conditions in the Company's service areas. Gas sales to
residential and commercial customers are greater during the winter months than
during the remainder of the year. The volumes of such sales during the winter
months will vary with the temperatures during such months. The seasonal nature
of the Company's sales to residential and commercial customers is offset
partially by the Company's sales in the spring and summer months to its
agricultural customers in Texas, Colorado and Kansas who utilize natural gas to
operate irrigation equipment. The Company also has weather normalization
adjustments in its rate jurisdictions in Tennessee and Georgia, which serve
approximately 186,000 customers. The Company believes that it has lessened its
sensitivity to weather risk by diversifying its operations into geographic areas
having different weather patterns.

     In addition to weather, the Company's revenues are affected by the cost of
natural gas and economic conditions in the areas that the Company serves. Higher
gas costs, which the Company is generally able to pass through to its customers
under purchased gas adjustment clauses, may cause customers to conserve, or, in
the case of industrial customers, to use alternative energy sources.

     In recent years, natural gas market conditions have changed. Natural gas
prices to distributors have become more volatile and the number of competing
marketers of natural gas has increased. The Company's gas marketing subsidiaries
purchase gas to address requirements for large volume customers in certain
highly competitive markets.

     In certain instances, customers purchase gas directly from others instead
of from the Company and the Company transports such gas through its distribution
systems to the customers' facilities for a fee. Although transportation of
customer-owned gas reduces the Company's operating revenues and corresponding
purchased gas cost, the transportation revenues received by the Company
generally offset the loss to gross profit.

     The Company's distribution systems have experienced aggregate peak day
deliveries of approximately 1.5 billion cubic feet ("Bcf") per day. The Company
has the ability to curtail deliveries to certain customers under the terms of
interruptible contracts and applicable state statutes or regulations which
enables it to maintain its deliveries to high priority customers. The Company
has not imposed curtailment in its Energas Division since the Company began
independent operations in 1983 or in its Trans La



Division since the Company acquired TLG in 1986. The Western Kentucky Division
curtailed deliveries to certain interruptible customers during exceptionally
cold periods in December 1989, January 1994 and during the winter of 1996.
Neither the Greeley Division nor its predecessor, GGC, have curtailed deliveries
to its sales customers since prior to 1980. The United Cities Division curtails
interruptible service customers from time to time each year in accordance with
the interruptible contracts and tariffs.

GAS SUPPLY

     The Company receives gas deliveries through some 28 pipeline transportation
companies, both interstate and intrastate, to satisfy its firm sales market
requirements. The transportation agreements are firm and many of them have
pipeline no-notice storage service which provide for daily balancing between
system requirements and nominated flowing supplies. These agreements have been
negotiated with the shortest term available to maintain the Company's Right of
First Refusal which provides the right to roll over the term and yet reduce the
risk of stranded demand costs in the event of unbundling its services.

     The Western Kentucky Division's gas supply is delivered by the following
pipelines: Williams Pipeline-Texas Gas, Tennessee Gas, Trunkline, Midwestern
Pipeline and ANR, except that a small percentage of the requirements are being
purchased directly from intrastate producers that are connected directly to its
distribution system. During 1998, WKG sought and was granted approval by the
Kentucky Public Service Commission for a Performance-based Rate ("PBR") program.
This three-year supply and asset management program commenced in July 1998.

     The United Cities Division is served by 13 interstate pipelines. The
majority of the volumes are transported through East Tennessee Pipeline,
Southern Natural Gas and Williams Pipeline-Central.

     Colorado Interstate Gas Company, Williams Pipeline-Central, Public Service
Company of Colorado, and Northwest Pipeline are the principal transporters of
the Greeley Division's requirements. Additionally, the Greeley Division
purchased substantial volumes from producers that are connected directly to its
distribution system.

     The Energas Division receives sales and transportation service from various
KN pipeline affiliates. Also, the Energas Division purchases a significant
portion of its supply from Pioneer Natural Resources (formerly Mesa) which is
connected directly to the Company's Amarillo, Texas distribution system.



     Louisiana Intrastate Gas Company ("LIG"), Acadian Pipeline, Koch Gateway
and Williams Pipeline-Texas Gas pipelines deliver most of the Trans La
Division's requirements.

     The Company also owns and operates numerous natural gas storage facilities
in Kentucky and Kansas which are used to help meet customer requirements during
peak demand periods and to reduce the need to contract for additional pipeline
capacity to meet such peak demand periods. Additionally, the Company operates
various propane plants and a liquified natural gas ("LNG") plant for peak
shaving purposes. The Company also contracts for storage service in underground
storage facilities of many of the interstate pipelines serving it. See "Item 2.
Properties" below for further information regarding the peak shaving facilities.

     The United Cities and Western Kentucky Gas Divisions normally injects gas
into pipeline storage systems and company owned storage facilities during the
summer months and withdraws it in the winter months. At the present time, the
underground storage facilities of Storage have a maximum daily output capability
of approximately 15,000 thousand cubic feet ("Mcf").

     The United Cities Division has the ability to serve approximately 60% of
its peak day load through the use of company owned storage facilities, storage
contracts with its suppliers and peaking facilities throughout the system. This
ability provides the operational flexibility and security of supply required to
meet the needs of the highly weather sensitive residential and commercial
markets.

     During 1999, the Company purchased its gas supply from various producers
and marketers. The suppliers were selected through a bidding process (except for
local production purchases) by sending out a Request for Proposal ("RFP") to
suppliers that have demonstrated that they can provide reliable service. These
suppliers were selected based on their ability to deliver gas supply to our
designated firm pipeline receipt points and the best cost. Major suppliers
during 1999 were Reliant Energy, Sonat Marketing, KN Marketing, Pioneer Natural,
CIG the Merchant, WMLLC, Oneok Gas Marketing, Barrett Resources, Anadarko and
Tenaska Marketing.



REGULATION AND RATES

Regulation
- ----------

     Energas Division

     In the Energas Division, the governing body of each municipality served by
the Company has original jurisdiction over all utility rates, operations, and
services within its city limits except with respect to sales of natural gas for
vehicle fuel and agricultural use.  The Company operates pursuant to non-
exclusive franchises granted by the municipalities it serves, which franchises
are subject to renewal from time to time.  The franchises granted to the Company
permit it to conduct natural gas distribution within the municipalities'
incorporated limits.  The Railroad Commission of Texas has exclusive appellate
jurisdiction over all rate and regulatory orders and ordinances of the
municipalities and exclusive original jurisdiction over rates and services to
customers not located within the limits of a municipality.  In Texas, rates for
large industrial customers are routinely set by contract negotiation between the
Company and its customers pursuant to statutory standards and are filed with and
subject to the governmental authority of the municipalities or the Railroad
Commission, depending on whether the customer is located inside or outside the
limits of a municipality.  Historically, the Company's rates for large
industrial customers have been accepted as filed.  Agricultural sales in Texas
are not regulated, except that prices for agricultural sales cannot exceed the
prices the Company charges the majority of its commercial or other similar
large-volume users in Texas.

     Trans La Division

     The Trans La Division is regulated by the Louisiana Public Service
Commission, which regulates utility services, rates, and other matters. In most
of the parishes and incorporated areas in which the Company operates in
Louisiana, it does so pursuant to a non-exclusive franchise granted by the
governing authority of each parish or incorporated area. The franchise gives the
Company the general privilege to operate its gas distribution business in, as
well as the right to install its distribution lines along the roadways of, the
parish or the incorporated area. Direct sales of natural gas to industrial
customers in Louisiana who utilize the gas for fuel or in manufacturing
processes and sales of natural gas for vehicle fuel are exempt from regulation.

     Western Kentucky Division

     The Western Kentucky Division is regulated by the Kentucky Public Service
Commission, which regulates utility services, rates, issuance of securities, and
other matters. The Company operates in the various incorporated cities served by
it in Kentucky pursuant to non-exclusive franchises granted by such cities. The
franchises



grant to the Company the right to operate its gas distribution business in the
city and to install its distribution lines and related equipment in and along
the city's public rights-of-way. Sales of natural gas for use as vehicle fuel in
Kentucky are not subject to regulation.

     Greeley Division

     The Greeley Division is regulated by the Colorado Public Utilities
Commission, the Kansas Corporation Commission, and the Missouri Public Service
Commission with respect to accounting, rates and charges, operating matters, and
the issuance of securities. The Company operates in the various incorporated
cities served by it in the states of Colorado, Kansas and Missouri under terms
of non-exclusive franchises granted by the various cities. The franchises grant
to the Company, among other things, the right to install and operate its gas
distribution system within the city limits. Most of the Greeley Division's
wholesale gas suppliers are regulated by various federal and state commissions.

     United Cities Division

     In each state in which the United Cities Division operates, its rates,
services and operations as a natural gas distribution company is subject to
general regulation by the state public service commission. In addition, the
issuance of securities by the Company is subject to approval by the state
commissions, except in South Carolina and Iowa. Missouri only regulates the
issuance of secured debt. The United Cities Division operates in each community,
where necessary, under a franchise granted by the municipality for a fixed term
of years. To date, it has been able to renew franchises and expects to continue
to do so in the future.

     The Company is also subject to regulation by the United States Department
of Transportation with respect to safety requirements in the operation and
maintenance of its gas distribution facilities. The Company's distribution
operations are also subject to various state and federal laws regulating
environmental matters. From time to time the Company receives inquiries
regarding various environmental matters. The Company believes that its
properties and operations substantially comply with and are operated in
substantial conformity with applicable safety and environmental statutes and
regulations. There are no administrative or judicial proceedings arising under
environmental quality statutes pending or known to be contemplated by
governmental agencies which, if adversely determined, would have a material
adverse effect on the Company.



Rates
- -----

     Approximately 89% of the Company's revenues in fiscal 1999 were derived
from sales at rates set by or subject to approval by local or state authorities.
The method of determining regulated rates varies among the twelve states in
which the Company has utility operations. As a general rule, the regulatory
authority reviews the Company's rate request and establishes a rate structure
intended to generate revenue sufficient to cover the Company's costs of doing
business and provide a reasonable return on invested capital.

     Substantially all of the sales rates charged by the Company to its
customers fluctuate with the cost of gas purchased by the Company. Rates
established by regulatory authorities are adjusted for increases and decreases
in the Company's purchased gas cost through automatic purchased gas adjustment
mechanisms. Therefore, while the Company's operating revenues may fluctuate,
gross profit (which is defined as operating revenues less purchased gas cost) is
generally not eroded or enhanced because of gas cost increases or decreases.

     The Georgia Public Service Commission and Tennessee Regulatory Authority
have approved Weather Normalization Adjustments ("WNA") that allow the United
Cities Division to increase the base rate portion of customers' bills when
weather is warmer than normal and decrease the base rate when weather is colder
than normal.  The net effect of the WNAs was an increase (decrease) in revenues
of $4,394,000, $682,000 and $2,643,000 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.



     The following table sets forth the major rate requests made by the Company
or other parties during the most recent five years and the action taken on such
requests:

                         Effective   Amount      Amount
  Jurisdiction             Date     Requested   Received
  ------------           --------   ---------   --------
                                       (In thousands)
  Texas
   West Texas System     11/18/94     $ 2,581    $ 1,702   (a)
                         11/01/96       7,676      5,800   (a)
                         Pending        8,827     Pending  (g)
   Amarillo System       Pending        4,354     Pending  (g)

  Louisiana              11/01/99         (b)          -   (b)

  Kentucky               11/01/95       7,665      2,300   (c)
                         03/01/96                  1,000   (c)
                         Pending       14,127     Pending  (h)

  Colorado               05/01/94       4,527      3,246
                         01/21/98           -     (1,600)  (e)

  Kansas                 09/01/95       4,230      2,700   (d)

  Missouri               10/14/95       1,100        903

  South Carolina         02/07/95         341        253

  Tennessee              11/15/95       3,951      2,227

  Iowa                   05/17/96         750        410

  Georgia                12/02/96       5,003      3,160

  Illinois               07/09/97       1,234        428

  Virginia               09/29/95         810        103
                         10/01/98           -       (248)  (f)

(a)  These increases include $200,000 and $500,000 applicable to areas outside
     the city limits which became effective in January 1995 and April 1997,
     respectively.
(b)  The Louisiana Public Service Commission approved a Rate Stabilization
     Clause ("RSC") for three years with an allowed return on common equity
     between 10.5% and 11.5%.  This decision increased the service charge
     amounts from about 20% to about 70% of actual costs, and increased the
     monthly customer charges from $6 to $9, both effective November 1, 1999.
(c)  The Kentucky rate order provided an increase of $2,300,000, lowered
     depreciation rates effective November 1, 1995 and



     provided an additional $1,000,000 beginning March 1, 1996. The order also
     included a provision for a pilot demand side management program which could
     cost up to $450,000 annually.
(d)  This increase applied to the Kansas area previously served by the United
     Cities Division and transferred to the Greeley Division in 1999.
(e)  Rate reduction as a result of settlement in a case initiated by the
     Colorado Consumer Counsel.
(f)  Rate reduction as a result of a settlement with the Virginia State
     Corporation Commission staff regarding investigation of earnings.
(g)  The Energas Division applied for rate increases in August 1999.  The
     proposed rates have been suspended until December 8, 1999.
(h)  The Western Kentucky Gas Division applied for an increase in May 1999.  A
     hearing is scheduled for December 14, 1999.

COMPETITION

     The Company is not currently in significant direct competition with any
other distributors of natural gas to residential and commercial customers within
its service areas.  However, the Company does compete with other natural gas
suppliers and suppliers of alternate fuels for sales to industrial and
agricultural customers.

     The Company competes in all aspects of its business with alternative energy
sources, including, in particular, electricity.  Competition for the residential
and commercial customers is increasing.  Promotional incentives, improved
equipment efficiencies, and promotional rates all contribute to the
acceptability of electric equipment.  In the United Cities Division, #2 and #6
fuel oil are the primary competition for industrial customers.  In addition,
certain customers, primarily industrial, may have the ability to by-pass the
Company's distribution system by connecting directly with a pipeline.

     Beginning in 1985, changes in the federal regulatory environment through
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ("FERC") orders and conditions related to
markets and gas supply in the United States have brought increased competition
into the natural gas industry.  In 1993, FERC Order 636 was implemented by the
interstate pipelines that serve the United Cities and Western Kentucky
Divisions, but FERC policies have not had a direct impact upon the Company's
Energas, Greeley and Trans La Divisions which are primarily supplied by
intrastate pipelines.  However, competition for large volume customers in the
United Cities and Western Kentucky Divisions and other service areas has
increased as a result of FERC Order 636. The Company has sought regulatory
approvals for competitive pricing on a case by case basis.



     The United Cities Division has received approval from all the regulatory
authorities in the states in which it operates, except Iowa, to place into
effect a negotiated tariff rate which allows the United Cities Division to
maintain industrial loads at lower margin rates.  Iowa has rules which allow for
flexible rates, which are competitive with the price of alternative fuels.  In
addition, certain industrial customers have changed from firm to interruptible
rate schedules in order to obtain natural gas at a lower cost.  Additionally,
the United Cities Division has received approval from all state regulatory
authorities to provide transportation service of customer-owned gas.

     United Cities Propane Gas, Inc. is in competition with other suppliers of
propane, natural gas and electricity with respect to price and service.  The
wholesale cost of propane is subject to fluctuations primarily based on demand,
availability of supply and product transportation costs.

     Through its 45% interest in WMLLC, Atmos Energy Marketing, LLC competes
with other natural gas brokers in obtaining natural gas supplies for customers.

     Atmos Leasing, Inc. also competes with other companies in the leasing of
real estate, vehicles, and appliances.

     Atmos Storage, Inc. charges rates to the United Cities Division that are
subject to review by the various commissions in the states within which the
storage service is provided.  Therefore, Storage's rates must be competitive
with other storage facilities.  Storage also stores natural gas for WMLLC.  As a
result, Storage is in competition with other companies that store natural gas as
to rates charged and deliverability of natural gas. Agreements between Storage
and the United Cities Division give the United Cities Division first priority to
any storage services.

EMPLOYEES

     At September 30, 1999, the Company employed 2,062 persons.  See "Utility
Sales and Statistical Data by Business Unit - 1999" for the number of employees
by business unit.  As discussed in Note 2 of notes to consolidated financial
statements in the Company's Annual Report to Shareholders, the Company underwent
downsizing and restructuring in 1997 and 1998 in connection with the integration
of UCGC and the reorganization of the Company's other divisions.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     The Company owns an aggregate of 30,670 miles of underground distribution
and transmission mains throughout its gas distribution systems.  These mains are
located on easements or right-of-ways granted to the Company, which generally
provide for perpetual use.  The Company maintains its mains through a program of
continuous



inspection and repair and believes that its system of mains is in good
condition. The Company also owns and operates nine propane peak shaving plants
with a total capacity of approximately 1,050,000 gallons that can produce an
equivalent of 19,459 Mcf daily and an LNG storage facility with a capacity of
500,000 Mcf which can inject a daily volume of 30,000 Mcf in the system, as well
as underground storage fields which are used to supplement the supply of natural
gas in periods of peak demand. It has seven underground gas storage facilities
in Kentucky and four in Kansas that have a total storage capacity of
approximately 21.1 Bcf. However, approximately 10.0 Bcf of gas in the storage
facilities must be retained as cushion gas to maintain reservoir pressure. The
maximum daily delivery capability of the storage facilities is approximately 154
MMcf.

     Substantially all of the Company's properties in its Greeley Division and
United Cities Division with net values of approximately $173.7 million and
$293.0 million, respectively, are subject to liens under First Mortgage Bonds
assumed by the Company in its mergers with GGC and UCGC.  At September 30, 1999,
the liens secured $17.0 million of outstanding 9.4% Series J First Mortgage
Bonds due May 1, 2021, and $102.2 million of outstanding Series N, P, Q, R, T, U
and V First Mortgage Bonds due at various dates from 2000 through 2022.

     The Company's administrative offices are consolidated in Dallas, Texas
under one lease.  The Company also maintains field offices throughout its
distribution system, the majority of which are located in leased premises.

     Net property, plant and equipment at September 30, 1999 included
approximately $918.2 million for utility, $23.8 million for energy services, and
$23.8 million for propane.

     The Company holds franchises granted by the incorporated cities and towns
that it serves.  At September 30, 1999, the Company held 408 such franchises
having terms generally ranging from five to 25 years.  The Company believes that
each of its franchises will be renewed.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     Incorporated by reference from the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders, Note
6 of notes to consolidated financial statements.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of fiscal 1999.



                     EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The following table sets forth certain information as of September 30,
1999, regarding the executive officers of the Company.  It is followed by a
brief description of the business experience of each executive officer during
the past five years.

                                   Years of
     Name                   Age     Service     Office Currently Held
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Robert W. Best               52        2       Chairman, President and
                                                 Chief Executive Officer
Larry J. Dagley              51        2       Executive Vice President and
                                                 Chief Financial Officer
J. Charles Goodman           38       15       Executive Vice President,
                                                 Utility Operations
Wynn D. McGregor             46       11       Vice President, Human
                                                 Resources

     Robert W. Best was named Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
Executive Officer in March 1997. He previously served as Senior Vice President-
Regulated Businesses of Consolidated Natural Gas Company (1996 - March 1997) and
was responsible for its transmission and distribution companies. Prior to that,
he served as Senior Vice President of Transco Energy Company and President of
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation (1992-1995); and President of Texas
Gas Transmission Corporation (1985 - 1995).

     Larry J. Dagley was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer effective May 1, 1997. From August 1995 to May 1997, he served as Senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Pacific Enterprises, a Los
Angeles, California based utility holding company whose principal subsidiary was
Southern California Gas Co., the nation's largest gas distribution utility. From
1985 until joining Pacific Enterprises, he served as Senior Vice President and
Controller (1985-1993) and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(1993-1995) of Transco Energy Company, a Houston, Texas based natural gas
pipeline company. Prior to joining Transco, Mr. Dagley was an audit partner with
Arthur Andersen & Co., where he supervised audits and financial consulting
engagements in the energy industry.

     J. Charles Goodman was named Executive Vice President, Operations in April
1995. He previously served as President of the Company's Trans La Gas Division
from February 1993 until April 1995 and as Chief Engineer of the Company from
February 1989 until February 1993.

     Wynn D. McGregor was named Vice President, Human Resources in January 1994.
He previously served the Company as Director of Human Resources from February
1991 to December 1993 and as Manager, Compensation and Employment from December
1987 to January 1991.



                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The information required by this item is set forth under the caption
"Market Price of Common Stock and Related Matters" in the Financial Review
section of Atmos' 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders filed as Exhibit 13 to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. Such information is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The information required by this item is set forth under the caption
"Selected Financial Data" in the Financial Review section of Atmos' 1999 Annual
Report to Shareholders filed as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Such information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

     The information required by this item is set forth under the caption
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" in the Financial Review section of Atmos' 1999 Annual Report to
Shareholders filed as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Such
information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     The risk inherent in the Company's market risk sensitive instruments is the
potential loss arising from adverse changes in natural gas commodity prices and
interest rates as discussed below. The sensitivity analysis does not, however,
consider the effects that such adverse changes may have on overall economic
activity nor do they consider additional actions the Company may take to
mitigate its exposure to such changes.  Actual results may differ.

Gas Prices

     The Company purchases natural gas for its regulated and non-regulated
natural gas operations.  Substantially all of the gas purchased for regulated
operations is recovered through purchased gas adjustment mechanisms.  The
Company's market risk in gas prices is related to gas purchases in the open
market at spot prices for sale to non-regulated energy services customers at
fixed prices.  As a result, the Company's earnings could be



affected by changes in the price and availability of such gas. As market
conditions dictate, the Company from time to time will lock-in future gas
prices, using various hedging techniques including swap agreements with
suppliers. The Company does not use such financial instruments for trading
purposes and is not a party to any leveraged derivatives. Market risk is
estimated as a hypothetical 10% increase in the portion of the Company's gas
cost related to fixed-price non-regulated sales. Based on projected fiscal 2000
non-regulated gas sales at fixed prices, such an increase would result in an
increase to cost of gas of approximately $2.8 million in fiscal 2000, before
considering the effect of swap agreements outstanding as of September 30, 1999.
As of September 30, 1999, the Company had entered into swap agreements to lock
in gas costs for all outstanding fixed-price sales agreements. The Company plans
to mitigate the risk of increased gas purchase costs for fixed-price customers
by entering into swap agreements to lock in purchased gas cost for estimated
sales volumes in fiscal 2000.

Interest Rates

     The Company's earnings are affected by changes in short-term interest rates
as a result of its issuance of short-term commercial paper.  If market interest
rates for commercial paper average 2% more in fiscal 2000 than they did during
fiscal 1999, the Company's interest expense, would increase by approximately
$2.0 million.

     Market risk for fixed-rate long-term obligations is estimated as the
potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical one percent
decrease in interest rates and amounts to approximately $31.6 million based on
discounted cash flow analyses.

     As of September 30, 1999, the Company was not engaged in other activities
which would cause exposure to the risk of material earnings or cash flow loss
due to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or market
commodity prices.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The response to this Item is submitted as a separate section of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K on page 33.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.



                                   PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information regarding directors and compliance with Section 16(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated herein by reference from the
Company's Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on
February 9, 2000. Information regarding executive officers is included in Part I
of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's Definitive Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on February 9, 2000.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's Definitive Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on February 9, 2000.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's Definitive Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on February 9, 2000.



                                 PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  1. and 2. Financial statements and financial statement schedules.

     The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate section
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K on page 33.

     3. Exhibits

     The exhibits listed in the accompanying Exhibits Index are filed as part of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The exhibits numbered 10.21(a) through 10.32
are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

     (1) The Company did not file a Form 8-K Current Report in the quarter ended
September 30, 1999.



                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.



                                              ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
                                                   (Registrant)

                                               By   /s/ LARRY J. DAGLEY
                                                   ------------------------
                                                   Larry J. Dagley
                                                   Executive Vice President
                                                   and Chief Financial
                                                   Officer


Date:   December 14, 1999



                               POWER OF ATTORNEY

     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears
below hereby constitutes and appoints Robert W. Best and Larry J. Dagley, or
either of them acting alone or together, as his true and lawful attorney-in-fact
and agent with full power to act alone, with full power of substitution and
resubstitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Form 10-K, and to file the
same, with all exhibits thereto, and all other documents in connection
therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said
attorney-in-fact and agent full power and authority to do and perform each and
every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents
and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming
all that said attorney-in-fact and agent, or his substitute or substitutes, may
lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated:

 /s/ ROBERT W. BEST       Chairman, President     December 14, 1999
- ------------------------- and Chief Executive
     Robert W. Best       Officer



 /s/ LARRY J. DAGLEY      Executive Vice          December 14, 1999
- ------------------------- President and Chief
     Larry J. Dagley      Financial Officer



 /s/ TOM S. HAWKINS, JR.  Vice President,         December 14, 1999
- ------------------------- Planning and Budgeting
     Tom S. Hawkins, Jr.  and Interim Controller
                          (Principal Accounting
                          Officer)



/s/ TRAVIS W. BAIN, II        Director         December 14, 1999
- -------------------------
    Travis W. Bain, II


/s/ DAN BUSBEE                Director         December 14, 1999
- -------------------------
    Dan Busbee


/s/ RICHARD W. CARDIN         Director         December 14, 1999
- -------------------------
    Richard W. Cardin


/s/ THOMAS J. GARLAND         Director         December 14, 1999
- -------------------------
    Thomas J. Garland


/s/ GENE C. KOONCE            Director         December 14, 1999
- -------------------------
    Gene C. Koonce


/s/ VINCENT J. LEWIS          Director         December 14, 1999
- -------------------------
    Vincent J. Lewis


/s/ THOMAS C. MEREDITH        Director         December 14, 1999
- -------------------------
    Thomas C. Meredith


/s/ PHILLIP E. NICHOL         Director         December 14, 1999
- -------------------------
    Phillip E. Nichol


/s/ CARL S. QUINN             Director         December 14, 1999
- -------------------------
    Carl S. Quinn

/s/ CHARLES K. VAUGHAN        Director         December 14, 1999
- -------------------------
    Charles K. Vaughan

/s/ RICHARD WARE II           Director         December 14, 1999
- -------------------------
    Richard Ware II



                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                       AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                            (Item 8, 14(a) 1 and 2)

                                                                  Form 10-K
                                                                   Page no.
                                                                  ---------

Financial statements and supplementary data:

     Consolidated balance sheets at
      September 30, 1999 and 1998
      (Contained in Exhibit 13)

     Consolidated statements of income for
      the years ended September 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997
      (Contained in Exhibit 13)

     Consolidated statements of shareholders' equity for
      the years ended September 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997
      (Contained in Exhibit 13)

     Consolidated statements of cash flows for
      the years ended September 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997
      (Contained in Exhibit 13)

     Notes to consolidated financial statements
      (Contained in Exhibit 13)

     Supplementary Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)
      (Contained in Exhibit 13)

     Independent auditors' report
      (Contained in Exhibit 13)

Financial statement schedule for the years ended
     September 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997:

     II.  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                           34

     All other financial statement schedules are omitted because the required
information is not present, or not present in amounts sufficient to require
submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in
the financial statements and accompanying notes thereto.

     The financial statements and the independent auditors' report of Ernst &
Young LLP listed in the above index, which are included in the Financial Review
section of the Annual Report to Shareholders of Atmos Energy Corporation for the
year ended September 30, 1999, are incorporated herein by reference.



                           Atmos Energy Corporation
                                                                     Schedule II

                       Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                     Three Years Ended September 30, 1999
                                (In thousands)


(1) Uncollectible accounts written off



                                EXHIBITS INDEX
                               Item 14. (a) (3)

















































































     --------------------------
  * This exhibit constitutes a "management contract or compensatory plan,
  contract, or arrangement."


