
10-K405
ATMOS ENERGY CORP 10-K FOR YE 9/30/96








         UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                      Washington, D.C. 20549

                            FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (Fee Required)

For the fiscal year ended September 30, 1996  OR

[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (No Fee Required)

For the transition period from __________ to ____________

Commission File Number   1-10042

                     ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
      (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          TEXAS                             75-1743247
  (State or other jurisdiction of          (IRS Employer
  incorporation or organization)         Identification No.)

  Three Lincoln Centre, Suite 1800
  5430 LBJ Freeway, Dallas, Texas                 75240
  (Address of principal executive offices       (Zip code)

  Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
     (972) 934-9227

  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                     Name of each exchange
  Title of each class                 on which registered
  -------------------                ----------------------
  Common stock, No Par Value         New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                               None

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes  X. No ___.

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge,
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]





     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-
affiliates of the registrant was $347,049,393 as of November 1,
1996.  On November 1, 1996 the registrant had 16,036,598 shares
of common stock outstanding.

               DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions of registrant's definitive proxy statement filed
for the annual meeting of shareholders on February 12, 1997 are
incorporated by reference into Part III.






                              PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

     Atmos Energy Corporation (the "Company") was organized under
the laws of the State of Texas in 1983 as a subsidiary of Pioneer
Corporation ("Pioneer") for the purposes of owning and operating
Pioneer's natural gas distribution business in Texas.  Immediate-
ly following the transfer of such business, which had been opera-
ted by Pioneer and its predecessors since 1906, Pioneer distrib-
uted the outstanding stock of the Company, then known as Energas
Company, to Pioneer shareholders.  In September 1988, the Company
changed its name from Energas Company to Atmos Energy
Corporation.

     The Company distributes and sells natural gas to
residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural, and other
customers in 419 cities, towns, and communities in service areas
located in Texas, Louisiana, Kentucky, Colorado, Kansas, and a
small portion of Missouri.  The Company also transports gas for
others through parts of its distribution system.  The Company has
helped promote the development of a market for natural gas as a
clean burning vehicular fuel by opening seven public refueling
facilities in its service areas.

     The Company's Texas distribution system is operated through
its Energas Company division (the "Energas Division") and covers
an area having a population of approximately 950,000 people.  The
economy of the area is based primarily on oil and gas production
and agriculture.  The principal cities served by the Energas
Division include Amarillo, Lubbock, Midland, and Odessa.  At
September 30, 1996, the Company had 311,754 gas meters in service
in Texas.

     The Company's Louisiana distribution system is operated
through its Trans Louisiana Gas Company division (the "Trans La
Division") and covers an area having a population of
approximately 250,000 people.  The economy of the area is based
primarily on oil and gas production, agriculture, and food
processing.  The principal cities served by the Trans La Division
are Lafayette, Pineville, and Natchitoches.  At September 30,
1996, the Company had 79,880 gas meters in service in Louisiana.

     The Company's Kentucky distribution system is operated
through its Western Kentucky Gas Company division (the "Western
Kentucky Division") and covers an area having a population of
approximately 680,000 people.  The economy of the area is based
primarily on industry and agriculture.  The principal cities
served by the Western Kentucky Division include Bowling Green,
Owensboro, and Paducah.  At September 30, 1996, the Company had
171,140 gas meters in service in Kentucky.

     The Company's Colorado, Kansas and Missouri distribution
systems are operated through its Greeley Gas Company division






(the "Greeley Gas Division") and covers an area having a combined
population of approximately 228,000 people.  The economies of the
areas served are based on oil and gas production, agriculture and
resort business.  The principal cities served by the Greeley Gas
Division include Greeley, Durango and Lamar, Colorado and Bonner
Springs, Herington and Ulysses, Kansas.  At September 30, 1996
the Greeley Gas Division had 111,284 meters in service.

     The natural gas distribution industry is subject to a number
of factors, many of which affect the Company from time to time. 
These include (i) the ongoing need to obtain adequate and timely
rate relief from regulatory authorities to recover costs of
service and earn a fair return on invested capital; (ii) inherent
seasonality of the business in local gas distribution service
areas; (iii) competition with alternate fuels; (iv) competition
with other gas sources for industrial customers, including the
ability of some customers to bypass the Company's facilities,
which could result in loss of revenues and reduction in the
Company's net income; and (v) possible volatility in the supply
and price of natural gas.

ACQUISITIONS AND MERGERS

     Since its organization in 1983, the Company has sought to
expand its customer base and to diversify the weather patterns,
local economic conditions, and regulatory environments to which
its operations are subject.  As part of this strategy, the
Company acquired Trans Louisiana Gas Company, Inc. ("TLG") in
January 1986, Western Kentucky Gas Utility Corporation in
December 1987, Greeley Gas Company ("GGC") in December 1993, and  
Oceana Heights Gas Company of Thibodaux, Louisiana in November
1995.  The Company continues to consider and pursue, where
appropriate, additional acquisitions of natural gas distribution
properties and other business opportunities.  In July 1996, the
Company entered into a definitive agreement with United Cities
Gas Company of Brentwood, Tennessee providing for the merger of
United Cities with and into the Company.  Completion of the
merger is dependent upon the approval of the shareholders and
regulators of both companies.  For further information regarding
acquisitions, see Note 2 of notes to consolidated financial
statements.  

FIVE-YEAR OPERATING STATISTICS

     Certain information with respect to the Company's natural
gas operations for the past five years is shown on the following
page.









 




 

       







 









 


GAS SALES

     The Company's natural gas distribution business is seasonal
and highly dependent on weather conditions in the Company's
service areas.  Gas sales to residential and commercial customers
are greater during the winter months than during the remainder of
the year.  The volumes of such sales during the winter months
will vary with the temperatures during such months.  The seasonal
nature of the Company's sales to residential and commercial
customers is offset partially by the Company's sales in the
spring and summer months to its agricultural customers in Texas,
Colorado and Kansas who utilize natural gas to operate irrigation
equipment.  The Company's management believes that the Company
has lessened its sensitivity to weather risk by diversifying its
operations into geographic areas having different weather
patterns.

     In addition to weather, the Company's revenues are affected
by the cost of natural gas and economic conditions in the areas
that the Company serves.  Higher gas costs, which the Company is
generally able to pass through to its customers under purchased
gas adjustment clauses, may cause customers to conserve, or, in
the case of industrial customers, to use alternative energy
sources.  

     In recent years, natural gas market conditions have changed. 
Natural gas prices to distributors have become more volatile and
the number of competing marketers of natural gas has increased. 
The Company's gas marketing subsidiaries purchase gas to address
these changing markets.

     In certain instances, customers purchase gas directly from
others instead of from the Company and the Company transports
such gas through its distribution systems to the customers'
facilities for a fee.  Although transportation of customer-owned
gas reduces the Company's operating revenues and corresponding
purchased gas cost, the transportation revenues received by the
Company may offset the loss to gas sales revenues.

     The Company's distribution systems have experienced
aggregate peak day deliveries of approximately one billion cubic
feet ("Bcf") per day.  The Company has the ability to curtail
deliveries to certain customers under the terms of interruptible
contracts and applicable state statutes or regulations which
enables it to maintain its deliveries to high priority customers. 
The Company has not imposed curtailment in its Energas Division
since the Company began independent operations in 1983 or in its
Trans La Division since the Company acquired TLG in 1986.  The
Western Kentucky Division curtailed deliveries to certain
interruptible customers during exceptionally cold periods in
December 1989, January 1994 and during the winter of 1996.  GGC
has not curtailed deliveries to its sales customers since prior
to 1980.  








GAS SUPPLY     

     The principal gas suppliers to the Company in 1996, 1995 and
1994 included Westar Transmission Company ("Westar") and KN Gas
Marketing, affiliates of KNEnergy; Mesa Operating Company
("Mesa"); Louisiana Intrastate Gas Corporation ("LIG"), an
affiliate of Equitable Resources Inc.; Natural Gas Clearinghouse;
Texaco Gas Marketing; Union Pacific Fuels; Vastar, an affiliate
of ARCO; PanEnergy, an affiliate of PanEnergy Corporation; Astra
Resources Marketing, Inc. ("Astra"), an affiliate of Western
Resources, Inc. and LG&E Natural, an affiliate of LG&E Energy. 
The prices paid by the Company for natural gas delivered to it
are set by contracts with gas suppliers and/or ratemaking
proceedings before regulatory authorities.  Charges for gas costs
are passed through to the Company's customers under approved or
negotiated tariffs or pursuant to contract.




 





     The following table sets forth volumes purchased from the
Company's principal gas suppliers for the years ended September
30, 1996, 1995, and 1994.  
                                        Volumes
                                       purchased
                                   (MMcf as metered)
1996:
  Astra Resources Marketing, Inc.         3,047
  LG&E Natural                            5,256
  LIG                                     3,790
  Mesa                                    9,318
  Natural Gas Clearinghouse               5,097
  PanEnergy                               5,988
  Texaco Gas Marketing                    4,571
  Union Pacific Fuels                     5,550
  Vastar                                  5,778
  Westar and KN Gas Marketing            42,660

1995:
  Astra Resources Marketing, Inc.         2,565
  LG&E Natural                            2,902
  LIG                                     2,698
  Mesa                                    9,369
  Natural Gas Clearinghouse               2,154
  PanEnergy                               7,077
  Texaco Gas Marketing                    8,427
  Union Pacific Fuels                     5,298
  Vastar                                  3,490
  Westar and KN Gas Marketing            43,950

1994:
  Astra Resources Marketing, Inc.         2,210
  LIG                                     4,254
  Mesa                                    9,926
  PanEnergy                               3,283
  Texaco Gas Marketing                    5,453
  Union Pacific Fuels                     5,825
  Vastar                                  6,881
  Westar and KN Gas Marketing            47,842

     Westar and KN Gas Marketing supply natural gas to most of
the Energas Division under multiple contracts. The Westar
contract was scheduled to expire in 1998.  During fiscal 1996
Westar, KN Gas Marketing and the Company commenced negotiations
to restructure supply and transportation services provided to the
Company by KN Energy.  The restructured supply and transportation
services agreements which became effective during fiscal 1996
replace prior service which had been provided on a Weighted
Average Cost of Gas ("WACOG") basis.  Contract terms now extend
through 2001.

     The principal gas supply for the Company's Amarillo, Texas
distribution system is furnished by Mesa under a long-term con-
tract that expires upon the depletion of the field from which the
gas is produced.  Mesa owns the gas rights in certain specified






acreage in the West Panhandle field.  Pursuant to a contract
between Colorado Interstate Gas Company ("CIG") and Mesa, CIG is
obligated to deliver to Mesa the volumes of gas required for sale
to customers in Amarillo and its environs, subject to certain
contractual volume limitations, so long as the gas reserves from
the West Panhandle field are commercially producible.  The price
under the contract is determined each year pursuant to a formula
until December 1997.  The contract also provides a mechanism for
price redetermination each two year period thereafter beginning
January 1, 1998.  

     On October 28, 1991, the Company and LIG entered into new
agreements which were approved by the Louisiana Public Service
Commission ("Louisiana Commission") on November 26, 1991, and
became effective June 1, 1992.  These agreements provide
continued supply by LIG for most of the Trans La Division's gas
requirements for a term of ten years (but subject to cancellation
by either party after five years).  The agreements provide for
market sensitive pricing and allow the Company to purchase
certain volumes of gas from other suppliers.  LIG is required to
provide standby service to back up the purchases from the other
suppliers.

     The Company's Louisiana industrial sales subsidiary, Trans
Louisiana Industrial Gas Company, Inc., purchases some gas
supplies for resale to certain of its Louisiana industrial
customers from suppliers other than LIG.  

     The Western Kentucky Division requirements are delivered by
Texas Gas and Tennessee Gas with the exception of a small
percentage of the requirements being purchased directly from
intrastate producers.  The Western Kentucky Division purchases
its supply under staggered term contracts from major producers
and marketers including Texaco, Union Pacific, Vastar, PanEnergy,
LG&E Natural and Natural Gas Clearinghouse.

     The Company's distribution system in the Western Kentucky
Division includes six underground storage facilities, which are
used to help meet customer requirements during peak demand per-
iods and to reduce the need to contract for additional pipeline
capacity to meet such peak demand periods.  See "Item 2. Proper-
ties" for further information regarding the underground storage
facilities.  The Company also contracted for storage service in
underground storage facilities of Tennessee Gas and Texas Gas
under FERC Order No. 636.

     The Greeley Gas Division purchases or transports approximat-
ely 81% of its natural gas requirements on eight pipelines.  Five
of these are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission ("FERC") and the remaining three are state regulated. 
The FERC pipelines are Colorado Interstate Gas Company, Williams
Natural Gas Company, KNEnergy, Northwest Pipeline Corporation,
and NorAm.  The state regulated pipelines are Public Service
Company of Colorado, Western Resources, Inc. and Kansas Pipeline
Partnership in Kansas.  Approximately 19% of the Divisions's gas






supply is purchased from local sources.  Several of the operating
areas are in or adjacent to natural gas producing fields.

     PanEnergy is the main supplier to the Greeley Gas Division's
largest district, the Greeley District.  

     Astra is the principal gas supplier for the Kansas and
Missouri districts.  Gas is transported through three different
pipeline systems (Williams Natural Gas, Western Resources, Inc.
and NorAm).  

     The Company has not experienced supply curtailment in its
Texas distribution system since it began independent operations
in 1983, in its Louisiana system since its acquisition, or in
Colorado, Kansas or Missouri since prior to 1980.  A large
proportion of the Company's sales are made to high priority
residential and commercial consumers; therefore, any curtailment
of supply for these customers is unlikely.  

REGULATION AND RATES 

     Regulation.  In the Energas Division, the governing body of
each municipality served by the Company has original jurisdiction
over all utility rates, operations, and services within its city
limits except with respect to sales of natural gas for vehicle
fuel and agricultural use.  The Company operates pursuant to non-
exclusive franchises granted by the municipalities it serves,
which franchises are subject to renewal from time to time.  The
franchises granted to the Company permit it to conduct natural
gas distribution within the municipalities' incorporated limits. 
The Railroad Commission of Texas ("Railroad Commission") has
exclusive appellate jurisdiction over all rate and regulatory
orders and ordinances of the municipalities and exclusive
original jurisdiction over rates and services to customers not
located within the limits of a municipality.  In Texas, rates for
large industrial customers are routinely set by contract
negotiation between the Company and its customers pursuant to
statutory standards and are filed with and subject to the
governmental authority of the municipalities or the Railroad
Commission, depending on whether the customer is located inside
or outside the limits of a municipality.  Historically, the
Company's rates for large industrial customers have been accepted
as filed.  Agricultural sales in Texas are not regulated, except
that prices for agricultural sales cannot exceed the prices the
Company charges the majority of its commercial or other similar
large-volume users in Texas.

     The Trans La Division is regulated by the Louisiana Commis-
sion, which regulates utility services, rates, and other matters. 
In most of the parishes and incorporated areas in which the
Company operates in Louisiana, it does so pursuant to a non-
exclusive franchise granted by the governing authority of each
parish or incorporated area.  The franchise gives the Company the
general privilege to operate its gas distribution business in, as
well as the right to install its distribution lines along the






roadways of, the parish or the incorporated area.  Direct sales
of natural gas to industrial customers in Louisiana who utilize
the gas for fuel or in manufacturing processes and sales of
natural gas for vehicle fuel are exempt from regulation. 

     The Western Kentucky Division is regulated by the Kentucky
Public Service Commission ("Kentucky Commission"), which
regulates utility services, rates, issuances of securities, and
other matters.  The Company operates in the various incorporated
cities served by it in Kentucky pursuant to non-exclusive
franchises granted by such cities.  The franchises grant to the
Company the right to operate its gas distribution business in the
city and to install its distribution lines and related equipment
in and along the city's public rights-of-way.  Sales of natural
gas for use as vehicle fuel in Kentucky are not subject to
regulation.

     The Greeley Gas Division is regulated by the Colorado Public
Utilities Commission ("Colorado Commission"), the Kansas
Corporation Commission, and the Missouri Public Service Commis-
sion with respect to accounting, rates and charges, operating
matters, and the issuance of securities.  The Company operates in
the various incorporated cities served by it in the states of
Colorado, Kansas and Missouri under terms of non-exclusive
franchises granted by the various cities.  The franchises grant
to the Company, among other things, the right to install and
operate its gas distribution system within the city limits.  Most
of the Greeley Gas Division's wholesale gas suppliers are
regulated by various federal and state commissions.

     The Company is also subject to regulation by the United
States Department of Transportation with respect to safety
requirements in the operation and maintenance of its gas
distribution facilities.  The Company's distribution operations
are also subject to various state and federal laws regulating
environmental matters.  From time to time the Company receives
inquiries regarding various environmental matters.  The Company
believes that its properties and operations substantially comply
with and are operated in substantial conformity with applicable
safety and environmental statutes and regulations.  There are no
administrative or judicial proceedings arising under
environmental quality statutes pending or known to be
contemplated by governmental agencies which, if adversely
determined, would have a material adverse effect on the Company.

     Rates.  Approximately 89% of the Company's revenues in fis-
cal 1996 was derived from sales at rates set by or subject to
approval by local or state authorities.  The method of determin-
ing regulated rates varies among the six states in which the
Company operates.  As a general rule, the regulatory authority
reviews the Company's rate request and establishes a rate
structure intended to generate revenue sufficient to cover the
Company's costs of doing business and provide a reasonable return
on invested capital.  


 

     Substantially all of the sales rates charged by the Company
to its customers fluctuate with the cost of gas purchased by the
Company.  Base rates established by regulatory authorities are
adjusted for increases and decreases in the Company's purchased
gas cost through automatic purchased gas adjustment mechanisms. 
Therefore, while the Company's operating revenues may fluctuate,
gross profit (which is defined as operating revenues less
purchased gas cost) is generally not eroded or enhanced because
of gas cost increases or decreases.

     The following table sets forth the major rate requests made
by the Company during the most recent five years and the action
taken on such requests:

                        Effective     Amount      Amount
   Jurisdiction            Date      Requested   Received 
   ------------         ---------    ---------   --------
   Texas     
     West Texas System   11/18/94    2,581,000   1,702,000  (a)
                         11/01/96    7,676,000   5,300,000

     Amarillo            11/25/92    4,398,000   2,130,000

   Louisiana             03/01/93          (b)     730,000  (b)
                         03/01/94          (b)   1,058,000  (b)
                         03/01/95          (b)   1,071,000  (b)

   Kentucky              11/01/95    7,665,000   2,300,000  (c)
                         03/01/96                1,000,000  (c)

   Colorado              05/01/94    4,527,000   3,246,000

   Kansas                01/06/92    1,495,000     505,000
                         12/01/93    2,604,000   2,088,000


(a)  The increase includes $200,000 applicable to areas outside
     the city limits which became effective in January 1995.
(b)  A September 1992 rate order approved a Rate Stabilization
     Clause ("RSC") for three years which provided for an annual
     adjustment of rates to reflect changes in expenses and
     investment.  The RSC provided the Company the opportunity to
     earn a return on common equity between 11.75% and 12.25%. 
(c)  The Kentucky rate order provided an increase of $2,300,000,
     lowered depreciation rates effective November 1, 1995 and
     provided an additional $1,000,000 beginning March 1, 1996. 
     The order also included a provision for a pilot demand side
     management program which could cost up to $450,000 annually.






 



COMPETITION

     The Company is not currently in significant direct
competition with any other distributors of natural gas to
residential and commercial customers within its service areas. 
However, the Company does compete with other natural gas
suppliers and suppliers of alternate fuels for sales to
industrial and agricultural customers.

     The Company competes in all aspects of its business with
alternative energy sources, including, in particular, electrici-
ty.  Competition for the residential and commercial customers is
increasing.  Promotional incentives, improved equipment efficien-
cies, and promotional rates all contribute to the acceptability
of electric equipment.

     Beginning in 1985, changes in the federal regulatory
environment through FERC orders and conditions related to markets
and gas supply in the United States have brought increased
competition into the natural gas industry.  In 1993, FERC Order
636 was implemented by the interstate pipelines in the Company's
service territories.  The FERC policies apply only to interstate
pipelines and have not had a direct impact upon the Company's
operations which are primarily supplied by intrastate pipelines. 
However, the Company has felt the impact of increased
competitiveness in the large volume market in some areas result-
ing from these changes.  The Company has sought regulatory
approvals for competitive pricing on a case by case basis.  

     The Company has opened seven public refueling facilities for
the sale of compressed natural gas ("CNG") for vehicular use. 
The most recent of these were opened in Greeley, Colorado in
September 1996, at West Texas A&M University in Canyon, Texas in
August 1995, and in Owensboro, Kentucky in April 1995.  Prior to
that time, the Company provided CNG for vehicular use only in
limited situations (such as for school buses in certain school
districts and for the fleet vehicles of certain businesses). 
With the opening of these public refueling stations the Company
began competing with gasoline for vehicular fuel sales.  All of
these facilities, except those in Greeley, Colorado and at West
Texas A&M, are located at existing local gasoline stations.

     Also during fiscal 1996, the Company formed a power
marketing subsidiary, Atmos Energy Services, Inc., to conduct
electric power purchases and sales.  The Company expects to
market these services to industrial customers in addition to
natural gas.





 



Employees

     At September 30, 1996, the Company employed 1,652 persons. 
See "Sales and Statistical Data by State - 1996" for the number
of employees by state.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     The Company owns an aggregate of 22,640 miles of underground
pipelines throughout its gas distribution systems.  These pipe-
lines are located on easements or right-of-ways granted to the
Company, which generally provide for perpetual use.  The Company
maintains its pipelines through a program of continuous
inspection and repair and believes that its pipeline system is in
good condition.  The Company also owns or operates six under-
ground gas storage facilities in Kentucky that have a total
storage capacity of approximately 10.7 Bcf.  However,
approximately 6.5 Bcf of gas in the storage facilities must be
retained as cushion gas.  The maximum daily delivery capability
of the storage facilities is approximately 109 MMcf.

     Substantially all of the Company's properties in its Greeley
Gas Division with a recorded value of approximately $74.5 million
are subject to a lien under First Mortgage Bonds assumed by the
Company in the acquisition of GGC.  At September 30, 1996, the
lien secured approximately $17.0 million of outstanding 9.4%
Series J First Mortgage Bonds due May 1, 2021.

     In 1996 the Company consolidated its administrative offices
in Dallas, Texas under one lease.  The Company also maintains
field offices throughout its distribution system, substantially
all of which are located in leased premises.  

     The Company holds franchises granted by the incorporated
cities and towns that it serves.  At September 30, 1996, the
Company held 273 such franchises having terms generally ranging
from five to 25 years.  The Company believes that each of its
franchises will be renewed.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     See Note 10 of notes to consolidated financial statements.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders
during the fourth quarter of fiscal 1996.  


 



               EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

      The following table sets forth certain information as of
September 30, 1996, regarding the executive officers of the
Company.  It is followed by a brief description of the business
experience of each executive officer during the past five years.


     Name               Age       Office Currently Held     
     ----               ---       ---------------------

Robert F. Stephens       48       President and Chief Operating
                                    Officer, Director
James F. Purser          46       Executive Vice President and
                                    Chief Financial Officer,
                                    Director
J. Charles Goodman       35       Executive Vice President of
                                    Operations
H.F. Harber              54       Senior Vice President of
                                    Corporate Services
Donald E. James          49       Senior Vice President of
                                    Public Affairs
Mary S. Lovell           45       Senior Vice President of
                                    Utility Services
Glen A. Blanscet         39       Vice President, General
                                    Counsel and Corporate
                                    Secretary

     Robert F. Stephens was named President and Chief Operating
Officer and was appointed to the Board of Directors in February
1995.  He previously served as Executive Vice President -
Corporate Operations from May 1989 through February 1995.

     James F. Purser was appointed to the Board of Directors in
February 1995.  He was named Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer in May 1989.  

     J. Charles Goodman was named Executive Vice President,
Operations in April 1995.  He previously served as President of
the Company's Trans La Gas Division from February 1993 until
April 1995 and as Chief Engineer from February 1989 until
February 1993.

     H.F. Harber was named Senior Vice President - Corporate
Services in August 1993.  He previously served as Vice President,
Human Resources and Administration from July 1991 to August 1993. 

     Donald E. James was named Senior Vice President - Public
Affairs in May 1995.  He previously served as Senior Vice
President and General Counsel from January 1994 to May 1995, as
Senior Vice President - General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
from May 1993 until August 1993, and as Senior Vice President and
General Counsel from May 1989 until May 1993. 



 



     Mary S. Lovell was named Senior Vice President, Utility
Services in May 1995.  She previously served as Vice President,
Rates and Regulatory Affairs from August 1990 to May 1995. 

     Glen A. Blanscet was named Vice President, General Counsel
and Corporate Secretary in May 1995.  He previously served as
Assistant General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from January
1994 to May 1995, and as Assistant General Counsel from July 1988
to December 1993.


                             PART II

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
           STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 

     The Company's stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange
under the trading symbol "ATO".  The high and low sale prices and
dividends paid per share of the Company's common stock for fiscal
1996 and 1995 are listed below.


        See Note 3 of notes to consolidated financial statements for
restriction on payment of dividends. The number of record holders
of the Company's common stock on September 30, 1996 was 28,624. 




 



ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

     The following table sets forth selected financial data with
respect to the Company and should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements included herein.  

                               Year ended September 30,         
                    --------------------------------------------
                      1996     1995     1994     1993     1992  
                    -------- -------- -------- -------- --------
                        (In thousands, except per share data)

Operating revenues  $483,744 $435,820 $499,808 $459,641 $403,353
                    ======== ======== ======== ======== ========

Net income          $ 23,949 $ 18,873 $ 14,679 $ 17,544 $ 10,998
                    ======== ======== ======== ======== ========

Net income per 
  share             $   1.51 $   1.22 $    .97 $   1.22 $    .80
                    ======== ======== ======== ======== ========

Cash dividends
  per share         $    .96 $    .92 $    .88 $    .85 $    .83
                    ======== ======== ======== ======== ========

Total assets at 
  end of year       $501,861 $445,783 $416,678 $391,618 $358,363
                    ======== ======== ======== ======== ========

Long-term debt at 
  end of year       $122,303 $131,303 $138,303 $105,853 $112,153
                    ======== ======== ======== ======== ========
              
Supplemental net
  income (1)                                   $ 18,132 $ 10,570
                                               ======== ========

Supplemental net
  income per 
   share (1)                                   $   1.26 $    .77
                                               ======== ========

(1) Supplemental net income reflects results if GGC had not made
    an S Corporation election in 1987.





 





ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
          CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

INTRODUCTION

     The Company distributes and sells natural gas to
residential, commercial, industrial and agricultural customers in
six states.  Such business is subject to federal and state
regulation and/or regulation by local authorities in each of the
states in which the Company operates.  In addition, the Company's
business is affected by seasonal weather patterns, competitive
factors within the energy industry, and economic conditions in
the areas that the Company serves.


RATE ACTIVITY

     In May 1996, the Company filed to increase revenues by
approximately $7.7 million for a portion of its Energas Company
service area, which includes approximately 200,000 customers
inside the city limits of 67 cities in West Texas.  All cities
either approved, or took no action to reject, a settlement
allowing a $5.3 million increase in annual revenues to be
effective for bills rendered on or after November 1, 1996.  In
October 1996, the Company filed to increase revenues by
approximately $.5 million for the remaining rural customers in
West Texas. 

     In February 1995, the Company filed with the Kentucky
Commission for a rate increase for its Western Kentucky Division. 
In October 1995, the Kentucky Commission issued an order
authorizing the Company to increase its rates by $2.3 million
annually effective November 1, 1995, and by an additional $1.0
million annually beginning in March 1996.  The settlement
included a decrease in depreciation rates, recovery of expenses
related to adoption of SFAS No. 106 and included a provision for
the Company to begin a three-year demand-side management pilot
program for the 1996-97 heating season, which could cost up to
$450,000 annually, resulting in a total annual operating income
increase of approximately $4.0 million. The Company provides
natural gas service to approximately 171,000 customers in
Kentucky.

     In September 1994, the Company filed to increase revenues by
approximately $2.6 million for a portion of its Energas Company
service area, which includes approximately 217,000 customers both
inside and outside of 67 cities in West Texas.  The Company
requested recovery of accrual accounting for postretirement
benefits in accordance with SFAS No. 106.  See Note 8 of the
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements for SFAS
No. 106 information.  In November 1994, the Company implemented
an annual revenue increase of approximately $1.5 million
affecting approximately 195,000 customers located inside the city
limits of towns in this portion of its Energas Division.  Upon
approval by the Railroad Commission of Texas in January 1995, the






Company implemented an annual increase of approximately $.2
million relating to the 22,000 remaining rural customers.

     Effective December 1, 1993, GGC received an annual rate
increase of approximately $2.1 million or 10.6% in its Kansas
service area.  The increase reflects recovery of SFAS No. 106
expenses with external funding and a moratorium on rate requests
in Kansas until December 1, 1996.

     GGC filed a request for an increase in annual revenues of
$4.5 million with the Colorado Public Utility Commission in
September, 1993.  On May 1, 1994, the Company implemented an
annual increase of $3.2 million or an increase in revenues of
6.9% in Phase I of this proceeding.  The Phase I rates reflect
recovery of  SFAS No. 106 expenses with external funding,
consistent with the recommended decision of the presiding
administrative law judge.  In October 1994, the Colorado
Commission issued its order affirming the increase as set forth
in Phase I.  In March 1995, the Greeley Gas Division filed Phase
II in the rate proceeding, which addressed rate structure.  In
September 1995 all parties to the proceeding entered into a
stipulation and agreement which became final in November 1995
upon the recommendation by an administrative law judge of the
Colorado Commission.

     In September 1992, the Louisiana Commission issued a rate
order for the Company's Louisiana service area, which included a
rate stabilization clause ("RSC") for three years that provided
for an annual adjustment to the Company's rates to reflect
changes in expenses, revenues and invested capital following an
annual review.  The RSC provided an opportunity for a return on
jurisdictional common equity of between 11.75% and 12.25%.  As a
result of the Company's filings under the RSC, an increase of
$730,000 annually or 2% went into effect on March 1, 1993, an
increase of $1.1 million annually or 2.7% went into effect on
March 1, 1994, and the third increase of $1.1 million annually or
2.0% went into effect on March 6, 1995.  In April 1996, the
Company filed a request with the Louisiana Commission to extend
the rate stabilization mechanism.

ACQUISITIONS AND MERGERS

     The Company has expanded its customer base and sought to
diversify the regulations, weather patterns and local economic
conditions to which it is subject through acquisitions in fiscal
years 1995, 1994, 1987, and 1986.  The Company continues to
consider and pursue, where appropriate, additional acquisitions
of natural gas distribution properties and other business
opportunities. 

     In July 1996, the Company entered into a definitive
agreement with United Cities Gas Company of Brentwood, Tennessee
providing for the merger of United Cities with and into the
Company.  Completion of the merger is dependent upon the approval
of the shareholders and regulators of both companies, as well as






other conditions precedent to closing.  Shareholder approvals
were obtained on November 12, 1996.

     In November 1995, the Company acquired privately held Oceana
Heights Gas Company ("Oceana") of Thibodaux, Louisiana.  Oceana
provides natural gas service to approximately 9,200 customers and
is located adjacent to a system in LaFourche Parish that was
acquired by Atmos in 1994.  The transaction was accounted for as
a pooling of interests.  The outstanding shares of Oceana's
capital stock were converted into shares of Atmos common stock
having a market value equal to the $6.4 million purchase price. 
Oceana was merged into the Trans La Division, bringing Trans La
to nearly 80,000 customers.

     In December 1993, the Company acquired Greeley Gas Company
("GGC") of Denver, Colorado in a merger transaction accounted for
as a pooling of interests; therefore, all historical financial
statements and notes thereto have been restated to retroactively
reflect this merger.   At that time, GGC was a privately held
company providing natural gas service to nearly 100,000 customers
in 122 communities in Colorado, Kansas and a small service area
in Missouri.  The transaction was structured to be a tax-free
reorganization.  The Company exchanged 2,329,330 shares of its
common stock before the 3-for-2 stock split (3,493,995 shares on
a post-split basis) for all of the outstanding stock of GGC.  For
further information regarding acquisition activity, see Note 2 of
notes to consolidated financial statements.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1996 COMPARED WITH YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER
30, 1995

     Operating revenues increased 11% to $483.7 million in 1996
from $435.8 million in 1995 due to weather that was 10% colder
than in 1995 and a 6% increase in the average cost of gas per
thousand cubic feet ("Mcf") sold.  Average gas sales revenues per
Mcf increased from 1995 by $.16 to $3.99 in 1996, while the
average cost of gas per Mcf sold increased $.14 to $2.60 in 1996. 
The number of meters in service increased to 674,058 at September
30, 1996 compared with 658,114 at September 30, 1995.  Sales to
weather sensitive residential, commercial and public authority
customers increased approximately 7.0 billion cubic feet ("Bcf")
in 1996 while sales to industrial and agricultural customers
increased approximately 1.6 Bcf.  Total sales volumes increased
8% to 117.9 Bcf in 1996, as compared with 109.3 Bcf in 1995. 
Revenues from gas transported for others decreased $3.4 million
to approximately $8.3 million in fiscal 1996 due to a decrease in
volumes transported of 3.9 Bcf to 26.5 Bcf in 1996. 

     Gross profit increased by approximately 6% to $177.0 million
in 1996 from $167.0 million in 1995.  The primary factor
contributing to the higher gross profit was higher volumes sold
due to colder weather.  Operating expenses, excluding income
taxes, decreased slightly to $124.7 million in 1996 from $125.1

 



million in 1995, due primarily to decreased operation expense. 
The Company also adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement
Benefits Other Than Pensions" ("SFAS No. 106") in 1994.  It has
been successful in seeking recovery of SFAS No. 106 expenses in
the majority of its service areas and will continue to seek
recovery in its remaining service areas.  See Note 8 of the
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.  Income
taxes increased to $13.3 million for 1996 from $9.6 million for
1995.  The primary reason for the increase was higher pre-tax
profits.  The effective tax rate increased to 35.7% in 1996 from
33.7% in 1995.  This was primarily due to the decreased impact of
permanent differences on the higher pre-tax profits in 1996. 
Operating income increased in 1996 by approximately 20% to $38.9
million from $32.4 million in 1995.  The increase in operating
income resulted primarily from the increase in 1996 gross profit,
partially offset by increases in taxes, as discussed above.  

     Net income increased in 1996 by approximately 27% to $23.9
million from $18.9 million in the prior year.  This increase in
net income resulted primarily from the increase in operating
income, which was partially offset by a $1.0 million increase in
interest expense.  Net income per share increased to $1.51 for
1996 from $1.22 for 1995.  Average shares outstanding increased
3% to 15,892,000 in 1996 from 1995.










 



YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1995 COMPARED WITH YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER
30, 1994

     Operating revenues decreased approximately 13% to $435.8
million in 1995 from $499.8 million in 1994 due to weather that
was 9% warmer than in 1994 and a 14% decrease in the average cost
of gas per Mcf sold.  Average gas sales revenues per Mcf
decreased from 1994 by $.31 to $3.83 in 1995, while the average
cost of gas per Mcf sold decreased $.40 to $2.46 in 1995.  The
number of meters in service increased to 658,114 at September 30,
1995 compared with 649,319 at September 30, 1994.  Sales to
weather sensitive residential, commercial and public authority
customers decreased approximately 6.3 Bcf in 1995 while sales to
industrial and agricultural customers decreased approximately .5
Bcf.  Total sales volumes decreased 5.8% to 109.3 Bcf in 1995, as
compared with 1994.  Revenues from gas transported for others
decreased $2.4 million to approximately $11.7 million in fiscal
1995 due to a decrease in volumes transported of 4.8 Bcf to 30.5
Bcf in 1995. 

     Gross profit decreased by approximately 1% to $167.0 million
in 1995 from $168.2 million in 1994.  The primary factor
contributing to the lower gross profit was lower volumes sold and
transported due to warmer weather.  The effect of warmer weather
on gross profit was substantially reduced by implementing rate
increases totaling $2.8 million and $6.4 million in 1995 and
1994, respectively.  Operating expenses, excluding income taxes,
decreased 6% to $125.1 million in 1995 from $133.7 million in
1994, due primarily to decreased operation and maintenance
expense.  Operation and maintenance expense decreased $10.3
million due to decreased distribution expense, customer accounts
expenses, employee welfare and pension expenses, rent expense,
and outside services expense.  In 1994 the GGC acquisition and
assimilation costs were approximately $1.5 million and the cost
of an early retirement program was approximately $1.3 million.
The acquisition and assimilation costs as well as the early
retirement program were one-time costs associated with the GGC
acquisition.  Income taxes increased to $9.6 million for 1995
from $8.1 million for 1994.  The primary reason for the increase
was higher pre-tax profits.  The effective tax rate decreased to
33.7% in 1995 from 35.6% in 1994.  This was primarily due to the
impact of increased permanent differences on the higher pre-tax
profits in 1995.  Operating income increased in 1995 by
approximately 22% to $32.4 million from $26.5 million in 1994. 
The increase in operating income resulted primarily from
decreases in 1995 operating expenses as discussed above.  

     Net income increased in 1995 by approximately 29% to $18.9
million from $14.7 million in the prior year.  This increase in
net income resulted primarily from an increase in operating
income, which was partially offset by a $1.4 million increase in
interest expense.  Net income per share increased to $1.22 for
1995 from $.97 for 1994.  Average shares outstanding increased 1%
to 15,416,000 in 1995 from 1994.


 



     The Company estimates that the impact of the weather being
10% warmer than normal for 1995 caused net income to be
approximately $4.0 million less than it would have been had the
Company experienced normal temperatures in its respective service
areas.  Weather was approximately 1% warmer than normal for 1994.


CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY (See "Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows")

Cash Flows from Operating Activities

     Cash flows from operating activities totaled $64.5  million
for 1996 compared with $58.5 million for 1995 and $41.2 million
for 1994.  In 1996 the Company experienced an increase in net
income as compared with 1995 and 1994.  Depreciation and deferred
income taxes increased in 1996 and 1995 because of increasing
capital expenditures.  Gas stored underground increased in 1996
because of higher gas cost, but decreased in 1995 and 1994
because of substantially lower gas prices during the summers of
1995 and 1994 when the storage reservoirs were being refilled. 
See "Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows" for other changes in
assets and liabilities.

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

     Net cash used in investing activities totaled $73.8 million
in 1996 compared with $60.2 million in 1995 and $48.4 million in
1994.  Capital expenditures in fiscal 1996 amounted to $77.6
million compared with $62.9 million in 1995 and $50.4 million in
1994.  Currently budgeted capital expenditures for 1997 total
$63.8 million and include major expenditures for mains, services,
meters and vehicles.  The Board of Directors in November 1996,
also approved an additional $24.0 million in capital expenditures
in 1997 for a Customer Information System ("CIS") project.  The
CIS project includes application software, related technology
infrastructure and business process changes.  Capital
expenditures will be financed from internally generated funds and
financing activities, as discussed below.

Cash Flows from Financing Activities

     Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $10.8
million for 1996 compared with $1.2 million for 1995 and $7.7
million for 1994.  Financing activities during these periods
included issuance of common stock, dividend payments, borrowings
from banks, and issuance and repayments of long-term debt.

     Cash dividends and distributions paid. The Company paid
$15.2 million in cash dividends during 1996 compared with $14.2
million in 1995 and $12.7 million in 1994.  The $1.0 million
increase over 1995 primarily reflects an increase in the
Company's quarterly dividend rate and an increase in the number
of shares of common stock outstanding in 1996.  Including fiscal





1997, the Company has increased its dividend rate for nine
consecutive years.  

     Short-term financing activities.  At September 30, 1996, the
Company had committed lines of credit totaling $90.0 million,
$80.0 million of which was unused, in order to provide for short-
term cash requirements.  These credit facilities are negotiated
at least annually.  At September 30, 1996, the Company also had
uncommitted short-term credit lines of $165.0 million, of which
$112.2 million was unused.  During 1996, notes payable increased
$29.3 million compared with a decrease of $24.6 million during
1995 and an increase of $22.4 million in 1994.  The decrease in
fiscal 1995 was primarily due to repayment of short-term debt
with the proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt in November
1994.  

     Long-term financing activities.  During the first quarter of
fiscal 1997 the Company has been in the process of arranging to
borrow $40.0 million under a loan agreement with a bank and has
been seeking the necessary regulatory approvals.  The term of the
loan will be one day less than two years and the rate will be set
at current market rates.  The proceeds will be used to refinance
short-term debt.  Pending regulatory approval, the Company
expects to complete the transaction in November 1996.  Long-term
debt payments increased $3.0 million to $7.0 million for the year
ended September 30, 1996 compared with the year ended September
30, 1995.  Payments of long-term debt in 1996 consisted of a $2.0
million installment on the Company's 9.75% Senior Notes due in
December 1996, a $2.0 million installment on the 11.2% Senior
Notes and a $3.0 million installment on the 9.76% Senior Notes. 
Payments of long-term debt in 1995 consisted of a $2.0 million
installment on the Company's 9.75% Senior Notes and a $2.0
million installment on the 11.2% Senior Notes.  In November 1994,
the Company entered into note purchase agreements totaling $40.0
million with two insurance companies and issued $20.0 million of
unsecured Senior Notes at 8.07% payable in annual installments of
$4.0 million beginning October 31, 2002 through October 31, 2006
with semiannual interest payments and $20.0 million of unsecured
Senior Notes at 8.26% payable in annual installments of
$1,818,182 beginning October 31, 2004 through October 31, 2014
with semiannual interest payments.  No long-term debt was issued
in 1996 or 1994.  Payments of long-term debt during 1994
consisted of a $3.0 million installment on the Company's 9.75%
Senior Notes due in 1996, a $2.0 million installment on the 11.2%
Senior Notes, the balance of $3.25 million on the 13.75% Series I
First Mortgage Bonds and the balance of $1.6 million on the 13%
Series G First Mortgage Bonds.  The loan agreements pursuant to
which all the Company's Senior Notes have been issued contain
covenants by the Company with respect to the maintenance of
certain debt-to-equity ratios and cash flows, and restrictions on
the payment of dividends.  Also see Note 3 of the accompanying
notes to consolidated financial statements.

     Issuance of common stock.  The Company issued 502,209,
221,946 and 428,264 shares of common stock in 1996, 1995 and

 



1994, respectively, for its Direct Stock Purchase Plan ("DSPP"),
Employee Stock Ownership Plan, Restricted Stock Grant Plan,
Outside Directors Stock-for-Fee Plan and Oceana Heights
acquisition.  See the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders'
Equity for the number of shares issued under each of the plans
and for the Oceana Heights acquisition.  No new shares were
issued under the DSPP in 1996 or 1995.  Shares purchased by
participants in the DSPP in 1996 and 1995 were purchased by the
plan on the open market.  In 1994, 173,801 shares were issued
under the plan, generating proceeds of $3.0 million.  At
September 30, 1996, 712,596 shares were available for future
issuance under the DSPP.

     The Company believes that internally generated funds, its
credit facilities and access to the debt and equity capital
markets will provide necessary working capital and liquidity for
capital expenditures and other cash needs for 1997.

Seasonality

     The Company's natural gas distribution business is seasonal
due to weather conditions in the Company's service areas.  Gas
sales are affected by winter heating season requirements.  Sales
to agricultural customers (who use natural gas as fuel in the
operation of irrigation pumps) during the period from April
through September may be affected by rainfall amounts.  These
factors generally result in higher operating revenues and net
income during the period from October through March of each year
and lower operating revenues and either net losses or lower net
income during the period from April through September of each
year.

     The following table sets forth, on an unaudited basis, the
Company's quarterly operating revenues, quarterly operating
revenues as a percentage of annual operating revenues, quarterly
net income (loss) and quarterly net income (loss) as a percentage
of annual net income for its past two fiscal years.

 




Inflation

     The Company believes that inflation has caused and will
continue to cause increases in certain operating expenses and has
required and will continue to require assets to be replaced at
higher costs.  The Company continually reviews the adequacy of
its gas rates in relation to the increasing cost of providing
service and the inherent regulatory lag in adjusting those gas
rates. 

Environmental Matters

    From time to time, the Company receives inquiries regarding
various environmental matters.  The Company believes that its
properties and operations substantially comply with and are oper-
ated in substantial conformity with all applicable environmental
statutes and regulations.  There are no administrative or judi-
cial proceedings arising under environmental quality statutes
pending or known to be contemplated by governmental agencies
which, if adversely determined, would have a material adverse
effect on the Company.

"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995

    The matters discussed or incorporated by reference in this
Report on Form 10-K statements.  The forward-looking statements
involve risks and uncertainties that affect the Company's
operations, markets, services, rates, recovery of costs,
availability of gas supply, and other factors as discussed in the
Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to,
economic, competitive, governmental, weather, and technological
factors.





 



ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 


                                                        Page no.

Report of independent auditors                               28

Consolidated balance sheets                                  29

Consolidated statements of income                            30

Consolidated statements of shareholders' equity              31

Consolidated statements of cash flows                        32

Notes to consolidated financial statements                   34

Supplementary data (unaudited)                               54






 



REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP,
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS 


Board of Directors
Atmos Energy Corporation

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets
of Atmos Energy Corporation at September 30, 1996 and 1995, and
the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders'
equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended September 30, 1996.  These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

        We conducted our audits in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards.  Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. 
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
financial position of Atmos Energy Corporation at September 30,
1996 and 1995, and its consolidated results of operations and its
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
September 30, 1996 in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.  






                                   Ernst & Young LLP

Dallas, Texas 
November 4, 1996








 



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS                    September 30,   
                                            1996         1995  
                                          --------     --------
ASSETS                          (In thousands, except share data)
Property, plant and equipment             $654,571     $589,801
Construction in progress                    11,867        5,558
                                          --------     --------
                                           666,438      595,359
Less accumulated depreciation and amort.   252,871      232,107
                                          --------     --------
    Net property, plant and equipment      413,567      363,252
Current assets
  Cash and cash equivalents                  3,726        2,294
  Accounts receivable, less allowance 
    for doubtful accounts of $716 in 
    1996 and $916 in 1995                   25,284       25,690
  Inventories                                7,174        6,747
  Gas stored underground                    14,652       10,758
  Prepayments                                1,489        2,747
                                          --------     --------
     Total current assets                   52,325       48,236
Deferred charges and other assets           35,969       34,295
                                          --------     --------
                                          $501,861     $445,783
CAPITALIZATION AND LIABILITIES            ========     ========
Shareholders' equity
  Common stock, no par value (stated at $.005
    per share); authorized 75,000,000 shares;
    issued and outstanding 1996 - 16,021,321
    shares, 1995 - 15,519,112 shares      $     80     $     78
  Additional paid-in capital               111,206      106,496
  Retained earnings                         61,012       51,704
                                          --------     --------
    Total shareholders' equity             172,298      158,278
Long-term debt                             122,303      131,303
                                          --------     --------
    Total capitalization                   294,601      289,581
Current liabilities  
  Current maturities of long-term debt       9,000        7,000
  Notes payable to banks                    62,800       33,500
  Accounts payable                          31,640       24,945
  Taxes payable                              3,584        1,926
  Customers' deposits                        9,858        9,343
  Other current liabilities                 10,674       10,641
                                          --------     --------
    Total current liabilities              127,556       87,355
Deferred income taxes                       39,056       33,120
Deferred credits and other liabilities      40,648       35,727
                                          --------     --------
                                          $501,861     $445,783
                                          ========     ========
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 



 



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

                                     Year ended September 30,    
                                --------------------------------
                                  1996         1995        1994  
                                --------    --------     --------
                            (In thousands, except per share data)

Operating revenues              $483,744    $435,820     $499,808
Purchased gas cost               306,744     268,810      331,571
                                --------    --------     --------
Gross profit                     177,000     167,010      168,237

Operating expenses       
  Operation                       82,807      83,431       92,132
  Maintenance                      4,212       4,276        5,888
  Depreciation and amortization   20,849      20,741       18,841
  Taxes, other than income        16,879      16,611       16,808
  Income taxes                    13,310       9,574        8,102
                                --------    --------     --------
    Total operating expenses     138,057     134,633      141,771
                                --------    --------     --------
                                                         
Operating income                  38,943      32,377       26,466
Other income (expense)        
  Interest income                    113         459          168
  Other, net                        (409)       (242)         335
                                --------    --------     --------
    Total other income 
      (expense)                     (296)        217          503

Interest charges                  14,698      13,721       12,290
                                --------    --------     --------

Net income                      $ 23,949    $ 18,873     $ 14,679
                                ========    ========     ========
Net income per share            $   1.51    $   1.22     $    .97
                                ========    ========     ========
Cash dividends per share        $    .96    $    .92     $    .88
                                ========    ========     ========
Average shares outstanding        15,892      15,416       15,195
                                ========    ========     ========




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


 



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF                              
SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                              Common stock
                           -----------------  Additional
                            Number of  Stated   paid-in Retained
                              shares    value   capital earnings
                           ----------- ------ --------- --------
                            (In thousands, except share data)

Balance, September 30, 1993  14,868,902  $74   $94,279 $45,076 
  Net income                          -    -         -  14,679 
  Cash dividends ($.88 per 
    share)                            -    -         - (12,612)
  GGC distributions                   -    -         -    (120)
  Common stock issued
    Restricted stock 
      grant plan                105,000    1     2,134       - 
    Direct stock purchase 
      plan                      173,801    1     3,037       - 
    Employee stock ownership
      plan                      149,463    1     2,713       - 
  Other                               -    -       293       - 
                             ----------  ---   ------- ------- 
Balance, September 30, 1994  15,297,166   77   102,456  47,023 
  Net income                          -    -         -  18,873 
  Cash dividends ($.92 
    per share)                        -    -         - (14,192)
  Common stock issued 
    Restricted stock 
     grant plan                   7,000    -       119       - 
    Employee stock 
     ownership plan             214,946    1     3,876       - 
  Other                               -    -        45       - 
                             ----------  ---  -------- ------- 
Balance, September 30, 1995  15,519,112   78   106,496  51,704 
  Net income                          -    -         -  23,949 
  Cash dividends ($.96 per 
    share)                            -    -         - (15,235)
  Common stock issued
    Restricted stock grant
      plan                       24,800    -       493       - 
    Outside directors stock-
      for-fee plan                2,521    -        60       - 
    Employee stock ownership
      plan                      161,477    1     3,641       - 
    Oceana Heights acquisition  313,411    1       304     594 
    Other                             -    -       212       - 
                             ----------  ---  -------- ------- 
Balance, September 30, 1996  16,021,321  $80  $111,206 $61,012 
                             ==========  ===  ======== ======= 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 


                                  



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                       Year ended September 30, 
                                       -------------------------
                                         1996    1995      1994  
                                       ------- --------  ------- 
                                            (In thousands)
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net income                             $23,949 $18,873   $14,679 
Adjustments to reconcile net income 
  to net cash provided by operating 
  activities
    Depreciation and amortization                           
      Charged to depreciation and 
        amortization                    20,849  20,741    18,841 
      Charged to other accounts          3,568   3,592     1,476 
  Deferred income taxes                  5,944   2,809       244 
  Other                                    493   2,011     2,101 
                                       ------- -------   ------- 
                                        54,803  48,026    37,341 
  Change in assets and liabilities  
    (Increase) decrease in accounts 
      receivable                           406   3,988      (478)
    (Increase) decrease in inventories    (427)   (859)      176 
    (Increase) decrease in gas stored 
      underground                       (3,894)  1,899     4,946 
    (Increase) decrease in prepayments   1,258    (438)    1,931 
    Decrease in deferred charges and 
      other assets                      (1,674)   (333)   (3,824)
    Increase (decrease) in accounts 
      payable                            6,695   2,970    (7,128)
    Increase (decrease) in taxes 
      payable                            1,862  (2,766)   (1,314)
    Increase in customers' deposits        515   1,086       395 
    Increase in other current 
      liabilities                           33   3,603       583 
    Increase in deferred credits and 
      other liabilities                  4,921   1,326     8,596 
                                       ------- -------    -------
    Net cash provided by operating 
       activities                       64,498  58,502    41,224 

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES              
  Capital expenditures                 (77,597)(62,927)  (50,355)
  Retirements of property, plant and 
    equipment                            3,764   2,749     1,906 
                                       ------- -------   ------- 
    Net cash used in investing 
      activities                       (73,833)(60,178)  (48,449)

                          - Continued -


 



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (continued)

                                       Year ended September 30,  
                                        1996     1995     1994
                                      -------- -------- -------- 
                                             (In thousands)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES     
  Net increase (decrease) in notes 
    payable                            $29,300 $(24,600) $22,400 
  Proceeds from issuance of 
    long-term debt                           -   40,000        - 
  Repayment of long-term debt           (7,000)  (4,000)  (9,850)
  Cash dividends and distributions 
    paid                               (15,235) (14,192) (12,732)
  Issuance of common stock               3,702    3,996    7,887 
                                       -------  -------  ------- 
    Net cash provided by financing 
      activities                        10,767    1,204    7,705 
                                       -------  -------  ------- 
Net increase (decrease) in cash and 
  cash equivalents                       1,432     (472)     480 
Cash and cash equivalents at 
  beginning of year                      2,294    2,766    2,286 
                                       -------  -------  ------- 
Cash and cash equivalents at end 
  of year                              $ 3,726  $ 2,294  $ 2,766 
                                       =======  =======  ======= 









See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 


 



ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.   Summary of significant accounting policies

     Description of business - Atmos Energy Corporation and its
subsidiaries ("Atmos" or the "Company") are in the business of
distributing natural gas to residential, commercial, industrial
and agricultural customers within service areas located in Texas,
Louisiana, Kentucky, Colorado, Kansas and a small portion of
Missouri.  Such business is subject to federal and state
regulation and/or regulation by local authorities in each of the
six states in which the Company operates.  The Company has no
other material business segments.

     Principles of consolidation - The accompanying consolidated
financial statements include the accounts of Atmos Energy
Corporation and its subsidiaries.  Each subsidiary is wholly-
owned and all material intercompany items have been eliminated.

     Revenue recognition -  Sales of natural gas are billed on a
monthly cycle basis; however, the billing cycle periods for
certain classes of customers do not necessarily coincide with ac-
counting periods used for financial reporting purposes.  The
Company follows the revenue accrual method of accounting for
natural gas revenues whereby revenues applicable to gas delivered
to customers but not yet billed under the cycle billing method
are estimated and accrued and the related costs are charged to
expense. Estimated losses due to credit risk are reserved at the
time revenue is recognized.  

     Property, plant and equipment - Property, plant and
equipment is stated at original cost net of contributions in aid
of construction.  The cost of additions includes an allowance for
funds used during construction and applicable overhead charges. 
Major renewals and betterments are capitalized, while the costs
of maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. 
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated at various rates on
a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the
assets.  The composite rates were 3.8% and 4.1% for the years
ended September 30, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  The decrease in
the composite rate in 1996 resulted from the decrease in Kentucky
depreciation rates ordered by the Kentucky Public Service
Commission as part of the rate case settlement in October 1995. 
At the time property, plant and equipment is retired, the cost,
plus removal expenses and less salvage, is charged to accumulated
depreciation.

     Inventories - Inventories consist of materials and supplies
and merchandise held for resale.  Inventories are stated at the
lower of average cost or market.

     Gas stored underground - Net additions of inventory gas to
underground storage and withdrawals of inventory gas from storage
are priced using the average cost method.  Non-current gas in

 



storage is classified as property, plant and equipment and is
priced at cost.  

     Income taxes - The Company provides deferred income taxes
for significant temporary differences in the recognition of
revenues and expenses for tax and financial reporting purposes.  

     Cash and cash equivalents - The Company considers all highly
liquid debt instruments purchased with a maturity of three months
or less to be cash equivalents.

     Deferred charges and other assets - Deferred charges and
other assets at September 30, 1996 and 1995 include assets of the
Company's qualified defined benefit retirement plans in excess of
the plans' obligations in the amounts of $9,970,000 and
$9,962,000, respectively, and Company assets related to the
nonqualified retirement plans at September 30, 1996 and 1995 of
$17,808,000 and $16,510,000, respectively.  

     Deferred credits and other liabilities - Deferred credits
and other liabilities include customer advances for construction
of $8,458,000 and $8,212,000 at September 30, 1996 and 1995,
respectively; obligations under capital leases of $2,769,000 and
$2,882,000 at September 30, 1996 and 1995, respectively; and
obligations under the Company's nonqualified retirement plans of
$18,759,000 and $16,125,000 at September 30, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.  

     Earnings per share - The calculation of primary earnings per
share is based on reported net income divided by weighted average
common shares outstanding.  The Company does not have other
classes of stock or dilutive common stock equivalents.  

     Use of estimates - The preparation of financial statements
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and revenues and expenses during the reporting period. 
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

2.   Business combination activity

Agreement to merge with United Cities Gas Company

     In July 1996, the Company announced that it had reached a
definitive agreement to merge with United Cities Gas Company
("United Cities") of Brentwood, Tennessee, by means of a tax-free
reorganization.  The Company will exchange approximately 13.1
million shares of its stock for all of the outstanding stock of
United Cities.  Atmos will be the surviving corporation.  Atmos
has agreed to increase the indicated annual dividend to not less
than $1.02 per share, for no less than four quarters, at the
first Board meeting following the closing of the transaction. 
The transaction is expected to be accounted for by the pooling of

 



interests method.  The transaction is subject to approval by the
United Cities and Atmos shareholders, which approvals were
obtained on November 12, 1996.  Approval by appropriate
regulatory bodies will also be required among other conditions
precedent to closing.  

     United Cities is a natural gas utility engaged in the
distribution and sale of natural gas to approximately 310,000
customers in Tennessee, Illinois, Virginia, Kansas, Missouri,
South Carolina, Georgia, and Iowa, and in the sale of propane to
approximately 27,000 customers in Tennessee, Virginia and North
Carolina.  United Cities' assets consist principally of the
property, plant and equipment used in its natural gas and propane
sales and distribution businesses. Following consummation of the
merger, Atmos intends to continue to operate the United Cities
business as a division of Atmos, along with Atmos' Energas, Trans
La, Western Kentucky, and Greeley divisions.  The accompanying
consolidated financial statements of the Company do not include
the assets, liabilities, or operating results of United Cities.

     On August 1, 1996, Southern Union Company filed a Schedule
13D with the Securities and Exchange Commission reporting that it
owns 6.5% of United Cities' outstanding common stock. 
Subsequently, various lawsuits and complaints were filed by
Atmos, United Cities, and Southern Union relating to the
purported ownership of the stock by Southern Union, the actions
of the United Cities board of directors in approving the merger
with Atmos, and certain other matters.  On November 2, 1996, all
of the parties entered into a settlement agreement that resolved
the disputes and requires, among other things, the dismissal of
all such lawsuits and complaints.

Acquisition of Greeley Gas Company

     On December 22, 1993, Atmos acquired by means of a merger
all of the assets and liabilities of Greeley Gas Company ("GGC")
in accordance with the terms and provisions of an Agreement and
Plan of Reorganization dated July 2, 1993.  GGC is a natural gas
utility engaged in the distribution and sale of natural gas to
residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural, and other
customers throughout Colorado, Kansas, and a small portion of
Missouri.  All of the shares of GGC's common stock were exchanged
for a total of 3,493,995 shares of Atmos common stock as adjusted
for a 3-for-2 stock split (2,329,330 shares on a pre-split
basis).  See Note 5 for information regarding the stock split in
May 1994.  This merger transaction was accounted for as a pooling
of interests; therefore, all historical financial statements and
notes thereto have been restated.  Subsequent to the merger, the
business of GGC has been operated through the Company's Greeley
Gas Company division (the "Greeley Gas Division").




 



     Results of operations and net income for the previously
separate companies for the period prior to the merger are as
follows:

                                              Quarter ended
                                            December 31, 1993
                                            -----------------
                                              (In thousands)      
    
Operating revenues                
    Atmos                                        $119,223
    GGC                                            26,278
                                                 --------
                                                 $145,501
                                                 ========
Net income
    Atmos                                        $  5,458
    GGC                                             1,630
                                                 --------
                                                 $  7,088
                                                 ========

     The dividends per share presentation on the consolidated
statements of income reflects Atmos dividends declared per share
as adjusted for the 3-for-2 stock split in May 1994.  The cash
dividends per share reflect the per share dividend declared by
Atmos Energy Corporation for the year ended September 30, 1994.
The restated cash dividends and distributions per share reflect
the total amounts paid by Atmos and GGC to their shareholders,
divided by the total amount of weighted average shares
outstanding as restated for the shares issued to effect the
merger between Atmos and GGC and the 3-for-2 stock split in May
1994.

                                                Year ended 
                                            September 30, 1994
                                            ------------------

Cash dividends per share                           $.88
                                                   ====

Restated cash dividends and 
  distributions per share,
  including GGC                                    $.84
                                                   ====





 



3. Long-term debt and notes payable

      Long-term debt at September 30, 1996 and 1995 consisted of
the following:
                                             1996        1995  
                                          ---------    --------
                                              (In thousands)
Unsecured 7.95% Senior Notes, payable
  in annual installments of $1,000
  beginning August 31, 1997 through 
  August 31, 2006 with semiannual
  interest payments                       $ 10,000    $ 10,000 
Unsecured 9.57% Senior Notes, payable
  in annual installments of $2,000
  beginning September 30, 1997 through 
  September 30, 2006 with semiannual
  interest payments                         20,000      20,000 
Unsecured 9.76% Senior Notes, payable
  in annual installments of $3,000
  beginning December 30, 1995 through 
  December 30, 2004 with semiannual
  interest payments                         27,000      30,000 
Unsecured 9.75% Senior Notes, payable
  in varying annual installments     
  through December 30, 1996                  1,000       3,000 
Unsecured 11.2% Senior Notes, payable 
  in annual installments of $2,000 
  beginning December 30, 1993 through
  December 30, 2002 with semiannual 
  interest payments                         14,000      16,000 
First Mortgage Bonds, 9.4% Series J, 
  due May 1, 2021                           17,000      17,000 
Unsecured 10% Notes, due December 31, 
  2011                                       2,303       2,303 
Unsecured 8.07% Senior Notes, payable 
  in annual installments of $4,000 
  beginning October 31, 2002 through 
  October 31, 2006 with semiannual 
  interest payments                         20,000      20,000 
Unsecured 8.26% Senior Notes, payable 
  in annual installments of $1,818 
  beginning October 31, 2004 through 
  October 31, 2014 with semiannual 
  interest payments                         20,000      20,000 
                                          --------    -------- 
                                           131,303     138,303 
Less amounts classified as current          (9,000)     (7,000)
                                          --------    -------- 
                                          $122,303    $131,303 
                                          ========    ======== 



 


     The Company may prepay any of the Senior Notes in whole at
any time, subject to a prepayment premium.  The note agreements
provide for certain cash flow requirements and restrictions on
additional indebtedness, sale of assets and payment of dividends. 
Under the most restrictive of such covenants, cumulative cash
dividends paid after September 30, 1988 may not exceed the sum of
75% of accumulated net income for periods after September 30,
1988 plus $12,000,000 plus the proceeds from the sale of common
stock after September 30, 1988.  At September 30, 1996,
approximately $52,626,000 of shareholders' equity was not so
restricted.

     As of September 30, 1996, all of the Company's utility plant
assets in Colorado, Kansas and Missouri with a net book value of
approximately $74,486,000 are subject to a lien under the 9.4%
Series J First Mortgage Bonds assumed by the Company in the
acquisition of GGC.

     Based on the borrowing rates currently available to the
Company for debt with similar terms and remaining average
maturities, the fair value of long-term debt at September 30,
1996 and 1995 is estimated using discounted cash flow analysis to
be $140,678,000 and $153,049,000, respectively.  It is not
currently advantageous for the Company to refinance its long-term
debt because of prepayment costs set forth in the various debt
agreements.

     Maturities of long-term debt are as follows (in thousands):

     1997                                  $  9,000
     1998                                     8,000
     1999                                     8,000
     2000                                     8,000
     2001                                     8,000
     Thereafter                              90,303
                                           --------
                                           $131,303
                                           ========

Notes payable to banks

     The Company has committed short-term, unsecured bank credit
facilities totaling $90,000,000, $80,000,000 of which was unused
at September 30, 1996.  One facility of $80,000,000 requires a
commitment fee of 0.09% on the unused portion.  A second facility
for $10,000,000 requires a commitment fee of 3/16 of 1% on the
unused portion.  The committed lines are renewed or renegotiated
at least annually. 

     The Company also had aggregate uncommitted credit lines of
$165,000,000, of which $112,200,000 was unused as of September
30, 1996.  The uncommitted lines have varying terms and the
Company pays no fee for the availability of the lines. 



 


Borrowings under these lines are made on a when and as-available
basis at the discretion of the banks.  

     The weighted average interest rates on short-term borrowings
outstanding at September 30, 1996 and 1995 were 6.2% and 7.0%,
respectively.

4. Income taxes

     The components of income tax expense for 1996, 1995 and 1994
are as follows:     
                                    1996        1995      1994 
                                  -------      ------    ------
                                           (In thousands) 
Current                           $ 7,366      $6,765    $7,858
Deferred                            5,944       2,809       244
                                  -------      ------    ------
                                  $13,310      $9,574    $8,102
                                  =======      ======    ======

     Included in the provision for income taxes are state income
taxes of $1,134,000, $506,000, and $328,000 for 1996, 1995, and
1994, respectively.








 





     Deferred income taxes reflect the tax effect of differences
between the basis of assets and liabilities for book and tax
purposes.  The tax effect of temporary differences that give rise
to significant components of the deferred tax liabilities and
deferred tax assets at September 30, 1996 and 1995 are presented
below:
                                          1996            1995 
                                        -------         -------
                                              (In thousands)
Deferred tax assets
  Costs expensed for book purposes 
    and capitalized for tax purposes    $   863         $   872
  Accruals not currently deductible
    for tax purposes                      1,403           1,045
  Customer advances                       2,629           2,020
  Nonqualified benefit plans              7,616           7,107
  Postretirement benefits                 3,184           2,187
  Other, net                              1,348           2,902
                                        -------         -------
    Total deferred tax assets            17,043          16,133

Deferred tax liabilities
    Difference in net book value
      and net tax value of assets        50,799          43,549
  Prepaid pensions                        3,929           4,528
  Other, net                              1,371           1,176
                                        -------         -------
    Total deferred tax liabilities       56,099          49,253
                                        -------         -------
Net deferred tax liabilities            $39,056         $33,120
                                        =======         =======
SFAS No. 109 deferred accounts for
  rate regulated entities (included
  in other deferred credits):
    Liabilities                         $ 2,536         $ 2,580
                                        =======         =======







 



     Reconciliations of the provisions for income taxes computed
at the statutory rate to the reported provisions for income taxes
for 1996, 1995 and 1994 are set forth below:

                                           Liability Method
                                      -------------------------- 
                                       1996      1995      1994  
                                     -------   -------   ------- 
                                             (In thousands) 
Tax at statutory rate of 35%         $13,041    $9,956   $ 7,992 
Financial expenses, not deductible 
  for tax reporting                       63        35       503 
Common stock dividends deductible 
  for tax reporting                     (684)     (619)     (573)
State taxes                              900       261       328 
Other, net                               (10)      (59)     (148)
                                     -------   -------   ------- 
Provision for income taxes           $13,310    $9,574   $ 8,102 
                                     =======   =======   ======= 

5. Stock split

     On February 9, 1994, the Board of Directors of Atmos ap-
proved a 3-for-2 split of its common stock implemented in the
form of a stock dividend, which resulted in shareholders
receiving one new share for every two shares held.  Fractional
shares were not issued but were paid in cash or credited to the
accounts of participants of the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock
Purchase Plan ("DRSPP") and Employee Stock Ownership Plan
("ESOP").  The record date for the split was May 4, 1994 and the
payment date for mailing the new shares and cash for fractional
shares to shareholders was May 16, 1994.  All share and per share
amounts in the financial statements and notes thereto have been
restated to reflect this split, unless otherwise noted.

6. Common stock and stock options

     At the annual meeting of shareholders on February 8, 1995,
the shareholders approved an increase in the number of authorized
shares of common stock from 50,000,000 to 75,000,000.

     The Company issued 24,800 shares of its common stock in
fiscal 1996 in connection with its Restricted Stock Grant Plan. 

     The Company has an Employee Stock Ownership Plan as dis-
cussed in Note 7.  It issued 161,477 shares under the plan in
1996.  The Company has registered 1,600,000 shares for issuance
under the plan, of which 713,353 shares were available for future
issuance on September 30, 1996.

     In August 1992, the Company announced a Direct Stock
Purchase Plan ("DSPP") which was the successor to and replacement
for the Dividend Reinvestment Plan ("DRP").  Members of the DRP
were automatically enrolled in the DSPP.  In November 1993, the
Company amended the DSPP to remove the direct stock purchase

 



feature of the plan and to rename the plan the Atmos Energy
Corporation Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan.  In
January 1995, the direct stock purchase feature was reinstated
and the name was changed back to the Direct Stock Purchase Plan. 
Participants in the DSPP may have all or part of their dividends
reinvested at a 3% discount from market prices.  DSPP
participants may purchase additional shares of Company common
stock as often as weekly with voluntary cash payments of at least
$25, up to an annual maximum of $100,000.  At September 30, 1996,
712,596 shares were available for future issuance under the plan. 

     On April 27, 1988, the Company adopted a Shareholders'
Rights Plan and declared a dividend of one right (a "Right") for
each outstanding pre-split share of common stock of the Company,
payable to shareholders of record as of May 10, 1988.  Each Right
will entitle the holder thereof, until the earlier of May 10,
1998 or the date of redemption of the Rights, to buy one share of
common stock of the Company at an exercise price of $30 per
share, subject to adjustment by the Board of Directors upon the
occurrence of certain events.  The Rights will be represented by
the common stock certificates and are not exercisable or
transferable apart from the common stock until a "Distribution
Date" (which is defined in the Rights Agreement between the
Company and the Rights Agent as the date upon which the Rights
become separate from the common stock).

     At no time will the Rights have any voting rights.  The
exercise price payable and the number of shares of common stock
or other securities or property issuable upon exercise of the
Rights are subject to adjustment from time to time to prevent
dilution.  Until the Distribution Date, the Company will issue
one Right with each share of common stock that becomes
outstanding so that all shares of common stock will have attached
Rights.  After a Distribution Date, the Company may issue Rights
when it issues common stock if the Board deems such issuance to
be necessary or appropriate.

     The Rights have certain anti-takeover effects and may cause
substantial dilution to a person or entity that attempts to
acquire the Company on terms not approved by the Board of
Directors except pursuant to an offer conditioned upon a
substantial number of Rights being acquired.  The Rights should
not interfere with any merger or other business combination
approved by the Board of Directors because, prior to the time the
Rights become exercisable or transferable, the Rights may be
redeemed by the Company at $.05 per Right.

     The Company's Restricted Stock Grant Plan for management and
key employees of the Company, which became effective October 1,
1987, provides for awards of common stock that are subject to
certain restrictions.  The plan is administered by the Board of
Directors.  The members of the Board who are not employees of the
Company make the final determinations regarding participation in
the plan, awards under the plan, and restrictions on the re-
stricted stock awarded.  The restricted stock may consist of

 


previously issued shares purchased on the open market or shares
issued directly from the Company.  The Company registered 600,000
shares (900,000 post-split shares) for issuance under the plan. 
Compensation expense of $795,000, $1,015,000 and $1,164,000 was
recognized in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively, in connection
with the issuance of shares under the plan.  At September 30,
1996, 352,500 shares were available for future award under the
plan.

     In November 1994, the Board adopted the Outside Directors
Stock-for-Fee Plan, which plan was approved by the shareholders
of the Company in February 1995.  The plan permits non-employee
directors to receive all or part of their annual retainer and
meeting fees in stock rather than in cash.  The Company has
registered 50,000 shares, 47,479 of which were available for
future issuance under the plan as of September 30, 1996.

7.   Employee retirement and stock ownership plans

     At September 30, 1996, the Company had three defined benefit
pension plans.  One covers the Western Kentucky Division employ-
ees, one covers the Greeley Gas Division employees, and the third
covers all other Atmos employees.  The plans provide essentially
the same benefits to all employees.  Benefits are based on years
of service and the employee's compensation during the highest
paid five consecutive calendar years within the last 10 years of
employment.  The Company's funding policy is to contribute
annually an amount in accordance with the requirements of the Em-
ployee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.  Contributions are
intended to provide not only for benefits attributed to service
to date but also for those expected to be earned in the future.  





 


     The following table sets forth the Atmos plan's funded
status at September 30, 1996 and 1995:

                                        1996            1995   
                                      --------        -------- 
                                            (In thousands)
Actuarial present value of benefit 
  obligations          

  Accumulated benefit obligation, 
    including vested benefits of 
    $77,089 and $74,967 in 1996 
    and 1995, respectively            $(77,513)       $(75,529)
                                      ========        ======== 
  Projected benefit obligation        $(86,571)       $(84,182)
  Plan assets at fair value             90,157          82,464 
                                      --------        -------- 
  Funded status                          3,586          (1,718)
  Unrecognized net asset being
    recognized over 15 years              (198)           (416)
  Unrecognized prior service cost       (1,359)         (1,812)
  Unrecognized net (gain) loss          (3,086)          3,514 
                                      --------        -------- 
  Accrued pension cost                $ (1,057)       $   (432)
                                      ========        ======== 

     Net periodic pension cost for the Atmos plan for 1996, 1995
and 1994 included the following components:

                                   1996        1995        1994 
                                 -------      ------      ------ 
                                           (In thousands)
Service cost                     $ 2,235     $ 1,862      $1,846 
Interest cost on projected 
  benefit obligation               6,434       6,060       5,614 
Actual return on plan assets     (11,342)    (12,200)       (955)
Net amortization and deferral      3,298       5,007      (5,778)
                                 -------      ------      ------ 
Net periodic pension cost        $   625     $   729      $  727 
                                 =======      ======      ====== 

 


     The following table sets forth the Western Kentucky Gas
Division plan's funded status at September 30, 1996 and 1995: 

                                        1996            1995   
                                     ---------       --------- 
                                           (In thousands)    
Actuarial present value of benefit 
  obligations

  Accumulated benefit obligation, 
    including vested benefits of 
    $30,934 and $27,236 in 1996 
    and 1995, respectively            $(30,983)       $(27,262)
                                      ========        ======== 
  Projected benefit obligation        $(35,673)       $(31,642)
  Plan assets at fair value             46,478          42,216 
                                      --------        -------- 
  Funded status                         10,805          10,574 
  Unrecognized prior service cost        4,829           2,855 
  Unrecognized net gain                 (4,361)         (2,468)
                                      --------        -------- 
  Prepaid pension cost                $ 11,273        $ 10,961 
                                      ========        ======== 

     Net periodic pension cost for 1996, 1995 and 1994 included
the following components:

                                  1996        1995        1994   
                                --------    --------    -------- 
                                         (In thousands)

Service cost                    $    672    $    706    $    729 
Interest cost                      2,431       2,306       2,160 
Actual return on plan assets      (5,771)     (6,355)        324 
Net amortization and deferral      2,356       3,399      (3,097)
                                --------    --------    -------- 
Net periodic pension cost
  (benefit)                     $   (312)   $     56    $    116 
                                ========    ========    ======== 


     The weighted-average discount rates used in determining the
actuarial present value of the projected benefit obligations of
the Atmos and WKG retirement plans was 7.5% at June 30, 1996 and
1995.  The rate of increase in future compensation levels
reflected in such determination was 4.0% for the years ended
September 30, 1996 and 1995.  The expected long-term rate of
return on plan assets was 9.5%, 10.0% and 9.5% for the years
ended September 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  The plan
assets consist primarily of investments in common stocks,
interest bearing securities and interests in commingled pension
trust funds.  Prepaid pension cost is included in deferred
charges and other assets.


 


     The following table sets forth the Greeley Gas Division
plan's funded status at September 30, 1996 and 1995:

                                        1996            1995   
                                      --------        -------- 
                                            (In thousands)
Actuarial present value of benefit 
  obligations          

  Accumulated benefit obligation, 
    including vested benefits of 
    $15,110 and $13,134 in 1996 
    and 1995, respectively            $(15,252)       $(13,385)
                                      ========        ======== 
  Projected benefit obligation        $(17,666)       $(15,148)
  Plan assets at fair value             16,086          14,607 
                                      --------        -------- 
  Funded status                         (1,580)           (541)
  Unrecognized net asset being
    recognized over 15 years            (1,521)         (1,810)
  Unrecognized prior service cost        1,480             419 
  Unrecognized net loss                  1,375           1,370 
                                      --------        -------- 
  Accrued pension cost                $   (246)       $   (562)
                                      ========        ======== 

     Net periodic pension cost (credit) for the Greeley Gas
Division plan for 1996, 1995 and 1994 included the following
components:

                                   1996        1995        1994 
                                  ------     -------     ------- 
                                           (In thousands)
Service cost                      $  453     $   328     $   486 
Interest cost on projected 
  benefit obligation               1,185       1,208       1,039 
Actual return on plan assets      (2,390)     (2,530)        441 
Net amortization and deferral        810       1,217      (1,795)
                                  ------     -------     ------- 
Net periodic pension cost         $   58     $   223     $   171 
                                  ======     =======     ======= 

     Accumulated plan benefits were computed using the Projected
Unit Credit funding method.  The discount rate and rate of in-
crease in future compensation levels used in determining the
actuarial present value of the projected benefit obligations were
7.5% and 4.0% in both 1996 and 1995.  The expected long-term rate
of return on plan assets was 9.5%, 10.0% and 9.5% in 1996, 1995
and 1994, respectively.  Plan assets consist primarily of
corporate bonds, equity securities, mutual funds, partnership
interests, and other miscellaneous investments.  The actual
return on plan assets in 1994 resulted in a loss of $441,000 due
to writedowns of certain plan assets to reflect current market
value.


 



     Effective October 1, 1987, the Company adopted a nonquali-
fied Supplemental Executive Benefits Plan ("Supplemental Plan")
which provides additional pension, disability and death benefits
to the officers and certain other employees of the Company. 
Expense recognized in connection with the Supplemental Plan
during fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994 was $2,708,000, $2,158,000 and
$2,062,000, respectively.

     The Company sponsors an Employee Stock Ownership Plan.  Full
time employees who have completed one year of service, as defined
in the plan, are eligible to participate.  Each participant
enters into a salary reduction agreement with the Company
pursuant to which the participant's salary is reduced by an
amount not less than 2% nor more than 10%.  Taxes on the amount
by which the participant's salary is reduced are deferred
pursuant to Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code.  The
amount of the salary reduction is contributed by the Company to
the ESOP for the account of the participant.  The Company may
make a matching contribution for the account of the participant
in an amount determined each year by the Board of Directors,
which amount must be at least equal to 25% of all or a portion of
the participant's salary reduction.  For the 1996 plan year, the
Board of Directors elected to match 100% of each participant's
salary reduction contribution up to 4% of the participant's
salary.  Matching contributions to the ESOP amounted to
$1,944,000, $1,977,000, and $1,780,000 for 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.  The Directors may also approve discretionary
contributions, subject to the provisions of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 and applicable regulations of the Internal Revenue
Service.  The Company recorded a charge of $1,500,000 for a
discretionary contribution in the year ended September 30, 1996. 
Company contributions to the plan are expensed as incurred.    

     Effective January 1, 1988, the Greeley Gas Division adopted
a 401(k) plan that covered substantially all the Greeley Gas
Division employees.  Total employer contributions to the 401(k)
plan were $141,000 for the period ended September 30, 1994. 
Contributions to the plan were discontinued on March 31, 1994 and
participants were enrolled in the Atmos ESOP on April 1, 1994.  

8.   Other postretirement benefits

     In addition to providing pension benefits, the Company
provides certain other postretirement benefits for retired
employees, the major benefit being health care.  Prior to 1994,
the cost of other postretirement benefits was recognized by
expensing claims and annual insurance premiums as incurred.  

     Effective October 1, 1993, the Company adopted Financial
Accounting Standards No. 106 ("SFAS No. 106"), "Employers'
Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions". 
SFAS No. 106 focuses principally on postretirement health care
benefits and significantly changed the practice of accounting for
postretirement benefits on a pay-as-you-go basis by requiring
accrual of such benefit costs on an actuarial basis from the date

 


each employee reaches age 45 until the date of full eligibility
for such benefits.  The Company is amortizing on a straight line
basis the initial transition obligation of $33,354,000 over 20
years.  The effect of adopting the new rules increased net
periodic postretirement benefits cost for the year ended
September 30, 1994 by $3,789,000 and decreased net income by
$2,440,000.  Approximately $746,000 of this increased cost was
recovered through rates during 1994.

     Atmos sponsors two defined benefit postretirement plans
other than pensions.  One plan provides medical, dental, and
vision benefits to retired employees of Greeley Gas Company.  The
other offers medical benefits to all other retired Atmos
employees.  Substantially all of the Company's employees may
become eligible for these benefits if they reach retirement age
while working for the Company and attain 10 consecutive years of
service after age 45.  Participant contributions are required
under these plans.  Prior to June 1994, the plans were not
funded.  In June 1994, the Company made its first quarterly
payment to the external trust set up to fund SFAS No. 106 costs
in excess of the pay-as-you-go cost in Kansas in accordance with
an order of the Kansas Corporation Commission.  In April, 1995 it
began external funding in Colorado in accordance with an order of
the Colorado Public Utility Commission.  The amount of funding
will ultimately depend upon the ratemaking treatment allowed in
the Company's various rate jurisdictions.  

     The components of net periodic postretirement benefits cost
for each of the years ended September 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994 are
as follows:

                                    1996       1995       1994
                                   ------     ------     ------
                                          (In thousands)

Service cost                      $1,469      $1,497     $1,817
Interest cost                      2,224       2,322      2,269
Actual return on plan assets         (39)        (18)         -
Amortization of transition 
  obligation                       1,550       1,549      1,668
Net amortization and deferral        (80)       (150)         -
                                  ------      ------     ------   
Net periodic postretirement 
  benefits cost                   $5,124      $5,200     $5,754
                                  ======      ======     ======




 


     The following is a reconciliation of the funded status of
the plans to the net postretirement benefits liability on the
balance sheet as of September 30, 1996 and 1995:

                                                1996      1995  
                                             --------   -------- 
                                                (In thousands)

Accumulated postretirement 
  benefits obligation 
    Retirees                                 $(19,849)  $(20,402)
    Fully eligible employees                   (6,426)    (5,906)
    Other employees                            (4,644)    (4,468)
                                             --------   -------- 
                                              (30,919)   (30,776)

Plan assets                                       927        594 
                                             --------   -------- 
Accumulated postretirement benefits 
  obligation in excess of plan assets         (29,992)   (30,182)
Unrecognized net gain                          (4,775)    (3,807)
Unrecognized transition obligation             26,342     27,892 
                                             --------   -------- 
Accrued postretirement benefits liability    $ (8,425)  $ (6,097)
                                             ========   ======== 

     In the latest actuarial calculation of the accrued postre-
tirement benefits liability, the assumed health care cost trend
rate used to estimate the cost of postretirement benefits was
8.0% for 1996, 7.5% for 1997 and is assumed to decrease gradually
to 5.0% by 2000 and remain at that level thereafter.  Similarly,
the dental trend rate was 7.0% for 1996 at which time dental
benefits were discontinued.  The trend for vision benefits is
assumed to remain level for all years at 4.5%.  The effect of a
1% increase in the assumed health care cost trend rate for each
future year is $344,000 and $353,000 on the annual aggregate of
the service and interest cost components of net periodic postret-
irement benefit costs and $2,377,000 and $2,355,000 on the
accumulated postretirement benefits obligation as of September
30, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  The assumed discount rate, the
rate at which liabilities could be settled, was 7.5% as of
September 30, 1996 and 1995.

     The Company is currently recovering other postretirement
benefits ("OPEB") costs through its regulated rates under SFAS
No. 106 accrual accounting in Colorado, Kansas, the majority of
its Texas service area and in Kentucky (effective November 1,
1995).  It receives rate treatment as a cost of service item for
OPEB costs on the pay-as-you-go basis in Louisiana.   Management
believes that accrual accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 106
is appropriate and will continue to seek rate recovery of
accrual-based expenses in its ratemaking jurisdictions that have
not yet approved the recovery of these expenses.  



 


9.   Postemployment benefits

     The Company also provides postemployment benefits, primarily
workers' compensation, to former or inactive employees after
employment but before retirement.  Effective October 1, 1994, the
Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
112, "Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits" ("SFAS
No. 112").  SFAS No. 112 requires that certain benefits provided
to former or inactive employees, after employment but before
retirement, such as workers' compensation, disability benefits
and health care continuation coverage be accrued if attributable
to the employees' prior service.  Prior to October 1, 1994, such
postemployment benefit costs were recorded and recovered in rates
on the pay-as-you-go basis.  Both the cumulative effect of
adopting SFAS No. 112, as well as the effect of the new standard
upon the recurring expense being recognized for these benefits in
1996 and 1995, were not material.

10.  Contingencies

     On March 15, 1991, suit was filed in the 15th Judicial
District Court of Lafayette Parish, Louisiana, by the "Lafayette
Daily Advertiser" and others against the Trans La Division, Trans
Louisiana Industrial Gas Company, Inc. ("TLIG"), a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company, and Louisiana Intrastate Gas
Corporation and certain of its affiliates ("LIG").  LIG is the
Company's primary supplier of natural gas in Louisiana and is not
otherwise affiliated with the Company.

     The plaintiffs purported to represent a class consisting of
all residential and commercial gas customers in the Trans La
Division's service area.  Among other things, the lawsuit alleged
that the defendants violated antitrust laws of the state of
Louisiana by manipulating the cost-of-gas component of the Trans
La Division's gas rate to the purported customer class, thereby
causing such purported class members to pay a higher rate.  The
plaintiffs made no specific allegation of an amount of damages.

     The defendants brought an appeal to the Louisiana Supreme
Court of rulings by the trial court and the Third Circuit Court
of Appeal which denied defendants' exceptions to the jurisdiction
of the trial court.  It was the position of the defendants that
the plaintiffs' claims amount to complaints about the level of
gas rates and should be within the exclusive jurisdiction of the
Louisiana Commission.

     On January 19, 1993, the Louisiana Supreme Court issued a
decision reversing in part the lower courts' rulings, dismissing
all of plaintiffs' claims against the defendants which seek
damages due to alleged overcharges and further ruling that all
such claims are within the exclusive jurisdiction of the
Louisiana Commission.  Any claims which seek damages other than
overcharges were remanded to the trial court but were stayed
pending the completion of the Louisiana Commission proceeding
referred to below.

 


     The Company has reached a tentative settlement with the
plaintiffs in the context of the Louisiana Commission proceeding
referred to below, which settlement will resolve all outstanding
issues relating to the Company, subject to certain procedural
conditions.

     On July 14, 1995, the Louisiana Commission entered an order
approving a settlement with the Company and TLIG in connection
with its investigation of the costs included in the Trans La
Division's purchased gas adjustment component in its rates.  The
order exonerated the Company of any wrongdoing or manipulation of
the cost of gas component of its gas rate to residential and
commercial customers.  In the settlement, the Company agreed to
refund approximately $541,000 plus interest to the Trans La
Division's customers over a two-year period due to certain issues
related to the calculation of the weighted average cost of gas. 
The refund totaling approximately $1,016,000, which includes
interest calculated through October 1, 1995, began in September
1995 and will be credited to customer bills along with interest
that accrues after October 1, 1995.  The Company refunded
$533,000 under the settlement for the twelve months ended
September 30, 1996.  Most of the issues that generated the
refunds arose before Trans Louisiana Gas Company was acquired by
the Company in 1986.

     The Greeley Gas Company Division of the Company is a
defendant in several lawsuits filed as a result of a fire in a
building in Steamboat Springs, Colorado on February 3, 1994.  The
plaintiffs claim that the fire resulted from a leak in a severed
gas service line owned by the Greeley Division.  On January 12,
1996, the jury awarded the plaintiffs approximately $2.5 million
in compensatory damages and approximately $2.5 million in
punitive damages.  The jury assessed the Company with liability
for all of the damages awarded.  The Company has filed a Notice
of Appeal with the Colorado Court of Appeals with respect to this
case.  The Company has adequate insurance to cover the
compensatory damages awarded.  The Company's insurance carrier
informed the Company that, based upon a recent Colorado Court
ruling, the punitive damages awarded against the Company cannot
be covered by the Company's insurance policy.  The Company is
reviewing the position of the insurance carrier with respect to
coverage of punitive damages.  The Company believes it has
meritorious issues for an appeal but cannot assess, at this time,
the likelihood of success in the appeal.

     From time to time, claims are made and lawsuits are filed
against the Company arising out of the ordinary business of the
Company.  In the opinion of the Company's management,
liabilities, if any, arising from these actions are either
covered by insurance, adequately reserved for by the Company or
would not have a material adverse effect on the financial
condition of the Company.




 

11.  Statement of cash flows

     Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information for 1996,
1995 and 1994 are presented below:

                                    1996       1995       1994
                                  -------     -------    -------
                                           (In thousands)
Cash paid for
  Interest                        $15,717     $11,503     $12,756
  Income taxes                      6,679      10,123       6,352

12.  Leases 

     The Company has entered into noncancelable leases involving
office space and warehouse space.  The remaining lease terms
range from one to 20 years and generally provide for the payment
of taxes, insurance and maintenance by the lessee.  Net property,
plant and equipment included amounts for capital leases of
$2,511,000 and $2,694,000 at September 30, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.

     The related future minimum lease payments at September 30,
1996 were as follows:
                                          Capital      Operating 
                                           leases        leases  
                                         --------       -------- 
                                              (In thousands)    

    1997                                   $  568        $ 7,725 
    1998                                      568          7,216 
    1999                                      568          7,190 
    2000                                      568          7,178 
    2001                                      568          7,050 
    Thereafter                              2,847         52,314 
                                           ------        ------- 
    Total minimum lease payments            5,687        $88,673 
                                                         ======= 
    Less amount representing interest      (2,918)
                                           ------ 
    Present value of net minimum             
      lease payments                       $2,769 
                                           ====== 

     Consolidated rent expense amounted to $7,448,000, $6,643,000
and $6,490,000 for fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. 
Rents for the regulated business are expensed and the Company 
receives rate treatment as a cost of service on a pay-as-you-go
basis.




 


SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

Summarized unaudited quarterly financial data are presented
below. The sum of net income per share by quarter may not equal
the net income per share for the year due to variations in the
weighted average shares outstanding used in computing such
amounts.








 



ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON   
          ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

None

                             PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, PROMOTERS AND CONTROL
          PERSONS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information regarding directors is incorporated herein by
reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement for the
annual meeting of shareholders on February 12, 1997.

     Information regarding executive officers is included in Part
I.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's
definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of shareholders
on February 12, 1997.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND   
          MANAGEMENT 

     Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's
definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of shareholders
on February 12, 1997.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS 

     Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's
definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of shareholders
on February 12, 1997.







 


                             PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON
          FORM 8-K 

(a) 1 and 2. Financial statements and financial statement
schedules.

     The financial statements listed in the accompanying Index to
Financial Statements are filed as part of this annual report.  No
financial statement schedules are required in this filing.

  3. Exhibits 

     The exhibits listed in the accompanying Exhibits Index are
filed as part of this annual report.  The exhibits numbered
10.18(a) through 10.25(c) and 10.27 are management contracts or
compensatory plans or arrangements.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K 

     The Company filed a Form 8-K Current Report on July 24, 1996
reporting under Item 5, Other Events, that on July 19, 1996 it
had entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of
Reorganization with United Cities Gas Company ("United Cities")
whereby United Cities would merge with and into Atmos.  Financial
statements were not filed at that time.






 


                  INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                     (Item 8, 14(a) 1 and 2)

                                                            Page
                                                           Number

Independent auditors' report                                   28

Financial statements:
   Consolidated balance sheets at September 30, 
     1996 and 1995                                             29

   Consolidated statements of income for the 
     years ended September 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994             30

   Consolidated statements of shareholders' 
     equity for the years ended September 30, 
     1996, 1995 and 1994                                       31
                                                                 
   Consolidated statements of cash flows for the years
     ended September 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994                   32

   Notes to consolidated financial statements               34-53


   All financial statement schedules are omitted because the
required information is not present, or not present in amounts
sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the
information required is included in the financial statements and
accompanying notes thereto.




 


                            SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized. 

                  
                                     ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION 
                                           (Registrant) 

                                    By    /s/ James F. Purser
                                        ----------------------
                                              James F. Purser 
                                    Executive Vice President and
                                       Chief Financial Officer

Date:   November 13, 1996


                         POWER OF ATTORNEY


   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose
signature appears below hereby constitutes and appoints James F.
Purser, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full
power of substitution and resubstitution, for him and in his
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and
all amendments to this Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all
exhibits thereto, and all other documents in connection there-
with, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
said attorney-in-fact and agent full power and authority to do
and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary
to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorney-in-fact and agent, or his substitute or substitutes, may
lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.


   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date
indicated: 


 /s/ Charles K. Vaughan      Chairman of        November 13, 1996
- -------------------------    the Board 
    Charles K. Vaughan



 /s/ Robert F. Stephens      President and      November 13, 1996
- -------------------------    Chief Operating
    Robert F. Stephens       Officer, Director


 



 /s/ James F. Purser         Executive Vice     November 13, 1996
- -------------------------    President and 
    James F. Purser          Chief Financial
                             Officer, Director                   


 
 /s/ David L. Bickerstaff    Vice President     November 13, 1996
- -------------------------    and Controller 
    David L. Bickerstaff     (Principal
                             accounting officer)



 /s/ Travis W. Bain, II      Director           November 13, 1996
- -------------------------
    Travis W. Bain, II



 /s/ Dan Busbee              Director           November 13, 1996
- -------------------------
    Dan Busbee



 /s/ Thomas C. Meredith      Director           November 13, 1996
- -------------------------
    Thomas C. Meredith




 /s/ Phillip E. Nichol       Director           November 13, 1996 
- -------------------------
    Phillip E. Nichol 




 /s/ John W. Norris, Jr.     Director           November 13, 1996 
- -------------------------
    John W. Norris, Jr. 




 /s/ Carl S. Quinn           Director           November 13, 1996 
- -------------------------
    Carl S. Quinn            




 





 /s/ Lee E. Schlessman       Director           November 13, 1996 
- -------------------------
    Lee E. Schlessman       




 /s/ Richard Ware II         Director           November 13, 1996 
- -------------------------
    Richard Ware II          








 



                           EXHIBITS INDEX
                          Item 14. (a) (3)

                                                         Page Number or
  Exhibit                                               Incorporation by
  Number                  Description                     Reference to
 --------    ------------------------------------  -------------------------

   3.1       Restated Articles of Incorporation,   Exhibit 3.1 of Form 10-K
             as amended as of February 9, 1995     for fiscal year ended
                                                   September 30, 1995
                                                   (File No. 1-10042)

   3.2       By-Laws of Atmos Energy Corporation   Exhibit 3.2 of Form 10-K
             (As amended as of November 9, 1994)   for fiscal year ended
                                                   September 30, 1995
                                                   (File No. 1-10042)

   4.1       Specimen Common Stock Certificate     Exhibit (4) of the
             (Energas Company)                     October 28, 1983 Form 10
                                                   (File No. 0-11249)

   4.2       Specimen Common Stock Certificate     Exhibit (4) (b) of Form
             (Atmos Energy Corporation)            10-K for fiscal year
                                                   ended September 30, 1988
                                                   (File No. 1-10042)

   4.3(a)    Rights Agreement, dated as of April   Exhibit (1) of Form 8-K
             27, 1988, between the Company and     filed May 10, 1988 (File
             Morgan Shareholder Services Trust     No. 0-11249)
             Company

   4.3(b)    Amendment No. 1 to Rights Agreement,  Exhibit 4.3(b) of Form
             dated August 10, 1994                 10-K for fiscal year
                                                   ended September 30, 1994
                                                   (File No. 1-10042)

   4.3(c)    Certificate of Adjusted Price, dated  Exhibit 4.3(c) of Form
             August 15, 1994                       10-K for fiscal year
                                                   ended September 30, 1994
                                                   (File No. 1-10042)

   9         Not applicable

   10.1(a)   Note Purchase Agreement, dated        Exhibit (10)(a)(i) of
             December 30, 1986, by and between     Form 10-K for fiscal year
             the Company and John Hancock Mutual   ended September 30, 1991
             Life Insurance Company                (File No. 1-10042)

             Note Purchase Agreement, dated
             December 30, 1986, by and between
             the Company and Mellon Bank, N.A.,
             Trustee under Master Trust Agreement
             of NYNEX Corporation dated January
             1, 1984 for Employee Pension Plans -
             NYNEX - John Hancock - Private
             Placement.  (Agreement is identical
             to the Hancock Agreement listed
             above except as to the parties
             thereto.)


 

                                                         Page Number or
    Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
    Number                Description                     Reference to
   --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

   10.1(b)   Letter, dated November 13, 1987,      Exhibit 28(a) of Form 8-K
             from John Hancock Mutual Life         filed January 7, 1988
             Insurance Company to the Company      (File No. 0-11249)
   
             Letter, dated November 13, 1987,
             from Mellon Bank, N.A., Trustee
             under Master Trust Agreement of
             NYNEX Corporation dated January 1,
             1984 for Employee Pension Plans -
             NYNEX - John Hancock - Private
             Placement to the Company (Mellon
             letter is identical to the Hancock
             letter listed above except as to the
             parties thereto.)

   10.1(c)   Amendment to Note Purchase            Exhibit (10)(a)(iii) of
             Agreement, dated October 11, 1989,    Form 10-K for fiscal year
             by and between the Company and John   ended September 30, 1989
             Hancock Mutual Life Insurance         (File No. 1-10042)
             Company revising Note Purchase
             Agreement dated December 30, 1986

             Amendment to Note Purchase
             Agreement, dated October 11, 1989,
             by and between the Company and
             Mellon Bank, N.A., Trustee under
             Master Trust Agreement of NYNEX
             Corporation dated January 1, 1984
             for Employee Pension Plans - NYNEX -
             John Hancock - Private Placement
             revising Note Purchase Agreement
             dated December 30, 1986.  (This
             amendment is identical to the
             Hancock amendment listed above
             except as to the parties thereto.)

   10.1(d)   Amendment to Note Purchase            Exhibit (10)(a)(iv) of
             Agreement, dated November 12, 1991,   Form 10-K for fiscal year
             by and between the Company and John   ended September 30, 1991
             Hancock Mutual Life Insurance         (File No. 1-10042)
             Company revising Note Purchase
             Agreement dated December 30, 1986.







 



                                                         Page Number or
    Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
    Number                Description                     Reference to
   --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

             Amendment to Note Purchase
             Agreement, dated November 12, 1991,
             by and between the Company and
             Mellon Bank, N.A., Trustee under
             Master Trust Agreement of NYNEX
             Corporation dated January 1, 1984
             for Employee Pension Plans - NYNEX -
             John Hancock - Private Placement
             revising Note Purchase Agreement
             dated December 30, 1986.  (This
             amendment is identical to the
             Hancock amendment listed above
             except as to the parties thereto.)


   10.2(a)   Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of  Exhibit 10(c) of Form 8-K
             December 21, 1987, by and between     filed January 7, 1988
             the Company and John Hancock Mutual   (File No. 0-11249)
             Life Insurance Company
             Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of
             December 21, 1987, by and between
             the Company and John Hancock
             Charitable Trust I (Agreement is
             identical to Hancock Agreement
             listed above except as to the
             parties thereto.)

             Note Purchase Agreement dated as of
             December 21, 1987, by and between
             the Company and Mellon Bank, N.A.,
             Trustee under Master Trust Agreement
             of AT&T Corporation, dated January
             1, 1984, for Employee Pension Plans
             - AT&T - John Hancock - Private
             Placement (Agreement is identical to
             Hancock Agreement listed above
             except as to the parties thereto.)

   10.2(b)   Amendment to Note Purchase            Exhibit (10)(b)(ii) of
             Agreement, dated October 11, 1989,    Form 10-K for fiscal year
             by and between the Company and John   ended September 30, 1989
             Hancock Mutual Life Insurance         (File No. 1-10042)
             Company revising Note Purchase
             Agreement dated December 21, 1987












                                                         Page Number or
    Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
    Number                Description                     Reference to
   --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

             Amendment to Note Purchase
             Agreement, dated October 11, 1989,
             by and between the Company and John
             Hancock Charitable Trust I revising
             Note Purchase Agreement dated
             December 21, 1987.  (Amendment is
             identical to Hancock amendment
             listed above except as to the
             parties thereto.)

             Amendment to Note Purchase
             Agreement, dated October 11, 1989,
             by and between the Company and
             Mellon Bank, N.A., Trustee under
             Master Trust Agreement of AT&T
             Corporation, dated January 1, 1984,
             for Employee Pension Plans - AT&T -
             John Hancock - Private Placement
             revising Note Purchase Agreement
             dated December 21, 1987 (Amendment
             is identical to Hancock amendment
             listed above except as to the
             parties thereto.)

   10.2(c)   Amendment to Note Purchase            Exhibit 10(b)(iii) of
             Agreement, dated November 12, 1991,   Form 10-K for fiscal year
             by and between the Company and John   ended September 30, 1991
             Hancock Mutual Life Insurance         (File No. 1-10042)
             Company revising Note Purchase
             Agreement dated December 21, 1987

             Amendment to Note Purchase
             Agreement, dated November 12, 1991,
             by and between the Company and John
             Hancock Charitable Trust I revising
             Note Purchase Agreement dated
             December 21, 1987.  (Amendment is
             identical to Hancock amendment
             listed above except as to the
             parties thereto.)







 



                                                         Page Number or
    Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
    Number                Description                     Reference to
   --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

             Amendment to Note Purchase
             Agreement, dated November 12, 1991,
             by and between the Company and
             Mellon Bank, N.A., Trustee under
             Master Trust Agreement of AT&T
             Corporation, dated January 1, 1984,
             for Employee Pension Plans - AT&T -
             John Hancock - Private Placement
             revising Note Purchase Agreement
             dated December 21, 1987.  (Amendment
             is identical to Hancock amendment
             above except as to the parties
             thereto.)

   10.3(a)   Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of  Exhibit 10(c) of Form 10-
             October 11, 1989, by and between the  K for fiscal year ended
             Company and John Hancock Mutual Life  September 30, 1989 (File
             Insurance Company                     No. 1-10042)

   10.3(b)   Amendment to Note Purchase            Exhibit 10(c)(ii) of Form
             Agreement, dated as of November 12,   10-K for fiscal year
             1991, by and between the Company and  ended September 30, 1991
             John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance    (File No. 1-10042)
             Company revising Note Purchase
             Agreement dated October 11, 1989

   10.4(a)   Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of  Exhibit 10(f)(i) of Form
             August 29, 1991, by and between the   10-K for fiscal year
             Company and The Variable Annuity      ended September 30, 1991
             Life Insurance Company                (File No. 1-10042)

   10.4(b)   Amendment to Note Purchase            Exhibit 10(f)(ii) of Form
             Agreement, dated November 26, 1991,   10-K for fiscal year
             by and between the Company and The    ended September 30, 1991
             Variable Annuity Life Insurance       (File No. 1-10042)
             Company revising Note Purchase
             Agreement dated August 29, 1991


   10.5      Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of  Exhibit (10)(f) of Form
             August 31, 1992, by and between the   10-K for fiscal year
             Company and The Variable Annuity      ended September 30, 1992
             Life Insurance Company                (File No. 1-10042)






 



                                                         Page Number or
    Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
    Number                Description                     Reference to
   --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

   10.6      Note Purchase Agreement, dated        Exhibit 10.1 of Form 10-Q
             November 14, 1994, by and among the   for quarter ended
             Company and New York Life Insurance   December 31, 1994 (File
             Company, New York Life Insurance and  No. 1-10042)
             Annuity Corporation, The Variable
             Annuity Life Insurance Company,
             American General Life Insurance
             Company, and Merit Life Insurance
             Company

   10.7(a)   Service Agreement No. 50772 between   Exhibit 10.6(a) of Form
             Greeley Gas Company and Public        10-K for fiscal year
             Service Company of Colorado (West     ended September 30, 1994
             Gas Supply Co. prior to merger with   (File No. 1-10042)
             PSCO) dated August 1, 1992

   10.7(b)   Transportation Storage Service        Exhibit 10.6(b) of Form
             Agreement No. TA-0544 between         10-K for fiscal year
             Greeley Gas Company and Williams      ended September 30, 1994
             Natural Gas Company dated October 1,  (File No. 1-10042)

   10.7(c)   No-Notice Transportation Service      Exhibit 10.6(c) of Form
             Agreement No. 31013, Rate Schedule    10-K for fiscal year
             NNT-1, between Greeley Gas Company    ended September 30, 1994
             and Colorado Interstate Gas Company,  (File No. 1-10042)
             as amended, dated October 1, 1993

   10.7(d)   Firm Transportation Service           Exhibit 10.6(d) of Form
             Agreement No. 35009, Rate Schedule    10-K for fiscal year
             TF2, between Greeley Gas Company and  ended September 30, 1994
             Colorado Interstate Gas Company, as   (File No. 1-10042)
             amended, dated October 1, 1993

   10.8(a)   Amarillo Supply Agreement dated       Exhibit 10.7(a) of Form
             January 2, 1993 between the Company   10-K for fiscal year
             and Mesa Operating Company            ended September 30, 1994  
                                                   (File No. 1-10042)

   10.8(b)   Interruptible Gas Transportation and  Exhibit (10)(g)(iv) of
             Sales Agreement dated January 1,      Form 10-K for fiscal year
             1991, between Mesa Operating Limited  ended September 30, 1992
             Partnership and Energas Company       (File No. 1-10042)
             regarding transportation charges to
             Mesa

   10.8(c)   Letter agreement between the Company  Exhibit (10)(h)(vi) of
             and Mesa Operating Limited            Form 10-K for fiscal year
             Partnership dated March 21, 1989,     ended September 30, 1989
             regarding transportation rates        (File No. 1-10042)



 



                                                         Page Number or
    Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
    Number                Description                     Reference to
   --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

   10.9(a)   Gas Sales Agreement between the       Exhibit (10)(i)(i) of
             Company and Westar Transmission       Form 10-K for fiscal year
             Company dated January 1, 1986, as     ended September 30, 1989
             amended by Letter Agreement dated     (File No. 1-10042)
             November 21, 1986, and Agreement
             dated December 9, 1988, revising the
             pricing formula for city gate sales

   10.9(b)   Amendment to Gas Sales Agreement,     Exhibit (10)(h)(ii) of
             dated February 27, 1987, between the  Form 10-K for fiscal year
             Company and Westar Transmission       ended September 30, 1992  
             Company                               (File No. 1-10042)

   10.9(c)   Amendment to Gas Sales Agreement,     Exhibit (10)(h)(iii) of
             dated January 1, 1988, between Cabot  Form 10-K for fiscal year
             Gas Supply Corporation ("CGSC") and   ended September 30, 1992
             the Company                           (File No. 1-10042)

   10.10(a)  Gas Transportation Agreement between  Exhibit 10(i)(i) of Form
             the Company and Westar Transmission   10-K for fiscal year
             Company dated January 1, 1986, as     ended September 30, 1991
             amended by letter agreement dated     (File No. 1-10042)
             November 21, 1986

   10.10(b)  Amendment to Gas Transportation       Exhibit (10)(i)(ii) of
             Agreement, dated January 1, 1988,     Form 10-K for fiscal year
             between CGSC and the Company          ended September 30, 1992
                                                   (File No. 1-10042)

   10.11     Supplemental Gas Sales Agreement,     Exhibit (10)(j) of Form
             dated January 1, 1988, between CGSC   10-K for fiscal year
             and the Company                       ended September 30, 1992
                                                   (File No. 1-10042)

   10.12     Gas Purchase and Sales Agreement,     Exhibit (10)(k) of Form
             dated January 1, 1988, between Cabot  10-K for fiscal year
             Energy Marketing Corporation and      ended September 30, 1992
             EnerMart, Inc.                        (File No. 1-10042)

   10.13     Gas Sales Agreement, dated January    Exhibit (10)(l) of Form
             1, 1988, between the Company and Gas  10-K for fiscal year
             Marketing, Inc. ("GMI"), relating to  ended September 30, 1992
             Amarillo supplemental supplies        (File No. 1-10042)

   10.14     Gas Sales Agreement, dated January    Exhibit (10)(m) of Form
             1, 1988, between the Company and      10-K for fiscal year
             GMI, relating to West Texas           ended September 30, 1992
             supplemental supplies                 (File No. 1-10042)





 



                                                         Page Number or
    Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
    Number                Description                     Reference to
   --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

   10.15(a)  Agreement for Natural Gas Service     Exhibit 10(o)(ii) of Form
             for Distribution and Resale between   10-K for fiscal year
             Trans La and LIG dated October 28,    ended September 30, 1991
             1991                                  (File No. 1-10042)

   10.15(b)  Agreement for Intrastate              Exhibit 10(o)(iii) of
             Transportation of Natural Gas         Form 10-K for fiscal year
             between Trans La and LIG dated        ended September 30, 1991
             October 28, 1991                      (File No. 1-10042)

   10.16(a)  Gas Transportation Agreement between  Exhibit 10.1 of Form 10-Q
             Texas Gas Transmission Corporation    for quarter ended
             ("Texas Gas") and Western Kentucky    December 31, 1993 (File
             Gas Company, a division of Atmos      No. 1-10042)
             Energy Corporation ("Western Ken-
             tucky") dated November 1, 1993
             (Contract no. T3817, zone 2) 

   10.16(b)  Gas Transportation Agreement between  Exhibit 10.2 of Form 10-Q
             Texas Gas and Western Kentucky dated  for quarter ended
             November 1, 1993 (Contract no.        December 31, 1993 (File
             T3770, zone 2)                        No. 1-10042)

   10.16(c)  Gas Transportation Agreement between  Exhibit 10.3 of Form 10-Q
             Texas Gas and Western Kentucky Gas    for quarter ended
             dated November 1, 1993 (Contract no.  December 31, 1993 (File
             T3355, zone 3)                        No. 1-10042)

   10.16(d)  Gas Transportation Agreement between  Exhibit 10.4 of Form 10-Q
             Texas Gas and Western Kentucky Gas    for quarter ended
             dated November 1, 1993 (Contract no.  December 31, 1993 (File
             T3819, zone 4)                        No. 1-10042)

   10.16(e)  Gas Transportation Agreement between  Exhibit 10.5 of Form 10-Q
             Texas Gas and Western Kentucky Gas    for quarter ended
             dated November 1, 1993 (Contract no.  December 31, 1993 (File
             N0210, zone 2, Contract no. N0340,    No. 1-10042)
             zone 3, Contract no. N0435, zone 4)

   10.17(a)  Gas Transportation Agreement,         Exhibit 10.17(a) of Form
             Contract No. 2550, dated September    10-K for fiscal year
             1, 1993, between Tennessee Gas        ended September 30, 1993
             Pipeline Company, a division of       (File No. 1-10042)
             Tenneco, Inc. ("Tennessee Gas"), and
             Western Kentucky, Campbellsville
             Service Area





 



                                                         Page Number or
    Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
    Number                Description                     Reference to
   --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

   10.17(b)  Gas Transportation Agreement,         Exhibit 10.17(b) of Form
             Contract No. 2546, dated September    10-K for fiscal year
             1, 1993, between Tennessee Gas and    ended September 30, 1993
             Western Kentucky, Danville Service    (File No. 1-10042)
             Area

   10.17(c)  Gas Transportation Agreement,         Exhibit 10.17(c) of Form
             Contract No. 2385, dated September    10-K for fiscal year
             1, 1993, between Tennessee Gas and    ended September 30, 1993
             Western Kentucky, Greensburg et al    (File No. 1-10042)
             Service Area

   10.17(d)  Gas Transportation Agreement,         Exhibit 10.17(d) of Form
             Contract No. 2551, dated September    10-K for fiscal year
             1, 1993, between Tennessee Gas and    ended September 30, 1993
             Western Kentucky, Harrodsburg         (File No. 1-10042)
             Service Area

   10.17(e)  Gas Transportation Agreement,         Exhibit 10.17(e) of Form
             Contract No. 2548, dated September    10-K for fiscal year
             1, 1993, between Tennessee Gas and    ended September 30, 1993
             Western Kentucky, Lebanon Service     (File No. 1-10042)
             Area

   10.18(a)  *Severance Agreement dated April 1,   Exhibit 10.3 of Form 10-Q
             1995 between the Company and J.       for quarter ended June
             Charles                               30, 1995 (File No. 1-
             Goodman                               10042)

   10.18(b)  *Severance Agreement amended and      Exhibit 10(r)(ii) of Form
   (i)       restated as of August 8, 1991,        10-K for fiscal year
             between the Company and Robert F.     ended September 30, 1991
             Stephens                              (File No. 1-10042)

   10.18(b)  *Letter dated May 3, 1995 amending    Exhibit 10.1 of Form 10-Q
   (ii)      the severance agreement between the   for quarter ended June
             Company and Robert F. Stephens        30, 1995 (File No. 1-
                                                   10042)

   10.18(c)  *Severance Agreement amended and      Exhibit 10(r)(iii) of
             restated as of August 8, 1991,        Form 10-K for fiscal year
             between the Company and Don E. James  ended September 30, 1991
                                                   (File No. 1-10042)

   10.18(d)  *Severance Agreement amended and      Exhibit 10(r)(iv) of Form
             restated as of August 8, 1991,        10-K for fiscal year
             between the Company and James F.      ended September 30, 1991
             Purser                                (File No. 1-10042)



 



                                                         Page Number or
    Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
    Number                Description                     Reference to
   --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

   10.18(e)  *Severance Agreement dated August     Exhibit 10.18(g) of Form
             11, 1993, between the Company and     10-K for fiscal year
             H.F. Harber                           ended September 30, 1993
                                                   (File No. 1-10042)

   10.18(f)  *Severance Agreement dated May 3,     Exhibit 10.2 of Form 10-Q
             1995 between the Company and Mary S.  for quarter ended June
             Lovell                                30, 1995 (File No. 1-
                                                   10042)
   10.18(g)  *Severance Agreement dated August
             14, 1996, between the Company and
             Glen A. Blanscet

   10.19(a)  *The Atmos Energy Corporation         Exhibit (10)(t) of Form
             Supplemental Executive Benefits       10-K for fiscal year
             Plan, effective October 1, 1987,      ended September 30, 1992
             Restated as of November 11, 1992      (File No. 1-10042)

   10.19(b)  *Amendment No. 1 to the Atmos Energy  Exhibit 10.3 of Form 10-Q
             Corporation Supplemental Executive    for quarter ended
             Benefits Plan (Restated as of         December 31, 1996 (File
             November 11, 1992)                    No. 1-10042)

   10.19(c)  *Amendment No. 2 to the Atmos Energy  Exhibit 10.2 of Form 10-Q
             Corporation Supplemental Executive    for quarter ended June
             Benefits Plan (Restated as of         30, 1996 (File No. 1-
             November 11, 1992)                    10042)
   10.20(a)  *Atmos Energy Corporation Restricted  Exhibit 10.1 of Form 10-Q
             Stock Grant Plan (Restated as of      for the quarter ended
             November 9, 1994)                     December 31, 1995 (File
                                                   No. 1-10042)

   10.20(b)  *Amendment No. 1 to the Atmos Energy  Exhibit 10.1 of Form 10-Q
             Corporation Restricted Stock Grant    for the quarter ended
             Plan (Restated as of November 9,      December 31, 1995 (File
             1994)                                 No. 1-10042)

   10.21     *Atmos Energy Corporation Annual      Exhibit 10(x) of Form 10-
             Performance Bonus Plan for Corporate  K for fiscal year ended
             Officers, restated as of November 8,  September 30, 1990 (File
             1989                                  No. 1-10042)

   10.22     *Atmos Energy Corporation Mini-Med
             Plan, as restated effective July 1,

   10.23     *Atmos Energy Corporation Deferred    Exhibit 10(x) of Form 10-
             Compensation Plan for Outside         K for fiscal year ended
             Directors                             September 30, 1992 (File
                                                   No. 1-10042)


 




                                                         Page Number or
    Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
    Number                Description                     Reference to
   --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

   10.24     *Atmos Energy Corporation Retirement  Exhibit 10(y) of Form 10-
             Plan for Outside Directors            K for fiscal year ended
                                                   September 30, 1992 (File
                                                   No. 1-10042)

   10.25(a)  *Description of Car Allowance         Exhibit 10.26(a) of Form
             Payments                              10-K for fiscal year
                                                   ended September 30, 1993
                                                   (File No. 1-10042)

   10.25(b)  *Description of Financial and Estate  Exhibit 10.26(b) of Form
             Planning Program                      10-K for fiscal year
                                                   ended September 30, 1993
                                                   (File No. 1-10042)

   10.25(c)  *Description of Sporting Events       Exhibit 10.26(c) of Form
             Program                               10-K for fiscal year
                                                   ended September 30, 1993
                                                   (File No. 1-10042)

   10.26(a)  Seventh Supplemental Indenture,       Exhibit 10.1 of Form 10-Q
             dated as of October 1, 1983 between   for quarter ended June
             Greeley Gas Company ("The Greeley     30, 1994 (File No. 1-
             Gas Division") and the Central Bank   10042)
             of Denver, N.A. ("Central Bank")

   10.26(b)  Ninth Supplemental Indenture, dated   Exhibit 10.2 of Form 10-Q
             as of April 1, 1991, between The      for quarter ended June
             Greeley Gas Division and Central      30, 1994 (File No. 1-
             Bank                                  10042)

   10.26(c)  Bond Purchase Agreement, dated as of  Exhibit 10.3 of Form 10-Q
             April 1, 1991, between The Greeley    for quarter ended June
             Gas Division and Central Bank         30, 1994 (File No. 1-
                                                   10042)

   10.26(d)  Tenth Supplemental Indenture, dated   Exhibit 10.4 of Form 10-Q
             as of December 1, 1993, between the   for quarter ended June
             Company and Colorado National Bank,   30, 1994 (File No. 1-
             formerly Central Bank                 10042)

   10.27     *The Atmos Energy Corporation         Exhibit 4.5 of Form S-8
             Outside Directors Stock-for-Fee Plan  for Atmos' Outside
                                                   Directors Stock-for-Fee
                                                   Plan filed February 14,
                                                   1995 (Registration  No.
                                                   33-57695)






 



                                                         Page Number or
    Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
    Number                Description                     Reference to
   --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

   10.28(a)  Agreement and Plan of Reorganization  Exhibit 2.1 of Form S-4
             dated July 19, 1996, by and between   filed October 4, 1996
             the Registrant and United Cities Gas
             Company

   10.28(b)  Amendment No. 1 to Agreement and      Exhibit 2.1(a) of Form S-
             Plan of Reorganization dated October  4 filed October 4, 1996
             3, 1996

   11        Not applicable

   12        Not applicable

   13        Not applicable

   16        Not applicable

   18        Not applicable

   21        Subsidiaries of the registrant

   22        Not applicable

   23        Consent of independent auditors

   24        Power of Attorney                     Signature page of Form
                                                   10-K for fiscal year
                                                   ended September 30, 1996

   27        Financial Data Schedule for Atmos
             for year ended September 30, 1996

   28        Not applicable

   99.1      Standstill Agreement, dated as of     Exhibit 99.1 of Form 8-K
             July 13, 1996, between Atmos Energy   dated July 19, 1996
             Corporation and United Cities Gas
             Company
   99.2      Agreement between Atmos Energy        Exhibit 99.2 of Form 8-K
             Corporation, United Cities Gas        dated November 2, 1996
             Company and Southern Union Company
             dated November 2, 1996


       --------------------------
     * This exhibit constitutes a "management contract or
     compensatory plan, contract, or arrangement."


 

   


