
10-K405








         UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                      Washington, D.C. 20549

                            FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (Fee Required)

For the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995  OR

[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (No Fee Required)

For the transition period from __________ to ____________

Commission File Number   1-10042

                     ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
      (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          TEXAS                             75-1743247
  (State or other jurisdiction of          (IRS Employer
  incorporation or organization)         Identification No.)

  Three Lincoln Centre, Suite 1800
  5430 LBJ Freeway, Dallas, Texas                 75240
  (Address of principal executive offices       (Zip code)

  Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
     (214) 934-9227

  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                     Name of each exchange
  Title of each class                 on which registered
  -------------------                ----------------------
  Common stock, No Par Value         New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                               None

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes  X. No ___.

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge,
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]





     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-
affiliates of the registrant was $301,605,820 as of December 1,
1995.  On December 1, 1995, the registrant had 15,900,392 shares
of common stock outstanding.

               DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions of registrant's definitive proxy statement filed
for the annual meeting of shareholders on February 14, 1996 are
incorporated by reference into Part III.





                              PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

     Atmos Energy Corporation (the "Company") was organized under
the laws of the State of Texas in 1983 as a subsidiary of Pioneer
Corporation ("Pioneer") for the purposes of owning and operating
Pioneer's natural gas distribution business in Texas.  Immediate-
ly following the transfer of such business, which had been opera-
ted by Pioneer and its predecessors since 1906, Pioneer distrib-
uted the outstanding stock of the Company, then known as Energas
Company, to Pioneer shareholders.  In September 1988, the Company
changed its name from Energas Company to Atmos Energy
Corporation.

     The Company distributes and sells natural gas to
residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural, and other
customers in 414 cities, towns, and communities in parts of
Texas, Louisiana, Kentucky, Colorado, Kansas, and Missouri.  The
Company also transports gas for others through parts of its
distribution system.  The Company is also helping promote the
development of a market for natural gas as a clean burning
vehicular fuel by opening six public refueling facilities in its
service areas.

     The Company's Texas distribution system is operated through
its Energas Company division (the "Energas Division") and is
located in the western part of Texas covering an area having a
population of approximately 950,000 people.  The economy of the
area is based primarily on oil and gas production and agricul-
ture.  The principal cities served by the Energas Division
include Amarillo, Lubbock, Midland, and Odessa.  At September 30,
1995, the Company had 310,765 gas meters in service in Texas.

     The Company's Louisiana distribution system is operated
through its Trans Louisiana Gas Company division (the "Trans La
Division") and is located in Louisiana covering an area having a
population of approximately 250,000 people.  The economy of the
area is based primarily on oil and gas production, agriculture,
and food processing.  The principal cities served by the Trans La
Division are Lafayette, Pineville, and Natchitoches.  At
September 30, 1995, the Company had 70,570 gas meters in service
in Louisiana.

     The Company's Kentucky distribution system is operated
through its Western Kentucky Gas Company division (the "Western
Kentucky Division") and covers an area having a population of
approximately 680,000 people.  The economy of the area is based
primarily on industry and agriculture.  The principal cities
served by the Western Kentucky Division include Bowling Green,
Owensboro, and Paducah.  At September 30, 1995, the Company had
168,529 gas meters in service in Kentucky.

     In December 1993, the Company acquired Greeley Gas Company
("GGC") of Denver, Colorado in a merger accounted for as a pool-






ing of interests, and accordingly, all amounts included herein
have been restated to include GGC's operating results.  Since the
merger, the business of GGC has been operated through the
Company's Greeley Gas Company division (the "Greeley Gas
Division").  It serves customers in areas of Colorado, Kansas,
and Missouri having a combined population of approximately
228,000 people.  The economies of the areas served are based on
oil and gas production, agriculture and resort business in
Colorado.  The principal cities served include Greeley, Durango
and Lamar, Colorado and Bonner Springs, Herington and Ulysses,
Kansas.  At September 30, 1995 the Greeley Gas Division had
108,250 meters in service.

     The natural gas distribution industry is subject to numerous
special factors, many of which affect the Company from time to
time.  These include (i) adequate and timely rate relief from
regulatory authorities to recover costs of service and earn a
fair return on invested capital; (ii) inherent seasonality of the
business in local gas distribution service areas; (iii)
competition from alternate fuels; (iv) competition with other gas
sources for industrial customers, including bypass of the
Company's facilities, which could result in loss of revenues and
reduction in the Company's net income; and (v) possible
volatility in the supply and price of natural gas.

ACQUISITIONS

     Since its organization in 1983, the Company has sought to
expand its customer base and to diversify the weather patterns,
local economic conditions, and regulatory environments to which
its operations are subject.  As part of this strategy, the
Company acquired Trans Louisiana Gas Company, Inc. ("TLG") in
January 1986, Western Kentucky Gas Utility Corporation ("WKG") in
December 1987, and Greeley Gas Company ("GGC") in December 1993.  
Subsequent to September 30, 1995, the Company acquired Oceana
Heights Gas Company ("Oceana") of Thibodaux, Louisiana.  Oceana
provides natural gas service to approximately 9,200 customers. 
The Company continues to consider and pursue, where appropriate,
additional acquisitions of natural gas distribution properties
and other business opportunities.  For further information
regarding acquisitions, see Note 2 of notes to consolidated
financial statements, and Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

FIVE-YEAR OPERATING STATISTICS

     Certain information with respect to the Company's natural
gas operations for the past five years is shown on the following
page.













 





 












 





GAS SALES

     The Company's natural gas distribution business is seasonal
and highly dependent on weather conditions in the Company's
service areas.  Gas sales to residential and commercial customers
are greater during the winter months than during the remainder of
the year.  The volumes of such sales during the winter months
will vary with the temperatures during such months.  The seasonal
nature of the Company's sales to residential and commercial
customers is offset partially by the Company's sales in the
spring and summer months to its agricultural customers in Texas,
Colorado and Kansas who utilize natural gas to operate irrigation
equipment.  The Company's management believes that the Company
has lessened its sensitivity to weather risk by diversifying its
operations into geographic areas having different weather
patterns.

     In addition to weather, the Company's revenues are affected
by the cost of natural gas and economic conditions in the areas
that the Company serves.  Higher gas costs, which the Company is
generally able to pass through to its customers under purchased
gas adjustment clauses, may cause customers to conserve, or, in
the case of industrial customers, to use alternative energy
sources.  

     In recent years, natural gas market conditions have changed. 
Natural gas prices to distributors have become more volatile and
the number of competing marketers of natural gas has increased. 
The Company's gas marketing subsidiaries purchase gas to address
these changing markets.

     In certain instances, customers purchase gas directly from
others and the Company transports such gas through its
distribution systems to the customers' facilities for a fee. 
Although transportation of customer-owned gas reduces the
Company's operating revenues and corresponding purchased gas
cost, the transportation revenues received by the Company may
offset the loss of gross profit. 

     The Company's distribution systems have experienced
aggregate peak day deliveries of approximately 1 billion cubic
feet ("Bcf") per day.  The Company has the ability to curtail
deliveries to certain customers under the terms of interruptible
contracts and applicable state statutes or regulations which
enables it to maintain its deliveries to high priority customers. 
The Company has not imposed curtailment in its Energas Division
since the Company began independent operations in 1983 or in its
Trans La Division since the Company acquired TLG in 1986.  The
Western Kentucky Division curtailed deliveries to certain
interruptible customers during exceptionally cold periods in
December 1989 and January 1994.  GGC has not curtailed deliveries
to its sales customers since prior to 1980.  









GAS SUPPLY     

     The principal gas suppliers to the Company in 1995, 1994 and
1993 included Westar Transmission Company ("Westar"), an affil-
iate of KNEnergy; Anthem Energy Company, L.P. ("Anthem"), an
affiliate of KNEnergy; Mesa Operating Company ("Mesa"); Louisiana
Intrastate Gas Corporation ("LIG"), an affiliate of Equitable
Resources Inc.; Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company ("Tennessee Gas"),
an affiliate of Tenneco, Inc.; Texas Gas Transmission Corporation
("Texas Gas"), an affiliate of The Williams Companies, Inc.;
Texaco Gas Marketing; Union Pacific Fuels; Vastar, an affiliate
of ARCO; Associated Natural Gas, Inc. ("ANGI"), an affiliate of
Panhandle Eastern Corporation; and Astra Resources Marketing,
Inc. ("Astra"), an affiliate of Western Resources, Inc.  The
prices paid by the Company for natural gas delivered to it are
set by contracts with gas suppliers and/or ratemaking proceedings
before regulatory authorities.  Charges for gas costs are passed
through to the Company's customers under approved or negotiated
tariffs or pursuant to contract.










































     The following table sets forth volumes purchased from the
Company's principal gas suppliers for the years ended September
30, 1995, 1994, and 1993.  
                                        Volumes
                                       purchased
                                   (MMcf as metered)
1995:
  Associated Natural Gas, Inc.            7,077
  Astra Resources Marketing, Inc.         2,565
  Chevron                                 2,154
  Hadson Gas                              2,902
  LIG                                     2,698
  Mesa                                    9,369
  Texaco Gas Marketing                    8,427
  Union Pacific Fuels                     5,298
  Vastar                                  3,490
  Westar and Anthem                      43,950

1994:
  Associated Natural Gas, Inc.            3,283
  Astra Resources Marketing, Inc.         2,210
  LIG                                     4,254
  Mesa                                    9,926
  Texaco Gas Marketing                    5,453
  Union Pacific Fuels                     5,825
  Vastar                                  6,881
  Westar and Anthem                      47,842

1993:
  Associated Natural Gas, Inc.            3,291
  Astra Resources Marketing, Inc.         1,946
  LIG                                     4,490
  Mesa                                   10,659
  Tennessee Gas                           2,575
  Texas Gas                              10,329
  Westar and Anthem                      45,031

     Westar and Anthem supply natural gas to most of the Energas
Division under multiple contracts. The Westar contract expires in
1998.  The Anthem contracts are renegotiated annually.  Westar
purchases gas from various pipeline companies and natural gas
processing plants and at the wellhead.  Westar's gas price to the
Company is subject to an annual adjustment in accordance with the
existing contract.  

     The principal gas supply for the Company's Amarillo, Texas
distribution system is furnished by Mesa under a long-term con-
tract that expires upon the depletion of the field from which the
gas is produced.  Mesa owns the gas rights in certain specified
acreage in the West Panhandle field.  Pursuant to a contract
between Colorado Interstate Gas Company ("CIG") and Mesa, CIG is
obligated to deliver to Mesa the volumes of gas required for sale
to customers in Amarillo and its environs, subject to certain
contractual volume limitations, so long as the gas reserves from
the West Panhandle field are commercially producible.  The price






under the contract is determined each year pursuant to a formula
until December 1997.  The contract also provides a mechanism for
price redetermination each two year period thereafter beginning
January 1, 1998.  

     On October 28, 1991, the Company and LIG entered into new
agreements which were approved by the Louisiana Public Service
Commission ("Louisiana Commission") on November 26, 1991, and
became effective June 1, 1992.  These agreements provide
continued supply by LIG for most of the Trans La Division's gas
requirements for a term of ten years (but subject to cancellation
by either party after five years).  The agreements provide for
market sensitive pricing and allow the Company to purchase
certain volumes of gas from other suppliers.  LIG is required to
provide standby service to back up the purchases from the other
suppliers.

     The Company's Louisiana industrial sales subsidiary, Trans
Louisiana Industrial Gas Company, Inc., purchases some gas
supplies for resale to certain of its Louisiana industrial
customers from suppliers other than LIG.  

     The Western Kentucky Division requirements are delivered by
Texas Gas and Tennessee Gas with the exception of a small
percentage of the requirements being purchased directly from
intrastate producers.  The Western Kentucky Division purchases
its supply under staggered term contracts from major producers
and marketers including Texaco, Union Pacific, Vastar, Associated
Natural, Hadson and Chevron.

     The Company's distribution system in the Western Kentucky
Division includes six underground storage facilities, which are
used to help meet customer requirements during peak demand per-
iods and to reduce the need to contract for additional pipeline
capacity to meet such peak demand periods.  See "Item 2. Proper-
ties" for further information regarding the underground storage
facilities.  The Company also contracted for storage service in
underground storage facilities of Tennessee Gas and Texas Gas
under FERC Order No. 636.

     The Greeley Gas Division purchases or transports approximat-
ely 82% of its natural gas requirements on eight pipelines.  Five
of these are regulated by the FERC and the remaining three are
state regulated.  The FERC pipelines are Colorado Interstate Gas
Company, Williams Natural Gas Company, KNEnergy, Northwest Pipe-
line Corporation, and NorAm.  The state regulated pipelines are
Public Service Company of Colorado, Western Resources, Inc. and
Kansas Pipeline Partnership in Kansas.  Approximately 18% of the
Divisions's gas supply is purchased from local sources.  Several
of the operating areas are in or adjacent to natural gas produc-
ing fields.

     Associated Natural Gas, Inc. is the main supplier to the
Greeley Gas Division's largest district, the Greeley District.  







     Astra is the principal gas supplier for the Kansas and
Missouri districts.  Gas is transported through three different
pipeline systems (Williams Natural Gas, Western Resources, Inc.
and NorAm).  

     The Company has not experienced supply curtailment in its
Texas distribution system since it began independent operations
in 1983, in its Louisiana system since its acquisition, or in
Colorado, Kansas or Missouri since prior to 1980.  A large
proportion of the Company's sales are made to high priority
residential and commercial consumers; therefore, any curtailment
of supply for these customers is unlikely.  

REGULATION AND RATES 

     Regulation.  In the Energas Division, the governing body of
each municipality served by the Company has original jurisdiction
over all utility rates, operations, and services within its city
limits except with respect to sales of natural gas for vehicle
fuel and agricultural use.  The Company operates pursuant to non-
exclusive franchises granted by the municipalities it serves,
which franchises are subject to renewal from time to time.  The
franchises granted to the Company permit it to conduct natural
gas distribution within the municipalities' incorporated limits. 
The Railroad Commission of Texas ("Railroad Commission") has
exclusive appellate jurisdiction over all rate and regulatory
orders and ordinances of the municipalities and exclusive
original jurisdiction over rates and services to customers not
located within the limits of a municipality.  In Texas, rates for
large industrial customers are routinely set by contract
negotiation between the Company and its customers pursuant to
statutory standards and are filed with and subject to the
governmental authority of the municipalities or the Railroad
Commission, depending on whether the customer is located inside
or outside the limits of a municipality.  Historically, the
Company's rates for large industrial customers have been accepted
as filed.  Agricultural sales in Texas are not regulated, except
that prices for agricultural sales cannot exceed the prices the
Company charges the majority of its commercial or other similar
large-volume users in Texas.

     The Trans La Division is regulated by the Louisiana Commis-
sion, which regulates utility services, rates, and other matters. 
In most of the parishes and incorporated areas in which the
Company operates in Louisiana, it does so pursuant to a non-
exclusive franchise granted by the governing authority of each
parish or incorporated area.  The franchise gives the Company the
general privilege to operate its gas distribution business in, as
well as the right to install its distribution lines along the
roadways of, the parish or the incorporated area.  Direct sales
of natural gas to industrial customers in Louisiana who utilize
the gas for fuel or in manufacturing processes and sales of
natural gas for vehicle fuel are exempt from regulation. 








     The Western Kentucky Division is regulated by the Kentucky
Public Service Commission ("Kentucky Commission"), which
regulates utility services, rates, issuances of securities, and
other matters.  The Company operates in the various incorporated
cities served by it in Kentucky pursuant to non-exclusive
franchises granted by such cities.  The franchises grant to the
Company the right to operate its gas distribution business in the
city and to install its distribution lines and related equipment
in and along the city's public rights-of-way.  Sales of natural
gas for use as vehicle fuel in Kentucky are not subject to
regulation.

     The Greeley Gas Division is regulated by the Colorado Public
Utilities Commission ("Colorado Commission"), the Kansas
Corporation Commission, and the Missouri Public Service Commis-
sion with respect to accounting, rates and charges, operating
matters, and the issuance of securities.  The Company operates in
the various incorporated cities served by it in the states of
Colorado, Kansas and Missouri under terms of non-exclusive
franchises granted by the various cities.  The franchises grant
to the Company, among other things, the right to install and
operate its gas distribution system within the city limits.  Most
of the Greeley Gas Division's wholesale gas suppliers are
regulated by various federal and state commissions.

     The Company is also subject to regulation by the United
States Department of Transportation with respect to safety
requirements in the operation and maintenance of its gas
distribution facilities.  The Company's distribution operations
are also subject to various state and federal laws regulating
environmental matters.  From time to time the Company receives
inquiries regarding various environmental matters.  The Company
believes that its properties and operations substantially comply
with and are operated in substantial conformity with applicable
safety and environmental statutes and regulations.  There are no
administrative or judicial proceedings arising under
environmental quality statutes pending or known to be
contemplated by governmental agencies which, if adversely
determined, would have a material adverse effect on the Company.

     Rates.  Approximately 87% of the Company's revenues in fis-
cal 1995 was derived from sales at rates set by or subject to
approval by local or state authorities.  The method of determin-
ing regulated rates varies among the six states in which the
Company operates.  For the most part, the regulatory bodies which
establish the Company's rates have not yet instituted widespread
"incentive regulation" or "performance based rates."  Generally,
the Company applies for a specific rate structure based upon
requirements of the regulatory authority.  The regulatory
authority reviews the Company's rate request and establishes a
rate structure intended to generate revenue sufficient to cover
the Company's costs of doing business and a reasonable return on
invested capital.  








     Substantially all of the sales rates charged by the Company
to its customers fluctuate with the cost of gas purchased by the
Company.  Base rates established by regulatory authorities are
adjusted for increases and decreases in the Company's purchased
gas cost through automatic purchased gas adjustment mechanisms. 
Therefore, while the Company's operating revenues may fluctuate,
gross profit (which is defined as operating revenues less
purchased gas cost) is generally not eroded or enhanced because
of gas cost increases or decreases.









































 





     The following table sets forth the major rate requests made
by the Company and the action taken on such requests:

                        Effective     Amount      Amount
   Jurisdiction            Date      Requested   Received 
   ------------         ---------    ---------   --------
   Texas     
     West Texas System   11/01/84   $8,915,000  $5,000,000
                         09/09/91    5,987,000   4,600,000
                         11/18/94    2,581,000   1,702,000  (a)

     Amarillo            12/11/85    4,850,000   3,400,000
                         11/25/92    4,398,000   2,130,000

   Louisiana             04/01/87    5,195,000   3,610,000
                         09/03/92    3,409,000     974,000  (b,c)
                         03/01/93          (c)     730,000  (c)
                         03/01/94          (c)   1,058,000  (c)
                         03/01/95          (c)   1,071,000  (c)

   Kentucky              05/29/91    8,973,000   3,632,000
                         11/01/95    7,665,000   2,300,000  (d)
                         03/01/96                1,000,000  (d)

   Colorado              05/09/85    1,651,000   1,575,000
                         11/06/90    2,677,000   1,405,000
                         05/01/94    4,527,000   3,246,000

   Kansas                07/28/83    1,214,000   1,003,000
                         11/14/86      934,000     844,000
                         10/22/90    2,485,000   1,376,000
                         01/06/92    1,495,000     505,000
                         12/01/93    2,604,000   2,088,000

   Missouri              06/01/90      N/A (e)      49,000

- --------------
(a)  The increase includes $200,000 applicable to areas outside
     the city limits which became effective in January 1995.
(b)  The September 1992 rate order provided for recovery of an
     additional $800,000 for franchise tax expense.  
(c)  The September 1992 rate order also approved a Rate
     Stabilization Clause ("RSC") for three years which provided
     for an annual adjustment of rates to reflect changes in
     expenses and investment.  The RSC provided the Company the
     opportunity to earn a return on common equity between 11.75%
     and 12.25%. 
(d)  The Kentucky rate order provided an increase of $2,300,000,
     lowered depreciation rates effective November 1, 1995 and
     provided an additional $1,000,000 beginning March 1, 1996. 
     The order also included a provision for a pilot demand side
     management program which could cost up to $450,000 annually.
(e)  The Company applied for relief under alternative rate
     request procedures in Missouri which do not require a
     specific dollar request amount.






COMPETITION

     The Company is not currently in significant direct
competition with any other distributors of natural gas to
residential and commercial customers within its service areas. 
However, the Company does compete with other natural gas
suppliers and suppliers of alternate fuels for sales to
industrial and agricultural customers.

     The Company competes in all aspects of its business with
alternative energy sources, including, in particular, electrici-
ty.  Competition for the residential and commercial customers is
increasing.  Promotional incentives, improved equipment efficien-
cies, and promotional rates all contribute to the acceptability
of electric equipment.

     Beginning in 1985, changes in the federal regulatory
environment through FERC orders and conditions related to markets
and gas supply in the United States have brought increased
competition into the natural gas industry.  In 1993, the FERC's 
Order 636 was implemented by the interstate pipelines in the
Company's service territories.  The FERC policies apply only to
interstate pipelines and have not had a direct impact upon the
Company's operations which are primarily supplied by intrastate
pipelines.  However, the Company has felt the impact of increased
competitiveness in the large volume market in some areas result-
ing from these changes.  The Company has sought regulatory
approvals for competitive pricing on a case by case basis.  

     The Company has opened six public retail facilities for the
sale of compressed natural gas ("CNG") for vehicular use.  The
most recent of these were opened in Owensboro, Kentucky in April
1995 and at West Texas A&M University in Canyon, Texas in August
1995.  Prior to that time, the Company provided CNG for vehicular
use only in limited situations (such as for school buses in cer-
tain school districts and for the fleet vehicles of certain busi-
nesses).  With the opening of these public refueling stations the
Company began competing with gasoline for vehicular fuel sales. 
All of these facilities, except those at West Texas A&M, are
located at existing local gasoline stations.

Employees

     At September 30, 1995, the Company employed 1,646 persons. 
See page 4 for number of employees by state.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     The Company owns an aggregate of 22,212 miles of underground
pipelines throughout its gas distribution systems.  These pipe-
lines are located on easements or rights-of-way granted to the
Company, which generally provide for perpetual use.  The Company
maintains its pipelines through a program of continuous
inspection and repair and believes that the pipeline system is in
good condition.  The Company also owns or operates six under-






ground gas storage facilities in Kentucky that have a total
storage capacity of approximately 10.7 Bcf.  However,
approximately 6.5 Bcf of gas in the storage facilities must be
retained as cushion gas.  The maximum daily delivery capability
of the storage facilities is approximately 109 MMcf.

     Substantially all of the Company's properties in its Greeley
Gas Division with a recorded value of approximately $66.2 million
are subject to a lien under First Mortgage Bonds assumed by the
Company in the acquisition of GGC.  At September 30, 1995, the
lien secured approximately $17.0 million of outstanding 9.4%
Series J First Mortgage Bonds due May 1, 2021.

     The Company has leased its administrative offices in Dallas,
Texas under two leases.  In 1995 one lease was renegotiated which
will allow for the consolidation of its office space.  The
Company also maintains field offices throughout its distribution
system, substantially all of which are located in leased pre-
mises.  

     The Company holds franchises granted by the incorporated
cities and towns and by each Louisiana parish that it serves.  At
September 30, 1995, the Company held 271 such franchises having
terms generally ranging from five to 25 years.  The Company
believes that each of its franchises will be renewed.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     See Note 10 of notes to consolidated financial statements.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     Not applicable.


















 





                        EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

      The following table sets forth certain information as of
September 30, 1995, regarding the executive officers of the
Company:

     Name               Age       Office Currently Held     
     ----               ---       ---------------------
Robert F. Stephens       47       President and Chief Operating
                                    Officer, Director
James F. Purser          45       Executive Vice President and
                                    Chief Financial Officer,
                                    Director
J. Charles Goodman       34       Executive Vice President of 
                                    Corporate Operations
H.F. Harber              53       Senior Vice President of
                                    Corporate Services
Donald E. James          48       Senior Vice President of
                                    Public Affairs
Mary S. Lovell           44       Senior Vice President of 
                                    Utility Services
Glen A. Blanscet         38       Vice President, General 
                                    Counsel and Corporate 
                                    Secretary

     Robert F. Stephens was named President and Chief Operating
Officer and was appointed to the Board of Directors in February
1995.  He previously served as Executive Vice President -
Corporate Operations from May 1989 through February 1995, as
Senior Vice President, Corporate Operations from January 1988
until May 1989 and as Senior Vice President, Corporate Services
from April 1986 until January 1988, and as Vice President,
Corporate Development and Regulatory Affairs from August 1984
until April 1986.

     James F. Purser was appointed to the Board of Directors in
February 1995.  He was named Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer in May 1989.  He previously served as Senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from August 1988 until
May 1989 and as Vice President from September 1986 until August
1988.  

     J. Charles Goodman was named Executive Vice President,
Corporate Operations in April 1995.  He previously served as
President of the Company's Trans La Gas Division from February
1993 until April 1995 and as Chief Engineer from February 1989
until February 1993.

     H.F. Harber was named Senior Vice President - Corporate
Services in August 1993.  He previously served as Vice President,
Human Resources and Administration from July 1991 to August 1993,
and as Vice President, Human Resources from May 1990 to July
1991. 








     Donald E. James was named Senior Vice President - Public
Affairs in May 1995.  He previously served as Senior Vice
President and General Counsel from January, 1994 to May, 1995, as
Senior Vice President - General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
from May 1993 until August 1993, as Senior Vice President and
General Counsel from May 1989 until May 1993, as Vice President
and General Counsel from January 1986 until May 1989, as
Assistant Vice President and General Counsel from August 1985
until January 1986, and as Assistant Vice President and Assistant
General Counsel from February 1984 until August 1985.  

     Mary S. Lovell was named Senior Vice President, Utility
Services in May, 1995.  She previously served as Vice President,
Rates and Regulatory Affairs from August 1990 to May 1995, as
Vice President, Rates from February 1989 to August 1990, as
Operating Companies Senior Vice President, Rates from October
1988 until February 1989 and as System Vice President, Rates from
May 1988 until October 1988.  

     Glen A. Blanscet was named Vice President, General Counsel
and Corporate Secretary in May 1995.  He previously served as
Assistant General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from January,
1994 to May, 1995, and as Assistant General Counsel from July
1988 to December 1993.
































                             PART II

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
           STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 

     The Company's stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange
under the trading symbol "ATO".  The high and low sale prices and
dividends paid per share of the Company's common stock, as
adjusted for the 3-for-2 stock split in May 1994, for fiscal 1995
and 1994 are listed below.

        Prior to its acquisition, GGC made distributions to its
shareholders in fiscal 1994 of $120,000.  The "Dividends paid"
information above has not been restated for the pooling of
interests in December 1993, but reflects historical cash
dividends paid per share of Atmos common stock as restated for
the 3-for-2 stock split in May 1994.

     See Note 3 of notes to consolidated financial statements for
restriction on payment of dividends. The number of record holders
of the Company's common stock on September 30, 1995 was 23,625. 

















 





ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

     The following table sets forth selected financial data with
respect to the Company and should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements included herein.  

                               Year ended September 30,         
                    --------------------------------------------
                      1995     1994     1993     1992      1991 
                    -------- -------- -------- -------- --------
                        (In thousands, except per share data)

Operating revenues  $435,820 $499,808 $459,641 $403,353 $399,667
                    ======== ======== ======== ======== ========

Net income          $ 18,873 $ 14,679 $ 17,544 $ 10,998 $  9,612
                    ======== ======== ======== ======== ========

Net income per 
  share             $   1.22 $    .97 $   1.22 $    .80 $    .71
                    ======== ======== ======== ======== ========

Cash dividends
  per share         $    .92 $    .88 $    .85 $    .83 $    .80
                    ======== ======== ======== ======== ========

Total assets at 
  end of year       $445,783 $416,678 $391,618 $358,363 $338,714
                    ======== ======== ======== ======== ========

Long-term debt at 
  end of year       $131,303 $138,303 $105,853 $112,153 $116,461
                    ======== ======== ======== ======== ========
              
Supplemental net
  income (1)                          $ 18,132 $ 10,570 $ 10,130
                                      ======== ======== ========

Supplemental net
  income per 
   share (1)                          $   1.26 $    .77 $    .75
                                      ======== ======== ========

(1) Supplemental net income reflects results if GGC had not made 
    an S Corporation election in 1987.











ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
          CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

INTRODUCTION

     The Company distributes and sells natural gas to
residential, commercial, industrial and agricultural customers in
six states.  Such business is subject to federal and state
regulation and/or regulation by local authorities in each of the
states in which the Company operates.  In addition, the Company's
business is affected by seasonal weather patterns, competitive
factors within the energy industry, and economic conditions in
the areas that the Company serves.


RATE ACTIVITY

     On February 10, 1995, the Company filed with the Kentucky
Commission for a rate increase for its Western Kentucky Gas
Company Division.  The filing requested an annual revenue in-
crease of approximately $7.7 million, or 5.5 percent.  In July
1995 a settlement agreement was filed with the Kentucky
Commission.  The Company withdrew from the settlement on August
31, 1995, after the Kentucky Commission issued an order that made
modifications which the Company found unacceptable.  The Company
and all intervenors filed a revised settlement, which was
approved by the Kentucky Commission without modifications on
October 20, 1995, effective November 1, 1995.  The order issued
by the Kentucky Commission authorizes the Company to increase its
rates by $2.3 million annually, and by an additional $1.0 million
annually beginning in March 1996.  The settlement includes a
decrease in depreciation rates, recovery of expenses related to
adoption of SFAS No. 106 and includes a provision for the Company
to begin a three-year demand-side management pilot program for
the 1996-97 heating season, which could cost up to $450,000
annually, resulting in a total operating income increase of
approximately $4.0 million. The Company provides natural gas
service to approximately 168,000 customers in Kentucky.
 
     In September 1994, the Company filed to increase revenues by
approximately $2.6 million for a portion of its Energas Company
service area, which includes approximately 217,000 customers. 
The Company requested recovery of accrual accounting for post-
retirement benefits in accordance with SFAS No. 106.  See Note 8
of the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
for SFAS No. 106 information.  In November 1994, the Company
implemented an annual revenue increase of approximately $1.5
million affecting approximately 195,000 customers located inside
the city limits of towns in this portion of its Energas Division. 
Upon approval of the Railroad Commission of Texas in January
1995, the Company implemented an annual increase of approximately
$.2 million relating to the 22,000 remaining rural customers.

     GGC filed a request for an increase in annual revenues of
$4.5 million with the Colorado Public Utility Commission in






September, 1993.  On May 1, 1994, the Company implemented an
annual increase of $3.2 million or 6.9% in Phase I of this
proceeding.  The Phase I rates reflect recovery of  SFAS No. 106
expenses with external funding, consistent with the recommended
decision of the presiding administrative law judge.  In October
1994, the Colorado Commission issued its order affirming the
increase as set forth in Phase I.  In March 1995, the Greeley Gas
Division filed Phase II in the rate proceeding, which addressed
rate structure.  In September 1995 all parties to the proceeding
entered into a stipulation and agreement which became final in
November 1995 upon the recommendation by an administrative law
judge of the Colorado Commission.

     Effective December 1, 1993, GGC received an annual rate
increase of approximately $2.1 million or 10.6% in its Kansas
service area.  The increase reflects recovery of SFAS No. 106
expenses with external funding and a moratorium on rate requests
in Kansas until December 1, 1996.

     On February 11, 1992, the Company filed a rate case with the
city of Amarillo, Texas seeking to increase annual revenues by
approximately $4.4 million, or 12%.  In June 1992 the city denied
the Company's request for rate relief and the Company appealed to
the Railroad Commission.  In November 1992, the Railroad
Commission issued its decision resulting in a total annual
increase of $2.1 million.  The Company and the city requested a
rehearing of the Order.  On January 11, 1993, the Railroad
Commission denied rehearing to both parties.  In February 1993,
the city appealed the Railroad Commission's rate order to the
District Court of Travis County, Texas.  In January 1994, the
District Court denied the city's appeal.  The city appealed to
the Court of Appeals.  On March 1, 1995 the Austin Court of
Appeals issued its decision affirming the Railroad Commission's
1993 Amarillo Rate Order in all respects.  The Texas Supreme
Court has declined to review the case.

     During the period of 1991 through 1993, the Company also
filed for and received other rate increases in certain other rate
jurisdictions in its Energas Division totaling approximately $.3
million annually.

     In September 1992, the Louisiana Commission issued a rate
order for the Company's Louisiana service area, which included a
rate stabilization clause ("RSC") for three years that provides
for an annual adjustment to the Company's rates to reflect
changes in expenses, revenues and invested capital following an
annual review.  The RSC provides an opportunity for a return on
jurisdictional common equity of between 11.75% and 12.25%.  As a
result of the Company's filings under the RSC, an increase of
$730,000 annually or 2% went into effect on March 1, 1993, an
increase of $1.1 million annually or 2.7% went into effect on
March 1, 1994, and the third increase of $1.1 million annually or
2.0% went into effect on March 6, 1995.  The Company expects to
have a hearing before the Louisiana Commission on extending the
rate stabilization mechanism.







ACQUISITIONS

     The Company has expanded its customer base and sought to
diversify the regulations, weather patterns and local economic
conditions to which it is subject through acquisitions in 1986,
1987 and 1993.  The Company continues to consider and pursue,
where appropriate, additional acquisitions of natural gas
distribution properties and other business opportunities. 

     In December 1993, the Company acquired Greeley Gas Company
("GGC") of Denver, Colorado in a merger transaction accounted for
as a pooling of interests; therefore, all historical financial
statements and notes thereto have been restated to retroactively
reflect this merger.   At that time, GGC was a privately held
company providing natural gas service to nearly 100,000 customers
in 122 communities in Colorado, Kansas and a small service area
in Missouri.  The transaction was structured to be a tax-free
reorganization.  The Company exchanged 2,329,330 shares of its
common stock before the 3-for-2 stock split (3,493,995 shares on
a post-split basis) for all of the outstanding stock of GGC.  For
further information regarding the merger, see Note 2 of notes to
consolidated financial statements.

     Subsequent to September 30, 1995, the Company acquired
privately held Oceana Heights Gas Company ("Oceana") of
Thibodaux, Louisiana.  Oceana provides natural gas service to
approximately 9,200 customers and is located adjacent to a system
in LaFourche Parish that was acquired by Atmos in 1994.  The
transaction will be accounted for as a pooling of interests.  The
outstanding shares of Oceana Heights capital stock were converted
into shares of Atmos common stock having a market value equal to
the $6.4 million purchase price.  The Louisiana Commission's
approval included regulatory and rate making terms acceptable to
Atmos.  Although significant for the Trans La Division's opera-
tions which currently serve over 70,000 customers in Louisiana,
the transaction is not expected to have a material impact on the
Company's financial condition and results of operations.  The
acquisition is consistent with the Company's long-standing
corporate development strategy.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1995 COMPARED WITH YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER
30, 1994

     Operating revenues decreased 13% to $435.8 million in 1995
from $499.8 million in 1994 due to weather that was 9% warmer
than in 1994 and a 14% decrease in the average cost of gas per
thousand cubic feet ("Mcf") sold.  Average gas sales revenues per
Mcf decreased from 1994 by $.31 to $3.83 in 1995, while the
average cost of gas per Mcf sold decreased $.40 to $2.46 in 1995. 
The number of meters in service increased to 658,114 at September
30, 1995 compared with 649,319 at September 30, 1994.  Sales to
weather sensitive residential, commercial and public authority






customers decreased approximately 6.3 billion cubic feet ("Bcf")
in 1995 while sales to industrial and agricultural customers
decreased approximately .5 Bcf.  Total sales volumes decreased
5.8% to 109.3 Bcf in 1995, as compared with 1994.  Revenues from
gas transported for others decreased $2.4 million to
approximately $11.7 million in fiscal 1995 due to a decrease in
volumes transported of 4.8 Bcf to 30.5 Bcf in 1995. 

     Gross profit decreased by approximately 1% to $167.0 million
in 1995 from $168.2 million in 1994.  The primary factor
contributing to the lower gross profit was lower volumes sold and
transported due to warmer weather.  The effect of warmer weather
on gross profit was substantially reduced by implementing rate
increases totaling $2.8 million and $6.4 million in 1995 and
1994, respectively.  Operating expenses, excluding income taxes,
decreased 6% to $125.1 million in 1995 from $133.7 million in
1994, due primarily to decreased operation and maintenance
expense.  Operation and maintenance expense decreased $10.3
million due to decreased distribution expense, customer accounts
expenses, employee welfare and pension expenses, rent expense,
and outside services expense.  In 1994 GGC acquisition and
assimilation costs were approximately $1.5 million and the cost
of an early retirement program was approximately $1.3 million.
The acquisition and assimilation costs as well as the early
retirement program were one-time costs associated with the GGC
acquisition.  The Company also adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions" in 1994.  It has
been successful in seeking recovery of SFAS No. 106 expenses in
the majority of its service areas in 1994 and 1995 and will
continue to seek recovery in its remaining service areas (Note
8).  Income taxes increased to $9.6 million for 1995 from $8.1
million for 1994.  The primary reason for the increase was higher
pre-tax profits.  The effective tax rate decreased to 33.7% in
1995 from 35.6% in 1994.  This was primarily due to the impact of
permanent differences on the higher pre-tax profits in 1995. 
Operating income increased in 1995 by approximately 22% to $32.4
million from $26.5 million in 1994.  The increase in operating
income resulted primarily from decreases in 1995 operating
expenses as discussed above.  The Company expects to see
operating expenses return to a more normal level in 1996.

     Net income increased in 1995 by approximately 29% to $18.9
million from $14.7 million in the prior year.  This increase in
net income resulted primarily from an increase in operating
income, which was partially offset by a $1.4 million increase in
interest expense.  Net income per share increased to $1.22 for
1995 from $.97 for 1994.

     The Company estimates that the impact of the weather being
10% warmer than normal for 1995 caused net income to be
approximately $4.0 million less than it would have been had the
Company experienced normal temperatures in its respective service
areas.  Weather was approximately 1% warmer than normal for 1994.







YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1994 COMPARED WITH YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER
30, 1993

     Operating revenues increased to $499.8 million in 1994 from
$459.6 million in 1993 due to rate increases implemented in
Kansas, Colorado and Louisiana, an increase in the number of
customers, changes in cost of gas and increased volumes sold. 
Average gas sales revenues per Mcf increased from 1993 by $.12 to
$4.14 in 1994, while the average cost of gas per Mcf sold
increased $.15 to $2.86 in 1994.  The number of meters in service
increased to 649,319 at September 30, 1994 compared with 636,159
at September 30, 1993.  Although the weather was 2% warmer in
1994 than in 1993, it was only slightly warmer than normal. 
Sales to residential, commercial and public authority customers
decreased approximately .5 Bcf in 1994, but sales to industrial
and agricultural customers increased approximately 7 Bcf.  Total
sales volumes increased 6.7 Bcf to 116.1 Bcf in 1994, as compared
with 1993.  Revenues from gas transported for others decreased
$.9 million to approximately $14.1 million in fiscal 1994 due to
a decrease in volumes transported of 4.5 Bcf to 35.3 Bcf in 1994. 

     Gross profit increased by approximately 3% to $168.2 million
in 1994 from $163.1 million in 1993.  The primary factors
contributing to the higher gross profit were increased prices and
volumes, as discussed above.  Operating expenses, excluding
income taxes, increased to $133.7 million in 1994 from $122.8
million in 1993 due to increased operation expense and
depreciation.  Operation expense increased $9.9 million due to
increased distribution expense, employee welfare expenses
including adoption of SFAS No. 106, GGC acquisition and assimi-
lation costs, and the cost of an early retirement program in the
Greeley Gas Division in the fourth quarter.  SFAS No. 106
expenses in excess of pay-as-you-go expenses were approximately
$3.8 million in 1994.  The Company has been successful in seeking
recovery of SFAS No. 106 expenses in a portion of its service
areas and will continue to seek recovery in its remaining service
areas (Note 8).  GGC acquisition and assimilation costs were
approximately $1.5 million in 1994 compared with approximately
$.5 million in 1993.  The cost of the early retirement program
was approximately $1.3 million in 1994.  The acquisition and
assimilation costs as well as the early retirement program are
one-time costs associated with the GGC acquisition.  Income taxes
decreased to $8.1 million for 1994 from $10.1 million for 1993. 
The primary reasons for the decrease were lower pre-tax profits
and a lower effective tax rate.   The effective tax rate
decreased to 35.6% in 1994 from 36.5% in 1993.  This was
primarily due to the impact of permanent differences on the lower
pre-tax profits in 1994.  Operating income decreased in 1994 by
approximately 13% to $26.5 million from $30.3 million in 1993. 
The decrease in operating income resulted primarily from
increased operating expenses as discussed above.

     Net income decreased in 1994 by approximately 16% to $14.7
million from $17.5 million in the prior year.  This decrease in
net income resulted primarily from a decrease in operating






income, which was partially offset by a $1.0 million decrease in
interest expense.  Net income per share decreased to $.97 for
1994 from $1.22 for 1993, reflecting the effects of an increase
in average shares outstanding of approximately 6%.  One-time
acquisition costs, assimilation expenses and an early retirement
program in Greeley Gas Company, as well as the effect of adopting
SFAS No. 106, reduced earnings per share by approximately $.22 in
1994. 


CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY (See "Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows")

Cash Flows from Operating Activities

     Cash flows from operating activities totaled $58.5 million
for 1995 compared with $41.2 million for 1994 and $37.1 million
for 1993.  In 1995 the Company experienced increases in both net
income and in cash provided by changes in assets and liabilities
as compared with 1994 and 1993.  Depreciation increased in 1995
because of increasing capital expenditures.  Gas stored under-
ground decreased in 1995 and 1994 because of substantially lower
gas prices during the summers of 1995 and 1994 when the storage
reservoirs were being refilled.  The $10.9 million increase in
deferred charges and other assets in 1993 related to the $8.4
million increase in deferred credits and other liabilities and
recognized funding for the Supplemental Executive Benefits Plan. 
See "Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows" for other changes in
assets and liabilities.

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

     Net cash used in investing activities totaled $60.2 million
in 1995 compared with $48.4 million in 1994 and $42.2 million in
1993.  Capital expenditures in fiscal 1995 amounted to $62.9
million compared with $50.4 million in 1994 and $43.1 million in
1993.  Currently budgeted capital expenditures for 1996 total
$66.3 million and include major expenditures for mains, services,
meters, vehicles and computer software.  Such expenditures will
be financed from internally generated funds and financing
activities, as discussed below.

Cash Flows from Financing Activities

     Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $1.2
million for 1995 compared with $7.7 million for 1994 and $3.7
million for 1993.  Financing activities during these periods
included issuance of common stock, dividend payments, borrowings
from banks, and issuance and repayments of long-term debt.

     Cash dividends and distributions paid. The Company paid
$14.2 million in cash dividends during 1995 compared with $12.7
million in 1994 and $10.2 million in 1993.  The $1.5 million
increase over 1994 primarily reflects an increase in the
Company's quarterly dividend rate and an increase in the number






of shares of common stock outstanding in 1995.  The Company has
increased its historical dividend rate in each of the last seven
years.  

     Short-term financing activities.  At September 30, 1995, the
Company had committed lines of credit totaling $90.0 million, all
of which was unused, in order to provide for short-term cash
requirements.  These credit facilities are negotiated at least
annually.  At September 30, 1995, the Company also had
uncommitted short-term credit lines of $140.0 million, of which
$106.5 million was unused.  During 1995, notes payable decreased
$24.6 million compared with increases of $22.4 million during
1994 and $2.6 million in 1993.  The decrease in 1995 was
primarily due to repayment of short-term debt with the proceeds
from the issuance of long-term debt in November 1994.  The
increase in 1993 was less than the increase in 1994, partly
because of funds provided in 1993 from stock issued under the
Direct Stock Purchase Plan.  

     Long-term financing activities.  Payments of long-term debt
decreased $5.85 million to $4.0 million for the year ended
September 30, 1995 compared with the year ended September 30,
1994.  Payments of long-term debt in 1995 consisted of a $2.0
million installment on the Company's 9.75% Senior Notes due in
1996 and a $2.0 million installment on the 11.2% Senior Notes. 
In November 1994, the Company entered into note purchase agree-
ments totaling $40.0 million with two insurance companies and
issued at par $20.0 million of unsecured Senior Notes at 8.07%
payable in annual installments of $4.0 million beginning October
31, 2002 through October 31, 2006 with semiannual interest
payments and $20.0 million of unsecured Senior Notes at 8.26%
payable in annual installments of $1,818,182 beginning October
31, 2004 through October 31, 2014 with semiannual interest
payments.  No long-term debt was issued in 1994 or 1993.  Pay-
ments of long-term debt during fiscal 1994 consisted of a $3.0
million installment on the Company's 9.75% Senior Notes due in
1996, a $2.0 million installment on the 11.2% Senior Notes, the
balance of $3.25 million on the 13.75% Series I First Mortgage
Bonds and the balance of $1.6 million on the 13% Series G First
Mortgage Bonds.  The loan agreements pursuant to which all the
Company's Senior Notes have been issued contain covenants by the
Company with respect to the maintenance of certain debt-to-equity
ratios and cash flows, and restrictions on the payment of
dividends.  Also see Note 3 of notes to consolidated financial
statements.

     Issuance of common stock.  The Company issued 221,946,
428,264 and 897,089 shares of common stock in 1995, 1994 and
1993, respectively, for its Direct Stock Purchase Plan ("DSPP"),
Employee Stock Ownership Plan, Restricted Stock Grant Plan, and
Incentive Stock Option Plan.  See the Consolidated Statements of
Shareholders' Equity for the number of shares issued under each
of the plans.  The DSPP was implemented in August 1992.  In 1993
the DSPP was amended to remove the direct stock purchase feature
of the plan and the plan was renamed the Atmos Energy Corporation






Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan ("DRSPP").  How-
ever, in January 1995 the direct stock purchase feature was rein-
stated and the name was changed back to the Direct Stock Purchase
Plan. Shares purchased under the DSPP in 1995 were purchased on
the open market.  No new shares were issued under the DSPP in
1995.  In 1994 and 1993, 173,801 and 760,089 shares, respective-
ly, were issued under the DRSPP, generating proceeds of $3.0
million and $13.4 million, respectively.  At September 30, 1995,
712,596 shares were available for future issuance under the DSPP.

     The Company believes that internally generated funds, its
short-term credit facilities and access to the debt and equity
capital markets will provide necessary working capital and
liquidity for capital expenditures and other cash needs for 1996.

Seasonality

     The Company's natural gas distribution business is seasonal
due to weather conditions in the Company's service areas.  Gas
sales are affected by winter heating season requirements, and
sales to agricultural customers (who use natural gas as fuel in
the operation of irrigation pumps) during the period from April
through September may be affected by rainfall amounts.  These
factors generally result in higher operating revenues and net
income during the period from October through March of each year
and lower operating revenues and either net losses or lower net
income during the period from April through September of each
year.

     The following table sets forth, on an unaudited basis, the
Company's quarterly operating revenues, quarterly operating
revenues as a percentage of annual operating revenues, quarterly
net income (loss) and quarterly net income (loss) as a percentage
of annual net income for its past two fiscal years.

















 






Inflation

     The Company believes that inflation has caused and will
continue to cause increases in certain operating expenses and has
required and will continue to require assets to be replaced at
higher costs.  The Company continually reviews the adequacy of
its gas rates in relation to the increasing cost of providing
service and the inherent regulatory lag in adjusting those gas
rates. 

Environmental Matters

    From time to time, the Company receives inquiries regarding
various environmental matters.  The Company believes that its
properties and operations substantially comply with and are oper-
ated in substantial conformity with all applicable environmental
statutes and regulations.  There are no administrative or judi-
cial proceedings arising under environmental quality statutes
pending or known to be contemplated by governmental agencies
which, if adversely determined, would have a material adverse
effect on the Company.










 





ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 


                                                        Page no.

Report of independent auditors                               30

Consolidated balance sheets                                  31

Consolidated statements of income                            32

Consolidated statements of shareholders' equity              33

Consolidated statements of cash flows                        34

Notes to consolidated financial statements                   36

Supplementary data (unaudited)                               57



















 





REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP,
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS 


Board of Directors
Atmos Energy Corporation

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets
of Atmos Energy Corporation at September 30, 1995 and 1994, and
the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders'
equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended September 30, 1995.  These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

        We conducted our audits in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards.  Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. 
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
financial position of Atmos Energy Corporation at September 30,
1995 and 1994, and its consolidated results of operations and its
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
September 30, 1995 in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.  






                                   Ernst & Young LLP

Dallas, Texas 
November 8, 1995






 





ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS                   September 30,   
                                            1995         1994  
                                          --------     --------
ASSETS                          (In thousands, except share data)
Property, plant and equipment
  Utility plant                           $589,801     $537,834
  Construction in progress                   5,558        5,858
                                          --------     --------
                                           595,359      543,692
Less accumulated depreciation and amort.   232,107      216,285
                                          --------     --------
    Net property, plant and equipment      363,252      327,407
Current assets
  Cash and cash equivalents                  2,294        2,766
  Accounts receivable, less allowance 
    for doubtful accounts of $916 in 
    1995 and $787 in 1994                   25,690       29,678
  Inventories                                6,747        5,888
  Gas stored underground                    10,758       12,657
  Prepayments                                2,747        2,309
                                          --------     --------
     Total current assets                   48,236       53,298
Deferred charges and other assets           34,295       35,973
                                          --------     --------
                                          $445,783     $416,678
                                          ========     ========
CAPITALIZATION AND LIABILITIES
Shareholders' equity
  Common stock, no par value (stated at $.005
    per share); authorized 75,000,000 shares;
    issued and outstanding 1995 - 15,519,112
    shares, 1994 - 15,297,166 shares      $     78     $     77
  Additional paid-in capital               106,496      102,456
  Retained earnings                         51,704       47,023
                                          --------     --------
    Total shareholders' equity             158,278      149,556
Long-term debt                             131,303      138,303
                                          --------     --------
    Total capitalization                   289,581      287,859
Current liabilities  
  Current maturities of long-term debt       7,000        4,000
  Notes payable to banks                    33,500       18,100
  Accounts payable                          24,945       21,975
  Taxes payable                              1,926        4,864
  Customers' deposits                        9,343        8,257
  Other current liabilities                 10,641        7,038
                                          --------     --------
    Total current liabilities               87,355       64,234
Deferred income taxes                       33,120       30,184
Deferred credits and other liabilities      35,727       34,401
                                          --------     --------
                                          $445,783     $416,678
                                          ========     ========
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 






ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

                                     Year ended September 30,    
                                --------------------------------
                                   1995        1994        1993  
                                --------     --------    --------
                            (In thousands, except per share data)

Operating revenues              $435,820     $499,808    $459,641
Purchased gas cost               268,810      331,571     296,532
                                --------     --------    --------
Gross profit                     167,010      168,237     163,109

Operating expenses       
  Operation                       83,431       92,132      82,185
  Maintenance                      4,276        5,888       6,335
  Depreciation and amortization   20,741       18,841      17,433
  Taxes, other than income        16,611       16,808      16,806
  Income taxes                     9,574        8,102      10,073
                                --------     --------    --------
    Total operating expenses     134,633      141,771     132,832
                                --------     --------    --------
                                                         
Operating income                  32,377       26,466      30,277
Other income (expense)        
  Interest income                    459          168         327
  Other, net                        (242)         335         239
                                --------     --------    --------
    Total other income               217          503         566

Interest charges                  13,721       12,290      13,299
                                --------     --------    --------

Net income                      $ 18,873     $ 14,679    $ 17,544
                                ========     ========    ========
Net income per share            $   1.22     $    .97    $   1.22
                                ========     ========    ========
Cash dividends per share        $    .92     $    .88    $    .85
                                ========     ========    ========
Average shares outstanding        15,416       15,195      14,338
                                ========     ========    ========











See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.







ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF                              
SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                               Common stock
                            ----------------- Additional
                             Number of  Stated   paid-in Retained
                               shares    value   capital earnings
                            ----------- ------ --------- --------
                             (In thousands, except share data)

Balance, September 30, 1992   13,971,813  $70  $ 78,541 $38,637 
  Net income                           -    -         -  17,544 
  Cash dividends ($.85 per 
    share)                             -    -         -  (9,262)
  GGC distributions                    -    -         -    (893)
  Common stock issued
    Stock option plan              6,000    -        60       - 
    Direct stock purchase 
      plan                       760,089    3    13,401       - 
    Employee stock ownership
      plan                       131,000    1     2,277       - 
  Less: GGC net income for
    the quarter ended 
    December 31, 1992 (Note 2)         -    -         -    (950)
                              ----------  ---   ------- ------- 
Balance, September 30, 1993   14,868,902   74    94,279  45,076 
  Net income                           -    -         -  14,679 
  Cash dividends ($.88 per 
    share)                             -    -         - (12,612)
  GGC distributions                    -    -         -    (120)
  Common stock issued
    Restricted stock 
      grant plan                 105,000    1     2,134       - 
    Direct stock purchase 
      plan                       173,801    1     3,037       - 
    Employee stock ownership
      plan                       149,463    1     2,713       - 
  Other                                -    -       293       - 
                              ----------  ---   ------- ------- 
Balance, September 30, 1994   15,297,166   77   102,456  47,023 
  Net income                           -    -         -  18,873 
  Cash dividends ($.92 
    per share)                         -    -         - (14,192)
  Common stock issued 
    Restricted stock 
     grant plan                    7,000    -       119       - 
    Employee stock 
     ownership plan              214,946    1     3,876       - 
  Other                                -    -        45       - 
                              ----------  ---  -------- ------- 
Balance, September 30, 1995   15,519,112  $78  $106,496 $51,704 
                              ==========  ===  ======== ======= 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 


                                   





ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                        Year ended September 30, 
                                       -------------------------
                                         1995    1994      1993  
                                       ---------------   ------- 
                                            (In thousands)
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net income                             $18,873 $14,679   $16,594 
Adjustments to reconcile net income 
  to net cash provided by operating 
  activities
    Depreciation and amortization                           
      Charged to depreciation and 
        amortization                    20,741  18,841    16,480 
      Charged to other accounts          3,592   1,476     3,377 
  Deferred income taxes                  2,809     244     2,733 
  Other                                  2,011   2,101       622 
                                       ------- -------   ------- 
                                        48,026  37,341    39,806 
  Change in assets and liabilities  
    (Increase) decrease in accounts 
      receivable                         3,988    (478)    1,564 
    (Increase) decrease in inventories    (859)    176       708 
    (Increase) decrease in gas stored 
      underground                        1,899   4,946    (6,176)
    (Increase) decrease in prepayments    (438)  1,931     1,873 
    Decrease in deferred charges and 
      other assets                        (333) (3,824)  (10,908)
    Increase (decrease) in accounts 
      payable                            2,970  (7,128)      (58)
    Increase (decrease) in taxes 
      payable                           (2,766) (1,314)      195 
    Increase (decrease) in customers' 
      deposits                           1,086     395       (61)
    Increase in other current 
      liabilities                        3,603     583     1,804 
    Increase in deferred credits and 
      other liabilities                  1,326   8,596     8,398 
                                       ------- -------    -------
    Net cash provided by operating 
       activities                       58,502  41,224    37,145 

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES              
  Capital expenditures                 (62,927)(50,355)  (43,143)
  Retirements of property, plant and 
    equipment                            2,749   1,906       935 
                                       ------- -------   ------- 
    Net cash used in investing 
      activities                       (60,178)(48,449)  (42,208)

                          - Continued -








ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (continued)

                                       Year ended September 30,  
                                        1995     1994     1993
                                      -------- -------- -------- 
                                             (In thousands)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES     
  Net increase (decrease) in notes 
    payable                           $(24,600)$ 22,400  $ 2,563 
  Proceeds from issuance of 
    long-term debt                      40,000        -        - 
  Repayment of long-term debt           (4,000)  (9,850)  (4,500)
  Cash dividends and distributions 
    paid                               (14,192) (12,732) (10,155)
  Issuance of common stock               3,996    7,887   15,742 
                                       -------  -------  ------- 
    Net cash provided by financing 
      activities                         1,204    7,705    3,650 
                                       -------  -------  ------- 
Net increase (decrease) in cash and 
  cash equivalents                        (472)     480   (1,413)
Cash and cash equivalents at 
  beginning of year                      2,766    2,286    3,699 
                                       -------  -------  ------- 
Cash and cash equivalents at end 
  of year                              $ 2,294  $ 2,766  $ 2,286 
                                       =======  =======  ======= 






















See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 

 





ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.   Summary of significant accounting policies

     Description of business - Atmos Energy Corporation and its
subsidiaries ("Atmos" or the "Company") are in the business of
distributing natural gas to residential, commercial, industrial
and agricultural customers within service areas located in Texas,
Louisiana, Kentucky, Colorado, Kansas and a small portion of
Missouri.  Such business is subject to federal and state
regulation and/or regulation by local authorities in each of the
six states in which the Company operates.  The Company has no
other material business segments.

     Principles of consolidation - The accompanying consolidated
financial statements include the accounts of Atmos Energy
Corporation and its subsidiaries.  Each subsidiary is wholly-
owned and all material intercompany items have been eliminated.

     Revenue recognition -  Sales of natural gas are billed on a
monthly cycle basis; however, the billing cycle periods for
certain classes of customers do not necessarily coincide with ac-
counting periods used for financial reporting purposes.  The
Company follows the revenue accrual method of accounting for
natural gas revenues whereby revenues applicable to gas delivered
to customers but not yet billed under the cycle billing method
are estimated and accrued and the related costs are charged to
expense. Estimated losses due to credit risk are reserved at the
time revenue is recognized.  

     Property, plant and equipment - Property, plant and
equipment is stated at original cost net of contributions in aid
of construction.  The cost of additions includes an allowance for
funds used during construction and applicable overhead charges. 
Major renewals and betterments are capitalized, while the costs
of maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. 
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated at various rates on
a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the
assets.  In the first quarter of fiscal 1993, the Company changed
the estimated average useful lives used to compute depreciation
for certain utility plant assets.  These changes resulted from
revised estimates of the projected economic life of the affected
assets based on recent orders received from regulatory bodies
having jurisdiction over the Company and independently performed
depreciation service life studies.  The effect of this change on
net income for the year ended September 30, 1993 was an increase
of $1,104,000.  The composite rates were 4.1% and 3.5% for the
years ended September 30, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  At the
time property, plant and equipment is retired, the cost, plus
removal expenses and less salvage, is charged to accumulated
depreciation.









     Inventories - Inventories consist of materials and supplies
and merchandise held for resale.  Inventories are stated at the
lower of average cost or market.

     Gas stored underground - Net additions of inventory gas to
underground storage and withdrawals of inventory gas from storage
are priced using the average cost method.  Non-current gas in
storage is classified as property, plant and equipment and is
priced at cost.  

     Income taxes - The Company provides deferred income taxes
for significant temporary differences in the recognition of
revenues and expenses for tax and financial reporting purposes.  

     Cash and cash equivalents - The Company considers all highly
liquid debt instruments purchased with a maturity of three months
or less to be cash equivalents.

     Deferred charges and other assets - Deferred charges and
other assets at September 30, 1995 and 1994 include assets of the
Company's qualified defined benefit retirement plans in excess of
the plans' obligations in the amounts of $9,962,000 and
$12,275,000, respectively, and Company assets related to the
nonqualified retirement plans at September 30, 1995 and 1994 of
$16,510,000 and $15,735,000, respectively.  

     Deferred credits and other liabilities - Deferred credits
and other liabilities include customer advances for construction
of $8,212,000 and $8,428,000 at September 30, 1995 and 1994,
respectively; obligations under capital leases of $2,882,000 and
$6,294,000 at September 30, 1995 and 1994, respectively; and
obligations under the Company's nonqualified retirement plans of
$16,125,000 and $11,151,000 at September 30, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.  At September 30, 1994, a payable of $1,300,000 was
recorded for expenses related to an early retirement program
under Greeley Gas Company's qualified defined benefit retirement
plan.

     Earnings per share - The calculation of primary earnings per
share is based on reported net income divided by weighted average
common shares outstanding.  The Company does not have other
classes of stock or dilutive common stock equivalents.  See Note
2 for a discussion of supplemental net income per share.

2.   Greeley Gas Company acquisition

     On December 22, 1993, Atmos acquired by means of a merger
all of the assets and liabilities of Greeley Gas Company ("GGC")
in accordance with the terms and provisions of an Agreement and
Plan of Reorganization dated July 2, 1993.  GGC is a natural gas
utility engaged in the distribution and sale of natural gas to
residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural, and other
customers throughout Colorado, Kansas, and a small portion of
Missouri.  All of the shares of GGC's common stock were exchanged
for a total of 3,493,995 shares of Atmos common stock as adjusted






for a 3-for-2 stock split (2,329,330 shares on a pre-split
basis).  See Note 5 for information regarding the stock split in
May 1994.  This merger transaction was accounted for as a pooling
of interests; therefore, all historical financial statements and
notes thereto have been restated.  Subsequent to the merger, the
business of GGC has been operated through the Company's Greeley
Gas Company division (the "Greeley Gas Division").

     GGC prepared its financial statements on a December 31
fiscal year end.  GGC's fiscal year has been changed to September
30 to conform to the Company's year end.  The restated consoli-
dated statement of income for the year ended September 30, 1993
includes Atmos and GGC operations for the twelve months then
ended.  As a result, GGC's operations for the three months ended
December 31, 1992 (operating revenue of $18,322,842 and net
income of $950,185) are included in both the 1993 and 1992
restated statements of income, and the GGC net income for this
period has been deducted in calculating the shareholders' equity
balances at September 30, 1993 and cash flows for the year then
ended.

     In 1987, GGC elected classification as an S Corporation
(small business corporation) under the provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code.  Normally, income taxes are not reported in the
financial statements of S Corporations as the liability for
payment of federal and state income taxes is the direct
responsibility of the shareholders.  However, during 1991, as
part of the settlement of rate cases filed in the states of
Colorado and Kansas, GGC was ordered to begin providing for
current and deferred income taxes.  Accordingly, the Company's
restated 1991 financial statements include a one-time charge to
income of $1,081,202 to reinstate deferred income taxes for GGC. 
Supplemental net income and earnings per share of the Company are
presented below to eliminate the one-time charge and to reflect
income tax expense in periods prior to 1994 as if GGC had not
made the S Corporation election in 1987.

                                               Year ended 
                                            September 30, 1993 
                                            ------------------
                                          (In thousands, except 
                                             per share data)

Supplemental net income                          $ 18,132
                                                 ========
Supplemental net income 
  per share                                      $   1.26
                                                 ========













     Results of operations and net income for the previously
separate companies for periods prior to the merger are as
follows:

                       Quarter ended          Year ended 
                     December 31, 1993     September 30,1993  
                     -----------------     -----------------
                                   (In thousands)           
Operating revenues                
    Atmos                 $119,223               $388,495
    GGC                     26,278                 71,146
                          --------               --------
                          $145,501               $459,641
                          ========               ========
Net income
    Atmos                 $  5,458               $ 15,712
    GGC                      1,630                  1,832
                          --------               --------
                          $  7,088               $ 17,544
                          ========               ========

     The dividends per share presentation on the consolidated
statements of income reflects Atmos dividends declared per share
as adjusted for the 3-for-2 stock split in May 1994.  The cash
dividends per share reflect the per share dividends declared by
Atmos Energy Corporation for the years ended September 30, 1994
and 1993.  The restated cash dividends and distributions per
share reflect the total amounts paid by Atmos and GGC to their
shareholders in each of those two years, divided by the total
amount of weighted average shares outstanding in those periods as
restated for the shares issued to effect the merger between Atmos
and GGC and the 3-for-2 stock split in May 1994.

                                           Year ended 
                                          September 30,
                                         --------------
                                         1994      1993
                                         ----      ----

Cash dividends per share                 $.88      $.85
                                         ====      ====

Restated cash dividends and 
  distributions per share,
  including GGC                          $.84      $.71
                                         ====      ====















3. Long-term debt and notes payable

      Long-term debt at September 30, 1995 and 1994 consisted of
the following:
                                             1995        1994  
                                          ---------    --------
                                              (In thousands)
Unsecured 7.95% Senior Notes, payable
  in annual installments of $1,000,000
  beginning August 31, 1997 through 
  August 31, 2006 with semiannual
  interest payments                       $ 10,000    $ 10,000 
Unsecured 9.57% Senior Notes, payable
  in annual installments of $2,000,000
  beginning September 30, 1997 through 
  September 30, 2006 with semiannual
  interest payments                         20,000      20,000 
Unsecured 9.76% Senior Notes, payable
  in annual installments of $3,000,000
  beginning December 30, 1995 through 
  December 30, 2004 with semiannual
  interest payments                         30,000      30,000 
Unsecured 9.75% Senior Notes, payable
  in varying annual installments     
  through December 30, 1996                  3,000       5,000 
Unsecured 11.2% Senior Notes, payable in
  annual installments of $2,000,000 
  beginning December 30, 1993 through
  December 30, 2002 with semiannual 
  interest payments                         16,000      18,000 
First Mortgage Bonds, 9.4% Series J, due  
  May 1, 2021                               17,000      17,000 
Unsecured 10% Notes, due December 31, 
  2011                                       2,303       2,303 
Unsecured 8.07% Senior Notes, payable in 
  annual installments of $4,000,000 
  beginning October 31, 2002 through 
  October 31, 2006 with semiannual 
  interest payments                         20,000      20,000 
Unsecured 8.26% Senior Notes, payable in 
  annual installments of $1,818,182 
  beginning October 31, 2004 through 
  October 31, 2014 with semiannual 
  interest payments                         20,000      20,000 
                                          --------    -------- 
                                           138,303     142,303 
Less amounts classified as current          (7,000)     (4,000)
                                          --------    -------- 
                                          $131,303    $138,303 
                                          ========    ======== 

     In November 1994, the Company entered into note purchase
agreements with two insurance companies and issued at par
$20,000,000 of unsecured Senior Notes at 8.07% and $20,000,000 of
unsecured Senior Notes at 8.26%.  As a result of this financing,






$40,000,000 of notes payable to banks was classified as long-term
at September 30, 1994.

     During the quarter ended December 31, 1994, the Company paid
installments due of $2,000,000 on its 9.75% Senior Notes and
$2,000,000 on its 11.2% Senior Notes.
  
     The Company may prepay any of the Senior Notes in whole at
any time, subject to a prepayment premium.  The note agreements
provide for certain cash flow requirements and restrictions on
additional indebtedness, sale of assets and payment of dividends. 
Under the most restrictive of such covenants, cumulative cash
dividends paid after September 30, 1988 may not exceed the sum of
75% of accumulated net income for periods after September 30,
1988 plus $12,000,000 plus the proceeds from the sale of common
stock after September 30, 1988.  At September 30, 1995,
approximately $48,451,000 of shareholders' equity was not so
restricted.

     As of September 30, 1995, all of the Company's utility plant
assets in Colorado, Kansas and Missouri with a net book value of
approximately $66,170,000 are subject to a lien under the 9.4%
Series J First Mortgage Bonds assumed by the Company in the
acquisition of GGC.

     Maturities of long-term debt are as follows (in thousands):

     1996                                  $  7,000
     1997                                     9,000
     1998                                     8,000
     1999                                     8,000
     2000                                     8,000
     Thereafter                              98,303
                                           --------
                                           $138,303
                                           ========

Notes payable to banks

     The Company has committed short-term, unsecured bank credit
facilities totaling $90,000,000, all of which was unused at
September 30, 1995.  One facility of $80,000,000 requires a
commitment fee of 1/10 of 1% on the unused portion.  A second
facility for $10,000,000 requires a commitment fee of 3/16 of 1%
on the unused portion.  The committed lines are renewed or
renegotiated at least annually. 

     The Company also had aggregate uncommitted credit lines of
$140,000,000, of which $106,500,000 was unused as of September
30, 1995.  The uncommitted lines have varying terms and the
Company pays no fee for the availability of the lines. 
Borrowings under these lines are made on a when and as-available
basis at the discretion of the banks.  








     The weighted average interest rate on short-term borrowings
outstanding at September 30, 1995 and 1994 were 7.0% and 5.6%,
respectively.

4. Income taxes

     The components of income tax expense for 1995, 1994 and 1993
are as follows:     
                                    1995        1994      1993 
                                  -------     -------   -------
                                           (In thousands) 
Current                            $6,765      $7,858   $ 7,340
Deferred                            2,809         244     2,733
                                   ------      ------   -------
                                   $9,574      $8,102   $10,073
                                   ======      ======   =======

     Included in the provision for income taxes are state income
taxes of $506,000, $328,000, and $890,000 for 1995, 1994, and
1993, respectively.

     Effective October 1, 1993, the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income
Taxes" ("SFAS No. 109") and, as permitted under these rules,
prior years' financial statements have not been restated. 
Adoption of the new standard in 1994 had no significant effect on
net income.

     This standard changes the Company's method of accounting for
income taxes from the deferred method (APB 11) to the liability
method.  Previously the Company deferred the past tax effects of
timing differences between financial reporting and taxable
income.  Under the liability method of SFAS No. 109, deferred tax
assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future
tax effects of differences between the financial statement
carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their
respective tax bases.  

















     Deferred income taxes reflect the tax effect of differences
between the basis of assets and liabilities for book and tax
purposes.  The tax effect of temporary differences that give rise
to significant components of the deferred tax liabilities and
deferred tax assets at September 30, 1995 and 1994 are presented
below:
                                          1995            1994 
                                        -------         -------
                                              (In thousands)
Deferred tax assets
  Costs expensed for book purposes 
    and capitalized for tax purposes    $   872         $   914
  Accruals not currently deductible
    for tax purposes                      1,045           1,929
  Customer advances                       2,020           2,365
  Nonqualified benefit plans              7,107           5,074
  Postretirement benefits                 2,187           1,442
  Other, net                              2,902           1,198
                                        -------         -------
    Total deferred tax assets            16,133          12,922

Deferred tax liabilities
  Tax and book basis of utility plant    43,549          37,316
  Prepaid pensions                        4,528           4,640
  Other, net                              1,176           1,150
                                        -------         -------
    Total deferred tax liabilities       49,253          43,106
                                        -------         -------
Net deferred tax liabilities            $33,120         $30,184
                                        =======         =======
SFAS No. 109 deferred accounts for
  rate regulated entities (included
  in other deferred credits):
    Liabilities                         $ 2,580         $ 2,647
                                        =======         =======


















     During 1993, deferred income taxes were provided for
significant timing differences in recognition of revenues and
expenses for tax and financial reporting purposes.  The effects
of these timing differences at September 30, 1993 were as
follows:
                                             ------ 
                                         (In thousands)  
Excess of tax over financial
  depreciation and amortization              $1,754 
Items capitalized for financial
  reporting and recognized currently
  for tax reporting                             416 
Deferred gas service revenue 
  recognized currently for tax 
  reporting                                   1,464 
Other, net                                     (901)
                                             ------ 
    Total deferred income taxes              $2,733 
                                             ====== 

     Reconciliations of the provisions for income taxes computed
at the statutory rate to the reported provisions for income taxes
for 1995, 1994 and 1993 are set forth below:

                                                        Deferred
                                      Liability Method   Method  
                                      ----------------  -------- 
                                       1995      1994      1993  
                                      ------   -------   ------- 
                                             (In thousands) 
Tax at statutory rate of 34% 
  through December 31, 1992 
  and 35% thereafter                  $9,956   $ 7,992   $ 9,603 
Financial expenses, not deductible 
  for tax reporting                       35       503       680 
Common stock dividends deductible 
  for tax reporting                     (619)     (573)     (462)
State taxes                              261       328       682 
Other, net                               (59)     (148)     (430)
                                      ------   -------   ------- 
Provision for income taxes            $9,574   $ 8,102   $10,073 
                                      ======   =======   ======= 

5. Stock split

     On February 9, 1994, the Board of Directors of Atmos ap-
proved a 3-for-2 split of its common stock implemented in the
form of a stock dividend, which resulted in shareholders
receiving one new share for every two shares held.  Fractional
shares were not issued but were paid in cash or credited to the
accounts of participants of the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock
Purchase Plan ("DRSPP") and ESOP.  The record date for the split
was May 4, 1994 and the payment date for mailing the new shares
and cash for fractional shares to shareholders was May 16, 1994. 






All share and per share amounts in the financial statements and
notes thereto have been restated to reflect this split, unless
otherwise noted.

6. Common stock and stock options

     At the annual meeting of shareholders on February 8, 1995,
the shareholders approved an increase in the number of authorized
shares of common stock from 50,000,000 to 75,000,000.

     The Company issued 221,946 shares of its common stock in
fiscal 1995 in connection with its Restricted Stock Grant Plan
and Employee Stock Ownership Plan.  

     The Company has an Employee Stock Ownership Plan as dis-
cussed in Note 7.  The Company has registered 1,600,000 shares
for issuance under the plan, of which 874,830 shares were
available for future issuance on September 30, 1995.

     In August 1992, the Company announced a Direct Stock
Purchase Plan ("DSPP") which was the successor to and replacement
for the Dividend Reinvestment Plan ("DRP").  Members of the DRP
were automatically enrolled in the DSPP.  In November 1993, the
Company amended the DSPP to remove the direct stock purchase
feature of the plan and to rename the plan the Atmos Energy
Corporation Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan
("DRSPP").  In January 1995, the direct stock purchase feature
was reinstated and the name was changed back to the Direct Stock
Purchase Plan.  Participants in the DSPP may have all or part of
their dividends reinvested at a 3% discount from market prices. 
DSPP participants may purchase additional shares of Company com-
mon stock as often as weekly with voluntary cash payments of at
least $25, up to an annual maximum of $100,000.  At September 30,
1995, 712,596 shares were available for future issuance under the
plan. 

     On April 27, 1988, the Company adopted a Shareholders'
Rights Plan (the "Rights Plan") and declared a dividend of one
right (a "Right") for each outstanding pre-split share of common
stock of the Company, payable to shareholders of record as of May
10, 1988.  Each Right will entitle the holder thereof, until the
earlier of May 10, 1998 or the date of redemption of the Rights,
to buy one share of common stock of the Company at an exercise
price of $30 per share, subject to adjustment by the Board of
Directors upon the occurrence of certain events.  The Rights will
be represented by the common stock certificates and are not
exercisable or transferable apart from the common stock until a
"Distribution Date" (which is defined in the Rights Agreement
between the Company and the Rights Agent as the date upon which
the Rights become separate from the common stock).

     At no time will the Rights have any voting rights.  The
exercise price payable and the number of shares of common stock
or other securities or property issuable upon exercise of the
Rights are subject to adjustment from time to time to prevent






dilution.  Until the Distribution Date, the Company will issue
one Right with each share of common stock that becomes
outstanding so that all shares of common stock will have attached
Rights.  After a Distribution Date, the Company may issue Rights
when it issues common stock if the Board deems such issuance to
be necessary or appropriate.

     The Rights have certain anti-takeover effects and may cause
substantial dilution to a person or entity that attempts to
acquire the Company on terms not approved by the Board of
Directors except pursuant to an offer conditioned upon a
substantial number of Rights being acquired.  The Rights should
not interfere with any merger or other business combination
approved by the Board of Directors because, prior to the time the
Rights become exercisable or transferable, the Rights may be
redeemed by the Company at $.05 per Right.

     The Company had an Incentive Stock Option Plan for key
employees covering an aggregate of 100,000 shares of common
stock.  The plan provided for options to be granted at prices not
less than the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant
and to be exercisable over ten years from such date in cumulative
annual installments of 25% of the aggregate shares granted,
commencing one year after the date of grant.  At September 30,
1993, no options were outstanding under the plan.  The Company
allowed the plan to expire in October 1993 without granting
additional options.

     The following table summarizes the status of the expired
Incentive Stock Option Plan as of September 30, 1993:      

                                   --------------------
                                                Price  
                                    Shares    per share
                                   -------  -----------
Outstanding options at beginning 
  of year                           6,000   $9.25-10.63
Exercised                          (6,000)   9.25-10.63
                                   ------              
Outstanding options at end 
  of year                               -             -
                                   ======              

Exercisable options at end 
  of year                               -              
Options available for future 
  grants (pre-split)                8,150              


     The Company's Restricted Stock Grant Plan for management and
key employees of the Company, which became effective October 1,
1987, provides for awards of common stock that are subject to
certain restrictions.  The plan is administered by the Board of
Directors.  The members of the Board who are not employees of the






Company make the final determinations regarding participation in
the plan, awards under the plan, and restrictions on the re-
stricted stock awarded.  The restricted stock may consist of
previously issued shares purchased on the open market or shares
issued directly from the Company.  The Company registered 600,000
shares (900,000 post-split shares) for issuance under the plan. 
Compensation expense of $1,015,000, $1,164,000 and $735,000 was
recognized in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively, in connection
with the issuance of shares under the plan.  At September 30,
1995, 377,300 shares were available for future award under the
plan.

     In November 1994, the Board adopted the Outside Directors
Stock-for-Fee Plan, which plan was approved by the shareholders
of the Company in February 1995.  The plan permits non-employee
directors to receive all or part of their annual retainer and
meeting fees in stock rather than in cash.  The Company has
registered 50,000 shares, all of which were available for future
issuance under the plan as of September 30, 1995.

7.   Employee retirement and stock ownership plans

     At September 30, 1995, the Company had three defined benefit
pension plans.  One covers the Western Kentucky Division employ-
ees, one covers the Greeley Gas Division employees, and the third
covers all other Atmos employees.  The plans provide essentially
the same benefits to all employees.  Benefits are based on years
of service and the employee's compensation during the highest
paid five consecutive calendar years within the last 10 years of
employment.  The Company's funding policy is to contribute
annually an amount in accordance with the requirements of the Em-
ployee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.  Contributions are
intended to provide not only for benefits attributed to service
to date but also for those expected to be earned in the future.  

















 





     The following table sets forth the Atmos plan's funded
status at September 30, 1995 and 1994:

                                        1995            1994   
                                      --------        -------- 
                                            (In thousands)
Actuarial present value of benefit 
  obligations          

  Accumulated benefit obligation, 
    including vested benefits of 
    $74,967 and $63,658 in 1995 
    and 1994, respectively            $(75,529)       $(64,805)
                                      ========        ======== 
  Projected benefit obligation        $(84,182)       $(73,895)
  Plan assets at fair value             82,464          73,454 
                                      --------        -------- 
  Funded status                         (1,718)           (441)
  Unrecognized net asset being
    recognized over 15 years              (416)           (633)
  Unrecognized prior service cost       (1,812)         (1,955)
  Unrecognized net loss                  3,514           3,326 
                                      --------        -------- 
  (Accrued) prepaid pension cost      $   (432)       $    297 
                                      ========        ======== 

     Net periodic pension cost for the Atmos plan for 1995, 1994
and 1993 included the following components:

                                   1995        1994        1993 
                                 -------      ------      ------ 
                                           (In thousands)
Service cost                     $ 1,862      $1,846      $1,543 
Interest cost on projected 
  benefit obligation               6,060       5,614       5,242 
Actual return on plan assets     (12,200)       (955)     (9,445)
Net amortization and deferral      5,007      (5,778)      3,206 
                                 -------      ------      ------ 
Net periodic pension cost        $   729      $  727      $  546 
                                 =======      ======      ====== 
















     The following table sets forth the Western Kentucky Gas
Division plan's funded status at September 30, 1995 and 1994: 

                                        1995            1994   
                                     ---------       --------- 
                                           (In thousands)    
Actuarial present value of benefit 
  obligations
  Accumulated benefit obligation, 
    including vested benefits of 
    $27,236 and $24,247 in 1995 
    and 1994, respectively            $(27,262)       $(24,874)
                                      ========        ======== 
  Projected benefit obligation        $(31,642)       $(28,328)
  Plan assets at fair value             42,216          37,409 
                                      --------        -------- 
  Funded status                         10,574           9,081 
  Unrecognized prior service cost        2,855           3,378 
  Unrecognized net gain                 (2,468)         (1,442)
                                      --------        -------- 
  Prepaid pension cost                $ 10,961        $ 11,017 
                                      ========        ======== 

     Net periodic pension cost for 1995, 1994 and 1993 included
the following components:

                                  1995        1994        1993   
                                --------    --------    -------- 
                                         (In thousands)

Service cost                    $    706    $    729    $    639 
Interest cost                      2,306       2,160       2,016 
Actual return on plan assets      (6,355)        324      (5,604)
Net amortization and deferral      3,399      (3,097)      3,110 
                                --------    --------    -------- 
Net periodic pension cost       $     56    $    116    $    161 
                                ========    ========    ======== 


     The weighted-average discount rates used in determining the
actuarial present value of the projected benefit obligations of
the Atmos and WKG retirement plans were 7.5% and 8.375% at June
30, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  The rate of increase in future
compensation levels reflected in such determination was 4.0% and
4.5% for the years ended September 30, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.  The expected long-term rate of return on plan
assets was 10.0%, 9.5% and 8.5% for the years ended September 30,
1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.  The plan assets consist
primarily of investments in common stocks, interest bearing
securities and interests in commingled pension trust funds. 
Prepaid pension cost is included in deferred charges and other
assets.









     The following table sets forth the Greeley Gas Division
plan's funded status at September 30, 1995 and 1994:

                                        1995            1994   
                                      --------        -------- 
                                               (In thousands)
Actuarial present value of benefit 
  obligations          

  Accumulated benefit obligation, 
    including vested benefits of 
    $13,134 and $12,849 in 1995 
    and 1994, respectively            $(13,385)       $(13,206)
                                      ========        ======== 
  Projected benefit obligation        $(15,148)       $(15,020)
  Plan assets at fair value             14,607          13,140 
                                      --------        -------- 
  Funded status                           (541)         (1,880)
  Unrecognized net asset being
    recognized over 15 years            (1,810)         (2,100)
  Unrecognized prior service cost          419             455 
  Unrecognized net loss                  1,370           3,186 
                                      --------        -------- 
  Accrued pension cost                $   (562)       $   (339)
                                      ========        ======== 

     Net periodic pension cost (credit) for the Greeley Gas
Division plan for 1995, 1994 and 1993 included the following
components:

                                   1995        1994        1993 
                                  ------     -------     ------- 
                                           (In thousands)
Service cost                      $  328     $   486     $   374 
Interest cost on projected 
  benefit obligation               1,208       1,039         954 
Actual return on plan assets      (2,530)        441      (1,180)
Net amortization and deferral      1,217      (1,795)       (257)
                                  ------     -------     ------- 
Net periodic pension 
  cost (credit)                   $  223     $   171     $  (109)
                                  ======     =======     ======= 

     Accumulated plan benefits were computed using the Projected
Unit Credit funding method.  The discount rate and rate of in-
crease in future compensation levels used in determining the
actuarial present value of the projected benefit obligations were
7.5% and 4.0%, respectively, in 1995 and 8.375% and 4.5%, respec-
tively, in 1994.  The expected long-term rate of return on plan
assets was 10.0%, 9.5% and 9.0% in 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively.  Plan assets consist primarily of corporate bonds,
equity securities, mutual funds, partnership interests, and other
miscellaneous investments.  The actual return on plan assets in
1994 resulted in a loss of $.4 million due to writedowns of
certain plan assets to reflect current market value.






     Effective October 1, 1987, the Company adopted a nonquali-
fied Supplemental Executive Benefits Plan ("Supplemental Plan")
which provides additional pension, disability and death benefits
to the officers and certain other employees of the Company. 
Expense recognized in connection with the Supplemental Plan
during fiscal 1995, 1994 and 1993 was $2,158,000, $2,062,000 and
$1,492,000, respectively.

     The Company sponsors an Employee Stock Ownership Plan
("ESOP").  Full time employees who have completed one year of
service, as defined in the plan, are eligible to participate. 
Each participant enters into a salary reduction agreement with
the Company pursuant to which the participant's salary is reduced
by an amount not less than 2% nor more than 10%.  Taxes on the
amount by which the participant's salary is reduced are deferred
pursuant to Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code.  The
amount of the salary reduction is contributed by the Company to
the ESOP for the account of the participant.  The Company may
make a matching contribution for the account of the participant
in an amount determined each year by the Board of Directors,
which amount must be at least equal to 25% of all or a portion of
the participant's salary reduction.  For the 1995 plan year, the
Board of Directors elected to match 100% of each participant's
salary reduction contribution up to 4% of the participant's
salary.  These matching percentages have also been approved for
the 1996 plan year.  Matching contributions to the ESOP amounted
to $1,977,000, $1,780,000, and $1,413,000 for 1995, 1994 and
1993, respectively.  The Directors may also approve discretionary
contributions, subject to the provisions of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 and applicable regulations of the Internal Revenue
Service.  The Company recorded a charge of $1,000,000 for a
discretionary contribution in the year ended September 30, 1993. 
Company contributions to the plan are expensed as incurred.    

     Effective January 1, 1988, the Greeley Gas Division adopted
a 401(k) plan that covers substantially all the Greeley Gas
Division employees.  Employee contributions were limited to 6% of
base compensation.  The Company matched 50% of employee
contributions.  Total employer contributions to the 401(k) plan
were $141,000 and $230,000 for the periods ended September 30,
1994 and 1993 respectively.  Contributions to the plan were
discontinued on March 31, 1994 and participants were enrolled in
the Atmos ESOP on April 1, 1994.  

8.   Other postretirement benefits

     In addition to providing pension benefits, the Company
provides certain other postretirement benefits for retired
employees, the major benefit being health care.  To be eligible
for these benefits, an employee must retire under the terms of
the Company's retirement plans.  Prior to 1994, the cost of other
postretirement benefits was recognized by expensing claims and
annual insurance premiums as incurred.  In fiscal 1993, these
costs totaled $1,453,000. 







     Effective October 1, 1993, the Company adopted Financial
Accounting Standards No. 106 ("SFAS No. 106"), "Employers'
Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions". 
SFAS No. 106 focuses principally on postretirement health care
benefits and significantly changed the practice of accounting for
postretirement benefits on a pay-as-you-go basis by requiring
accrual of such benefit costs at Atmos on an actuarial basis from
the date each employee reaches age 45 until the date of full
eligibility for such benefits.  The Company is amortizing on a
straight line basis the initial transition obligation of
$33,354,000 over 20 years.  The effect of adopting the new rules
increased net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the year
ended September 30, 1994 by $3,789,000 and decreased net income
by $2,440,000.  Approximately $746,000 of this increased cost was
recovered through rates during 1994.

     Atmos sponsors two defined benefit postretirement plans
other than pensions.  One plan provides medical, dental, and
vision benefits to retired employees of Greeley Gas Company.  The
other offers medical benefits to all other retired Atmos
employees.  Substantially all of the Company's employees may
become eligible for these benefits if they reach retirement age
while working for the Company and attain 10 consecutive years of
service.  Participant contributions are required under these
plans.  Prior to June 1994, the plans were not funded.  In June
1994, the Company made its first quarterly payment to the
external trust set up to fund SFAS No. 106 costs in excess of the
pay-as-you-go cost in Kansas in accordance with an order of the
Kansas Corporation Commission.  In April, 1995 it began external
funding in Colorado in accordance with an order of the Colorado
Public Utility Commission.  The amount of funding will ultimately
depend upon the ratemaking treatment allowed in the Company's
various rate jurisdictions.  

     The components of net periodic postretirement benefit cost
for each of the years ended September 30, 1995 and 1994 are as
follows:

                                               1995      1994
                                              ------    ------
                                                (In thousands)

Service cost                                  $1,497    $1,817 
Interest cost                                  2,322     2,269 
Actual return on plan assets                     (18)        - 
Amortization of transition obligation          1,549     1,668 
Net amortization and deferral                   (150)        - 
                                              ------    ------
Net periodic postretirement benefit cost      $5,200    $5,754 
                                              ======    ======




 





     The following is a reconciliation of the funded status of
the plans to the net postretirement benefits liability on the
balance sheet as of September 30, 1995 and 1994:

                                                1995      1994  
                                             --------   -------- 
                                                (In thousands)

Accumulated postretirement 
  benefit obligation 
    Retirees                                 $(20,402)  $(18,083)
    Fully eligible employees                   (5,906)    (6,827)
    Other employees                            (4,468)    (4,206)
                                             --------   -------- 
                                              (30,776)   (29,116)

Plan assets                                       594        274 
                                             --------   -------- 
Accumulated postretirement benefit 
  obligation in excess of plan assets         (30,182)   (28,842)
Unrecognized prior service cost                     -     (2,256)
Unrecognized net gain                          (3,807)    (4,105)
Unrecognized transition obligation             27,892     31,686 
                                             --------   -------- 
Accrued postretirement benefits liability    $ (6,097)  $ (3,517)
                                             ========   ======== 

     In the latest actuarial calculation of the accrued postre-
tirement benefits liability, the assumed health care cost trend
rate used to estimate the cost of postretirement benefits was
9.5% for 1995, 8.5% for 1996 and is assumed to decrease gradually
to 5.0% for 2000 and remain at that level thereafter.  Similarly,
the dental trend rate is 7.5% for 1995 and decreases to 7.0% for
1996 at which time dental benefits will be discontinued.  The
trend for vision benefits is assumed to remain level for all
years at 4.5%.  The effect of a 1% increase in the assumed health
care cost trend rate for each future year is $353,000 and
$410,000 on the annual aggregate of the service and interest cost
components of net periodic postretirement benefit costs and
$2,355,000 and $2,279,000 on the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation as of September 30, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.  The assumed discount rate, the rate at which
liabilities could be settled, was 7.5% and 8.25% as of September
30, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

     The Company is currently recovering other postretirement
benefit ("OPEB") costs through its regulated rates under SFAS No.
106 accrual accounting in Colorado, Kansas, the majority of its
Texas service area and in Kentucky (effective November 1, 1995). 
It recovers OPEB costs on the pay-as-you-go basis in Louisiana.  
Management believes that accrual accounting in accordance with
SFAS No. 106 is appropriate and will continue to seek rate
recovery of accrual-based expenses in its ratemaking jurisdic-
tions that have not yet approved the recovery of these expenses. 
The ultimate impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 106 on the






Company's financial position and results of operations will not
be known with certainty until the regulatory treatment that will
be allowed in each of the Company's ratemaking jurisdictions is
determined.

9.   Postemployment benefits

     The Company also provides postemployment benefits, primarily
workers' compensation, to former or inactive employees after
employment but before retirement.  Effective October 1, 1994, the
Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
112, "Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits" ("SFAS
No. 112").  SFAS No. 112 requires that certain benefits provided
to former or inactive employees, after employment but before
retirement, such as workers' compensation, disability benefits
and health care continuation coverage be accrued if attributable
to the employees' prior service.  Prior to October 1, 1994, such
postemployment benefit costs were recorded and recovered in rates
on the pay-as-you-go basis.  Both the cumulative effect of
adopting SFAS No. 112, as well as the effect of the new standard
upon the recurring expense being recognized for these benefits in
1995, were not material.

10.  Contingencies

     On March 15, 1991, suit was filed in the 15th Judicial
District Court of Lafayette Parish, Louisiana, by the "Lafayette
Daily Advertiser" and others against the Trans La Division, Trans
Louisiana Industrial Gas Company, Inc. ("TLIG"), a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company, and Louisiana Intrastate Gas
Corporation and certain of its affiliates ("LIG").  LIG is the
Company's primary supplier of natural gas in Louisiana and is not
otherwise affiliated with the Company.

     The plaintiffs purported to represent a class consisting of
all residential and commercial gas customers in the Trans La
Division's service area.  Among other things, the lawsuit alleged
that the defendants violated antitrust laws of the state of
Louisiana by manipulating the cost-of-gas component of the Trans
La Division's gas rate to the purported customer class, thereby
causing such purported class members to pay a higher rate.  The
plaintiffs made no specific allegation of an amount of damages.

     The defendants brought an appeal to the Louisiana Supreme
Court of rulings by the trial court and the Third Circuit Court
of Appeal which denied defendants' exceptions to the jurisdiction
of the trial court.  It was the position of the defendants that
the plaintiffs' claims amount to complaints about the level of
gas rates and should be within the exclusive jurisdiction of the
Louisiana Commission.

     On January 19, 1993, the Louisiana Supreme Court issued a
decision reversing in part the lower courts' rulings, dismissing
all of plaintiffs' claims against the defendants which seek
damages due to alleged overcharges and further ruling that all






such claims are within the exclusive jurisdiction of the
Louisiana Commission.  Any claims which seek damages other than
overcharges were remanded to the trial court but were stayed
pending the completion of the Louisiana Commission proceeding
referred to below.

     The Company has reached a tentative settlement with the
plaintiffs in the context of the Louisiana Commission proceeding
referred to below, which settlement will resolve all outstanding
issues relating to the Company, subject to certain procedural
conditions.

     On July 14, 1995, the Louisiana Commission entered an order
approving a settlement with the Company and TLIG in connection
with its investigation of the costs included in the Trans La
Division's purchased gas adjustment component in its rates.  The
order exonerated the Company of any wrongdoing or manipulation of
the cost of gas component of its gas rate to residential and
commercial customers.  In the settlement, the Company agreed to
refund approximately $541,000 plus interest to the Trans La
Division's customers over a two-year period due to certain issues
related to the calculation of the weighted average cost of gas. 
The refund totaling approximately $1,016,000, which includes
interest calculated through October 1, 1995, began in September
1995 and will be credited to customer bills along with interest
that accrues after October 1, 1995.  Most of the issues that
generated the refunds arose before Trans Louisiana Gas Company
was acquired by the Company in 1986.

     The Greeley Gas Company Division of the Company is a
defendant in several lawsuits filed as a result of a fire in a
building in Steamboat Springs, Colorado on February 3, 1994.  The
plaintiffs claim that the fire resulted from a leak in a severed
gas service line owned by the Greeley Division.  The Company
believes that the evidence shows that any damage to the line was
caused by a third party or parties and occurred prior to the
Company's acquisition of Greeley Gas Company in 1993.  The
Company has adequate insurance and/or reserves to cover any
potential damages that may be awarded against the Company in this
matter and has been informed by its insurance carrier that the
Company's insurance policy will cover punitive damages.  The
Company believes that the allegations against it are without
merit and will vigorously protect its interest in this matter. 

     From time to time, claims are made and lawsuits are filed
against the Company arising out of the ordinary business of the
Company.  In the opinion of the Company's management,
liabilities, if any, arising from these actions are either
covered by insurance, adequately reserved for by the Company or
would not have a material adverse effect on the financial
condition of the Company.










11.  Statement of cash flows

     Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information for 1995,
1994 and 1993 are presented below:

                                    1995       1994       1993
                                  -------     -------    -------
                                           (In thousands)
Cash paid for
  Interest                        $11,503     $12,756     $13,436
  Income taxes                     10,123       6,352       8,190

12.  Leases 

     The Company has entered into noncancelable leases involving
office space and warehouse space.  The remaining lease terms
range from one to 20 years and generally provide for the payment
of taxes, insurance and maintenance by the lessee.  Net property,
plant and equipment included amounts for capital leases of
$2,694,000 and $5,664,000 at September 30, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.

     The related future minimum lease payments at September 30,
1995 were as follows:
                                          Capital      Operating 
                                           leases        leases  
                                         --------       -------- 
                                             (In thousands)    

    1996                                   $  568        $ 7,163 
    1997                                      568          7,118 
    1998                                      568          6,951 
    1999                                      568          6,905 
    2000                                      568          6,827 
    Thereafter                              3,415         45,399 
                                           ------        ------- 
    Total minimum lease payments            6,255        $80,363 
                                                         ======= 
    Less amount representing interest      (3,373)
                                           ------ 
    Present value of net minimum             
      lease payments                       $2,882 
                                           ====== 

     Consolidated rent expense amounted to $6,643,000, $6,490,000
and $5,277,000 for fiscal 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. 
Rents are expensed and recovered in rates on a pay-as-you-go
basis.





 





SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

     Summarized unaudited quarterly financial data are presented
below. The sum of net income per share by quarter may not equal
the net income per share for the year due to variations in the
weighted average shares outstanding used in computing such
amounts.


















ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON   
          ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

None

                             PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information regarding directors is incorporated herein by
reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement for the
annual meeting of shareholders on February 14, 1996.

     Information regarding executive officers is included in Part
I.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's
definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of shareholders
on February 14, 1996.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND   
          MANAGEMENT 

     Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's
definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of shareholders
on February 14, 1996.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS 

     Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's
definitive proxy statement for the annual meeting of shareholders
on February 14, 1996.





















                             PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON
          FORM 8-K 

(a) 1 and 2. Financial statements and financial statement
schedules.

     The financial statements listed in the accompanying Index to
Financial Statements are filed as part of this annual report.  No
financial statement schedules are required in this filing.

  3. Exhibits 

     The exhibits listed in the accompanying Exhibits Index are
filed as part of this annual report.  The exhibits numbered
10.19(a) through 10.27(c) and 10.29 are management contracts or
compensatory plans or arrangements.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K 

     None. 
























                  INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                     (Item 8, 14(a) 1 and 2)

                                                            Page
                                                           Number

Financial statements:
   Consolidated balance sheets at September 30, 
     1995 and 1994                                             31

   Consolidated statements of income for the 
     years ended September 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993             32

   Consolidated statements of shareholders' 
     equity for the years ended September 30, 
     1995, 1994 and 1993                                       33
                                                                 
   Consolidated statements of cash flows for the years
     ended September 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993                   34

   Notes to consolidated financial statements               36-56

Independent auditors' report                                   30


   All financial statement schedules are omitted because the
required information is not present, or not present in amounts
sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the
information required is included in the financial statements and
accompanying notes thereto.





















                            SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized. 

                  
                                     ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION 
                                           (Registrant) 

                                    By  /s/ JAMES F. PURSER       
                                       -----------------------
                                        James F. Purser 
                                    Executive Vice President and
                                       Chief Financial Officer

Date:   December 14, 1995


                         POWER OF ATTORNEY


   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose
signature appears below hereby constitutes and appoints James F.
Purser, his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full
power of substitution and resubstitution, for him and in his
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and
all amendments to this Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all
exhibits thereto, and all other documents in connection there-
with, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto
said attorney-in-fact and agent full power and authority to do
and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary
to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorney-in-fact and agent, or his substitute or substitutes, may
lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.


   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date
indicated: 


/s/ CHARLES K. VAUGHAN       Chairman of        December 14, 1995
- -------------------------    the Board 
    Charles K. Vaughan



/s/ ROBERT F. STEPHENS       President and      December 14, 1995
- -------------------------    Chief Operating
    Robert F. Stephens       Officer, Director









/s/ JAMES F. PURSER          Executive Vice     December 14, 1995
- -------------------------    President and 
    James F. Purser          Chief Financial
                             Officer, Director                   


 
/s/ DAVID L. BICKERSTAFF     Vice President     December 14, 1995
- -------------------------    and Controller 
    David L. Bickerstaff     (Principal
                             accounting officer)



/s/ TRAVIS W. BAIN, II       Director           December 14, 1995
- -------------------------
    Travis W. Bain, II



/s/ DAN BUSBEE               Director           December 14, 1995
- -------------------------
    Dan Busbee



/s/ THOMAS C. MEREDITH       Director           December 14, 1995
- -------------------------
    Thomas C. Meredith




/s/ PHILLIP E. NICHOL        Director           December 14, 1995 
- -------------------------
    Phillip E. Nichol 




/s/ JOHN W. NORRIS, JR.      Director           December 14, 1995 
- -------------------------
    John W. Norris, Jr. 




/s/ CARL S. QUINN            Director           December 14, 1995 
- -------------------------
    Carl S. Quinn            












                             Director           December 14, 1995 
- -------------------------
    Lee E. Schlessman       




/s/ RICHARD WARE II          Director           December 14, 1995 
- -------------------------
    Richard Ware II          






































                                    EXHIBITS INDEX
                                   Item 14. (a) (3)

                                                            Page Number or
       Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
       Number                Description                     Reference to
      --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

      3.1       Restated Articles of Incorporation,
                as amended as of February 9, 1995

      3.2       By-Laws of Atmos Energy Corporation
                (As amended as of November 9, 1994)

      4.1       Specimen Common Stock Certificate     Exhibit (4) of the
                (Energas Company)                     October 28, 1983 Form 10
                                                      (File No. 0-11249)

      4.2       Specimen Common Stock Certificate     Exhibit (4) (b) of Form
                (Atmos Energy Corporation)            10-K for fiscal year
                                                      ended September 30, 1988
                                                      (File No. 1-10042)

      4.3(a)    Rights Agreement, dated as of April   Exhibit (1) of Form 8-K
                27, 1988, between the Company and     filed May 10, 1988 (File
                Morgan Shareholder Services Trust     No. 0-11249)
                Company

      4.3(b)    Amendment No. 1 to Rights Agreement,  Exhibit 4.3(b) of Form
                dated August 10, 1994                 10-K for fiscal year
                                                      ended September 30, 1994
                                                      (File No. 1-10042)

      4.3(c)    Certificate of Adjusted Price, dated  Exhibit 4.3(c) of Form
                August 15, 1994                       10-K for fiscal year
                                                      ended September 30, 1994
                                                      (File No. 1-10042)

      9         Not applicable

      10.1(a)   Note Purchase Agreement, dated        Exhibit (10)(a)(i) of
                December 30, 1986, by and between     Form 10-K for fiscal year
                the Company and John Hancock Mutual   ended September 30, 1991
                Life Insurance Company                (File No. 1-10042)

                Note Purchase Agreement, dated
                December 30, 1986, by and between
                the Company and Mellon Bank, N.A.,
                Trustee under Master Trust Agreement
                of NYNEX Corporation dated January
                1, 1984 for Employee Pension Plans -
                NYNEX - John Hancock - Private
                Placement.  (Agreement is identical
                to the Hancock Agreement listed
                above except as to the parties
                thereto.)


 




                                                            Page Number or
       Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
       Number                Description                     Reference to
      --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

      10.1(b)   Letter, dated November 13, 1987,      Exhibit 28(a) of Form 8-K
                from John Hancock Mutual Life         filed January 7, 1988
                Insurance Company to the Company      (File No. 0-11249)
      
                Letter, dated November 13, 1987,
                from Mellon Bank, N.A., Trustee
                under Master Trust Agreement of
                NYNEX Corporation dated January 1,
                1984 for Employee Pension Plans -
                NYNEX - John Hancock - Private
                Placement to the Company (Mellon
                letter is identical to the Hancock
                letter listed above except as to the
                parties thereto.)
      10.1(c)   Amendment to Note Purchase            Exhibit (10)(a)(iii) of
                Agreement, dated October 11, 1989,    Form 10-K for fiscal year
                by and between the Company and John   ended September 30, 1989
                Hancock Mutual Life Insurance         (File No. 1-10042)
                Company revising Note Purchase
                Agreement dated December 30, 1986

                Amendment to Note Purchase
                Agreement, dated October 11, 1989,
                by and between the Company and
                Mellon Bank, N.A., Trustee under
                Master Trust Agreement of NYNEX
                Corporation dated January 1, 1984
                for Employee Pension Plans - NYNEX -
                John Hancock - Private Placement
                revising Note Purchase Agreement
                dated December 30, 1986.  (This
                amendment is identical to the
                Hancock amendment listed above
                except as to the parties thereto.)

      10.1(d)   Amendment to Note Purchase            Exhibit (10)(a)(iv) of
                Agreement, dated November 12, 1991,   Form 10-K for fiscal year
                by and between the Company and John   ended September 30, 1991
                Hancock Mutual Life Insurance         (File No. 1-10042)
                Company revising Note Purchase
                Agreement dated December 30, 1986.















                                                            Page Number or
       Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
       Number                Description                     Reference to
      --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

                Amendment to Note Purchase
                Agreement, dated November 12, 1991,
                by and between the Company and
                Mellon Bank, N.A., Trustee under
                Master Trust Agreement of NYNEX
                Corporation dated January 1, 1984
                for Employee Pension Plans - NYNEX -
                John Hancock - Private Placement
                revising Note Purchase Agreement
                dated December 30, 1986.  (This
                amendment is identical to the
                Hancock amendment listed above
                except as to the parties thereto.)


      10.2(a)   Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of  Exhibit 10(c) of Form 8-K
                December 21, 1987, by and between     filed January 7, 1988
                the Company and John Hancock Mutual   (File No. 0-11249)
                Life Insurance Company
                Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of
                December 21, 1987, by and between
                the Company and John Hancock
                Charitable Trust I (Agreement is
                identical to Hancock Agreement
                listed above except as to the
                parties thereto.)

                Note Purchase Agreement dated as of
                December 21, 1987, by and between
                the Company and Mellon Bank, N.A.,
                Trustee under Master Trust Agreement
                of AT&T Corporation, dated January
                1, 1984, for Employee Pension Plans
                - AT&T - John Hancock - Private
                Placement (Agreement is identical to
                Hancock Agreement listed above
                except as to the parties thereto.)

      10.2(b)   Amendment to Note Purchase            Exhibit (10)(b)(ii) of
                Agreement, dated October 11, 1989,    Form 10-K for fiscal year
                by and between the Company and John   ended September 30, 1989
                Hancock Mutual Life Insurance         (File No. 1-10042)
                Company revising Note Purchase
                Agreement dated December 21, 1987












                                                            Page Number or
       Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
       Number                Description                     Reference to
      --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

                Amendment to Note Purchase
                Agreement, dated October 11, 1989,
                by and between the Company and John
                Hancock Charitable Trust I revising
                Note Purchase Agreement dated
                December 21, 1987.  (Amendment is
                identical to Hancock amendment
                listed above except as to the
                parties thereto.)

                Amendment to Note Purchase
                Agreement, dated October 11, 1989,
                by and between the Company and
                Mellon Bank, N.A., Trustee under
                Master Trust Agreement of AT&T
                Corporation, dated January 1, 1984,
                for Employee Pension Plans - AT&T -
                John Hancock - Private Placement
                revising Note Purchase Agreement
                dated December 21, 1987 (Amendment
                is identical to Hancock amendment
                listed above except as to the
                parties thereto.)

      10.2(c)   Amendment to Note Purchase            Exhibit 10(b)(iii) of
                Agreement, dated November 12, 1991,   Form 10-K for fiscal year
                by and between the Company and John   ended September 30, 1991
                Hancock Mutual Life Insurance         (File No. 1-10042)
                Company revising Note Purchase
                Agreement dated December 21, 1987

                Amendment to Note Purchase
                Agreement, dated November 12, 1991,
                by and between the Company and John
                Hancock Charitable Trust I revising
                Note Purchase Agreement dated
                December 21, 1987.  (Amendment is
                identical to Hancock amendment
                listed above except as to the
                parties thereto.)







 



                                                            Page Number or
       Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
       Number                Description                     Reference to
      --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

                Amendment to Note Purchase
                Agreement, dated November 12, 1991,
                by and between the Company and
                Mellon Bank, N.A., Trustee under
                Master Trust Agreement of AT&T
                Corporation, dated January 1, 1984,
                for Employee Pension Plans - AT&T -
                John Hancock - Private Placement
                revising Note Purchase Agreement
                dated December 21, 1987.  (Amendment
                is identical to Hancock amendment
                above except as to the parties
                thereto.)

      10.3(a)   Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of  Exhibit 10(c) of Form 10-
                October 11, 1989, by and between the  K for fiscal year ended
                Company and John Hancock Mutual Life  September 30, 1989 (File
                Insurance Company                     No. 1-10042)

      10.3(b)   Amendment to Note Purchase            Exhibit 10(c)(ii) of Form
                Agreement, dated as of November 12,   10-K for fiscal year
                1991, by and between the Company and  ended September 30, 1991
                John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance    (File No. 1-10042)
                Company revising Note Purchase
                Agreement dated October 11, 1989

      10.4(a)   Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of  Exhibit 10(f)(i) of Form
                August 29, 1991, by and between the   10-K for fiscal year
                Company and The Variable Annuity      ended September 30, 1991
                Life Insurance Company                (File No. 1-10042)

      10.4(b)   Amendment to Note Purchase            Exhibit 10(f)(ii) of Form
                Agreement, dated November 26, 1991,   10-K for fiscal year
                by and between the Company and The    ended September 30, 1991
                Variable Annuity Life Insurance       (File No. 1-10042)
                Company revising Note Purchase
                Agreement dated August 29, 1991


      10.5      Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of  Exhibit (10)(f) of Form
                August 31, 1992, by and between the   10-K for fiscal year
                Company and The Variable Annuity      ended September 30, 1992
                Life Insurance Company                (File No. 1-10042)














                                                            Page Number or
       Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
       Number                Description                     Reference to
      --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

      10.6      Note Purchase Agreement, dated        Exhibit 10.1 of Form 10-Q
                November 14, 1994, by and among the   for quarter ended
                Company and New York Life Insurance   December 31, 1994 (File
                Company, New York Life Insurance and  No. 1-10042)
                Annuity Corporation, The Variable
                Annuity Life Insurance Company,
                American General Life Insurance
                Company, and Merit Life Insurance
                Company

      10.7(a)   Service Agreement No. 50772 between   Exhibit 10.6(a) of Form
                Greeley Gas Company and Public        10-K for fiscal year
                Service Company of Colorado (West     ended September 30, 1994
                Gas Supply Co. prior to merger with   (File No. 1-10042)
                PSCO) dated August 1, 1992

      10.7(b)   Transportation Storage Service        Exhibit 10.6(b) of Form
                Agreement No. TA-0544 between         10-K for fiscal year
                Greeley Gas Company and Williams      ended September 30, 1994
                Natural Gas Company dated October 1,  (File No. 1-10042)

      10.7(c)   No-Notice Transportation Service      Exhibit 10.6(c) of Form
                Agreement No. 31013, Rate Schedule    10-K for fiscal year
                NNT-1, between Greeley Gas Company    ended September 30, 1994
                and Colorado Interstate Gas Company,  (File No. 1-10042)
                as amended, dated October 1, 1993

      10.7(d)   Firm Transportation Service           Exhibit 10.6(d) of Form
                Agreement No. 35009, Rate Schedule    10-K for fiscal year
                TF2, between Greeley Gas Company and  ended September 30, 1994
                Colorado Interstate Gas Company, as   (File No. 1-10042)
                amended, dated October 1, 1993

      10.8(a)   Amarillo Supply Agreement dated       Exhibit 10.7(a) of Form
                January 2, 1993 between the Company   10-K for fiscal year
                and Mesa Operating Company            ended September 30, 1994  
                                                      (File No. 1-10042)

      10.8(b)   Interruptible Gas Transportation and  Exhibit (10)(g)(iv) of
                Sales Agreement dated January 1,      Form 10-K for fiscal year
                1991, between Mesa Operating Limited  ended September 30, 1992
                Partnership and Energas Company       (File No. 1-10042)
                regarding transportation charges to
                Mesa

      10.8(c)   Letter agreement between the Company  Exhibit (10)(h)(vi) of
                and Mesa Operating Limited            Form 10-K for fiscal year
                Partnership dated March 21, 1989,     ended September 30, 1989
                regarding transportation rates        (File No. 1-10042)



 



                                                            Page Number or
       Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
       Number                Description                     Reference to
      --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

      10.9(a)   Gas Sales Agreement between the       Exhibit (10)(i)(i) of
                Company and Westar Transmission       Form 10-K for fiscal year
                Company dated January 1, 1986, as     ended September 30, 1989
                amended by Letter Agreement dated     (File No. 1-10042)
                November 21, 1986, and Agreement
                dated December 9, 1988, revising the
                pricing formula for city gate sales

      10.9(b)   Amendment to Gas Sales Agreement,     Exhibit (10)(h)(ii) of
                dated February 27, 1987, between the  Form 10-K for fiscal year
                Company and Westar Transmission       ended September 30, 1992  
                Company                               (File No. 1-10042)

      10.9(c)   Amendment to Gas Sales Agreement,     Exhibit (10)(h)(iii) of
                dated January 1, 1988, between Cabot  Form 10-K for fiscal year
                Gas Supply Corporation ("CGSC") and   ended September 30, 1992
                the Company                           (File No. 1-10042)

      10.10(a)  Gas Transportation Agreement between  Exhibit 10(i)(i) of Form
                the Company and Westar Transmission   10-K for fiscal year
                Company dated January 1, 1986, as     ended September 30, 1991
                amended by letter agreement dated     (File No. 1-10042)
                November 21, 1986

      10.10(b)  Amendment to Gas Transportation       Exhibit (10)(i)(ii) of
                Agreement, dated January 1, 1988,     Form 10-K for fiscal year
                between CGSC and the Company          ended September 30, 1992
                                                      (File No. 1-10042)

      10.11     Supplemental Gas Sales Agreement,     Exhibit (10)(j) of Form
                dated January 1, 1988, between CGSC   10-K for fiscal year
                and the Company                       ended September 30, 1992
                                                      (File No. 1-10042)

      10.12     Gas Purchase and Sales Agreement,     Exhibit (10)(k) of Form
                dated January 1, 1988, between Cabot  10-K for fiscal year
                Energy Marketing Corporation and      ended September 30, 1992
                EnerMart, Inc.                        (File No. 1-10042)

      10.13     Gas Sales Agreement, dated January    Exhibit (10)(l) of Form
                1, 1988, between the Company and Gas  10-K for fiscal year
                Marketing, Inc. ("GMI"), relating to  ended September 30, 1992
                Amarillo supplemental supplies        (File No. 1-10042)

      10.14     Gas Sales Agreement, dated January    Exhibit (10)(m) of Form
                1, 1988, between the Company and      10-K for fiscal year
                GMI, relating to West Texas           ended September 30, 1992
                supplemental supplies                 (File No. 1-10042)


 



                                                            Page Number or
       Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
       Number                Description                     Reference to
      --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

      10.15     Settlement Agreement, dated January   Exhibit (10)(n) of Form
                15, 1988, between CGSC and the        10-K for fiscal year
                Company                               ended September 30, 1992
                                                      (File No. 1-10042)

      10.16(a)  Agreement for Natural Gas Service     Exhibit 10(o)(ii) of Form
                for Distribution and Resale between   10-K for fiscal year
                Trans La and LIG dated October 28,    ended September 30, 1991
                1991                                  (File No. 1-10042)

      10.16(b)  Agreement for Intrastate              Exhibit 10(o)(iii) of
                Transportation of Natural Gas         Form 10-K for fiscal year
                between Trans La and LIG dated        ended September 30, 1991
                October 28, 1991                      (File No. 1-10042)

      10.17(a)  Gas Transportation Agreement between  Exhibit 10.1 of Form 10-Q
                Texas Gas Transmission Corporation    for quarter ended
                ("Texas Gas") and Western Kentucky    December 31, 1993 (File
                Gas Company, a division of Atmos      No. 1-10042)
                Energy Corporation ("Western Ken-
                tucky") dated November 1, 1993
                (Contract no. T3817, zone 2) 

      10.17(b)  Gas Transportation Agreement between  Exhibit 10.2 of Form 10-Q
                Texas Gas and Western Kentucky dated  for quarter ended
                November 1, 1993 (Contract no.        December 31, 1993 (File
                T3770, zone 2)                        No. 1-10042)

      10.17(c)  Gas Transportation Agreement between  Exhibit 10.3 of Form 10-Q
                Texas Gas and Western Kentucky Gas    for quarter ended
                dated November 1, 1993 (Contract no.  December 31, 1993 (File
                T3355, zone 3)                        No. 1-10042)

      10.17(d)  Gas Transportation Agreement between  Exhibit 10.4 of Form 10-Q
                Texas Gas and Western Kentucky Gas    for quarter ended
                dated November 1, 1993 (Contract no.  December 31, 1993 (File
                T3819, zone 4)                        No. 1-10042)

      10.17(e)  Gas Transportation Agreement between  Exhibit 10.5 of Form 10-Q
                Texas Gas and Western Kentucky Gas    for quarter ended
                dated November 1, 1993 (Contract no.  December 31, 1993 (File
                N0210, zone 2, Contract no. N0340,    No. 1-10042)
                zone 3, Contract no. N0435, zone 4)

      10.18(a)  Gas Transportation Agreement,         Exhibit 10.17(a) of Form
                Contract No. 2550, dated September    10-K for fiscal year
                1, 1993, between Tennessee Gas        ended September 30, 1993
                Pipeline Company, a division of       (File No. 1-10042)
                Tenneco, Inc. ("Tennessee Gas"), and
                Western Kentucky, Campbellsville
                Service Area


 



                                                            Page Number or
       Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
       Number                Description                     Reference to
      --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

      10.18(b)  Gas Transportation Agreement,         Exhibit 10.17(b) of Form
                Contract No. 2546, dated September    10-K for fiscal year
                1, 1993, between Tennessee Gas and    ended September 30, 1993
                Western Kentucky, Danville Service    (File No. 1-10042)
                Area

      10.18(c)  Gas Transportation Agreement,         Exhibit 10.17(c) of Form
                Contract No. 2385, dated September    10-K for fiscal year
                1, 1993, between Tennessee Gas and    ended September 30, 1993
                Western Kentucky, Greensburg et al    (File No. 1-10042)
                Service Area

      10.18(d)  Gas Transportation Agreement,         Exhibit 10.17(d) of Form
                Contract No. 2551, dated September    10-K for fiscal year
                1, 1993, between Tennessee Gas and    ended September 30, 1993
                Western Kentucky, Harrodsburg         (File No. 1-10042)
                Service Area

      10.18(e)  Gas Transportation Agreement,         Exhibit 10.17(e) of Form
                Contract No. 2548, dated September    10-K for fiscal year
                1, 1993, between Tennessee Gas and    ended September 30, 1993
                Western Kentucky, Lebanon Service     (File No. 1-10042)
                Area

      10.19(a)  *Employment Agreement dated April 1,  Exhibit 10.3 of Form 10-Q
                1995 between the Company and J.       for quarter ended June
                Charles Goodman                       30, 1995 (File No. 1-
                                                      10042)

      10.19(b)  *Employment Agreement amended and     Exhibit 10(r)(ii) of Form
      (i)       restated as of August 8, 1991,        10-K for fiscal year
                between the Company and Robert F.     ended September 30, 1991
                Stephens                              (File No. 1-10042)

      10.19(b)  *Letter dated May 3, 1995 amending    Exhibit 10.1 of Form 10-Q
      (ii)      the employment agreement between the  for quarter ended June
                Company and Robert F. Stephens        30, 1995 (File No. 1-
                                                      10042)

      10.19(c)  *Employment Agreement amended and     Exhibit 10(r)(iii) of
                restated as of August 8, 1991,        Form 10-K for fiscal year
                between the Company and Don E. James  ended September 30, 1991
                                                      (File No. 1-10042)

      10.19(d)  *Employment Agreement amended and     Exhibit 10(r)(iv) of Form
                restated as of August 8, 1991,        10-K for fiscal year
                between the Company and James F.      ended September 30, 1991
                Purser                                (File No. 1-10042)




 



                                                            Page Number or
       Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
       Number                Description                     Reference to
      --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

      10.19(e)  *Employment Agreement dated August    Exhibit 10.18(g) of Form
                11, 1993, between the Company and     10-K for fiscal year
                H.F. Harber                           ended September 30, 1993
                                                      (File No. 1-10042)

      10.19(f)  *Employment Agreement dated May 3,    Exhibit 10.2 of Form 10-Q
                1995 between the Company and Mary S.  for quarter ended June
                Lovell                                30, 1995 (File No. 1-
                                                      10042)

      10.20     *1983 Incentive Stock Option Plan of  Exhibit 10(u) of Form 10-
                Energas Company                       K for fiscal year ended
                                                      September 30, 1990 (File
                                                      No. 1-10042)

      10.21     *The Atmos Energy Corporation         Exhibit (10)(t) of Form
                Supplemental Executive Benefits       10-K for fiscal year
                Plan, effective October 1, 1987,      ended September 30, 1992
                Restated as of November 11, 1992      (File No. 1-10042)

      10.22(a)  *The Atmos Energy Corporation         Exhibit (10)(u) of Form
                Restricted Stock Grant Plan,          10-K for fiscal year
                effective October 1, 1987, amended    ended September 30, 1992
                and restated as of May 13, 1992       (File No. 1-10042)

      10.22(b)  *Amendment No. 1 to the Atmos Energy  Exhibit 10.1 of Form 10-Q
                Corporation Restricted Stock Grant    for the quarter ended
                Plan (Restated as of May 13, 1992)    December 31, 1992 (File
                                                      No. 1-10042)

      10.22(c)  *Amendment No. 2 to the Atmos Energy  Exhibit 10 of Form 10-Q
                Corporation Restricted Stock Grant    for the quarter ended
                Plan (Restated as of May 13, 1992)    June 30, 1993 (File No.
                                                      1-10042)

      10.22(d)  *Amendment No. 3 to the Atmos Energy  Exhibit 10.21(d) of Form
                Corporation Restricted Stock Grant    10-K for fiscal year
                Plan (Restated as of May 13, 1992)    ended September 30, 1993
                                                      (File No. 1-10042)

      10.23     *Atmos Energy Corporation Annual      Exhibit 10(x) of Form 10-
                Performance Bonus Plan for Corporate  K for fiscal year ended
                Officers, restated as of November 8,  September 30, 1990 (File
                1989                                  No. 1-10042)

      10.24(a)  *Atmos Energy Corporation Mini-Med    Exhibit 10(w)(i) of Form
                Plan, as restated effective April 1,  10-K for fiscal year
                1989                                  ended September 30, 1992
                                                      (File No. 1-10042)




 


                                                            Page Number or
       Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
       Number                Description                     Reference to
      --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

      10.24(b)  *Amendment No. 1 to the Atmos Energy  Exhibit (10)(w)(ii) of
                Corporation Mini-Med Plan             Form 10-K for fiscal year
                                                      ended September 30, 1992
                                                      (File No. 1-10042)

      10.24(c)  *Amendment No. 2 to the Atmos Energy  Exhibit (10)(w)(iii) of
                Corporation Mini-Med Plan             Form 10-K for fiscal year
                                                      ended September 30, 1992
                                                      (File No. 1-10042)

      10.24(d)  *Amendment No. 3 to the Atmos Energy  Exhibit 10(w)(iv) of Form
                Corporation Mini-Med Plan             10-K for fiscal year
                                                      ended September 30, 1992
                                                      (File No. 1-10042)

      10.24(e)  *Amendment No. 4 to the Atmos Energy  Exhibit 10.23(e) of Form
                Corporation Mini-Med Plan             10-K for fiscal year
                                                      ended September 30, 1993
                                                      (File No. 1-10042)

      10.25     *Atmos Energy Corporation Deferred    Exhibit 10(x) of Form 10-
                Compensation Plan for Outside         K for fiscal year ended
                Directors                             September 30, 1992 (File
                                                      No. 1-10042)

      10.26     *Atmos Energy Corporation Retirement  Exhibit 10(y) of Form 10-
                Plan for Outside Directors            K for fiscal year ended
                                                      September 30, 1992 (File
                                                      No. 1-10042)

      10.27(a)  *Description of Car Allowance         Exhibit 10.26(a) of Form
                Payments                              10-K for fiscal year
                                                      ended September 30, 1993
                                                      (File No. 1-10042)

      10.27(b)  *Description of Financial and Estate  Exhibit 10.26(b) of Form
                Planning Program                      10-K for fiscal year
                                                      ended September 30, 1993
                                                      (File No. 1-10042)

      10.27(c)  *Description of Sporting Events       Exhibit 10.26(c) of Form
                Program                               10-K for fiscal year
                                                      ended September 30, 1993
                                                      (File No. 1-10042)

      10.28(a)  Seventh Supplemental Indenture,       Exhibit 10.1 of Form 10-Q
                dated as of October 1, 1983 between   for quarter ended June
                Greeley Gas Company ("The Greeley     30, 1994 (File No. 1-
                Gas Division") and the Central Bank   10042)
                of Denver, N.A. ("Central Bank")



 


                                                            Page Number or
       Exhibit                                             Incorporation by
       Number                Description                     Reference to
      --------  ------------------------------------  -------------------------

      10.28(b)  Ninth Supplemental Indenture, dated   Exhibit 10.2 of Form 10-Q
                as of April 1, 1991, between The      for quarter ended June
                Greeley Gas Division and Central      30, 1994 (File No. 1-
                Bank                                  10042)

      10.28(c)  Bond Purchase Agreement, dated as of  Exhibit 10.3 of Form 10-Q
                April 1, 1991, between The Greeley    for quarter ended June
                Gas Division and Central Bank         30, 1994 (File No. 1-
                                                      10042)

      10.28(d)  Tenth Supplemental Indenture, dated   Exhibit 10.4 of Form 10-Q
                as of December 1, 1993, between the   for quarter ended June
                Company and Colorado National Bank,   30, 1994 (File No. 1-
                formerly Central Bank                 10042)

      10.29     *The Atmos Energy Corporation         Exhibit 4.5 of Form S-8
                Outside Directors Stock-for-Fee Plan  for Atmos' Outside
                                                      Directors Stock-for-Fee
                                                      Plan filed February 14,
                                                      1995 (Registration  No.
                                                      33-57695)

      11        Not applicable

      12        Not applicable

      13        Not applicable

      16        Not applicable

      18        Not applicable

      21        Subsidiaries of the registrant

      22        Not applicable

      23        Consent of independent auditors

      24        Power of Attorney                     Signature page of Form
                                                      10-K for fiscal year
                                                      ended September 30, 1995

      27        Financial Data Schedule for Atmos
                for year ended September 30, 1995

      28        Not applicable

      99        Not applicable

          _________________________
        *  This exhibit constitutes a "management contract or compensatory plan,
        contract, or arrangement."




