
10-K405
FORM 10-K



 
               UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended September 30, 1998  OR

[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from __________ to ____________

Commission File Number   1-10042

                           ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

               TEXAS AND VIRGINIA                   75-1743247
            (State or other jurisdiction of       (IRS Employer
            incorporation or organization)      Identification No.)
        
            Three Lincoln Centre, Suite 1800
            5430 LBJ Freeway, Dallas, Texas                75240
            (Address of principal executive offices)     (Zip code)
        
            Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
                                       (972) 934-9227
        
            Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
        
                                               Name of each exchange
            Title of each class                 on which registered
            -------------------                ---------------------
            Common stock, No Par Value         New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                     None

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes  X  No    
                                                ---    ---

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

                                  "continued"

 
     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant was $884,271,000 as of November 25, 1998. On November 25, 1998
the registrant had 30,516,286 shares of common stock outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year
ended September 30, 1998 are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV
of this report.

     Portions of the registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement to be filed for the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders on February 10, 1999 are incorporated by
reference into Part III of this report.

 
Cautionary Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995

     The matters discussed or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section
21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements
of historical facts included in this Report regarding the Company's financial
position, business strategy and plans and objectives of management of the
Company for future operations, are forward-looking statements made in good faith
by the Company and are intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability
established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used
in this Report or in any of the Company's other documents or oral presentations,
the words "anticipate," "expect," "estimate," "plans," "believes," "objective,"
"forecast," "goal" or other similar words are intended to identify forward-
looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
expressed or implied in the statements relating to the Company's operations,
markets, services, rates, recovery of costs, availability of gas supply, and
other factors. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to,
national, regional, and local economic and competitive conditions, regulatory
and business trends and decisions, technological developments, Year 2000 issues,
inflation rates, weather conditions, and other uncertainties, all of which are
difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the control of the Company.

     Accordingly, while the Company believes that the expectations reflected in 
the forward-looking statements are reasonable, there can be no assurance that 
such expectations will be realized or will approximate actual results.


 
                                    PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

     Atmos Energy Corporation (the "Company") was organized under the laws of
the State of Texas in 1983 as a subsidiary of Pioneer Corporation ("Pioneer")
for the purposes of owning and operating Pioneer's natural gas distribution
business in Texas. Immediately following the transfer of such business, which
had been operated by Pioneer and its predecessors since 1906, Pioneer
distributed the outstanding stock of the Company, then known as Energas Company,
to Pioneer shareholders. In September 1988, the Company changed its name from
Energas Company to Atmos Energy Corporation. As a result of its merger with
United Cities Gas Company in July 1997, the Company became incorporated in the
Commonwealth of Virginia as well as the State of Texas.

     The Company distributes and sells natural gas and propane to approximately
1,042,000 residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural, and other
customers. The Company distributes and sells natural gas through approximately
1,005,000 meters in 802 cities, towns, and communities in service areas located
in Texas, Louisiana, Kentucky, Colorado, Kansas, Illinois, Tennessee, Iowa,
Virginia, Georgia, South Carolina and Missouri. The Company also transports gas
for others through parts of its distribution system. It also distributes propane
to approximately 37,000 customers in Kentucky, North Carolina, and Tennessee.

     The Company's Texas distribution system is operated through its Energas
Company division (the "Energas Division") and covers an area having a population
of approximately 950,000 people. The economy of the area is based primarily on
oil and gas production and agriculture. The principal cities served by the
Energas Division include Amarillo, Lubbock, Midland, and Odessa. At September
30, 1998, the Company had 315,000 regulated and non-regulated meters in service
in Texas.

     The Company's Louisiana distribution system is operated through its Trans
Louisiana Gas Company division (the "Trans La Division") and covers an area
having a population of approximately 250,000 people. The economy of the area is
based primarily on oil and gas production, agriculture, and food processing. The
principal cities served by the Trans La Division are Lafayette, Pineville, and
Natchitoches. At September 30, 1998, the Company had 81,000 meters in service in
Louisiana.

     The Company's Kentucky distribution system is operated through its Western
Kentucky Gas Company division (the "Western Kentucky Division") and covers an
area having a population of approximately 680,000 people. The economy of the
area is based primarily on industry and agriculture. The principal cities served
by the Western Kentucky Division include Bowling Green, Owensboro, and Paducah.
At September 30, 1998, the Company had 176,000 meters in service in Kentucky.


 
     The Company's distribution systems in Colorado and parts of Kansas and
Missouri are operated through its Greeley Gas Company division (the "Greeley
Division") and covers an area having a combined population of approximately
228,000 people.  The economies of the areas served are based on oil and gas
production, agriculture and resort business.  The principal cities served by the
Greeley Division include Greeley, Durango and Lamar, Colorado and Bonner
Springs, Herington and Ulysses, Kansas.  At September 30, 1998 the Greeley
Division had 116,000 meters in service.

     The Company operates natural gas distribution systems in Georgia, Illinois,
Iowa, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, Kansas and Missouri through its
United Cities Gas Company division (the "United Cities Division") and covers an
area having a combined population of approximately 6.7 million people. The
economies of the areas served include customers engaged in the manufacture of
asphalt, automobiles, auto parts, chemicals, electronics, food products, metals,
textiles and wire, among others. The division also serves several colleges and a
major army base. The principal cities and counties served by the United Cities
Division include Franklin and Murfreesboro, Tennessee; Wyandotte and Johnson
Counties in Kansas; Hannibal, Missouri; and Gainesville and Columbus, Georgia.
At September 30, 1998, the United Cities Division had 316,000 meters in service.

     The Company also operates certain non-utility businesses through various
wholly-owned subsidiaries. One subsidiary, United Cities Gas Storage Company
("UCG Storage"), provides natural gas storage services. It owns natural gas
storage fields in Kentucky and Kansas to supplement natural gas used by
customers in Kansas, Tennessee, and other states.

     Another subsidiary, UCG Energy Corporation ("UCG Energy"), leases
appliances, real estate and equipment, and vehicles to the United Cities
Division and others, and owns a small interest in a partnership engaged in
exploration and production activities. UCG Energy also owns a 45% interest in
Woodward Marketing, L.L.C. ("WMLLC"), a Delaware limited liability company that
provides natural gas services. WMLLC provides gas marketing services to
industrial customers, municipalities and local distribution companies, including
the Trans La, Greeley, and United Cities Divisions.


 
     UCG Energy also owns Atmos Propane, Inc., which is engaged primarily in the
retail distribution of propane (LP) gas and the wholesale supply of LP gas. It
is exiting the transportation of certain products for other companies and the
direct merchandising and repair of propane gas appliances. The propane operation
has operation and storage centers and store front offices located in Tennessee,
Kentucky, and North Carolina, with a total company storage capacity of 2.3
million gallons. As of September 30, 1998, the propane operations served 37,400
customers. During the three-year period ended September 30, 1998, the propane
operations added approximately 13,600 customers through acquisitions of eight
propane distribution companies and a propane transport company.

     The natural gas distribution industry is subject to a number of factors,
many of which affect the Company from time to time. These include (i) the
ongoing need to obtain adequate and timely rate relief from regulatory
authorities to recover costs of service and earn a fair return on invested
capital; (ii) inherent seasonality of the business; (iii) competition with
alternate fuels; (iv) competition with other gas sources for industrial
customers, including the ability of some customers to bypass the Company's
facilities, which could result in loss of revenues and reduction in the
Company's net income; and (v) possible volatility in the supply and price of
natural gas and propane. The propane distribution business is also subject to
seasonality and competition with alternate fuels and other suppliers.

ACQUISITIONS AND MERGERS

     Since its organization in 1983, the Company has sought to expand its
customer base and to diversify the weather patterns, local economic conditions,
and regulatory environments to which its operations are subject. As part of this
strategy, the Company acquired Trans Louisiana Gas Company, Inc. ("TLG") in
January 1986, Western Kentucky Gas Utility Corporation ("WKG") in December 1987,
Greeley Gas Company ("GGC") in December 1993, Oceana Heights Gas Company of
Thibodaux, Louisiana in November 1995 and United Cities Gas Company ("UCGC") in
July 1997. The Company continues to consider and pursue, where appropriate,
additional acquisitions of natural gas distribution properties and other
business opportunities. For further information regarding the UCGC merger, see
Note 2 of notes to consolidated financial statements in the Company's Annual
Report to Shareholders.

OPERATING STATISTICS

     The table on the following page reflects the operating statistics of Atmos
for fiscal 1998 and 1997 and the restated operating statistics for the previous
three years on a pooled basis with UCGC. It is followed by two tables of utility
sales and operating statistics by business unit for 1998 and 1997, respectively.


 
                           ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
                       CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATISTICS


See footnotes on page 10.


 
         UTILITY SALES AND STATISTICAL DATA BY BUSINESS UNIT - 1998 (1)



See footnotes on page 10.


 
        UTILITY SALES AND STATISTICAL DATA BY BUSINESS UNIT - 1997 (1)



See footnotes on page 10.


 
NOTES:
- ------

(1)  These tables present data for Atmos' five utility business units.  Their
operations include the regulated local distribution companies and certain
unregulated gas marketing subsidiaries located in their respective service
areas.

(2)  A heating degree day is equivalent to each degree that the average of the
high and the low temperatures for a day is below 65 degrees.  The greater the
number of heating degree days, the colder the climate.  Heating degree days are
used in the natural gas industry to measure the relative coldness of weather
experienced and to compare relative temperatures between one geographic area and
another.  Normal degree days are based on 30-year average National Weather
Service data for selected locations.

(3)  Volumes are reported as metered in million cubic feet ("MMcf").

(4)  The number of employees excludes 391 and 218 Atmos shared services
employees and 186 and 162 non-utility employees in 1998 and 1997, respectively.


 
UTILITY AND NON-UTILITY DATA

     The following table summarizes certain information regarding the operation
of the utility and non-utility businesses of the Company for each of the three
years as of and for the period ended September 30, 1998. Prior periods have been
restated to reflect the pooling of interests with UCGC on July 31, 1997.

                               Utility    Non-utility    Total
                              ----------  -----------  ----------
                                        (In thousands)
       Operating revenues     $  744,652     $103,556  $  848,208
       Net income                 42,147       13,118      55,265
       Identifiable assets     1,041,817       99,573   1,141,390
 
       Operating revenues     $  811,537     $ 95,298  $  906,835
       Net income                 16,991        6,847      23,838
       Identifiable assets     1,001,455       86,856   1,088,311
 
       Operating revenues     $  778,208     $108,483  $  886,691
       Net income                 31,905        9,246      41,151
       Identifiable assets       926,935       83,675   1,010,610

     The utility business is comprised of the Company's five utility divisions:
Energas Division, Greeley Division, Trans La Division, United Cities Division
and Western Kentucky Division.  It includes regulated as well as certain non-
regulated utility businesses such as transportation and gas marketing activities
in the utility divisions' respective service areas.

     The non-utility business includes storage and energy services operations
which include UCG Storage, Atmos Energy Services, the non-regulated irrigation
and industrial gas sales of EnerMart, Inc. and EGASCO in West Texas and the
Company's 45% interest in WMLLC (a provider of natural gas services); the
propane operations; and the leasing/rental operations of UCG Energy.


 
     The non-utility net income for the years ended September 30, 1998, 1997 and
1996 is recapped below:

                                   1998     1997     1996
                                 -------   ------   ------
                                      (In thousands)
Non-utility net income:
  Propane                        $   (66)  $  (90)  $1,276
  Leasing/Rental                   3,272    1,117    1,237
  Storage and Energy Services      9,912    5,820    6,733
                                 -------   ------   ------
      Total                      $13,118   $6,847   $9,246
                                 =======   ======   ======

GAS SALES

     The Company's natural gas distribution business is seasonal and highly
dependent on weather conditions in the Company's service areas.  Gas sales to
residential and commercial customers are greater during the winter months than
during the remainder of the year.  The volumes of such sales during the winter
months will vary with the temperatures during such months.  The seasonal nature
of the Company's sales to residential and commercial customers is offset
partially by the Company's sales in the spring and summer months to its
agricultural customers in Texas, Colorado and Kansas who utilize natural gas to
operate irrigation equipment.  The Company also has weather normalization
adjustments in its rate jurisdictions in Tennessee and Georgia, which serve
approximately 170,000 customers.  The Company believes that it has lessened its
sensitivity to weather risk by diversifying its operations into geographic areas
having different weather patterns.

     In addition to weather, the Company's revenues are affected by the cost of
natural gas and economic conditions in the areas that the Company serves.
Higher gas costs, which the Company is generally able to pass through to its
customers under purchased gas adjustment clauses, may cause customers to
conserve, or, in the case of industrial customers, to use alternative energy
sources.

     In recent years, natural gas market conditions have changed.  Natural gas
prices to distributors have become more volatile and the number of competing
marketers of natural gas has increased.  The Company's gas marketing
subsidiaries purchase gas to address requirements for large volume customers in
certain highly competitive markets.

     In certain instances, customers purchase gas directly from others instead
of from the Company and the Company transports such gas through its distribution
systems to the customers' facilities for a fee. Although transportation of
customer-owned gas reduces the Company's operating revenues and corresponding
purchased gas cost, the transportation revenues received by the Company
generally offset the loss to gross profit.


 
     The Company's distribution systems have experienced aggregate peak day
deliveries of approximately 1.5 billion cubic feet ("Bcf") per day.  The Company
has the ability to curtail deliveries to certain customers under the terms of
interruptible contracts and applicable state statutes or regulations which
enables it to maintain its deliveries to high priority customers.  The Company
has not imposed curtailment in its Energas Division since the Company began
independent operations in 1983 or in its Trans La Division since the Company
acquired TLG in 1986.  The Western Kentucky Division curtailed deliveries to
certain interruptible customers during exceptionally cold periods in December
1989, January 1994 and during the winter of 1996.  Neither the Greeley  Division
nor its predecessor, GGC, have curtailed deliveries to its sales customers since
prior to 1980.  The United Cities Division curtails interruptible service
customers from time to time each year in accordance with the interruptible
contracts and tariffs.

GAS SUPPLY

     The Western Kentucky Division's gas supply is delivered by the following
pipelines:  Texas Gas, Tennessee Gas, Trunkline and ANR, except that a small
percentage of the requirements are being purchased directly from intrastate
producers that are connected directly to its distribution system.  During 1998,
WKG sought and was granted approval by the Kentucky Public Service Commission
for a Performance Based Rate (PBR) program.  This three-year supply and asset
management program commenced in July 1998.  Noram Energy Services, a division of
Houston Industries, was selected to procure supply and manage WKG's pipeline and
storage assets.

     The United Cities Division is served by thirteen interstate pipelines.  The
majority of the volumes are transported through East Tennessee Pipeline,
Southern Natural Gas and Williams Natural Gas.  During 1998, the United Cities
Division purchased its supply from various producers and marketers including
TransCanada, Texaco Gas Marketing, WMLLC, and Williams Energy Service Company.

     Colorado Interstate Gas Company, Williams Natural Gas, Public Service
Company of Colorado, and Northwest Pipeline are the principal transporters of
the Greeley Division's requirements. Additionally, the Greeley Division
purchased substantial volumes from producers that are connected directly to its
distribution system. During 1998, the Greeley Division's primary suppliers were
Union Pacific Fuels, Williams Energy Service Company, Duke Energy, KN Energy and
WESTAR.

     The Energas Division receives sales and transportation service from various
KN affiliates. Also, the Energas Division purchases a significant portion of its
supply from Pioneer Natural Resources (formerly Mesa) which is connected
directly to the Company's Amarillo, Texas distribution system. During 1998,
other major suppliers included Texaco Gas Marketing, KN Energy, and Public
Service of New Mexico.


 
     Louisiana Intrastate Gas Company ("LIG"), Acadian Pipeline, Koch Gateway
and Texas Gas Transmission Company pipelines deliver most of the Trans La
Division's requirements. The Trans La Division purchased its supply from various
producers and marketers including Acadiana Gas Marketing, Koch Gas Marketing,
LL&E and WMLLC.

     The Company also owns and operates numerous natural gas storage facilities
in Kentucky and Kansas which are used to help meet customer requirements during
peak demand periods and to reduce the need to contract for additional pipeline
capacity to meet such peak demand periods. Additionally, the Company operates
various propane plants and a liquified natural gas ("LNG") plant for peak
shaving purposes. The Company also contracts for storage service in underground
storage facilities of many of the interstate pipelines serving it. See "Item 2.
Properties" for further information regarding the peak shaving facilities.

     The United Cities Division normally injects gas into pipeline storage
systems and UCG Storage's storage system during the summer months and withdraws
it in the winter months. At the present time, the underground storage facilities
of UCG Storage have a maximum daily output capability of approximately 45,000
Mcf.

     The United Cities Division has the ability to serve approximately 60% of
its peak day load through the use of company owned storage facilities, storage
contracts with its suppliers and peaking facilities throughout the system. This
ability provides the operational flexibility and security of supply required to
meet the needs of the highly weather sensitive residential and commercial
markets.


 
REGULATION AND RATES

Regulation
- ----------

     Energas Division

     In the Energas Division, the governing body of each municipality served by
the Company has original jurisdiction over all utility rates, operations, and
services within its city limits except with respect to sales of natural gas for
vehicle fuel and agricultural use.  The Company operates pursuant to non-
exclusive franchises granted by the municipalities it serves, which franchises
are subject to renewal from time to time.  The franchises granted to the Company
permit it to conduct natural gas distribution within the municipalities'
incorporated limits.  The Railroad Commission of Texas has exclusive appellate
jurisdiction over all rate and regulatory orders and ordinances of the
municipalities and exclusive original jurisdiction over rates and services to
customers not located within the limits of a municipality.  In Texas, rates for
large industrial customers are routinely set by contract negotiation between the
Company and its customers pursuant to statutory standards and are filed with and
subject to the governmental authority of the municipalities or the Railroad
Commission, depending on whether the customer is located inside or outside the
limits of a municipality.  Historically, the Company's rates for large
industrial customers have been accepted as filed.  Agricultural sales in Texas
are not regulated, except that prices for agricultural sales cannot exceed the
prices the Company charges the majority of its commercial or other similar
large-volume users in Texas.

     Trans La Division

     The Trans La Division is regulated by the Louisiana Public Service
Commission, which regulates utility services, rates, and other matters. In most
of the parishes and incorporated areas in which the Company operates in
Louisiana, it does so pursuant to a non-exclusive franchise granted by the
governing authority of each parish or incorporated area. The franchise gives the
Company the general privilege to operate its gas distribution business in, as
well as the right to install its distribution lines along the roadways of, the
parish or the incorporated area. Direct sales of natural gas to industrial
customers in Louisiana who utilize the gas for fuel or in manufacturing
processes and sales of natural gas for vehicle fuel are exempt from regulation.

     Western Kentucky Division

     The Western Kentucky Division is regulated by the Kentucky Public Service
Commission, which regulates utility services, rates, issuances of securities,
and other matters.  The Company operates in the various incorporated cities
served by it in Kentucky pursuant to non-exclusive franchises granted by such
cities.  The franchises grant to the Company the right to operate its gas


 
distribution business in the city and to install its distribution lines and
related equipment in and along the city's public rights-of-way.  Sales of
natural gas for use as vehicle fuel in Kentucky are not subject to regulation.

     Greeley Division

     The Greeley Division is regulated by the Colorado Public Utilities
Commission, the Kansas Corporation Commission, and the Missouri Public Service
Commission with respect to accounting, rates and charges, operating matters, and
the issuance of securities. The Company operates in the various incorporated
cities served by it in the states of Colorado, Kansas and Missouri under terms
of non-exclusive franchises granted by the various cities. The franchises grant
to the Company, among other things, the right to install and operate its gas
distribution system within the city limits. Most of the Greeley Division's
wholesale gas suppliers are regulated by various federal and state commissions.

     United Cities Division

     In each state in which the United Cities Division operates, its rates,
services and operations as a natural gas distribution company are subject to
general regulation by the state public service commission.  In addition, the
issuance of securities by the Company is subject to approval by the state
commissions, except in South Carolina and Iowa.  Missouri only regulates the
issuance of secured debt.  The United Cities Division operates in each
community, where necessary, under a franchise granted by the municipality for a
fixed term of years.  To date, it has been able to renew franchises and expects
to continue to do so in the future.

     The Company is also subject to regulation by the United States Department
of Transportation with respect to safety requirements in the operation and
maintenance of its gas distribution facilities. The Company's distribution
operations are also subject to various state and federal laws regulating
environmental matters. From time to time the Company receives inquiries
regarding various environmental matters. The Company believes that its
properties and operations substantially comply with and are operated in
substantial conformity with applicable safety and environmental statutes and
regulations. There are no administrative or judicial proceedings arising under
environmental quality statutes pending or known to be contemplated by
governmental agencies which, if adversely determined, would have a material
adverse effect on the Company.


 
Rates
- -----

     Approximately 88% of the Company's revenues in fiscal 1998 was derived from
sales at rates set by or subject to approval by local or state authorities.  The
method of determining regulated rates varies among the twelve states in which
the Company has utility operations.  As a general rule, the regulatory authority
reviews the Company's rate request and establishes a rate structure intended to
generate revenue sufficient to cover the Company's costs of doing business and
provide a reasonable return on invested capital.

     Substantially all of the sales rates charged by the Company to its
customers fluctuate with the cost of gas purchased by the Company. Rates
established by regulatory authorities are adjusted for increases and decreases
in the Company's purchased gas cost through automatic purchased gas adjustment
mechanisms. Therefore, while the Company's operating revenues may fluctuate,
gross profit (which is defined as operating revenues less purchased gas cost) is
generally not eroded or enhanced because of gas cost increases or decreases.

     The Georgia Public Service Commission and Tennessee Regulatory Authority
have approved Weather Normalization Adjustments ("WNAs") that allow the United
Cities Division to increase the base rate portion of customers' bills when
weather is warmer than normal and decrease the base rate when weather is colder
than normal. The net effect of the WNAs was an increase (decrease) in revenues
of $682,000, $2,643,000 and $(2,612,000) in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.


 
     The following table sets forth the major rate requests made by the Company
or other parties during the most recent five years and the action taken on such
requests:
 
                           Effective    Amount        Amount
  Jurisdiction               Date      Requested     Received
  ------------             ---------  -----------  -----------
                                          (In thousands)
  Texas
     West Texas System      11/18/94      $2,581   $ 1,702   (a)
                            11/01/96       7,676     5,800   (a)
 
  Louisiana                 03/01/93          (b)      730   (b)
                            03/01/94          (b)    1,058   (b)
                            03/01/95          (b)    1,071   (b)
 
  Kentucky                  11/01/95       7,665     2,300   (c)
                            03/01/96                 1,000   (c)
 
  Colorado                  05/01/94       4,527     3,246
                            01/21/98           -    (1,600)  (f)
 
  Kansas                    12/01/93       2,604     2,088   (d)
                            09/01/95       4,230     2,700   (e)
 
  Missouri                  10/14/95       1,100       903
 
  South Carolina            02/07/95         341       253
 
  Tennessee                 11/15/95       3,951     2,227
 
  Iowa                      05/17/96         750       410
 
  Georgia                   12/02/96       5,003     3,160
 
  Illinois                  07/09/97       1,234       428
 
  Virginia                  09/29/95         810       103
                            10/01/98           -      (248)  (g)

(a)  These increases include $200,000 and $500,000 applicable to areas outside
     the city limits which became effective in January 1995 and April 1997,
     respectively.
(b)  A September 1992 rate order approved a Rate Stabilization Clause ("RSC")
     for three years which provided for an annual adjustment of rates to reflect
     changes in expenses and investment.  The RSC provided the Company the
     opportunity to earn a return on common equity between 11.75% and 12.25%.
     The Trans La Division has a hearing scheduled in April 1999 for the
     Louisiana Public Service Commission to consider its rate of return.


 
(c)  The Kentucky rate order provided an increase of $2,300,000, lowered
     depreciation rates effective November 1, 1995 and provided an additional
     $1,000,000 beginning March 1, 1996.  The order also included a provision
     for a pilot demand side management program which could cost up to $450,000
     annually.
(d)  This increase is applicable to the service area of the Greeley Division.
(e)  This increase is applicable to the service area of the United Cities
     Division.
(f)  Rate reduction as a result of settlement in a case initiated by the
     Colorado Consumer Counsel.
(g)  Rate reduction as a result of a settlement with the Virginia State
     Corporation Commission staff regarding investigation of earnings.

COMPETITION

     The Company is not currently in significant direct competition with any
other distributors of natural gas to residential and commercial customers within
its service areas.  However, the Company does compete with other natural gas
suppliers and suppliers of alternate fuels for sales to industrial and
agricultural customers.

     The Company competes in all aspects of its business with alternative energy
sources, including, in particular, electricity.  Competition for the residential
and commercial customers is increasing.  Promotional incentives, improved
equipment efficiencies, and promotional rates all contribute to the
acceptability of electric equipment.  In the United Cities Division, #2 and #6
fuel oil are the primary competition for industrial customers.  In addition,
certain customers, primarily industrial, may have the ability to by-pass the
Company's distribution system by connecting directly with a pipeline.

     Beginning in 1985, changes in the federal regulatory environment through
FERC orders and conditions related to markets and gas supply in the United
States have brought increased competition into the natural gas industry.  In
1993, FERC Order 636 was implemented by the interstate pipelines that serve the
United Cities and Western Kentucky Divisions, but FERC policies have not had a
direct impact upon the Company's Energas, Greeley and Trans La Divisions which
are primarily supplied by intrastate pipelines.  However, competition for large
volume customers in the United Cities and Western Kentucky Divisions and other
service areas has increased as a result of FERC Order 636. The Company has
sought regulatory approvals for competitive pricing on a case by case basis.

     The United Cities Division has received approval from all the regulatory
authorities in the states in which it operates, except Iowa, to place into
effect a negotiated tariff rate which allows the United Cities Division to
maintain industrial loads at lower margin rates.  Iowa has rules which allow for
flexible rates, which are competitive with the price of alternative fuels.  In
addition, 


 
certain industrial customers have changed from firm to interruptible rate
schedules in order to obtain natural gas at a lower cost. Additionally, the
United Cities Division has received approval from all state regulatory
authorities to provide transportation service of customer-owned gas.

     UCG Energy's propane subsidiary is in competition with other suppliers of
propane, natural gas and electricity with respect to price and service.  The
wholesale cost of propane is subject to fluctuations primarily based on demand,
availability of supply and product transportation costs.  Through its 45%
interest in WMLLC, UCG Energy competes with other natural gas brokers in
obtaining natural gas supplies for customers.  UCG Energy also competes with
other rental companies in the rental of real estate, transportation equipment,
office facilities and appliances.

     UCG Storage charges rates to the United Cities Division that are subject to
review by the various commissions in the states within which the storage service
is provided.  Therefore, UCG Storage's rates must be competitive with other
storage facilities.  UCG Storage also stores natural gas for WMLLC.  As a
result, UCG Storage is in competition with other companies that store natural
gas as to rates charged and deliverability of natural gas.  Storage agreements
between UCG Storage and the United Cities Division give it first priority to any
storage services.

EMPLOYEES

     At September 30, 1998, the Company employed 2,193 persons.  See "Utility
Sales and Statistical Data by Business Unit - 1998" for the number of employees
by business unit. As discussed in Note 2 of notes to consolidated financial
statements in the Company's Annual Report to Shareholders, the Company underwent
downsizing and restructuring in 1997 and 1998 in connection with the integration
of UCGC and the Company's Customer Service Initiative.

ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES

     The Company owns an aggregate of 30,108 miles of underground distribution
and transmission mains throughout its gas distribution systems.  These mains are
located on easements or right-of-ways granted to the Company, which generally
provide for perpetual use.  The Company maintains its mains through a program of
continuous inspection and repair and believes that its system of mains is in
good condition.  The Company also owns and operates nine propane peak shaving
plants with a total capacity of approximately 1,050,000 gallons that can produce
an equivalent of 19,459 thousand cubic feet ("Mcf") daily and an LNG storage
facility with a capacity of 500,000 Mcf which can inject a daily volume of
30,000 Mcf in the system, as well as underground storage fields which are used
to supplement the supply of natural gas in periods of peak demand.  It has seven
underground gas storage facilities in Kentucky and four in Kansas that have a
total storage capacity of approximately 21.1 billion cubic feet ("Bcf").
However, 


 
approximately 10.0 Bcf of gas in the storage facilities must be retained as
cushion gas to maintain reservoir pressure. The maximum daily delivery
capability of the storage facilities is approximately 154 MMcf.

     Substantially all of the Company's properties in its Greeley Division and
United Cities Division with recorded values of approximately $88.3 million and
$324.7 million, respectively, are subject to liens under First Mortgage Bonds
assumed by the Company in its mergers with GGC and UCGC.  At September 30, 1998,
the liens secured $17.0 million of outstanding 9.4% Series J First Mortgage
Bonds due May 1, 2021, and $108.9 million of outstanding Series N, P, Q, R, T, U
and V First Mortgage Bonds due at various dates from 2004 through 2022.

     In 1996 the Company consolidated its administrative offices in Dallas,
Texas under one lease.  The Company also maintains field offices throughout its
distribution system, the majority of which are located in leased premises.

     Net non-utility property at September 30, 1998 included approximately $25.8
million for propane equipment, $17.2 million for underground storage facilities,
and $7.1 million for rental buildings and equipment.

     The Company holds franchises granted by the incorporated cities and towns
that it serves.  At September 30, 1998, the Company held 409 such franchises
having terms generally ranging from five to 25 years.  The Company believes that
each of its franchises will be renewed.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     Incorporated by reference from the 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders, Note
5 of notes to consolidated financial statements.

ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of fiscal 1998.


 
                     EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The following table sets forth certain information as of September 30,
1998, regarding the executive officers of the Company.  It is followed by a
brief description of the business experience of each executive officer during
the past five years.
 
                                   Years of
     Name                Age       Service            Office Currently Held
- ------------------       ---       --------       -----------------------------
Robert W. Best           52            1          Chairman, President and     
                                                    Chief Executive Officer   
Larry J. Dagley          50            1          Executive Vice President and
                                                    Chief Financial Officer   
J. Charles Goodman       37           14          Executive Vice President,   
                                                    Utility Operations        
Glen A. Blanscet         41           13          Vice President, General     
                                                    Counsel and Corporate     
                                                    Secretary                 
Wynn D. McGregor         45           10          Vice President, Human       
                                                    Resources                  

     Robert W. Best was named Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
and was appointed to the Board of Directors in March 1997. He previously served
as Senior Vice President - Regulated Businesses, for Consolidated Natural Gas
Company of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, from January 1996 to March 1997, and was
responsible for its transmission and distribution companies. He previously
served as President of Texas Gas Transmission Company of Owensboro, Kentucky,
and Houston, Texas, from 1985 to 1995, and from 1992 to 1995 he was President of
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation.

     Larry J. Dagley was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer effective May 1, 1997. From August 1995 to May 1997, he served as Senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Pacific Enterprises, a Los
Angeles, California based utility holding company whose principal subsidiary was
Southern California Gas Co., the nation's largest gas distribution utility. From
1985 until joining Pacific Enterprises, he served as Senior Vice President and
Controller (1985-1993) and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(1993-1995) of Transco Energy Company, a Houston, Texas based natural gas
pipeline company. Prior to joining Transco, Mr. Dagley was an audit partner with
Arthur Andersen & Co., where he supervised audits and financial consulting
engagements in the energy industry.

     J. Charles Goodman was named Executive Vice President, Operations in April
1995. He previously served as President of the Company's Trans La Gas Division
from February 1993 until April 1995 and as Chief Engineer from February 1989
until February 1993.

     Glen A. Blanscet was named Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate
Secretary in May 1995. He previously served as Assistant 


 
General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from January 1994 to May 1995, and
Assistant General Counsel from July 1988 to December 1993.

     Wynn D. McGregor was named Vice President, Human Resources in January 1994.
He previously served the Company as Director of Human Resources from February
1991 to December 1993 and as Manager, Compensation and Employment from December
1987 to January 1991.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The information required by this item is set forth under the caption
"Market Price of Common Stock and Related Matters" in the Financial Review
section of Atmos' 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders filed as Exhibit 13 to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. Such information is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The information required by this item is set forth under the caption
"Selected Financial Data" in the Financial Review section of Atmos' 1998 Annual
Report to Shareholders filed as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Such information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The information required by this item is set forth under the caption
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" in the Financial Review section of Atmos' 1998 Annual Report to
Shareholders filed as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Such
information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     All of the Company's long-term debt is fixed-rate and, therefore, does not
expose the Company to the risk of earnings or cash flow loss due to changes in
market interest rates. At September 30, 1998, the Company is not engaged in
other contracts which would cause exposure to the risk of material earnings or
cash flow loss due to changes in market commodity prices, foreign currency
exchange rates, or interest rates.

ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The response to this Item is submitted as a separate section of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K on page 30.


 
ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None

                                   PART III

ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information regarding directors and compliance with Section 16(a)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated herein by reference from
the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
on February 10, 1999. Information regarding executive officers is included in
Part I of this Form 10-K

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's Definitive Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on February 10, 1999.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's Definitive Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on February 10, 1999.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's Definitive Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on February 10, 1999.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  1. and 2.  Financial statements and financial statement schedules.

     The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate section
     of this Annual Report on Form 10-K on page 30.

     3.  Exhibits

     The exhibits listed in the accompanying Exhibits Index are filed as part of
     this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The exhibits numbered 10.21(a) through
     10.33 are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.


 
(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

 (1) The Company filed a Form 8-K Current Report dated July 22, 1998 reporting
     under Item 5, Other Events the following:

     On July 22, 1998, Atmos, and Merrill Lynch & Co., NationsBanc Montgomery
     Securities LLC and Edward D. Jones & Co., LP (collectively the
     "Underwriters") executed a purchase agreement in connection with the sale
     by Atmos to the Underwriters of a total of $150 million of Atmos'
     debentures. On July 27, 1998, Atmos executed the global debenture
     certificate representing a total of $150 million in 6 3/4% debentures due
     July 15, 2028.

 (2) The Company also filed a Form 8-K Current Report dated July 23, 1998
     reporting under Item 5, Other Events the following:

     On July 23, 1998 Atmos announced in a news release its earnings and other
     related financial information for the quarter ended June 30, 1998. It also
     announced in another news release its pricing of a $150 million debt
     offering together with other information related to the offering.


 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To United Cities Gas Company:

     We have audited the consolidated statements of income and cash flows
of United Cities Gas Company (an Illinois corporation) and subsidiaries for the
year ended December 31, 1996. These financial statements are the responsibility
of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements based on our audit.

     We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
presented fairly, in all material respects, the results of the operations of
United Cities Gas Company and subsidiaries and their cash flows for the year
ended December 31, 1996 in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.



                                                             Arthur Andersen LLP

Nashville, Tennessee
February 14, 1997


 
                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.



                                       ATMOS ENERGY CORPORATION
                                            (Registrant)

                                       By  /s/ LARRY J. DAGLEY
                                           ----------------------------
                                           Larry J. Dagley
                                           Executive Vice President
                                           and Chief Financial
                                           Officer


Date:  December 22, 1998


 
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY

     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears
below hereby constitutes and appoints Robert W. Best and Larry J. Dagley, or
either of them acting alone or together, as his true and lawful attorney-in-fact
and agent with full power to act alone, with full power of substitution and
resubstitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Form 10-K, and to file the
same, with all exhibits thereto, and all other documents in connection
therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said
attorney-in-fact and agent full power and authority to do and perform each and
every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents
and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming
all that said attorney-in-fact and agent, or his substitute or substitutes, may
lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated:

/s/  ROBERT W. BEST          Chairman, President      December 22, 1998
- -------------------------    and Chief Executive
     Robert W. Best          Officer



/s/  LARRY J. DAGLEY         Executive Vice           December 22, 1998
- -------------------------    President and Chief
     Larry J. Dagley         Financial Officer



/s/  TOM S. HAWKINS, JR.     Vice President,          December 22, 1998
- -------------------------    Planning and Budgeting
     Tom S. Hawkins, Jr.     and Interim Controller
                             (Principal Accounting
                             Officer)


 
/s/  TRAVIS W. BAIN, II      Director                 December 22, 1998
- -------------------------
     Travis W. Bain, II



/s/  DAN BUSBEE              Director                 December 22, 1998
- -------------------------
     Dan Busbee



/s/  RICHARD W. CARDIN       Director                 December 22, 1998
- -------------------------
     Richard W. Cardin



/s/  THOMAS J. GARLAND       Director                 December 22, 1998
- -------------------------
     Thomas J. Garland



/s/  GENE C. KOONCE          Director                 December 22, 1998
- -------------------------
     Gene C. Koonce



/s/  VINCENT J. LEWIS        Director                 December 22, 1998
- -------------------------
     Vincent J. Lewis



/s/  THOMAS C. MEREDITH      Director                 December 22, 1998
- -------------------------
     Thomas C. Meredith



/s/  PHILLIP E. NICHOL       Director                 December 22, 1998
 -------------------------
     Phillip E. Nichol



/s/  CARL S. QUINN           Director                 December 22, 1998
 -------------------------
     Carl S. Quinn



/s/  CHARLES K. VAUGHAN      Director                 December 22, 1998
- -------------------------
     Charles K. Vaughan



/s/  RICHARD WARE II         Director                 December 22, 1998
 -------------------------
     Richard Ware II


 
                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            (Item 8, 14(a) 1 and 2)

                                                                       Form 10-K
                                                                        Page no.
                                                                       ---------

Financial statements:

     Consolidated balance sheets at
        September 30, 1998 and 1997
        (Contained in Exhibit 13)

     Consolidated statements of income for
        the years ended September 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996
        (Contained in Exhibit 13)

     Consolidated statements of shareholders' equity for
        the years ended September 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996
        (Contained in Exhibit 13)

     Consolidated statements of cash flows for
        the years ended September 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996
        (Contained in Exhibit 13)

     Notes to consolidated financial statements
        (Contained in Exhibit 13)
 
     Supplementary Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)
        (Contained in Exhibit 13)
 
     Independent Auditors' Reports
        Ernst & Young LLP (Contained in Exhibit 13)
        Arthur Andersen LLP                                                26
 
     Consents of Independent Auditors
        Ernst & Young LLP                                                  27
        Arthur Andersen LLP                                                28

     All financial statement schedules are omitted because the required
information is not present, or not present in amounts sufficient to require
submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in
the financial statements and accompanying notes thereto.

     The financial statements and the independent auditors' report of Ernst &
Young LLP listed in the above index, which are included in the Financial Review
section of the Annual Report to Shareholders of Atmos Energy Corporation for the
year ended September 30, 1998, are incorporated herein by reference.


 
                                                         Page Number or
Exhibit                                            Incorporation by Reference
 Number                Description                             to
- -------   -------------------------------------    ---------------------------  
          Plan of Reorganization
          ----------------------

2.1       Agreement and Plan of Reorganization     Exhibit 2.1 to Registration
          dated July 19, 1996, by and between      Statement on Form S-4
          the Registrant and United Cities Gas     filed October 4, 1996
          Company                                  (File No. 333-13429)

2.2       Amendment No. 1 to Agreement and Plan    Exhibit 2.1(a) to 
          of Reorganization dated October 3,       Registration Statement on
          1996                                     Form S-4 filed October 4,
                                                   1996 (File No. 333-13429)

          Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws
          -------------------------------------

3.1       Restated Articles of Incorporation of    Exhibit 3.1 of Form 10-K for
          the Company, as Amended (as of July      fiscal year ended September
          31, 1997)                                30, 1997 (File No. 1-10042)

3.2       Bylaws of the Company (Amended and       Exhibit 3.2 of Form 10-K for
          Restated as of November 12, 1997)        fiscal year ended September
                                                   30, 1997 (File No. 1-10042)

          Instruments Defining Rights of 
          Security Holders
          ------------------------------------

4.1       Specimen Common Stock Certificate        Exhibit (4)(b) of Form 10-
          (Atmos Energy Corporation)               K for fiscal year ended
                                                   September 30, 1988 (File
                                                   No. 1-10042)

4.2       Rights Agreement, dated as of            Exhibit 4.1 of Form 8-K
          November 12, 1997, between the           dated November 12, 1997
          Company and BankBoston, N.A.             (File No. 1-10042)

9         Not Applicable




 
                                                         Page Number or
Exhibit                                            Incorporation by Reference
 Number                Description                             to
- -------   -------------------------------------    ---------------------------  
          Material Contracts
          ------------------

10.1(a)   Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of     Exhibit 10(c) of Form 8-K
          December 21, 1987, by and between the    filed January 7, 1988
          Company and John Hancock Mutual Life     (File No. 0-11249)
          Insurance Company

          Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of
          December 21, 1987, by and between the 
          Company and John Hancock Charitable
          Trust I (Agreement is identical to
          Hancock Agreement listed above except 
          as to the parties thereto.)

          Note Purchase Agreement dated as of
          December 21, 1987, by and between the
          Company and Mellon Bank, N.A.,
          Trustee under Master Trust Agreement
          of AT&T Corporation, dated January 1,
          1984, for Employee Pension Plans -
          AT&T - John Hancock - Private
          Placement (Agreement is identical to
          Hancock Agreement listed above except
          as to the parties thereto.)

10.1(b)   Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement,    Exhibit (10)(b)(ii) of
          dated October 11, 1989, by and           Form 10-K for fiscal year
          between the Company and John Hancock     ended September 30, 1989
          Mutual Life Insurance Company            (File No. 1-10042)
          revising Note Purchase Agreement
          dated December 21, 1987

          Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement,
          dated October 11, 1989, by and
          between the Company and John Hancock
          Charitable Trust I revising Note
          Purchase Agreement dated December 21,
          1987. (Amendment is identical to
          Hancock amendment listed above except
          as to the parties thereto.)





 
                                                         Page Number or
Exhibit                                            Incorporation by Reference
 Number                Description                             to
- -------   -------------------------------------    ---------------------------  

          Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement,
          dated October 11, 1989, by and 
          between the Company and Mellon Bank,
          N.A., Trustee under Master Trust
          Agreement of AT&T Corporation, dated
          January 1, 1984, for Employee Pension
          Plans - AT&T - John Hancock - Private
          Placement revising Note Purchase
          Agreement dated December 21, 1987
          (Amendment is identical to Hancock
          amendment listed above except as to
          the parties thereto.)

10.1(c)   Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement,    Exhibit 10(b)(iii) of Form
          dated November 12, 1991, by and          10-K for fiscal year ended
          between the Company and John Hancock     September 30, 1991 (File
          Mutual Life Insurance Company            No. 1-10042)
          revising Note Purchase Agreement
          dated December 21, 1987

          Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement,
          dated November 12, 1991, by and
          between the Company and John Hancock
          Charitable Trust I revising Note
          Purchase Agreement dated December 21,
          1987. (Amendment is identical to
          Hancock amendment listed above except
          as to the parties thereto.)

          Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement,
          dated November 12, 1991, by and
          between the Company and Mellon Bank,
          N.A., Trustee under Master Trust
          Agreement of AT&T Corporation, dated 
          January 1, 1984, for Employee Pension
          Plans - AT&T - John Hancock - Private
          Placement revising Note Purchase
          Agreement dated December 21, 1987.
          (Amendment is identical to Hancock
          amendment above except as to the
          parties thereto.)

10.1(d)   Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement     Exhibit 4.3(d) to 
          dated December 22, 1993, by and          Registration Statement
          between the Company and John Hancock     on Form S-3 filed April
          Mutual Life Insurance Company revising   20, 1998 (File No. 333-
          Note Purchase Agreement dated December   50477)
          21, 1987.

          Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement, 
          dated December 22, 1993, by and 
          between the Company and Mellon Bank,
          N.A., Trustee under Master Trust 
          Agreement of AT&T Corporation, dated 
          January 1, 1982, for Employee Pension
          Plans - AT&T - John Hancock - Private 
          Placement revising Note Purchase 
          Agreement dated December 21, 1987 
          (Amendment is identical to Hancock 
          amendment listed above except as to 
          the parties thereto and the amounts 
          thereof).

10.1(e)   Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement,    Exhibit 4.3(e) to
          dated December 20, 1994, by and          Registration Statement    
          between the Company and John Hancock     on Form S-3 filed April 
          Mutual Life Insurance Company            20, 1998 (File No. 333-
          revising Note Purchase Agreement         50477)
          dated December 21, 1987

          Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement,
          dated December 20, 1994, by and
          between the Company and Mellon Bank 
          N.A. Trustee under Master Trust 
          Agreement of AT&T Corporation,
          dated January 1, 1984, for Employee
          Pension Plans - AT&T - John Hancock
          - Private Placement revising Note
          Purchase Agreement dated December
          21, 1987 (Amendment is identical to
          Hancock amendment listed above). 

10.1(f)   Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement,    Exhibit 4.3(f) to
          dated July 29, 1997, by and between      Registration Statement    
          the Company and John Hancock Mutual      on Form S-3 filed April 
          Life Insurance Company revising Note     20, 1998 (File No. 333-
          Purchase Agreement dated December 21,    50477)

          Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement,
          dated July 29, 1997, by and between
          the Company and Mellon Bank 
          N.A., Trustee under Master Trust 
          Agreement of AT&T Corporation,
          dated January 1, 1984, for Employee
          Pension Plans - AT&T - John Hancock
          - Private Placement revising Note
          Purchase Agreement dated December 21, 
          1987 (Amendment is identical to
          Hancock amendment listed above except
          as to the parties thereto and the 
          amounts thereof). 

10.2(a)   Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of     Exhibit 10(c) of Form 10-K
          October 11, 1989, by and between the     for fiscal year ended
          Company and John Hancock Mutual Life     September 30, 1989 (File
          Insurance Company                        No. 1-10042)





 
                                                         Page Number or       
Exhibit                                            Incorporation by Reference 
 Number                Description                             to
- --------  --------------------------------------   ---------------------------
10.2(b)   Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement,    Exhibit 10(c)(ii) of Form 
          dated as of November 12, 1991, by and    10-K for fiscal year ended
          between the Company and John Hancock     September 30, 1991 (File
          Mutual Life Insurance Company            No. 1-10042)
          revising Note Purchase Agreement 
          dated October 11, 1989

10.2(c)   Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement,    Exhibit 4.4(c) to 
          dated December 22, 1993, by and          Registration Statement on 
          between the Company and John Hancock     Form S-3 filed April 20, 
          Mutual Life Insurance Company revising   1998 (File No. 333-50477)
          Note Purchase Agreement dated 
          October 11, 1989

10.2(d)   Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement,    Exhibit 4.4(d) to 
          dated December 20, 1994, by and          Registration Statement on 
          between the Company and John Hancock     Form S-3 filed April 20, 1998
          Mutual Life Insurance Company revising   (File No. 333-50477)
          Note Purchase Agreement dated 
          October 11, 1989

10.2(e)   Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement,    Exhibit 4.4(e) to 
          dated July 29, 1997, by and between      Registration Statement on 
          the Company and John Hancock Mutual      Form S-3 filed April 20, 1998
          Life Insurance Company revising Note     (File No. 333-50477)
          Purchase Agreement dated
          October 11, 1989

10.3(a)   Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of     Exhibit 10(f)(i) of Form    
          August 29, 1991, by and between the      10-K for fiscal year ended  
          Company and The Variable Annuity Life    September 30, 1991 (File No.
          Insurance Company                        1-10042)                     

10.3(b)   Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement,    Exhibit 10(f)(ii) of Form
          dated November 26, 1991, by and          10-K for fiscal year ended 
          between the Company and The Variable     September 30, 1991 
          Annuity Life Insurance Company           (File No. 1-10042)
          revising Note Purchase Agreement
          dated August 29, 1991

10.3(c)   Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement,    Exhibit 4.5(c) to 
          dated December 22, 1993, by and          Registration Statement on 
          between the Company and The Variable     Form S-3 filed April 20, 1998
          Annuity Life Insurance Company revising  (File No. 333-50477)
          Note Purchase Agreement dated August 29, 

10.3(d)   Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement,    Exhibit 4.5(d) to 
          dated July 29, 1997, by and between      Registration Statement on
          the Company and The Variable Annuity     Form S-3 filed April 20,
          Life Insurance Company revising Note     1998 (File No. 333-
          Purchase Agreement dated August 29,      50477)

10.4(a)   Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of     Exhibit (10)(f) of Form 10-K 
          August 31, 1992, by and between the      for fiscal year ended 
          Company and The Variable Annuity Life    September 30, 1992 (File No.
          Insurance Company                        1-10042)

10.4(b)   Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement,    Exhibit 4.6(b) to            
          dated December 22, 1993, by and between  Registration Statement on    
          the Company and The Variable Annuity     Form S-3 filed April 20, 1998
          Life Insurance Company revising Note     (File No. 333-50477)
          Purchase Agreement dated August 31,

10.4(c)   Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement,    Exhibit 4.6(c) to
          dated July 29, 1997, by and between      Registration Statement on
          the Company and The Variable Annuity     Form S-3 filed April 20, 1998
          Life Insurance Company revising Note     (File No. 333-50477)  
          Purchase Agreement dated August 31, 

10.5(a)   Note Purchase Agreement, dated November  Exhibit 10.1 of Form 10-Q for
          14, 1994, by and among the Company and   quarter ended December 31,
          New York Life Insurance Company, New     1994 (File No. 1-10042)
          York Life Insurance and Annuity 
          Corporation, The Variable Annuity
          Life Insurance Company, American General
          Life Insurance Company, and Merit
          Life Insurance Company

10.5(b)   Amendment to Note Purchase Agreement,    Exhibit 4.7(b) to 
          dated July 29, 1997, by and among the    Registration Statement on 
          Company and New York Life Insurance      Form S-3 filed April 20, 1998
          Company, New York Life Insurance and     (File No. 333-50477)
          Annuity Corporation, The Variable
          Annuity Life Insurance Company, 
          American General Life Insurance
          Company and Merit Life Insurance 
          Company revising Note Purchase
          Agreement dated November 14, 1994

10.6(a)   Indenture of Mortgage, dated as of       Exhibit to Registration 
          July 15, 1959, from United Cities        Statement of United Cities
          Gas Company to First Trust of            Gas Company on Form S-3
          Illinois, National Association, and      (File No. 33-56983)
          M.J. Kruger, as Trustees, as amended
          and supplemented through December 1,
          1992 (the Indenture of Mortgage through
          the 20th Supplemental Indenture)





                                                         Page Number or
Exhibit                                            Incorporation by Reference
 Number                Description                             to
- -------   --------------------------------------   -----------------------------

10.6(b)   Twenty-First Supplemental Indenture      Exhibit 10.7(a) of Form 
          dated as of February 5, 1997 by and      10-K for fiscal year    
          among United Cities Gas Company and      ended September 30,     
          Bank of America Illinois and First       1997 (File No. 1-       
          Trust National Association and Russell   10042)                  
          C. Bergman supplementing Indenture of                               
          Mortgage dated as of July 15, 1959                               
                                                                           
10.6(c)   Twenty-Second Supplemental Indenture     Exhibit 10.7(b) of Form 
          dated as of July 29, 1997 by and among   10-K for fiscal year    
          the Company and First Trust National     ended September 30,     
          Association and Russell C. Bergman       1997 (File No. 1-       
          supplementing Indenture of Mortgage      10042)                 
          dated as of July 15, 1959                
                                                                           
10.7(a)   Form of Indenture between United Cities  Exhibit to Registration
          Gas Company and First Trust of Illinois, Statement of United     
          National Association, as Trustee dated   Cities Gas Company on   
          as of November 15, 1995                  Form S-3 (File No. 33-  
                                                   56983)                  

10.7(b)   First Supplemental Indenture between     Exhibit 10.8(a) of Form
          the Company and First Trust of Illinois, 10-K for fiscal year   
          National Association, as Trustee         ended September 30,     
          dated as of July 29, 1997                1997 (File No. 1-10042)
                  
10.8(a)   Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated    Exhibit 10.1 of Form 10-Q
          as of October 1, 1983 between Greeley    for quarter ended      
          Gas Company ("Greeley Division") and     June 30, 1994 (File No. 
          the Central Bank of Denver, N.A.         1-10042)                
          ("Central Bank")                         
                                                   
10.8(b)   Ninth Supplemental Indenture, dated as   Exhibit 10.2 of Form 10-Q
          of April 1, 1991, between the Greeley    for quarter ended     
          Division and Central Bank                June 30, 1994 (File No. 
                                                   1-10042)                 

10.8(c)   Bond Purchase Agreement, dated as of     Exhibit 10.3 of Form 10-Q
          April 1, 1991, between the Greeley       for quarter ended June 30, 
          Division and Central Bank                1994 (File No. 1-10042)
                                                   
10.8(d)   Tenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as   Exhibit 10.4 of Form 10-Q
          of December 1, 1993, between the         for quarter ended     
          Company and Colorado National Bank,      June 30, 1994 (File No.  
          formerly Central Bank                    1-10042)                
                                                  
                      


                                                         Page Number or
Exhibit                                            Incorporation by Reference
 Number                Description                             to
- -------   --------------------------------------   -----------------------------

10.9(a)   Purchase Agreement for 6-3/4%            Exhibit 99.1 of       
          Debentures due 2028 by and among         Form 8-K dated July 22, 1998
          Merrill Lynch Co., NationsBanc           (File No. 1-10042)  
          Montgomery Securities LLC, Edward
          D. Jones & Co., L.P. and Atmos   
          Energy Corporation dated July 22,
                                           
10.9(b)   Form of Indenture between Atmos          Exhibit 4.1 to Registration 
          Energy Corporation and U.S. Bank         Statement on Form S-3 filed 
          Trust National Association,              April 20, 1998 
          Trustee                                  (File No. 333-50477)

          Gas Supply Contracts
          --------------------

10.10(a)  Firm Gas Transportation Agreement        Exhibit 10.10(a) of Form 
          No. 123535 dated November 1, 1995        10-K for fiscal year ended 
          between Greeley Gas and Public           September 30, 1997
          Service Company of Colorado              (File No. 1-10042)

10.10(b)  Transportation Storage Service           Exhibit 10.6(b) of Form 10-K
          Agreement No. TA-0544 between Greeley    for fiscal year ended 
          Gas and Williams Natural Gas             September 30, 1994 (File
          Company dated October 1, 1993            No. 1-10042)

10.10(c)  No-Notice Storage and Transportion       Exhibit 10.6(c) of Form 10-K
          Service Agreement No. 31013, Rate        for fiscal year ended 
          Schedule NNT-1, between Greeley Gas      September 30, 1994 
          and Colorado Interstate Gas Company,     (File No. 1-10042)
          as amended, dated October 1, 1993 (term
          extended to April 30, 2000 by letter
          dated January 2, 1996)

10.10(d)  Firm Transportation Service              
          Agreement, Rate Schedule TF-1,           
          between Colorado Interstate Gas          
          Company and Greeley Gas dated
          July 1, 1998                       

10.10(e)  No-Notice Storage and Transporation 
          Delivery Service Agreement, Rate
          Schedule NNT-1, between Colorado 
          Interstate Gas Company and Greeley
          Gas dated October 1, 1996

10.11     Amarillo Supply Agreement dated          Exhibit 10.7(a) of  
          January 2, 1993 between Energas          Form 10-K for fiscal
          and Pioneer Natural Resources,           year ended September 30, 1994
  
          USA, Inc. (formerly Mesa Operating       (File No. 1-10042)
          Company)                                           

10.12(a)  Agreement for Firm Intrastate            Exhibit 10.1 of Form 10-Q for
          Transporation of Natural Gas in          quarter ended March 31, 1998
          the State of Louisiana between           (File No. 1-10042)
          Trans La and Louisiana Intrastate        
          Gas Company L.L.C. (LIG) dated           
          December 22, 1997, and effective         
          July 1, 1997                            
                                                   
10.12(b)  Agreement for Firm 311(a)(2)             Exhibit 10.2 of Form 10-Q for
          Transporation of Natural Gas in the      quarter ended March 31, 1998
          State of Louisiana between Trans La      (File No. 1-10042)
          and Louisiana Intrastate Gas Company
          L.L.C. (LIG) dated December 22, 1997 
          and effective July 1, 1997


 
                                                         Page Number or
Exhibit                                            Incorporation by Reference
 Number                Description                             to
- -------   -------------------------------------    ---------------------------  

10.13(a)  Gas Transportation Agreement between     Exhibit 10.3 of Form 10-Q
          Texas Gas and Western Kentucky Gas       for quarter ended December
          dated November 1, 1993 (Contract no.     31, 1993 (File No. 1-
          T3355, zone 3)                           10042)

10.13(b)  Gas Transportation Agreement between     Exhibit 10.4 of Form 10-Q
          Texas Gas and Western Kentucky Gas       for quarter ended December
          dated November 1, 1993 (Contract no.     31, 1993 (File No. 1-
          T3819, zone 4)                           10042)

10.13(c)  Gas Transportation Agreement between     Exhibit 10.5 of Form 10-Q
          Texas Gas and Western Kentucky Gas       for quarter ended December
          dated November 1, 1993 (Contract no.     30, 1993 (File No. 1-
          N0210, zone 2, Contract no. N0340,       10042)
          zone 3, Contract no. N0435, zone 4)

10.14(a)  Gas Transportation Agreement,            Exhibit 10.17(a) of Form
          Contract No. 2550, dated September 1,    10-K for fiscal year ended
          1993, between Tennessee Gas Pipeline     September 30, 1993 (File
          Company, a division of Tenneco, Inc.     No. 1-10042)
          ("Tennessee Gas") and Western
          Kentucky, Campbellsville Service Area

10.14(b)  Gas Transportation Agreement,            Exhibit 10.17(b) of Form
          Contract No. 2546, dated September 1,    10-K for fiscal year ended
          1993, between Tennessee Gas and          September 30, 1993 (File
          Western Kentucky, Danville Service       No. 1-10042)
          Area

10.14(c)  Gas Transportation Agreement,            Exhibit 10.17(c) of Form
          Contract No. 2385, dated September 1,    10-K for fiscal year ended
          1993, between Tennessee Gas and          September 30, 1993 (File
          Western Kentucky, Greensburg et al       No. 1-10042)
          Service Area

10.14(d)  Gas Transportation Agreement,            Exhibit 10.17(d) of Form
          Contract No. 2551, dated September 1,    10-K for fiscal year ended
          1993, between Tennessee Gas and          September 30, 1993 (File
          Western Kentucky, Harrodsburg Service    No. 1-10042)
          Area





 
                                                         Page Number or
Exhibit                                            Incorporation by Reference
 Number                Description                             to
- -------   -------------------------------------    ---------------------------  
10.14(e)  Gas Transportation Agreement,            Exhibit 10.17(e) of Form
          Contract No. 2548, dated September 1,    10-K for fiscal year ended
          1993, between Tennessee Gas and          September 30, 1993 (File
          Western Kentucky, Lebanon Service        No. 1-10042)
          Area

10.15     Gas Service Agreement (Service for       Exhibit 10.5 of Form 10-Q
          Firm Transportation) between Energas     for quarter ended December
          and Westar Transmission Company dated    31, 1996 (File No. 1-
          January 1, 1996                          10042)

10.16     Gas Service Agreement (Service for       Exhibit 10.7 of Form 10-Q
          Firm Transportation) between Westar      for quarter ended December
          Transmission Company and EnerMart        31, 1996 (File No. 1-
          dated January 1, 1996 (Irrigation)       10042)

10.17     Gas Service Agreement (Service for       Exhibit 10.8 of Form 10-Q
          Firm Transportation) between KN          for quarter ended December
          Westex and Enermart Trust dated          31, 1996 (File No. 1-
          January 1, 1996                          10042)

10.18     Gas Sales Agreement (Irrigation)         Exhibit 10.11 of Form 10-Q
          between KN Marketing and EnerMart        for quarter ended December
          Trust dated March 1, 1996                31, 1996 (File No. 1-
                                                   10042)

10.19     Gas Sales Agreement (Swing) between      Exhibit 10.13 of Form 10-Q
          Energas and KN Marketing, dated          for quarter ended December
          January 1, 1996                          31, 1996 (File No. 1-
                                                   10042)

10.20(a)  Operating Agreement between Energas      Exhibit 10.15 of Form 10-Q
          and Westar Transmission Company,         for quarter ended December
          effective December 1, 1996               31, 1996 (File No. 1-10042)

10.20(b)  Gas Transportation Agreement Service     Exhibit 10.4 of Form 10-Q
          Package No. 4272 between United          for quarter ended March
          Cities Gas Company and East              31, 1998 (File No. 1-10042)
          Tennessee Natural Gas Company dated   
          November 1, 1993                       

10.20(c)  Gas Transportation Agreement Service     Exhibit 10.5 of Form 10-Q
          Package No. 4219 between United          for quarter ended March
          Cities Gas Company and Tennessee Gas     31, 1998 (File No. 1-10042)
          Pipeline Company dated November 1,     

10.20(d)  Transportation-Storage Contract          Exhibit 10.6 of Form 10-Q
          (Request 0180) between United Cities     for quarter ended March
          Gas Company and Williams Natural Gas     31, 1998 (File No. 1-10042)
          Company dated October 1, 1993

10.20(e)  Transportation-Storage Contract          Exhibit 10.7 of Form 10-Q
          (Request 0002) between United Cities     for quarter ended March
          Gas Company and Williams Natural Gas     31, 1998 (File No. 1-10042)
          Company dated October 1, 1993 

10.20(f)  Service Agreement No. 867760 under       Exhibit 10.8 of Form 10-Q
          Rate Schedule FT between United          for quarter ended March
          Cities Gas Company and Southern          31, 1998 (File No. 1-10042)
          Natural Gas Company dated November
          1, 1993

10.20(g)  Service Agreement No. 867761 under       Exhibit 10.9 of Form 10-Q for
          Rate Schedule FT-NN between United       quarter ended March 31, 1998
          Cities Gas Company and Southern          (File No. 1-10042)
          Natural Gas Company dated November 
          1, 1993 

          Executive Compensation Plans and
          Arrangements
          -------------------------------------

10.21(a)  *Severance Agreement dated April 1,      Exhibit 10.3 of Form 10-Q
          1995 between the Company and J.          for quarter ended June 30,
          Charles Goodman                          1995 (File No. 1-10042)

10.21(b)  *Form of Atmos Energy Corporation 
          Change in Control Severance 
          Agreement--Tier I

10.21(c)  *Form of Atmos Energy Corporation 
          Change in Control Severance 
          Agreement--Tier II




 
                                                         Page Number or
Exhibit                                            Incorporation by Reference
 Number                Description                             to
- -------   -------------------------------------    ---------------------------  

10.22(a)  *Atmos Energy Corporation Mini-Med       Exhibit 10.22 of Form 10-K
          Plan, as restated effective July 1,      for fiscal year ended
          1996                                     September 30, 1996 (File
                                                   No. 1-10042)

10.22(b)  *Amendment No. One to the Atmos
          Energy Corporation Mini-Med Plan

10.23     *Atmos Energy Corporation Deferred       Exhibit 10(x) of Form 10-K
          Compensation Plan for Outside            for fiscal year ended
          Directors                                September 30, 1992 (File
                                                   No. 1-10042).

10.24(a)  *Atmos Energy Corporation Retirement     Exhibit 10(y) of Form 10-K
          Plan for Outside Directors               for fiscal year ended
                                                   September 30, 1992 (File
                                                   No. 1-10042)

10.24(b)  *Amendment No. 1 to the Atmos Energy     Exhibit 10.2 of Form 10-Q
          Corporation Retirement Plan for          for quarter ended December
          Outside Directors                        31, 1996 (File No. 1-
                                                   10042)

10.25(a)  *Description of Car Allowance            Exhibit 10.26(a) of Form
          Payments                                 10-K for fiscal year ended
                                                   September 30, 1993 (File
                                                   No. 1-10042)

10.25(b)  *Description of Financial and Estate     Exhibit 10.25(b) of Form
          Planning Program                         10-K for fiscal year ended 
                                                   September 30, 1997 (File 
                                                   No. 1-10042)

10.25(c)  *Description of Sporting Events          Exhibit 10.26(c) of Form
          Program                                  10-K for fiscal year ended
                                                   September 30, 1993 (File
                                                   No. 1-10042)






                                                         Page Number or
Exhibit                                            Incorporation by Reference
 Number                Description                             to
- -------   --------------------------------------   -----------------------------

10.26     *Atmos Energy Corporation       
          Supplemental Executive Benefits 
          Plan, Amended and Restated in its                                  
          Entirety August 12, 1998         

10.27     *Atmos Energy Corporation                Exhibit 10.27 of Form 10-K
          Restricted Stock Grant Plan              for fiscal year ended    
          (Amended and Restated as of              September 30, 1997 (File 
          November 12, 1997)                       No. 1-10042)              

10.28     *Atmos Energy Corporation Outside        Exhibit 10.28 of Form 10-K
          Directors Stock-for-Fee Plan             fiscal year ended    
          (Amended and Restated as of              September 30, 1997 (File
          November 12, 1997)                       No. 1-10042)             

10.29     *Atmos Energy Corporation                Exhibit 10.4 of Form 10-Q
          Executive Annual Performance             for quarter ended       
          Bonus Plan (Amended and Restated         December 31, 1996       
          as of November 13, 1996)                 (File No. 1-10042)       

10.30(a)  *Consulting Agreement between the        Exhibit 10.2 of Form 10-Q 
          Company and Charles K. Vaughan,          for quarter ended June 30,
          effective October 1, 1994                1997 (File No. 1-10042)   

10.30(b)  *Amendment No. 1 to Consulting           Exhibit 10.3 of Form  
          Agreement between the Company and        10-Q for quarter ended 
          Charles K. Vaughan, dated May 14,        June 30, 1997 (File No.
          1997                                     1-10042)               

10.30(c)  *Amendment No. 2 to Consulting    
          Agreement between the Company and 
          Charles K. Vaughn, dated August 12,

10.31(a)  *Atmos Energy Corporation                Exhibit 10.31 of Form    
          Executive Retiree Life Plan              10-K for fiscal year ended
                                                   September 30, 1997 (File 
                                                   No. 1-10042)              
                                 
                                 


 
                                                         Page Number or
Exhibit                                            Incorporation by Reference
 Number                Description                             to
- -------   -------------------------------------    ---------------------------  

10.31(b)  *Amendment No. 1 to The Atmos Energy     Exhibit 10.31(a) of Form
          Corporation Executive Retiree Life       10-K for fiscal year ended
          Plan                                     September 30, 1997 (File
                                                   No. 1-10042)

10.32     *Atmos Energy Corporation Performance-
          Based Supplemental Executive
          Benefits Plan, Effective Date
          August 12, 1998.

10.33     *Atmos Energy Corporation Executive
          Nonqualified Deferred Compensation
          Plan.

11        Not applicable

12        Not applicable

13        Financial Review section of the
          Company's 1998 Annual Report to
          Shareholders (with exception of the
          information incorporated by reference
          included in Part I and Part II
          hereof, the 1998 Annual Report to
          Shareholders is not deemed filed or
          part of this Form 10-K)

16        Not applicable

18        Not applicable

          Other Exhibits, as indicated
          ----------------------------

21        Subsidiaries of the registrant

22        Not applicable

23.1      Consent of independent auditor,
          Ernst & Young LLP

23.2      Consent of independent public
          accountants, Arthur Andersen LLP

24        Power of Attorney                        Signature page of Form 10-K 
                                                   for fiscal year ended 
                                                   September 30, 1998

27        Financial Data Schedule for Atmos for
          year ended September 30, 1998

   -------------------------------------
   *This exhibit constitutes a "management contract or compensatory plan,
   contract, or arrangement."








