
10-K
FPL GROUP/FPL FORM 10-K YEAR ENDED
                        12/31/96



UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
           WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                 FORM 10-K

[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996

                     OR

[  ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization:  Florida


Indicate by check mark whether the registrants (1) have filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months and (2) have been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X    
 No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of Registrants' knowledge in definitive proxy
or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [   ]

Aggregate market value of the voting stock of FPL Group, Inc. held by
non-affiliates as of February 28, 1997 (based on the closing market
price on the Composite Tape on February 28, 1997) was $8,172,154,254
(determined by subtracting from the number of shares outstanding on
that date the number of shares held by directors and officers of FPL
Group, Inc.).

There was no voting stock of Florida Power & Light Company held by
non-affiliates as of February 28, 1997.

The number of shares outstanding of each class of FPL Group, Inc.
common stock, as of the latest practicable date:  Common Stock, $.01
Par Value, outstanding at February 28, 1997:  182,443,635 shares

As of February 28, 1997, there were issued and outstanding 1,000
shares of Florida Power & Light Company's common stock, without par
value, all of which were held, beneficially and of record, by FPL
Group, Inc.

    DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of FPL Group, Inc.'s Definitive Proxy Statement for the 1997
Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part
III hereof.
       ______________________________

This combined Form 10-K represents separate filings by FPL Group,
Inc. and Florida Power & Light Company.  Information contained herein
relating to an individual registrant is filed by that registrant on
its own behalf.  Florida Power & Light Company makes no
representations as to the information relating to FPL Group, Inc.'s
other operations.

                DEFINITIONS


Acronyms and defined terms used in the text include the following:


SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM
ACT OF 1995

In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (Reform Act), FPL Group and
FPL (collectively, Company) are hereby filing cautionary statements
identifying important factors that could cause the Company's actual
results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking
statements (as such term is defined in the Reform Act) of the Company
made by or on behalf of the Company which are made in this combined
Form 10-K, in presentations, in response to questions or otherwise. 
Any statements that express, or involve discussions as to,
expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or future
events or performance (often, but not always, through the use of
words or phrases such as will likely result, are expected to, will
continue, is anticipated, estimated, projection, outlook) are not
statements of historical facts and may be forward-looking. 
Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially
from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.  Accordingly,
any such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to,
and are accompanied by, the following important factors that could
cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those
contained in forward-looking statements of the Company made by or on
behalf of the Company.

Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which
such statement is made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to
update any forward-looking statement or statements to reflect events
or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to
reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.  New factors emerge
from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict
all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor
on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of
factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those
contained in any forward-looking statements.

Some important factors that could cause actual results or outcomes to
differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking
statements include prevailing governmental policies and regulatory
actions, including those of the FERC, the FPSC and the NRC, with
respect to allowed rates of return, industry and rate structure,
operation of nuclear power facilities, acquisition and disposal of
assets and facilities, operation and construction of plant
facilities, recovery of purchased power, decommissioning costs, and
present or prospective wholesale and retail competition (including
but not limited to retail wheeling and transmission costs).

The business and profitability of the Company are also influenced by
economic and geographic factors including political and economic
risks, changes in and compliance with environmental and safety laws
and policies, weather conditions (including natural disasters such as
hurricanes), population growth rates and demographic patterns,
competition for retail and wholesale customers, pricing and
transportation of commodities, market demand for energy from plants
or facilities, changes in tax rates or policies or in rates of
inflation, unanticipated development project delays or changes in
project costs, unanticipated changes in operating expenses and
capital expenditures, capital market conditions, competition for new
energy development opportunities, and legal and administrative
proceedings (whether civil, such as environmental, or criminal) and
settlements.

All such factors are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties
which may materially affect actual results, and are beyond the
control of the Company.

                   PART I

Item 1.  Business

                 FPL GROUP

FPL Group is a public utility holding company, as defined in the
Holding Company Act.  It was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of
Florida.  FPL Group's principal subsidiary, FPL, is engaged in the
generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy. 
Other operations are conducted through FPL Group Capital and its
subsidiaries and mainly consist of investments in non-utility energy
projects and agricultural operations.  FPL Group and its subsidiaries
employ 10,250 persons.

FPL Group is exempt from substantially all of the provisions of the
Holding Company Act on the basis that FPL Group's and FPL's
businesses are predominantly intrastate in character and carried on
substantially in a single state in which both are incorporated.

               FPL OPERATIONS

General.  FPL was incorporated under the laws of Florida in 1925 and
is a wholly-owned subsidiary of FPL Group.  FPL supplies electric
service throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of Florida. 
This service territory contains 27,650 square miles with a population
of approximately 7 million.  During 1996, FPL served 3.6 million
customer accounts.  Operating revenues were as follows:


Regulation.  The retail operations of FPL provided approximately 99%
of FPL's operating revenues for 1996.  Such operations are regulated
by the FPSC which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service
territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction
of facilities and other matters.  FPL is also subject to regulation
by the FERC in various respects, including the acquisition and
disposition of facilities, interchange and transmission services and
wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy.

FPL's nuclear power plants are subject to the jurisdiction of the
NRC.  NRC regulations govern the granting of licenses for the
construction and operation of nuclear power plants and subject such
power plants to continuing review and regulation.

Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations cover air
and water quality, land use, power plant and transmission line
siting, EMF from power lines and substations, noise and aesthetics,
solid waste and other environmental matters.  Compliance with these
laws and regulations increases the cost of electric service by
requiring, among other things, changes in the design and operation of
existing facilities and changes or delays in the location, design,
construction and operation of new facilities.  FPL estimates that
capital expenditures required to comply with environmental laws and
regulations for 1997 through 1999 will not be material.  These
expenditures are included in FPL's projected capital expenditures set
forth in Item 1. Business - FPL Operations - Capital Expenditures.

FPL holds franchises with varying expiration dates to provide
electric service in various municipalities and counties in Florida. 
FPL considers its franchises to be adequate for the conduct of its
business.

Retail Ratemaking.  The underlying concept of utility ratemaking is
to set rates at a level that allows the utility to collect from
customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to its cost of
providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested
capital.  To accomplish this, the FPSC uses various ratemaking
mechanisms.

The basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and
certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are
designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and
maintaining the utility system.  These basic costs include O&M
expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on FPL's
investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service
(rate base).  The rate of return on rate base approximates FPL's
weighted cost of capital, which includes its costs for debt and
preferred stock and an allowed ROE.  FPL's currently authorized ROE
range is 11% to 13% with a midpoint of 12%.  The FPSC monitors FPL's
ROE through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by FPL with
the FPSC.  The FPSC does not provide assurance that the allowed ROE
will be achieved.  Base rates are determined in rate proceedings
which occur at irregular intervals at the initiative of FPL, the FPSC
or a substantially affected party.  FPL's last base rate proceeding
was in 1984.  In 1990, FPL's base rates were reduced following a
change in federal income tax rates.

Fuel costs totaled $1.7 billion in 1996 and are recovered through
levelized charges per kwh established pursuant to the fuel clause. 
These charges are calculated semi-annually based on estimated costs
of fuel and estimated customer usage for the ensuing six-month
period, plus or minus a true-up adjustment to reflect the variance of
actual costs and usage from the estimates used in setting the fuel
adjustment charges for prior periods.

Capacity payments to other utilities and generating companies for
purchased power are recovered through the capacity clause and base
rates.  In 1996, $404 million was recovered through the capacity
clause.  Costs associated with implementing energy conservation
programs totaled $107 million in 1996 and are recovered through the
conservation clause.  Costs of complying with federal, state and
local environmental regulations enacted after April 1993 totaled $13
million in 1996 and are recovered through the environmental clause to
the extent not included in base rates.

The FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it
considers excessive or imprudently incurred.  Such costs may include
O&M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and
nuclear units are unavailable and costs associated with the
construction or acquisition of new facilities.

Competition.  The electric utility industry is facing increasing
competitive pressure.  FPL currently faces competition from other
suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from
alternative energy sources and self-generation for other customer
groups, primarily industrial customers.  In 1996, operating revenues
from wholesale and industrial customers combined represent
approximately 5% of FPL's total operating revenues.  Various states,
other than Florida, have either enacted legislation or are pursuing
initiatives designed to deregulate the production and sale of
electricity.  By allowing customers to choose their electricity
supplier, deregulation is expected to result in a shift from
cost-based rates to market-based rates for energy production. 
Similar initiatives are also being pursued on the federal level. 
Although the legislation and initiatives vary substantially, common
areas of focus include when market-based pricing will be available
for wholesale and retail customers, what existing prudently incurred
costs in excess of the market-based price will be recoverable and
whether generation assets should be separated from transmission,
distribution and other assets.  In the event the basis of regulation
for some or all of FPL's business changes from cost-based regulation,
existing regulatory assets and liabilities would be written off
unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. 
Further, other aspects of the business, such as generation assets and
long-term power purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to
assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory environment.  See
Management's Discussion - Results of Operations and
Note 1 - Regulation.

While legislators and state regulatory commissions will decide what
impact, if any, competitive forces will have on retail transactions,
the FERC has jurisdiction over potential changes which could affect
competition in wholesale transactions.  In 1993, FPL filed with the
FERC a comprehensive revision of its service offerings in the
wholesale market.  FPL proposed changes to its wholesale sales
tariffs for service to municipal and cooperatively-owned electric
utilities and its power sharing (interchange) agreements with other
utilities.  In addition, FPL proposed expanding its transmission
offerings for new services by switching from individually negotiated
contracts to three tariffs of general applicability.  FPL began
collecting the proposed rates in 1994, subject to refund pending the
final ruling on its proposal.  In December 1995, the administrative
law judge issued his initial decision, ruling in favor of FPL on some
issues and against FPL on others.  In 1996, the FERC revised its
policies with respect to transmission service and required all
jurisdictional utilities to have on file at the FERC open access
transmission tariffs.  In general, these policies require a utility
to provide to third parties access to the utility's transmission
system on a basis comparable to the uses the utility makes of its own
system and at comparable rates.  FPL updated its 1993 filing to
accommodate the FERC's revised policies.  A final decision on these
filings is not expected until sometime in 1997.

FPL is a defendant in an antitrust suit filed by the FMPA.  The
complaint includes an alleged inability to utilize FPL's transmission
facilities to wheel power.  See Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

System Capability and Load.  FPL's resources for serving load as of
December 31, 1996 consisted of 18,538 mw of electric power, 16,369 mw
generated by FPL-owned facilities (see Item 2.
Properties - Generating Facilities) and 2,169 mw obtained through
purchased power contracts.  See Note 9 - Contracts.  The compounded
annual growth rate of kwh sales and customers was 3.7% and 2.0%,
respectively, for the three years ended December 31, 1996.

Customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the
summer months largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in
FPL's service territory.  However, occasionally, extremely cold
temperatures during the winter months result in unusually high
electricity usage for a short period of time.  On February 5, 1996,
FPL reached an all-time energy peak demand of approximately 18,100
mw.  At that time, FPL was able to meet the peak with available
resources.

Capital Expenditures.  FPL's capital expenditures totaled $474
million in 1996, $669 million in 1995 and $772 million in 1994. 
Capital expenditures for the 1997-99 period are expected to be
approximately $1.6 billion, including $590 million in 1997.  This
estimate is subject to continuing review and adjustment, and actual
capital expenditures may vary from this estimate.  See Management's
Discussion - Liquidity and Capital Resources.

Nuclear Operations.  FPL owns and operates four nuclear units, two at
St. Lucie and two at Turkey Point.  The operating licenses for St.
Lucie Units Nos. 1 and 2 expire in 2016 and 2023, respectively.  The
operating licenses for Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 expire in 2012
and 2013, respectively.  The nuclear units are periodically removed
from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages,
repairs and certain other modifications.  A condition of the
operating license for each unit requires an approved plan for
decontamination and decommissioning.  FPL's current plans provide for
dismantlement of the Turkey Point units commencing in 2013.  St.
Lucie Unit No. 1 will be mothballed in 2016 until 2023 when
dismantlement of both Unit No. 1 and Unit No. 2 will commence.  See
estimated cost data in Note 1 - Decommissioning and Dismantlement of
Generating Plant.

Since mid-1995, the St. Lucie nuclear plant has experienced a series
of mechanical and operational problems that have resulted in
increased attention and fines from the NRC.  A number of
self-identified and NRC-identified corrective actions have been
implemented, and several changes have been made to St. Lucie's
management team.  However, the NRC continues to give increased
attention to St. Lucie's overall operations.

Indications of abnormal degradation had previously been found in the
pressurized water circulation tubes of the St. Lucie Unit No. 1 steam
generators and FPL had determined that the steam generators needed to
be replaced.  Costs incurred in 1997 and thereafter to replace the
steam generators are included in FPL's projected capital expenditures
set forth above.  In 1996, FPL submitted an analysis of the
pressurized water circulation tubes of the St. Lucie Unit No. 1 steam
generators to the NRC.  The analysis supported continued operation of
St. Lucie Unit No. 1 until at least September 1997, at which time FPL
plans to replace the steam generators.  The NRC is currently
reviewing the analysis.

Fuel.  FPL's generating plants use a variety of fuels.  See Item 2.
Properties - Generating Facilities and Note 9 - Contracts.  The
diverse fuel options, along with purchased power, enable FPL to shift
between sources of generation to achieve an economical fuel mix. 
FPL's oil requirements are obtained under short-term contracts and in
the spot market.

FPL has contracts in place with FGT that satisfy substantially all of
the anticipated needs for natural gas transportation.  The existing
contracts expire in 2005 and 2010, but can be extended at FPL's
option.  To the extent desirable, FPL can also purchase interruptible
gas transportation service from FGT based on pipeline availability. 
FPL has a 15-year firm natural gas supply contract at market rates
with an affiliate of FGT to provide approximately two-thirds of FPL's
anticipated needs for natural gas.  The remainder of FPL's gas
requirements will be purchased under other contracts and in the spot
market.

FPL has, through its joint ownership interest in SJRPP Units Nos. 1
and 2, long-term coal supply and transportation contracts for a
portion of the fuel needs for those units.  All of the transportation
requirements and a portion of the fuel supply needs for Scherer Unit
No. 4 are covered by a series of annual and long-term contracts.  The
remaining fuel requirements will be obtained in the spot market.

FPL leases nuclear fuel for all four of its nuclear units.  See
Note 1 - Nuclear Fuel.  Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, the DOE
is required to construct permanent storage facilities and will take
title to and provide transportation and storage for spent nuclear
fuel for a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear
power plants.  Through 1996, FPL has paid approximately $320 million
in such fees to the DOE for future transportation and storage.  The
DOE has not completed selection of a permanent storage facility nor
indicated how it will satisfy its obligation under the Nuclear Waste
Policy Act.  In January 1997, FPL joined a number of other utilities
in a lawsuit against the DOE to suspend payments for future
transportation and storage.  Alternatively, the utilities propose to
hold the funds in escrow until a nuclear waste storage facility is
available.  Currently, FPL is storing spent fuel on site and plans to
provide adequate storage capacity for all of its spent nuclear fuel,
pending its removal by the DOE.

In 1994, FPL entered into a 20-year contract with Bitor America to
purchase Orimulsion, a fuel that is an emulsion of bitumen and water
and is priced equivalently to coal.  FPL has committed to purchase
Orimulsion to satisfy approximately 60% of the capacity of the
Manatee units, but may elect to purchase sufficient Orimulsion to
satisfy the Manatee units' total capacity.  See Item 2.
Properties - Generating Facilities.  The contract is contingent upon
FPL obtaining an operating permit from environmental agencies to use
Orimulsion at the Manatee units.  In 1996, Florida's Power Plant
Siting Board denied FPL's request to burn Orimulsion at the Manatee
units.  FPL has appealed the Board's denial to the First District
Court of Appeals of the State of Florida.

Electric and Magnetic Fields.  In recent years, increasing public,
scientific and regulatory attention has been focused on possible
adverse health effects of EMF.  These fields are created whenever
electricity flows through a power line or an appliance.  Several
epidemiological (i.e., statistical) studies have suggested a linkage
between EMF and certain types of cancer, including leukemia and brain
cancer; other studies have been inconclusive, contradicted earlier
studies or have shown no such linkage.  Neither these epidemiological
studies nor clinical studies have produced any conclusive evidence
that EMF does or does not cause adverse health effects.

The FDEP has promulgated regulations setting standards for EMF levels
within and at the edge of the rights of way for transmission lines,
and FPL is in compliance with these regulations.  The FDEP reviewed
its EMF standards in 1992 and confirmed the field limits previously
established.  Future changes in the standards could require
additional capital expenditures by FPL for such things as increasing
the right of way corridors or relocating or reconfiguring
transmission facilities.  At present it is not known whether any such
expenditures will be required.

Employees.  FPL had 10,011 employees at December 31, 1996. 
Approximately 38% of the employees are represented by the IBEW under
a collective bargaining agreement with FPL expiring on October 31,
1997.  FPL is currently negotiating with members of the IBEW for a
new collective bargaining agreement.

         OTHER FPL GROUP OPERATIONS

FPL Group Capital, a wholly-owned subsidiary of FPL Group, holds the
capital stock and provides most of the funding for the operating
subsidiaries other than FPL.  At December 31, 1996, FPL Group Capital
and its subsidiaries represented less than 6% of FPL Group's total
assets.  The business activities of these companies primarily consist
of investments in non-utility energy projects and agricultural
operations.

Non-Utility Energy - Domestic.  ESI provides equity capital, debt
financing, project development and operations management for
non-utility energy projects.  To date, ESI has invested in one
project that qualifies as an EWG.  Substantially all other projects
in which it has invested are qualifying facilities under PURPA.  ESI
currently participates in 27 non-utility energy projects totaling
approximately 2,000 mw, primarily through non-controlling ownership
interests in joint ventures or leveraged lease investments.  Based on
ESI's invested capital at December 31, 1996, the projects are
concentrated in California (55%), Virginia (20%) and Nevada (18%). 
The technologies and fuels used by the projects to produce
electricity include natural gas, wind, geothermal, coal, solar and
waste-to-energy.  Energy production from the non-utility energy
investments is generally higher during the third quarter due to
increased energy demand and resource availability.

Many of the projects in which ESI invests, particularly those located
in California, operate under fixed price energy sales contracts for a
period of years and then convert to the purchasing utility's avoided
costs.  Currently, avoided cost is below the fixed price for many of
these projects.  Competitive initiatives in California propose
phasing in market-based pricing rather than cost-based pricing by
2002.  The effect of these initiatives on avoided cost and the
related revenues paid to non-utility generators is uncertain.  Any
decline in revenues not offset by operational or performance
efficiencies would adversely affect ESI's earnings from and the value
of its investment in these projects.

Non-Utility Energy - International.  FPL Group International, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of FPL Group Capital, was formed in 1996 to
invest in power projects overseas.  To date, FPL Group International
has invested in projects located in Colombia, Indonesia and the
United Kingdom, two of which qualify as EWG's.  One project is in
early operation and the remaining projects are in the development
stage.  The projects utilize both conventional and alternative energy
sources.  Long-term purchased power contracts are in place for
substantially all of the 414 mw these projects are designed to
produce.  FPL Group International continues to pursue investment
opportunities around the world.

Agriculture.  FPL Group Capital's agricultural subsidiary, Turner,
owns and operates citrus groves in Florida.  Turner's primary product
is juice oranges, which are sold to processors for the premium
not-from-concentrate, as well as the domestic frozen-concentrate,
orange juice markets.  Other products include grapefruit and
specialty fruits.  Turner's operations are seasonal, with the
majority of the citrus harvest taking place between January and
April.

As of December 31, 1996, Turner owned or leased approximately 30,000
acres of citrus properties, which included 19,000 planted acres,
3,000 acres of undeveloped land and 8,000 acres of infrastructure,
wet lands and reservoirs.

Other.  After giving effect to transactions completed in 1996 which
had no significant effect on net income, FPL Group Capital maintains
a limited amount of real estate and other assets held for
disposition.  These assets are carried at estimated fair value less
costs to dispose.  FPL Group cannot estimate the timing of their
ultimate disposition, but these transactions are not expected to have
a material adverse effect on FPL Group's net income.  The remaining
cable television subscriber base was contributed into a limited
partnership which removed FPL Group from the day-to-day management
and operation of the cable television business.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTS (1)(2)


Item 2.  Properties

FPL Group and its subsidiaries maintain properties which are adequate
for their operations.  The electric generating, transmission,
distribution and general facilities of FPL represent 38%, 14%, 40%
and 8%, respectively, of investment in electric utility plant in
service, net of accumulated depreciation.

Generating Facilities.   As of December 31, 1996, FPL had the
following generating facilities: 



Transmission and Distribution.  FPL owns and operates 476 substations
with a total capacity of 102,087,240 kva.  Electric transmission and
distribution lines owned and in service as of December 31, 1996 are
as follows:

Character of Ownership.  Substantially all of FPL's properties are
subject to the lien of its mortgage, which secures most debt
securities issued by FPL.  The principal properties of FPL are held
by it in fee and are free from other encumbrances, subject to minor
exceptions, none of which is of such a nature as to substantially
impair the usefulness to FPL of such properties.  Some of the
electric lines are located on land not owned in fee but are covered
by necessary consents of governmental authorities or rights obtained
from owners of private property.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

In December 1991, the FMPA, an organization comprised of municipal
electric utilities operating in the state, filed a suit against FPL
in the Circuit Court of the Ninth Judicial Circuit in Orange County,
Florida.  The suit was subsequently removed to the United States
District Court for the Middle District of Florida.  The FMPA alleges
that FPL is in breach of a "contract," consisting of several
different documents, by refusing to provide transmission service to
the FMPA and its members on the FMPA's terms.  The FMPA also alleges
that FPL has violated federal and Florida antitrust laws by
monopolizing or attempting to monopolize the provision, coordination
and transmission of electric power in FPL's area of operation by
refusing to provide transmission service or to permit the FMPA to
invest in and use FPL's transmission system on the FMPA's proposed
terms.  The FMPA seeks $140 million in damages, before trebling for
the antitrust claim, and asks the court to require FPL:  to transmit
electric power among the FMPA and its members on "reasonable terms
and conditions"; to permit the FMPA to contribute to and use FPL's
transmission system on "reasonable terms and conditions"; and to
recognize the FMPA transmission investments as part of FPL's
transmission system such that the FMPA can obtain transmission on a
basis equivalent to FPL or, alternatively, to provide transmission
service equivalent to such FMPA transmission ownership.  In 1993, the
District Court granted summary judgment in favor of FPL.  In 1995,
the court of appeals vacated the District Court's summary judgment
and remanded the matter to the district court for further
proceedings.  In 1996, the District Court ordered the FMPA to seek a
declaratory ruling from the FERC regarding certain issues in the
case.  All other action in the case has been stayed pending the
FERC's ruling.

In November 1989, Johnson Enterprises of Jacksonville, Inc. (Johnson
Enterprises) filed suit in the United States District Court for the
Middle District of Florida against FPL Group, FPL Group Capital and
Telesat Cablevision, Inc. (Telesat), a subsidiary of FPL Group
Capital.  The suit alleged breach of contract, fraud, violation of
racketeering statutes and several other claims.  Plaintiff claimed
more than $24 million in compensatory damages, treble damages under
racketeering statutes, punitive damages and attorneys' fees.  The
District Court entered a judgment in favor of FPL Group and Telesat
on nine of twelve counts, including all of the racketeering and fraud
claims, and in favor of FPL Group Capital on all counts.  It also
denied all parties' claims for attorneys' fees.  However, the jury in
the case awarded the contractor damages totaling approximately $6
million against FPL Group and Telesat for breach of contract and
tortious interference.  All parties have appealed.

In the event that FPL Group or FPL does not prevail in these suits,
there may be a material adverse effect on their financial statements. 
However, FPL Group and FPL believe that they have meritorious
defenses to the litigation described above and are vigorously
defending these suits.  Accordingly, the liabilities, if any, arising
from these proceedings are not anticipated to have a material adverse
effect on their financial statements.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None

                  PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrants' Common Equity and Related
Stockholder Matters

Common Stock Data.  All of FPL's common stock is owned by FPL Group. 
FPL Group's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 
The high and low sales prices for the common stock of FPL Group as
reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system of the New
York Stock Exchange for each quarter during the past two years are as
follows:



Approximate Number of Stockholders.  As of the close of business on
February 28, 1997, there were 66,216 holders of record of FPL Group's
common stock.

Dividends.  Quarterly dividends have been paid on common stock of
FPL Group during the past two years in the following amounts:



The amount and timing of dividends payable on FPL Group's common
stock are within the sole discretion of FPL Group's board of
directors.  The board of directors reviews the dividend rate at least
annually (in February) to determine its appropriateness in light of
FPL Group's financial position and results of operations, legislative
and regulatory developments affecting the electric utility industry
in general and FPL in particular, competitive conditions and any
other factors the board deems relevant.  The ability of FPL Group to
pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon dividends paid to
it by its subsidiaries, primarily FPL.  There are no restrictions in
effect that currently limit FPL's ability to pay dividends to FPL
Group.  See Management's Discussion - Liquidity and Capital Resources
and Note 4 regarding dividends paid by FPL to FPL Group.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data



Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations

Results of Operations

FPL Group's net income, earnings per share and cash flow from
operations have grown since 1994 at average annual rates of 5.7%,
7.0% and 7.4%, respectively.  These operating results reflect a
combination of continued growth in the number of customers served by
FPL and actions taken by management to make FPL's operations more
cost effective.  These actions include the accelerated amortization
of nuclear and fossil fuel generating assets and regulatory assets,
as well as reductions in O&M expenses, debt and preferred stock. 

FPL's operating revenues represent about 99% of FPL Group's operating
revenues and primarily consist of revenues from base rates, cost
recovery clauses and franchise fees.  Revenues from base rates were
$3.4 billion, $3.4 billion and $3.2 billion in 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.  There were no changes in base rates during those
years.  Revenues from cost recovery clauses and franchise fees
represent a pass-through of costs and do not significantly affect net
income.  Fluctuations in these revenues are primarily driven by
changes in energy sales, fuel prices and capacity charges.  Clause
revenues and the related fuel, purchased power and interchange
expense increased in 1996 primarily due to higher fuel prices, and
higher capacity charges as an additional purchased power contract
became effective.  See Note 9 - Contracts.

The population in FPL's service territory continued to grow,
contributing to retail customer growth of 1.8%, 1.9% and 2.1% in
1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  In 1996, milder weather
conditions resulted in a decrease in retail customer usage of 1.3%,
following extreme weather in 1995 and 1994 which contributed to
increases in usage of 2.5% and 3.8%, respectively.  Together these
factors and changes in sales to other utilities contributed to
increased total energy sales of 1.4%, 3.5% and 6.4% in 1996, 1995 and
1994, respectively.

The FPSC regulates FPL's retail sales, which represent approximately
97% of FPL Group's total operating revenues.  FPL reported a retail
regulatory ROE of 12.1%, 12.3% and 12.3% in 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.  The ROE range authorized by the FPSC for these periods
was 11% to 13% with a midpoint of 12%.

O&M expenses continued to decline in 1996 due to management's focus
on increasing the efficiency of FPL's operations.  In 1996, these
cost savings were partially offset by the third quarter adoption of
an FPSC-approved change in accounting for costs associated with
nuclear refueling outages.  Under this new accounting method, the
estimated nuclear refueling and maintenance cost of each nuclear
unit's next planned outage will be accrued from the time the unit
resumes operation until the end of the next outage.  Any differences
between estimated and actual costs will be included in O&M expenses
when known.  The cumulative effect of changing to this method of
accounting was $35 million and was approved by the FPSC for
amortization over a period not to exceed five years.  Adoption of
this new method resulted in an increase in nuclear O&M expenses for
1996 of approximately $35 million, including $14 million amortization
of the cumulative effect adjustment.  The comparability of future O&M
expenses should be improved as the number of nuclear refueling
outages should not be a factor affecting period expense.  In 1995,
FPL incurred costs related to two nuclear refueling outages, while
there were four during 1994.  O&M expenses in 1994, and to a lesser
extent in 1995, included charges associated with facilities
consolidation and inventory reductions, as well as costs relating to
growth in customer base and placement of additional generating units
in service.  O&M expenses for 1996 and 1995 also included costs
associated with workforce reductions following operational reviews at
several business units.

The 1996 and 1995 increases in depreciation and amortization expense
are primarily the result of an FPSC-approved special amortization
program initiated by FPL in 1995.  The program calls for a continuing
special nuclear amortization of $30 million per year plus, through
1997, an additional amount of amortization based on the level of
sales achieved compared to a forecasted amount.  In 1996 and 1995,
FPL recorded $160 million and $126 million, respectively, of this
special amortization.  The additional amounts are applied against
specific nuclear and fossil generating assets, as well as certain
regulatory assets.  By the end of 1996, the approved amounts for
nuclear and fossil generating assets had been completely amortized
and accelerated amortization of regulatory assets had begun. 
Additionally, in 1996 and 1995 FPL amortized $28 million and $37
million, respectively, of plant-related regulatory assets deferred
since FPL's last rate case in 1984.  The remaining $46 million
balance will continue to be amortized as authorized by the FPSC. 
Finally, in 1995 FPL increased its annual accrual for nuclear
decommissioning costs to $85 million, up from $38 million recorded in
1994.  Nuclear decommissioning accruals are expected to remain at $85
million per year at least until the next decommissioning studies,
currently scheduled to be filed in 1999.

In order to strengthen the financial position of FPL Group and FPL,
debt, preferred stock and commercial paper balances have been reduced
over the past three years by more than $1.3 billion ($1.0 billion for
FPL). This has resulted in lower interest charges during the last
three years and lower preferred stock dividends in 1996 and 1994.  In
1995, preferred stock dividends included premiums on preferred stock
redemptions.

In 1996, the FPSC approved an accounting rule change that eliminates
the recording of AFUDC on all but very large construction projects. 
Additionally, AFUDC has declined in recent years from lower
construction expenditures.  The change in AFUDC is the primary factor
changing the non-operating line other - net.

The effective income tax rate was lower in 1996, reflecting the
increased amortization of FPL's deferred investment tax credits
related to property included in the special amortization program.

The electric utility industry is facing increasing competitive
pressure.  FPL currently faces competition from other suppliers of
electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy
sources and self-generation for other customer groups, primarily
industrial customers.  In 1996, operating revenues from wholesale and
industrial customers combined represent approximately 5% of FPL's
total operating revenues. Various states, other than Florida, have
either enacted legislation or are pursuing initiatives designed to
deregulate the production and sale of electricity.  By allowing
customers to choose their electricity supplier, deregulation is
expected to result in a shift from cost-based rates to market-based
rates for energy production.  Similar initiatives are also being
pursued on the federal level.  Although the legislation and
initiatives vary substantially, common areas of focus include when
market-based pricing will be available for wholesale and retail
customers,  what existing prudently incurred costs in excess of the
market-based price will be recoverable and whether generation assets
should be separated from transmission, distribution and other assets. 
In the event the basis of regulation for some or all of FPL's
business changes from cost-based regulation, existing regulatory
assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify
an alternative means of recovery or refund.  Further, other aspects
of the business, such as generation assets and long-term power
purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to assess their
recoverability in a changed regulatory environment.  Since there is
no deregulation proposal currently under consideration in Florida,
FPL is unable to predict what impact would result from a change to a
more competitive environment.  See Note 1 - Regulation.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

FPL Group's primary capital requirements consist of expenditures to
meet increased electricity usage and customer growth of FPL.  FPL's
capital expenditures for the period 1997 through 1999 are expected to
be approximately $1.6 billion, including $590 million for 1997.  See
Note 9 - Commitments.  FPL's capital expenditures have declined
significantly over the past few years as a result of continuing
efforts to reduce costs and the completion of its generation
expansion plan, but are expected to increase in 1997 due to the
replacement of steam generators at St. Lucie Unit No. 1.  No new
generating plants are expected to be constructed before 2004.

Debt maturities and minimum sinking fund requirements of FPL Group's
subsidiaries will require cash outflows of approximately $729 million
($548 million for FPL) through 2001, including $155 million ($4
million for FPL) in 1997.  See Notes 5 and 6.  It is anticipated that
cash requirements for capital expenditures and debt repayments in
1997 will be satisfied with internally generated funds.  Internally
generated funds not required for capital expenditures and current
maturities may be used to reduce outstanding debt, preferred or
common stock, or for investment.  Any temporary cash needs will be
met by the issuance of commercial paper.  Bank lines of credit
currently available to FPL Group and its subsidiaries aggregate $1.3
billion ($1.0 billion for FPL).

In addition to over $500 million retirement of debt and preferred
stock of FPL during 1996, FPL Group repurchased 1.9 million shares of
common stock.  In February 1997, FPL Group's board of directors
authorized the repurchase of up to 10 million shares of common stock
over an unspecified period.  The authorization supersedes a similar
plan approved in May 1994, under which 8.1 million common shares were
repurchased.

FPL self-insures for damage to certain transmission and distribution
properties and maintains a funded storm reserve to guard against
storm losses.  The balance of the storm fund reserve at December 31,
1996 was $223 million.  Bank lines of credit of $300 million,
included in the $1.3 billion above, are also available if needed to
provide cash for storm restoration costs.  The FPSC has indicated
that it would consider future storm losses in excess of the funded
reserve for possible recovery from customers. In 1995, the FPSC
approved FPL's request to increase the annual storm fund contribution
from $10 million to $20 million and to contribute to the storm fund
additional insurance recoveries related to 1992 and 1993 storms that
were not required for identified system repairs.  These
contributions, combined with the increase in the funding of the
nuclear decommissioning trust, resulted in higher cash outflows from
investing activities.

Proceeds from properties held for sale have declined over the past
three years as FPL Group disposed of certain non-FPL properties that
are not part of the core business.  These dispositions had little
effect on earnings but have contributed to cash flows.  Dispositions
of remaining properties are not expected to significantly affect
future operating results.

In 1996, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued an exposure
draft on accounting for certain liabilities related to closure or
removal of long-lived assets.  The primary effect of this exposure
draft would be to change the way FPL accounts for nuclear
decommissioning and fossil dismantlement costs.  The exposure draft
calls for recording the present value of estimated future cash flows
to decommission FPL's nuclear power plants and dismantle its fossil
power plants as an increase to assets and as a liability.  This
amount is currently estimated to be $1.4 billion.  It is anticipated
that there will be no effect on cash flows and, because of the
regulatory treatment, there will be no significant effect on net
income.

FPL Group Capital and its subsidiaries, primarily ESI, have
guaranteed approximately $120 million of lease obligations, debt
service payments and other payments subject to certain contingencies.

FPL's charter and mortgage contain provisions which, under certain
conditions, restrict the payment of dividends and the issuance of
additional unsecured debt, first mortgage bonds and preferred stock. 
Given FPL's current financial condition and level of earnings,
expected financing activities and dividends are not affected by these
limitations.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


        INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



FPL GROUP, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY:

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of FPL Group,
Inc. and of Florida Power & Light Company, listed in the accompanying
index at Item 14(a)1 of this Annual Report (Form 10-K) to the
Securities and Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31,
1996.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the
companies' management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of FPL
Group, Inc. and Florida Power & Light Company at December 31, 1996
and 1995 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1996 in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.





DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Certified Public Accountants

Miami, Florida
February 14, 1997

              FPL GROUP, INC.
     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
  (In thousands, except per share amounts)



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an
integral part of these statements.

              FPL GROUP, INC.
        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
           (Thousands of Dollars)



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an
integral part of these statements.

              FPL GROUP,  INC.
   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
           (Thousands of Dollars)



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an
integral part of these statements.

       FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
           (Thousands of Dollars)


The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an
integral part of these statements.

       FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
           (Thousands of Dollars)


The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an
integral part of these statements.

       FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
           (Thousands of Dollars)


The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an
integral part of these statements.

FPL GROUP, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994


1.  Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies
Basis of Presentation - Substantially all of FPL Group, Inc.'s (FPL
Group) revenues are derived from Florida Power & Light Company (FPL)
which supplies electric service to 3.6 million customers throughout
most of the east and lower west coasts of Florida.  Other operations
mainly consist of investments in non-utility energy projects and
agricultural operations.

The consolidated financial statements of FPL Group and FPL include
the accounts of their respective subsidiaries.  All significant
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.  Certain amounts included in prior years' consolidated
financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current
year's presentation.  The preparation of financial statements
requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and
the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.  Actual results
could differ from those estimates.

Regulation - FPL is a public utility subject to regulation by the
Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC) and the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission (FERC).  Its rates are designed to recover the
cost of providing electric service to its customers including a
reasonable rate of return on invested capital.  As a result of this
cost-based regulation, FPL follows the accounting practices set forth
in Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) 71, "Accounting
for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation."  FAS 71 indicates
that regulators can create assets and impose liabilities that would
not be recorded by non-regulated entities.  Regulatory assets and
liabilities represent probable future revenues that will be recovered
from or refunded to customers through the ratemaking process. 
Recoverability of regulatory assets is assessed at each reporting
period.

Various states, other than Florida, have either enacted legislation
or are pursuing initiatives designed to deregulate the production and
sale of electricity.  By allowing customers to choose their
electricity supplier, deregulation is expected to result in a shift
from cost-based rates to market-based rates for energy production. 
Similar initiatives are also being pursued on the federal level. 
Although the legislation and initiatives vary substantially, common
areas of focus include when market-based pricing will be available
for wholesale and retail customers, what existing prudently incurred
costs in excess of the market-based price will be recoverable and
whether generation assets should be separated from transmission,
distribution and other assets.

In the event that FPL's operations are no longer subject to the
provisions of FAS 71, as a result of market-based pricing due to
regulatory or other changes, existing regulatory assets and
liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an
alternative means of recovery or refund.  The principal regulatory
assets and liabilities are as follows:

The amounts presented above exclude clause-related regulatory assets
and liabilities that are recovered or refunded over six-month periods. 
These amounts are reflected as current assets and liabilities in the
consolidated balance sheets.  Additionally, other aspects of the
business, such as generation assets and long-term power purchase
commitments, would need to be reviewed to assess their recoverability
in a changed regulatory environment.  Since there is no deregulation
proposal currently under consideration in Florida, FPL is unable to
predict what impact would result from a change to a more competitive
environment.

FPL has been taking steps to lower its costs of operations.  In 1995,
FPL began amortizing the plant-related deferred costs in the table above
over a period of no more than five years as approved by the FPSC.  In
1996, FPL received final approval from the FPSC of a program started in
1995 to amortize specified nuclear and fossil generating assets, the tax
effect of certain tax basis differences and debt reacquisition costs
(collectively, special amortization).  The program calls for a continuing
special nuclear amortization of $30 million per year plus, through 1997,
an additional amount of amortization based on the level of sales
achieved compared to a forecasted amount.  Under this program, $160
million of special amortization was recorded in 1996 and $126 million in
1995.  The 1996 amount includes, as depreciation and amortization
expense, $20 million of amortization of the tax effects of tax basis
differences.  By the end of 1996, the approved amounts for nuclear and
fossil generating assets had been completely amortized and accelerated
amortization of regulatory assets had begun.

Revenues and Rates - FPL's retail and wholesale utility rate schedules
are approved by the FPSC and the FERC, respectively. FPL records
unbilled base revenues for the estimated amount of energy delivered to
customers but not yet billed.  Unbilled base revenues are included in
customer receivables and amounted to approximately $161 million and
$155 million at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

Revenues include amounts resulting from cost recovery clauses, which
are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs and provide a return
on certain assets utilized by these programs, and franchise fees.  These
revenues generally represent a pass-through of costs and include
substantially all fuel, purchased power and interchange expenses,
conservation- and environmental-related expenses, certain revenue
taxes and franchise fees.  Revenues from cost recovery clauses are
recorded when billed; FPL achieves matching of costs and related
revenues by deferring the net under or over recovery.  Any under
recovered costs or over recovered revenues are collected from or
returned to customers in subsequent periods.

Electric Utility Plant, Depreciation and Amortization - The cost of
additions to units of utility property is added to electric utility plant.
The cost of units of utility property retired, less net salvage, is charged
to accumulated depreciation.  Maintenance and repairs of property as well
as replacements and renewals of items determined to be less than units
of utility property are charged to other operations and maintenance
(O&M) expenses.  At December 31, 1996, the generating, transmission,
distribution and general facilities of FPL represented approximately 38%,
14%, 40% and 8%, respectively, of FPL's investment in electric utility
plant in service, net of accumulated depreciation.  Substantially all
electric utility plant is subject to the lien of a mortgage securing FPL's
first mortgage bonds.

Depreciation of utility property is primarily provided on a straight-line
average remaining life basis and includes a provision for fossil plant
dismantlement and nuclear plant decommissioning.  For substantially all
utility property, depreciation and fossil fuel plant dismantlement studies
are performed at least every four years.  The next studies are scheduled
to be filed in 1997 and would be effective for 1998.  The weighted
annual composite depreciation rate was approximately 4.1% for 1996
and 4.0% for 1995 and 1994, excluding the effects of dismantlement and
decommissioning.  Further, the 1996 and 1995 rates exclude
approximately $188 million and $163 million, respectively, of special and
plant-related deferred costs amortization.  See Regulation.  The 1994
rate excludes $47 million of accelerated write-off of certain accumulated
plant overhaul costs.

Nuclear Fuel - FPL leases nuclear fuel for all four of its nuclear units.
Nuclear fuel lease payments were $94 million, $104 million and $115
million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  Included in these
payments was an interest component of $10 million in 1996 and $11
million in both 1995 and 1994.  The nuclear fuel lease payments and a
charge for spent nuclear fuel disposal are charged to fuel expense on a
unit of production method.  These costs are recovered through the fuel
and purchased power cost recovery clause (fuel clause).  Under certain
circumstances of lease termination, FPL is required to purchase all
nuclear fuel in whatever form at a purchase price designed to allow the
lessor to recover its net investment cost in the fuel, which totaled $182
million at December 31, 1996.  For ratemaking, these leases are
classified as operating leases.  For financial reporting, the capital lease
obligation is recorded at the amount due in the event of lease
termination.

Decommissioning and Dismantlement of Generating Plant - FPL
accrues nuclear decommissioning costs over the expected service life of
each unit.  Nuclear decommissioning studies are performed at least once
every five years for FPL's four nuclear units and are submitted to the
FPSC for approval.  The next studies are scheduled for 1999.  These
studies assume prompt dismantlement for the Turkey Point Unit Nos. 3
and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing in 2012 and 2013,
respectively.  St. Lucie Unit No. 1 will be mothballed in 2016 until St.
Lucie Unit No. 2 is ready for decommissioning in 2023.  These studies
also assume that FPL will be storing spent fuel on site pending removal
to a U.S. Government facility.  In January 1997, FPL joined a number of
other utilities in a lawsuit against the DOE to suspend payments for
future transportation and storage.  Alternatively, the utilities proposed to
hold the funds in escrow until a nuclear waste storage facility is
available.  Decommissioning expense accruals, included in depreciation
and amortization expense, were $85 million in both 1996 and 1995 and
$38 million in 1994.  FPL's portion of the ultimate cost of
decommissioning its four units, including dismantlement and reclamation,
expressed in 1996 dollars, is currently estimated to aggregate $1.5
billion.  At December 31, 1996 and 1995, the accumulated provision for
nuclear decommissioning totaled $805 million and $666 million,
respectively, and is included in accumulated depreciation.

Similarly, FPL accrues the cost of dismantling its fossil fuel plants over
the expected service life of each unit.  Fossil dismantlement expense
totaled $17 million, $25 million and $11 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively, and is included in depreciation and amortization expense. 
The ultimate cost of dismantlement for the fossil units, expressed in
1996 dollars, is estimated to be $258 million.  At December 31, 1996
and 1995, the accumulated provision for fossil dismantlement totaled
$146 million and $130 million, respectively, and is a component of
accumulated depreciation.

Restricted assets for the payment of future expenditures to
decommission FPL's nuclear units are included in special use funds of
FPL.  At December 31, 1996 and 1995, decommissioning fund assets
were $667 million and $534 million, respectively.  Securities held in the
decommissioning fund are carried at market value with market
adjustments resulting in a corresponding adjustment to the accumulated
provision for nuclear decommissioning.  See Note 7.  Contributions to
the funds are based on current period decommissioning expense. 
Additionally, fund earnings, net of taxes are reinvested in the funds.  The
tax effects of amounts not yet recognized for tax purposes are included
in accumulated deferred income taxes.

In 1996, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued an exposure
draft, "Accounting for Certain Liabilities Related to Closure or Removal of
Long-Lived Assets."  The primary effect of this exposure draft would be
to change the way FPL accounts for nuclear decommissioning and fossil
dismantlement costs.  The exposure draft calls for recording the present
value of estimated future cash flows to decommission FPL's nuclear
power plants and dismantle its fossil power plants as an increase to
asset balances and as a liability.  This amount is currently estimated to
be $1.4 billion.  It is anticipated that there will be no effect on cash flows
and, because of the regulatory treatment, there will be no significant
effect on net income.

Accrual for Nuclear Maintenance Costs - In 1996, the FPSC approved a
new method of accounting for costs associated with nuclear refueling
outages.  Under this new method, the estimated nuclear refueling and
maintenance costs relating to each unit's next planned outage will be
accrued over the period beginning when the unit resumes operations
until the end of the next outage.  Any difference between the estimated
and actual costs will be included in O&M expenses when known.  This
approach will result in FPL recognizing costs equivalent to slightly less
than three outages per year based upon the current refueling outage
schedule for FPL's four nuclear units.  The cumulative effect of adopting
this accounting method was $35 million and, in accordance with the
FPSC order, was recorded as a regulatory asset which will be amortized
and included in O&M expenses over a period not to exceed five years. 
In 1996, $14 million of the cumulative adjustment was expensed.

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) - AFUDC is a
noncash item representing the allowed cost of capital, including a return
on common equity, used to finance FPL's construction projects.  In 1996,
the FPSC eliminated the recording of AFUDC except for projects that
cost in excess of 1/2% of a company's utility plant in service balance
and recharacterized the construction work in progress balance as an
element of rate base.  AFUDC amounted to $2 million, $15 million and
$24 million for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively, and is included in other - net in the consolidated statements
of income.

Storm and Property Insurance Reserve Fund (storm fund) - The storm
fund provides coverage toward storm damage costs and possible
retrospective premium assessments stemming from a nuclear incident
under the various insurance programs covering FPL's nuclear generating
plants.  The storm fund, which totaled $139 million and $113 million at
December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively, is included in special use
funds of FPL.  Securities held in the fund are carried at market value
with market adjustments resulting in a corresponding adjustment to the
storm and property insurance reserve.  See Note 7 and
Note 9 - Insurance.  Fund earnings, net of taxes, are reinvested in the
fund.  The tax effects of amounts not yet recognized for tax purposes
are included in accumulated deferred income taxes.  

Other Investments - Included in other investments in FPL Group's
consolidated balance sheets are non-majority owned interests in
partnerships and joint ventures, essentially all of which are accounted for
under the equity method.  Additionally, other investments include FPL
Group's participation in leveraged leases of $157 million and $158
million at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

Cash Equivalents - Cash equivalents consist of short-term, highly liquid
investments with original maturities of three months or less.

Commercial Paper - The year end weighted-average interest rate on
commercial paper at December 31, 1995 was 5.8%.

Retirement of Long-Term Debt - The excess of FPL's reacquisition cost
over the book value of long-term debt is deferred and amortized to
expense ratably over the remaining life of the original issue, which is
consistent with its treatment in the ratemaking process.  See Regulation. 
FPL Group Capital Inc (FPL Group Capital) expenses this cost in the
period incurred. 

Income Taxes - Deferred income taxes are provided on all significant
temporary differences between the financial statement and tax bases of
assets and liabilities.  FPL is included in the consolidated federal income
tax return filed by FPL Group.  FPL determines its income tax provision
on the "separate return method."  The deferred regulatory credit -
income taxes of FPL represents the revenue equivalent of the difference
in accumulated deferred income taxes computed under FAS 109,
"Accounting for Income Taxes," as compared to prior accounting rules. 
This amount is being amortized in accordance with the regulatory
treatment over the estimated lives of the assets or liabilities which
resulted in the initial recognition of the deferred tax amount.  Investment
tax credits (ITC) for FPL are deferred and amortized to income over the
approximate lives of the related property in accordance with the
regulatory treatment.

2.  Jointly-Owned Electric Utility Plant

FPL owns approximately 85% of the St. Lucie Unit No. 2, 20% of the St.
Johns River Power Park units and coal terminal and approximately 76%
of Scherer Unit No. 4.  At December 31, 1996, FPL's gross investment in
these units was $1.176 billion, $329 million and $570 million,
respectively; accumulated depreciation was $434 million, $129 million
and $138 million, respectively.

FPL is responsible for its share of the operating costs, as well as
providing its own financing.  At December 31, 1996, there was no
significant balance of construction work in progress on these facilities.

3.  Employee Retirement Benefits

Pension Benefits - Substantially all employees of FPL Group and its
subsidiaries are covered by a noncontributory defined benefit pension
plan.  Plan benefits are generally based on employees' years of service
and compensation during the last years of employment.  Participants are
vested after five years of service.  All costs of the FPL Group pension
plan are allocated to participating subsidiaries on a pro rata basis.

For 1996, 1995 and 1994 the components of pension cost are as
follows:

FPL Group and its subsidiaries fund the pension cost calculated under
the entry age normal level percentage of pay actuarial cost method,
provided that this amount satisfies the minimum funding standards of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and is
not greater than the maximum tax deductible amount for the year.  No
contributions to the plan were required for 1996, 1995 or 1994.

A reconciliation of the funded status of the plan to the amounts
recognized in FPL Group's consolidated balance sheets is presented
below:

The weighted-average discount rate used in determining the actuarial
present value of the projected benefit obligation was 7.00% and 6.75%
for 1996 and 1995, respectively.  The assumed rate of increase in future
compensation levels was 5.5% for both years.  The expected long-term
rate of return on plan assets used in determining pension cost was
7.75% for 1996, 1995 and 1994.  In 1996, FPL Group elected to change
the measurement date for pension obligations and plan assets from
December 31 to September 30.  The effect of this accounting change is
not material.

Other Postretirement Benefits - FPL Group and its subsidiaries have
defined benefit postretirement plans for health care and life insurance
benefits that cover substantially all employees.  All costs of the FPL
Group plans are allocated to participating subsidiaries on a pro rata
basis.  Eligibility for health care benefits is based upon age plus years of
service at retirement.  The plans are contributory and contain
cost-sharing features such as deductibles and coinsurance.  FPL Group
has capped company contributions for postretirement health care at a
defined level which, depending on actual claims experience, may be
reached by the year 2004.  Generally, life insurance benefits for retirees
are capped at $50,000.  FPL Group's policy is to fund postretirement
benefits in amounts determined at the discretion of management.

For 1996, 1995 and 1994, the components of net periodic postretirement
benefit cost are as follows:


A reconciliation of the funded status of the plan to the amounts
recognized in FPL Group's consolidated balance sheets is presented
below:

The weighted-average annual assumed rate of increase in the per capita
cost of covered benefits (i.e., health care cost trend rate) for 1996 is
7.5% for retirees under age 65 and 6.5% for retirees over age 65. 
These rates are assumed to decrease gradually to 5.0% by 2003.  The
cap on FPL Group's contributions mitigates the potential significant
increase in costs resulting from an increase in the health care cost trend
rate.  Increasing the assumed health care cost trend rate by one
percentage point would increase the plan's accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation as of September 30, 1996 by $8 million, and the
aggregate of the service and interest cost components of net periodic
postretirement benefit cost of the plan for 1996 by approximately $1
million.

The weighted-average discount rate used in determining the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was 7.00% and 6.75% for
1996 and 1995, respectively.  The expected long-term rate of return on
plan assets used in determining postretirement benefit cost was 7.75%
for 1996, 1995 and 1994.  In 1996, FPL Group elected to change the
measurement date for benefit obligations and plan assets from
December 31 to September 30.  The effect of this accounting change is
not material.

4.  Common Shareholders' Equity

FPL Group - The changes in FPL Group's common shareholders' equity
accounts are as follows:


Common Stock Dividend Restrictions - FPL Group's charter does not
limit the dividends that may be paid on its common stock. As a practical
matter, the ability of FPL Group to pay dividends on its common stock is
dependent upon dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries, primarily FPL. 
FPL's charter and a mortgage securing FPL's first mortgage bonds
contain provisions that, under certain conditions, restrict the payment of
dividends and other distributions to FPL Group.  These restrictions do
not currently limit FPL's ability to pay dividends to FPL Group.  In 1996,
1995 and 1994, FPL paid, as dividends to FPL Group, its net income
available to FPL Group on a one-month lag basis.

Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) - The employee thrift plans of
FPL Group include a leveraged ESOP feature.  Shares of common stock
held by the Trust for the thrift plans (Trust) are used to provide all or a
portion of the employers' matching contributions.  Dividends received on
all shares, along with cash contributions from the employers, are used to
pay principal and interest on the ESOP loan held by FPL Group Capital. 
Dividends on shares allocated to employee accounts and used by the
Trust for debt service are replaced with an equivalent amount of shares
of common stock at prevailing market prices.

ESOP-related compensation expense of approximately $23 million in
1996 and $18 million in both 1995 and 1994 was recognized based on
the fair value of shares allocated to employee accounts during the
period.  Interest income on the ESOP loan is eliminated in consolidation. 
ESOP-related unearned compensation included as a reduction of
shareholders' equity at December 31, 1996 was approximately $269
million, representing 9.3 million unallocated shares at the original issue
price of $29 per share.  The fair value of the ESOP-related unearned
compensation account using the closing price of FPL Group stock as of
December 31, 1996 was approximately $427 million.

Long-Term Incentive Plan - In 1994, FPL Group's board of directors and
its shareholders approved FPL Group's current long-term incentive plan. 
Under this plan, 9 million shares of common stock are reserved and
available for awards to officers and employees of FPL Group and its
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996.  Total compensation charged
against earnings under the incentive plan, and the effect on earnings per
share, were not material in any year.  The changes in share awards
under the incentive plan are as follows:


The requirements of FAS 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation," became effective in 1996.  The statement encourages,
but does not require, a fair value-based method of accounting for
stock-based compensation.  FPL Group elected to continue the use of
the intrinsic value-based method of accounting; however,
implementation of FAS 123 would not have a material effect on FPL
Group's results of operations or earnings per share.

Other - Each share of common stock has been granted a Preferred Share
Purchase Right (Right), which is exercisable in the event of certain
attempted business combinations.  The Rights will cause substantial
dilution to a person or group attempting to acquire FPL Group on
terms not approved by FPL Group's board of directors.

FPL - The changes in FPL's common shareholder's equity accounts are
as follows:


5.  Preferred Stock

FPL Group's charter authorizes the issuance of 100 million shares of
serial preferred stock, $.01 par value.  None of these shares is
outstanding.  FPL Group has reserved 3 million shares for issuance
upon exercise of preferred share purchase rights which expire in June
2006.  Preferred stock of FPL consists of the following: (1)


6.  Long-Term Debt (1)(2)

Long-term debt consists of the following:

7.  Financial Instruments

The carrying amounts of cash equivalents and commercial paper
approximate their fair values.  Certain investments of FPL Group,
included in other investments, are carried at estimated fair value
which was $66 million and $84 million at December 31, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.  The following estimates of the fair value of financial
instruments have been made using available market information and
other valuation methodologies.  However, the use of different market
assumptions or methods of valuation could result in different
estimated fair values.


Special Use Funds - Securities held in the special use funds are
carried at estimated fair value.  Approximately two-thirds of the
nuclear decommissioning fund consists of municipal and corporate debt
securities with a weighted-average maturity of 9 years.  The
remaining balance consists of equity securities.  The storm fund
primarily consists of municipal debt securities with a
weighted-average maturity of 5 years.  The cost of securities sold is
determined on the specific identification method.  The funds had
realized gains of $8 million and realized losses of $9 million in
1996, $13 million and $4 million in 1995 and $6 million and $8
million in 1994, respectively.  The funds had unrealized gains of $55
million and $33 million at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively;
there were no significant unrealized losses at those periods.  The
proceeds from the sale of securities in 1996, 1995 and 1994 were
$1.05 billion, $950 million and $650 million, respectively.  A shift
in the asset mix of the decommissioning fund occurred in recent years
due to certain tax law changes.

8.  Income Taxes

The components of income taxes are as follows:


A reconciliation between the effective income tax rates and the
applicable statutory rates is as follows:


The income tax effects of temporary differences giving rise to
consolidated deferred income tax liabilities and assets are as follows:


Certain deferred tax assets and the related valuation allowance
decreased during 1996.  These accounts primarily relate to a capital loss
carryforward from the disposition of an FPL Group Capital subsidiary in a
prior year.  The amount of the deductible loss from this disposition was
limited by Internal Revenue Service (IRS) rules.  The carryforward period
expired at the end of 1996.  FPL Group is challenging the IRS loss
limitations and the IRS is disputing certain positions taken by FPL
Group.  Tax benefits, if any, associated with these matters will be
reported in future periods when resolved.

9.  Commitments and Contingencies

Commitments - FPL has made commitments in connection with a portion
of its projected capital expenditures.  Capital expenditures for the
construction or acquisition of additional facilities and equipment to meet
customer demand are estimated to be approximately $1.6 billion for
1997 through 1999.  Included in this three-year forecast are capital
expenditures for 1997 of approximately $590 million.  FPL Group Capital
and its subsidiaries, primarily ESI Energy, Inc., have guaranteed 
approximately $120 million of lease obligations, debt service payments
and other payments subject to certain contingencies.

Insurance - Liability for accidents at nuclear power plants is governed by
the Price-Anderson Act, which limits the liability of nuclear reactor
owners to the amount of the insurance available from private sources
and under an industry retrospective payment plan.  In accordance with
this Act, FPL maintains $200 million of private liability insurance, which is
the maximum obtainable, and participates in a secondary financial
protection system under which it is subject to retrospective assessments
of up to $327 million per incident at any nuclear utility reactor in the
United States, payable at a rate not to exceed $40 million per incident
per year.

FPL participates in nuclear insurance mutual companies that provide
$2.75 billion of limited insurance coverage for property damage,
decontamination and premature decommissioning risks at its nuclear
plants.  The proceeds from such insurance, however, must first be used
for reactor stabilization and site decontamination before they can be
used for plant repair.  FPL also participates in an insurance program that
provides limited coverage for replacement power costs if a plant is out of
service because of an accident.  In the event of an accident at one of
FPL's or another participating insured's nuclear plants, FPL could be
assessed up to $70 million in retrospective premiums.

FPL also participates in a program that provides $200 million of tort
liability coverage for nuclear worker claims.  In the event of a tort claim
by an FPL or another insured's nuclear worker, FPL could be assessed
up to $12 million in retrospective premiums per incident.

In the event of a catastrophic loss at one of FPL's nuclear plants, the
amount of insurance available may not be adequate to cover property
damage and other expenses incurred.  Uninsured losses, to the extent
not recovered through rates, would be borne by FPL and could have a
material adverse effect on FPL Group's and FPL's financial condition.

FPL self-insures certain of its transmission and distribution (T&D)
property due to the high cost and limited coverage available from
third-party insurers.  FPL maintains a funded storm and property
insurance reserve, which totaled approximately $223 million at
December 31, 1996, for T&D property storm damage or assessments
under the nuclear insurance program.  Recovery from customers of any
losses in excess of the storm and property insurance reserve will require
the approval of the FPSC.  FPL's available lines of credit include $300
million to provide additional liquidity in the event of a T&D property loss.

Contracts - FPL has entered into certain long-term purchased power and
fuel contracts.  Take-or-pay purchased power contracts with the
Jacksonville Electric Authority (JEA) and with subsidiaries of the
Southern Company (Southern Companies) provide approximately 1,300
megawatts (mw) of power through mid-2010 and 374 mw through 2022. 
FPL also has various firm pay-for-performance contracts to purchase
approximately 1,000 mw from certain cogenerators and small power
producers (qualifying facilities) with expiration dates ranging from 2002
through 2026.  The purchased power contracts provide for capacity and
energy payments.  Energy payments are based on the actual power
taken under these contracts.  Capacity payments for the
pay-for-performance contracts are subject to the qualifying facilities
meeting certain contract conditions.  The fuel contracts provide for the
transportation and supply of natural gas and coal and the supply and
use of Orimulsion.  Orimulsion is a new fuel which FPL expected to
begin using in 1998.  The contract and related use of this fuel is subject
to regulatory approvals.  In 1996, Florida's Power Plant Siting Board
denied FPL's request to burn Orimulsion at the Manatee power plant. 
FPL has appealed the denial to the First District Court of Appeal of the
State of Florida.

The required capacity and minimum payments through 2001 under these
contracts are estimated to be as follows:

Capacity, energy and fuel charges under these contracts were as
follows:


Litigation - The Florida Municipal Power Agency (FMPA), an organization
comprised of municipal electric utilities, has sued FPL for allegedly
breaching a "contract" to provide transmission service to the FMPA and
its members and for breaching antitrust laws by monopolizing or
attempting to monopolize the provision, coordination and transmission of
electric power in refusing to provide transmission service, or to permit
the FMPA to invest in and use FPL's transmission system, on the
FMPA's proposed terms.  The FMPA seeks $140 million in damages,
before trebling for the antitrust claim, and court orders requiring FPL to
permit the FMPA to invest in and use FPL's transmission system on
"reasonable terms and conditions" and on a basis equal to FPL.  In
1995, the Court of Appeals vacated the District Court's summary
judgment in favor of FPL and remanded the matter to the District Court
for further proceedings.  In 1996, the District Court ordered the FMPA to
seek a declaratory ruling from the FERC regarding certain issues in the
case.  All other action in the case has been stayed pending the FERC's
ruling.

A former cable installation contractor for Telesat Cablevision, Inc.
(Telesat), a wholly-owned subsidiary of FPL Group Capital, sued FPL
Group, FPL Group Capital and Telesat for breach of contract, fraud,
violation of racketeering statutes and several other claims.  The trial
court entered a judgment in favor of FPL Group and Telesat on nine of
twelve counts, including all of the racketeering and fraud claims, and in
favor of FPL Group Capital on all counts.  It also denied all parties'
claims for attorneys' fees.  However, the jury in the case awarded the
contractor damages totaling approximately $6 million against FPL Group
and Telesat for breach of contract and tortious interference.  All parties
have appealed.

FPL Group and FPL believe that they have meritorious defenses to the
litigation described above and are vigorously defending these suits. 
Accordingly, the liabilities, if any, arising from these proceedings are not
anticipated to have a material adverse effect on their financial
statements.

10.  Summarized Financial Information of FPL Group Capital
(Unaudited)

FPL Group Capital's debentures are guaranteed by FPL Group. 
Operating revenues of FPL Group Capital for the three years ended
December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 were $50 million, $62 million and
$80 million, respectively.  For the same periods, operating expenses
were $65 million, $77 million and $84 million, respectively.  Net income
for 1996, 1995 and 1994 was $11 million, $2 million and $7 million,
respectively.

At December 31, 1996, FPL Group Capital had $144 million of current
assets, $857 million of noncurrent assets, $182 million of current
liabilities and $595 million of noncurrent liabilities.  At December 31,
1995, FPL Group Capital had current assets of $89 million, noncurrent
assets of $934 million, current liabilities of $24 million and noncurrent
liabilities of $787 million.

11.  Quarterly Data (Unaudited)

Condensed consolidated quarterly financial information for 1996 and
1995 is as follows:


Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting
and Financial Disclosure

None
                  PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrants

FPL Group - The information required by this Item will be included in
FPL Group's Definitive Proxy Statement which will be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the 1997 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders (FPL Group's Proxy Statement) and is
incorporated herein by reference, or is included in Item I.
Business - Executive Officers of the Registrants.

              FPL DIRECTORS(1)

James L. Broadhead.  Mr. Broadhead, 61, is chairman and chief
executive officer of FPL and chairman, president and chief executive
officer of FPL Group.  He is a director of Barnett Banks, Inc., Delta
Air Lines, Inc. and The Pittston Company, and a board fellow of
Cornell University.  Mr. Broadhead has been a director of FPL and FPL
Group since 1989.

Dennis P. Coyle.  Mr. Coyle, 58, is general counsel and secretary of
FPL and FPL Group.  Mr. Coyle has been a director of FPL since 1990.

Paul J. Evanson.  Mr. Evanson, 55, became the president of FPL in
January 1995, after having served as senior vice president, finance
and chief financial officer of FPL and vice president, finance and
chief financial officer of FPL Group since December 1992.  Prior to
that, he was president and chief operating officer of Lynch
Corporation, a diversified holding company.  He is a director of
Lynch Corporation and Southern Energy Homes, Inc.  Mr. Evanson has
been a director of FPL since 1992 and a director of FPL Group since
1995.

Lawrence J. Kelleher.  Mr. Kelleher, 49, is senior vice president,
human resources of FPL and vice president, human resources of FPL
Group.  Mr. Kelleher has been a director of FPL since 1990. 

Thomas F. Plunkett.  Mr. Plunkett, 57, is president of FPL's nuclear
division.  He was formerly site vice president at Turkey Point.  Mr.
Plunkett has been a director of FPL since 1996.

C. O. Woody.  Mr. Woody, 58, is senior vice president, power
generation of FPL.  Mr. Woody has been a director of FPL since 1989.

Michael W. Yackira.  Mr. Yackira, 45, became senior vice president,
finance and chief financial officer of FPL and vice president,
finance and chief financial officer of FPL Group in January 1995 and
was senior vice president, market and regulatory services of FPL from
May 1991 to January 1995.  Mr. Yackira has been a director of FPL
since 1990.

(1)    Directors are elected annually and serve until their
       resignation, removal or until their respective
       successors are elected.  Each director's business
       experience during the past five years is noted either
       here or in the Executive Officers table in Item 1.
       Business - Executive Officers of the Registrants.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

FPL Group - The information required by this Item will be included in
FPL Group's Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference,
provided that the Compensation Committee Report and Performance Graph
which are contained in FPL Group's Proxy Statement shall not be
deemed to be incorporated herein by reference.

FPL - The following table sets forth FPL's portion of the
compensation paid during the past three years to FPL's chief
executive officer and the other four most highly-compensated persons
who served as executive officers of FPL at December 31, 1996.

         SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE

Long Term Incentive Plan Awards - In 1996, awards of performance
shares under FPL Group's Long Term Incentive Plan were made to the
executive officers named in the Summary Compensation Table as set
forth in the following table.

      LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AWARDS


The performance share awards shown above are payable at the end of
the four-year performance period.  The amount of the payout is
determined by multiplying the participant's target number of shares
by his average level of attainment, expressed as a percentage, which
may not exceed 160%, of his targeted awards under the Annual
Incentive Plans for each of the years encompassed by the award
period.  The incentive performance measures were financial indicators
(weighted 50%) and operating indicators (weighted 50%).  The
financial indicators were operations and maintenance costs, capital
expenditure levels, book and regulatory return on equity and net
income.  The operating indicators were customer satisfaction survey
results, service reliability as measured by the frequency and
duration of service interruptions, system performance as measured by
availability factors for the fossil and nuclear power plants,
unplanned trips of nuclear power plants, SALP ratings for nuclear
power plants, full-time equivalent workforce, number of significant
environmental violations, employee safety, load management installed
capability and conservation programs' annual installed capacity.

Retirement Plans - FPL Group maintains a non-contributory defined
benefit pension plan and a supplemental executive retirement plan
which covers FPL employees.  The following table shows the estimated
annual benefits, calculated on a straight-line annuity basis, payable
upon retirement in 1996 at age 65 after the indicated years of
service.

             PENSION PLAN TABLE


The compensation covered by the plans includes annual salaries and
bonuses of officers of FPL Group and annual salaries of officers of
FPL, as shown in the Summary Compensation Table, but no other amounts
shown in that table.  The estimated credited years of service for the
executive officers named in the Summary Compensation Table are:  Mr.
Broadhead, 8 years; Mr. Evanson, 4 years; Mr. Coyle, 7 years; Mr.
Woody, 40 years; and Mr. Yackira, 7 years.  Amounts shown in the
table reflect deductions to partially cover employer contributions to
Social Security.

A supplemental retirement plan for Mr. Broadhead provides for a
lump-sum retirement benefit equal to the then present value of a
joint and survivor annuity providing annual payments to him equal to
61% to 65% of his average annual compensation for the three years
prior to his retirement between age 62 (1998) and age 65 (2001) and
to his surviving beneficiary of 37.5% of such average annual
compensation, reduced by the then present value of the annual amount
of payments to which he is entitled under all other pension and
retirement plans of FPL Group and former employers.  This benefit is
further reduced by the then value of 96,800 shares of restricted
common stock which vest as to 77,000 shares in 1998 and as to 19,800
shares in 2001.  Upon a change of control of FPL Group (as defined
below under Employment Agreements), the restrictions on the
restricted stock lapse and the full retirement benefit becomes
payable.  Upon termination of Mr. Broadhead's employment agreement
(also described below) without cause, the restrictions on the
restricted stock lapse and he becomes fully vested under the
supplemental retirement plan.  Absent any such change of control or
termination of employment, Mr. Broadhead will have no right to such
shares of restricted stock, and there will be no payments under the
supplemental retirement plan, unless he remains with FPL Group until
at least age 62.

A supplemental retirement plan for Mr. Coyle provides for benefits,
upon retirement at age 62 or more, based on two times his credited
years of service.  A supplemental retirement plan for Mr. Evanson
provides for benefits based on two times his credited years of
service up to age 65, and additionally, one times his credited years
of service thereafter.

FPL Group sponsors a split-dollar life insurance plan for certain of
FPL and FPL Group's senior officers.  Benefits under the split-dollar
plan are provided by universal life insurance policies purchased by
FPL Group.  If the officer dies prior to retirement, the officer's
beneficiaries generally receive two and one-half times the officer's
annual salary at the time of death.  If the officer dies after
retirement, the officer's beneficiaries receive between 50% to 100%
of the officer's final annual salary.  Each officer is taxable on the
insurance carrier's one year term rate for his or her life insurance
coverage.

Employment Agreements - FPL Group has entered into an employment
agreement with Mr. Broadhead for an initial term ending
December 1997, with automatic one-year extensions thereafter unless
either party elects not to extend.  The agreement provides for a
minimum base salary of $765,900 per year, subject to increases based
upon corporate and individual performance and increases in
cost-of-living indices, plus annual and long-term incentive
compensation opportunities at least equal to those currently in
effect.  If FPL Group terminates Mr. Broadhead's employment without
cause, he is entitled to receive a lump sum payment of two years'
compensation.  Compensation is measured by the then current base
salary plus the average of the preceding two years' annual incentive
awards.  He would also be entitled to receive all amounts accrued
under all performance share grants in progress, prorated for the year
of termination and assuming achievement of the targeted award, and to
full vesting of his benefits under his supplemental retirement plan.

FPL Group and FPL have entered into employment agreements with
certain officers, including the individuals named in the Summary
Compensation Table, to become effective in the event of a change of
control of FPL Group, which is defined as the acquisition of
beneficial ownership of 20% of the voting power of FPL Group, certain
changes in FPL Group's board of directors, or approval by the
shareholders of the liquidation of FPL Group or of certain mergers or
consolidations or of certain transfers of FPL Group's assets.  These
agreements are intended to assure FPL Group and FPL of the continued
services of key officers.  The agreements provide that each officer
shall be employed by FPL Group or one of its subsidiaries in his or
her then current position, with compensation and benefits at least
equal to the then current base and incentive compensation and benefit
levels, for an employment period of four and, in certain cases, five
years after a change in control occurs.

In the event that the officer's employment is terminated (except for
death, disability or cause) or if the officer terminates his or her
employment for good reason, as defined in the agreement, the officer
is entitled to severance benefits in the form of a lump sum payment
equal to the compensation due for the remainder of the employment
period or for two years, whichever is longer.  Such benefits would be
based on the officer's then base salary plus an annual bonus at least
equal to the average bonus for the two years preceding the change of
control.  The officer is also entitled to the maximum amount payable
under all long-term incentive compensation grants outstanding,
continued coverage under all employee benefit plans, supplemental
retirement benefits and reimbursement for any tax penalties incurred
as a result of the severance payments.

Director Compensation - All of the directors of FPL are salaried
employees of FPL and do not receive any additional compensation for
serving as a director.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management

FPL Group - The information required by this Item will be included in
FPL Group's Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

FPL - FPL Group owns 100% of FPL's common stock.  FPL's directors and
executive officers beneficially own shares of FPL Group's common
stock as follows:

Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance - FPL's
directors and executive officers are required to file initial reports
of ownership and reports of changes of ownership of FPL Group common
stock with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Based upon a
review of these filings and written representations from FPL
directors and executive officers, all required filings were timely
made in 1996.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

FPL Group - The information required by this Item will be included in
FPL Group's Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

FPL - None

                  PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form
8-K

      (a) 1.  Financial Statements                                Page(s)

            Independent Auditors' Report                            14
            FPL Group:
              Consolidated Statements of Income                     15
              Consolidated Balance Sheets                           16
              Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows                 17
            FPL:
              Consolidated Statements of Income                     18
              Consolidated Balance Sheets                           19
              Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows                 20
            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements             21-33

          2.  Financial Statement Schedules - Schedules are omitted as
              not applicable or not required.

          3.  Exhibits including those Incorporated by Reference


      (b) Reports on Form 8-K - None

         FPL GROUP, INC. SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.

              FPL Group, Inc.



             JAMES L. BROADHEAD
             James L. Broadhead
    Chairman of the Board, President and
          Chief Executive Officer
 (Principal Executive Officer and Director)

Date:  March 5, 1997

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf
of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.


  FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.

       Florida Power & Light Company



              PAUL J. EVANSON
              Paul J. Evanson
           President and Director


Date:  March 5, 1997

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf
of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.


