
10-K
FPL GROUP/FPL FORM 10-K
			  YEAR ENDED 12/31/98



		UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

			  WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

			       FORM 10-K

	[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE 
	     ACT OF 1934

		   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998

				   OR

	[  ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
	     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934





State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization:  Florida






Indicate by check mark whether the registrants (1) have filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months and (2) have been subject to such 
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X       No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to 
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be 
contained, to the best of Registrants' knowledge in definitive proxy or 
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this 
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [X]

Aggregate market value of the voting stock of FPL Group, Inc. held by non-
affiliates as of January 31, 1999 (based on the closing market price on the 
Composite Tape on January 31, 1999) was $9,878,526,053 (determined by 
subtracting from the number of shares outstanding on that date the number 
of shares held by directors and officers of FPL Group, Inc.).

There was no voting stock of Florida Power & Light Company held by non-
affiliates as of January 31, 1999.

The number of shares outstanding of each class of FPL Group, Inc. common 
stock, as of the latest practicable date:  Common Stock, $.01 Par Value, 
outstanding at January 31, 1999:  180,334,935 shares

As of January 31, 1999, there were issued and outstanding 1,000 shares of 
Florida Power & Light Company's common stock, without par value, all of 
which were held, beneficially and of record, by FPL Group, Inc.

		  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of FPL Group, Inc.'s Proxy Statement for the 1999 Annual Meeting 
of Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III hereof.
		   ______________________________

This combined Form 10-K represents separate filings by FPL Group, Inc. and 
Florida Power & Light Company.  Information contained herein relating to an 
individual registrant is filed by that registrant on its own behalf.  Florida 
Power & Light Company makes no representations as to the information relating 
to FPL Group, Inc.'s other operations.

			     DEFINITIONS


Acronyms and defined terms used in the text include the following:






SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995

In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Reform Act, FPL Group 
and FPL (collectively, the Company) are hereby filing cautionary statements 
identifying important factors that could cause the Company's actual results 
to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements (as 
such term is defined in the Reform Act) made by or on behalf of the Company 
which are made in this combined Form 10-K, in presentations, in response to 
questions or otherwise.  Any statements that express, or involve discussions 
as to expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or future events 
or performance (often, but not always, through the use of words or phrases 
such as will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, 
estimated, projection, outlook) are not statements of historical facts and 
may be forward-looking.  Forward-looking statements involve estimates, 
assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ 
materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.  
Accordingly, any such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference 
to, and are accompanied by, the following important factors that could cause 
the Company's actual results to differ materially from those contained in 
forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company.

Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such 
statement is made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any 
forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date 
on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated 
events.  New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for 
management to predict all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of 
each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or 
combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from 
those contained in any forward-looking statement.

Some important factors that could cause actual results or outcomes to differ 
materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include 
changing governmental policies and regulatory actions, including those of the 
FERC, the FPSC and the NRC, with respect to allowed rates of return including 
but not limited to ROE and equity ratio limits, industry and rate structure, 
operation of nuclear power facilities, acquisition, disposal, depreciation 
and amortization of assets and facilities, operation and construction of 
plant facilities, recovery of fuel and purchased power costs, decommissioning 
costs, and present or prospective wholesale and retail competition (including 
but not limited to retail wheeling and transmission costs).

The business and profitability of the Company are also influenced by economic 
and geographic factors including political and economic risks, changes in and 
compliance with environmental and safety laws and policies, weather 
conditions (including natural disasters such as hurricanes), population 
growth rates and demographic patterns, competition for retail and wholesale 
customers, pricing and transportation of commodities, market demand for 
energy from plants or facilities, changes in tax rates or policies or in 
rates of inflation, unanticipated development project delays or changes in 
project costs, unanticipated changes in operating expenses and capital 
expenditures, capital market conditions, competition for new energy 
development opportunities, legal and administrative proceedings (whether 
civil, such as environmental, or criminal) and settlements, and any 
unanticipated impact of the year 2000, including delays or changes in costs 
of year 2000 compliance, or the failure of major suppliers, customers and 
others with whom the Company does business to resolve their own year 2000 
issues on a timely basis.

All such factors are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties which may 
materially affect actual results, and are beyond the control of the Company.

				PART I

Item 1.  Business

			      FPL GROUP

FPL Group is a public utility holding company, as defined in the Holding 
Company Act.  It was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of Florida.  FPL 
Group's principal subsidiary, FPL, is engaged in the generation, 
transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy.  Other operations are 
conducted through FPL Group Capital and its subsidiaries and mainly consist 
of independent power projects.  FPL Group and its subsidiaries employ 10,375 
persons.

FPL Group is exempt from substantially all of the provisions of the Holding 
Company Act on the basis that FPL Group's and FPL's businesses are 
predominantly intrastate in character and carried on substantially in a 
single state in which both are incorporated.

			    FPL OPERATIONS

General.  FPL was incorporated under the laws of Florida in 1925 and is a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of FPL Group.  FPL supplies electric service 
throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of Florida with a 
population of approximately 7 million.  During 1998, FPL served approximately 
3.7 million customer accounts.  Operating revenues were as follows






Regulation.  The retail operations of FPL provided approximately 99% of FPL's 
operating revenues for 1998.  Such operations are regulated by the FPSC which 
has jurisdiction over retail rates, service territory, issuances of 
securities, planning, siting and construction of facilities and other 
matters.  FPL is also subject to regulation by the FERC in various respects, 
including the acquisition and disposition of facilities, interchange and 
transmission services and wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy.

FPL's nuclear power plants are subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC.  NRC 
regulations govern the granting of licenses for the construction and 
operation of nuclear power plants and subject such power plants to continuing 
review and regulation.

Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations cover air and 
water quality, land use, power plant and transmission line siting, EMF from 
power lines and substations, noise and aesthetics, solid waste and other 
environmental matters.  Compliance with these laws and regulations increases 
the cost of electric service by requiring, among other things, changes in the 
design and operation of existing facilities and changes or delays in the 
location, design, construction and operation of new facilities.  Capital 
expenditures required to comply with environmental laws and regulations for 
1999 through 2001 are included in FPL's projected capital expenditures set 
forth in Item 1. Business - FPL Operations - Capital Expenditures and are not 
material.

FPL holds franchises with varying expiration dates to provide electric 
service in various municipalities and counties in Florida.  FPL considers its 
franchises to be adequate for the conduct of its business.

Retail Ratemaking.  The underlying concept of utility ratemaking is to set 
rates at a level that allows the utility to collect from customers total 
revenues (revenue requirements) equal to its cost of providing service, 
including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital.  To accomplish 
this, the FPSC uses various ratemaking mechanisms.

The basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and certain 
other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are designed to recover 
the costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the utility system.  
These basic costs include O&M expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a 
return on FPL's investment in assets used and useful in providing electric 
service (rate base).  The rate of return on rate base approximates FPL's 
weighted cost of capital, which includes its costs for debt and preferred 
stock and an allowed ROE.  FPL's allowed ROE range for 1998 was 11% to 13% 
with a midpoint of 12%.  The FPSC monitors FPL's ROE through a surveillance 
report that is filed monthly by FPL with the FPSC.  The FPSC does not provide 
assurance that the allowed ROE will be achieved.  Base rates are determined 
in rate proceedings which occur at irregular intervals at the initiative of 
FPL, the FPSC, Public Counsel or a substantially affected party.  FPL's last 
full rate proceeding was in 1984.  In 1990, FPL's base rates were reduced 
following a change in federal income tax rates.

In December 1998, after negotiations between FPL and the FPSC staff, the FPSC 
issued a proposed order approving a settlement regarding FPL's allowed ROE, 
equity ratio and the special amortization program.  Under the proposed 
settlement, beginning in 1999 FPL's allowed ROE range would be 10.2% to 12.2% 
with a midpoint of 11.2%.  FPL agreed to a maximum adjusted equity ratio of 
55.83% through 2000.  The adjusted equity ratio reflected a discounted amount 
for off-balance sheet obligations under certain long-term purchase power 
contracts.  See Note 9 - Contracts.  The proposed settlement also extended 
the special amortization program through 2000 and modified the program to 
include an additional fixed amount of $140 million per year in addition to 
the variable amount.  FPL continues to record a $30 million fixed nuclear 
amount under a previous FPSC order.  In January 1999, several parties 
challenged the FPSC's proposed order.  In mid-February 1999, FPL withdrew 
from the settlement agreement; the FPSC subsequently approved this withdrawal 
and concluded the proceeding.  FPL is authorized to continue to record 
special amortization through 1999 in accordance with the extension of the 
special amortization program approved by the FPSC in 1997.

In January 1999, Public Counsel petitioned the FPSC to conduct a full rate 
proceeding for FPL and requested that certain revenues be held subject to 
refund.  Other parties have requested participation with Public Counsel.  The 
FPSC is scheduled to address Public Counsel's request in March 1999.  FPL is 
unable to predict the outcome of this matter or any potential effect on its 
financial statements.  See Management's Discussion - Results of Operations 
and Note 1 - Regulation.

Fuel costs totaled $1.7 billion in 1998 and are recovered through levelized 
charges per kwh established pursuant to the fuel clause.  These charges are 
calculated annually based on estimated fuel costs and estimated customer 
usage for the following year, plus or minus a true-up adjustment to reflect 
the variance of actual costs and usage from the estimates used in setting the 
fuel adjustment charges for prior periods.

Capacity payments to other utilities and generating companies for purchased 
power are recovered through the capacity clause and base rates.  In 1998, 
$423 million was recovered through the capacity clause.  Costs associated 
with implementing energy conservation programs totaled $99 million in 1998 
and are recovered through the conservation clause.  Costs of complying with 
federal, state and local environmental regulations enacted after April 1993 
totaled $19 million in 1998 and are recovered through the environmental 
clause to the extent not included in base rates.

The FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it considers 
excessive or imprudently incurred.  Such costs may include O&M expenses, the 
cost of replacing power lost when fossil and nuclear units are unavailable 
and costs associated with the construction or acquisition of new facilities.

Competition.  The electric utility industry is facing increasing competitive 
pressure.  FPL currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical 
energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self-
generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers.  In 
1998, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined 
represented approximately 4% of FPL's total operating revenues.  Various 
states, other than Florida, have either enacted legislation or are pursuing 
initiatives designed to deregulate the production and sale of electricity.  
By allowing customers to choose their electricity supplier, deregulation is 
expected to result in a shift from cost-based rates to market-based rates for 
energy production and other services provided to retail customers.  Similar 
initiatives are also being pursued on the federal level.  Although the 
legislation and initiatives vary substantially, common areas of focus include 
when market-based pricing will be available for wholesale and retail 
customers, what existing prudently incurred costs in excess of the market-
based price will be recoverable and whether generation assets should be 
separated from transmission, distribution and other assets.

In the event the basis of regulation for some or all of FPL's business 
changes from cost-based regulation, existing regulatory assets and 
liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative 
means of recovery or refund.  Further, other aspects of the business, such as 
generation assets and long-term power purchase commitments, would need to be 
reviewed to assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory environment. 
 See Management's Discussion - Results of Operations and Note 1 - Regulation.

While legislators and state regulatory commissions will decide what impact, 
if any, competitive forces will have on retail transactions, the FERC has 
jurisdiction over potential changes which could affect competition in 
wholesale transactions.  In 1993, FPL filed with the FERC a comprehensive 
revision of its service offerings in the wholesale market.  FPL proposed 
changes to its wholesale sales tariffs for service to municipal and 
cooperatively-owned electric utilities and its power sharing (interchange) 
agreements with other utilities.  A final decision by the FERC on this filing 
is pending.

FPL is a defendant in an antitrust suit filed by the FMPA.  The complaint 
includes an alleged inability to utilize FPL's transmission facilities to 
wheel power.  See Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

System Capability and Load.  FPL's resources for serving load as of 
December 31, 1998 consisted of 18,509 mw, of which 16,326 mw are from FPL-
owned facilities (see Item 2. Properties - Generating Facilities) and 2,183 
mw are obtained through purchased power contracts.  See Note 9 - Contracts.  
The compounded annual growth rate of retail kwh sales and retail customers 
was 3.4% and 1.8%, respectively, for the three years ended December 31, 1998. 
 It is anticipated that retail kwh sales will grow at a compounded annual 
rate of 2.1% for the next three years.  FPL intends to repower the two Fort 
Myers units by the end of 2001, repower two of the three Sanford units by the 
end of 2002, and build three new gas-fired units, one of which will go in 
service in each of the years 2006, 2007 and 2008.  These actions will 
increase FPL's power generating system by approximately 3,100 mw.

Customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the summer 
months largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in FPL's service 
territory.  Occasionally extremely cold temperatures during the winter months 
result in unusually high electricity usage for a short period of time.  From 
June 2, 1998 through June 5, 1998, FPL set four consecutive records for 
summertime peak demand, ranging from 17,156 mw to 17,897 mw.  Adequate 
resources were available at the time of each peak to meet customer demand.

Capital Expenditures.  FPL's capital expenditures totaled $617 million in 
1998, $551 million in 1997 and $474 million in 1996. Capital expenditures for 
the 1999-2001 period are expected to be approximately $2.8 billion, including 
$910 million in 1999.  This estimate is subject to continuing review and 
adjustment, and actual capital expenditures may vary from this estimate.  See 
Management's Discussion - Liquidity and Capital Resources.

Nuclear Operations.  FPL owns and operates four nuclear units, two at St. 
Lucie and two at Turkey Point.  The operating licenses for St. Lucie Units 
Nos. 1 and 2 expire in 2016 and 2023, respectively.  The operating licenses 
for Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 expire in 2012 and 2013, respectively.  
In 1998, FPL informed the NRC of its intent to apply for a 20-year license 
renewal for Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4.  FPL expects to file the 
application with the NRC in approximately 2001.  The nuclear units are 
periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and 
maintenance outages, repairs and certain other modifications.  A condition of 
the operating license for each unit requires an approved plan for 
decontamination and decommissioning.  FPL's current plans provide for prompt 
dismantlement of the Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning 
activities commencing in 2012 and 2013, respectively.  St. Lucie Unit No. 1 
will be mothballed beginning in 2016 with decommissioning activities 
integrated with the prompt dismantlement of St. Lucie Unit No. 2 beginning in 
2023.  See estimated cost data in Note 1 - Decommissioning and Dismantlement 
of Generating Plant.

Fuel.  FPL's generating plants use a variety of fuels.  See Item 2. 
Properties - Generating Facilities and Note 9 - Contracts.  The diverse fuel 
options, along with purchased power, enable FPL to shift between sources of 
generation to achieve an economical fuel mix.  FPL's oil requirements are 
obtained under short-term contracts and in the spot market.

FPL has three contracts in place with FGT that satisfy substantially all of 
the anticipated needs for natural gas transportation.  One of the contracts 
was executed in November 1998 to extend gas transportation to the Fort Myers 
plant and is subject to approval by the FERC.  The three existing contracts 
expire in 2010, 2015 and 2021 but can be extended at FPL's option.  To the 
extent desirable, FPL can also purchase interruptible gas transportation 
service from FGT based on pipeline availability.  FPL has a 15-year firm 
natural gas supply contract at market rates with an affiliate of FGT to 
provide approximately two-thirds of FPL's anticipated needs for natural gas. 
The remainder of FPL's gas requirements will be purchased under other 
contracts and in the spot market.

FPL has, through its joint ownership interest in SJRPP Units Nos. 1 and 2, 
long-term coal supply and transportation contracts for a portion of the fuel 
needs for those units.  All of the transportation requirements and a portion 
of the fuel supply needs for Scherer Unit No. 4 are covered by a series of 
annual and long-term contracts.  The remaining fuel requirements will be 
obtained in the spot market.

FPL leases nuclear fuel for all four of its nuclear units.  Currently, FPL is 
storing spent fuel on site and plans to provide adequate storage capacity 
for all of its spent nuclear fuel, pending its removal by the DOE.  See 
Note 1 - Nuclear Fuel.  Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, the DOE was 
required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title to and 
provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by January 31, 
1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from nuclear power 
plants.  Through 1998, FPL has paid approximately $384 million in such fees 
to the DOE's Nuclear Waste Fund.  The DOE did not meet its statutory 
obligation for disposal of spent nuclear fuel under the Nuclear Waste Policy 
Act.  In 1997, a court ruled, in response to petitions filed by utilities, 
state governments and utility commissions, that the DOE could not assert a 
claim that its delay was unavoidable in any defense against lawsuits by 
utilities seeking money damages arising out of the DOE's failure to perform 
its obligations.  There are no outstanding appeals relating to this matter.  
In 1998, FPL filed a lawsuit against the DOE seeking in excess of $300 
million in damages caused by the DOE's failure to dispose of spent nuclear 
fuel from FPL's nuclear power plants.  The matter is pending.

Energy Marketing and Trading.  FPL's Energy Marketing & Trading Division 
buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas and electric 
power.  The division primarily procures natural gas for FPL's own use in 
power generation and sells excess electric power.  Substantially all of the 
results of these activities are passed through to customers in the fuel or 
capacity clauses.  The level of trading activity is expected to grow as FPL 
seeks to manage the risk associated with fluctuating fuel prices and increase 
value from its own power generation.

Electric and Magnetic Fields.  In recent years, public, scientific and 
regulatory attention has been focused on possible adverse health effects of 
EMF.  These fields are created whenever electricity flows through a power 
line or an appliance.  Several epidemiological (i.e., statistical) studies 
have suggested a linkage between EMF and certain types of cancer, including 
leukemia and brain cancer; other studies have been inconclusive, contradicted 
earlier studies or have shown no such linkage.  Neither these epidemiological 
studies nor clinical studies have produced any conclusive evidence that EMF 
does or does not cause adverse health effects.  In 1998, a working group of 
the NIEHS issued a report classifying EMF as a possible human carcinogen.

FPL is in compliance with the FDEP regulations regarding EMF levels within 
and at the edge of the rights of way for transmission lines.  Future changes 
in the FDEP regulations could require additional capital expenditures by FPL 
for such things as increasing the right of way corridors or relocating or 
reconfiguring transmission facilities.  It is not presently known whether any 
such expenditures will be required.

Employees.  FPL had 9,845 employees at December 31, 1998.  Approximately 35% 
of the employees are represented by the IBEW under a collective bargaining 
agreement with FPL expiring on October 31, 2000.
 
		     OTHER FPL GROUP OPERATIONS

FPL Group Capital, a wholly-owned subsidiary of FPL Group, holds the capital 
stock and provides funding for the operating subsidiaries other than FPL.  At 
December 31, 1998, FPL Group Capital and its subsidiaries represented 
approximately 10% of FPL Group's total assets.  The business activities of 
these companies primarily consist of independent power projects.

FPL Energy.  FPL Energy, a wholly-owned subsidiary of FPL Group Capital, was 
formed in 1998 to aggregate the existing unregulated energy-related 
operations.  FPL Energy's focus is on environmentally-favored generation 
including natural gas, wind, geothermal, solar and biomass.

FPL Energy's participation in the domestic energy market has evolved in 
recent years from non-controlling equity investments to a more active role 
that includes ownership, development, construction, management and operation 
of many projects.  FPL Energy is actively involved in managing more than 90% 
of its projects.  This active role is expected to continue as opportunities 
in the unregulated generation market are pursued.  As of December 31, 1998, 
FPL Energy owned or had non-controlling ownership interests in operating 
independent power projects with a generating capacity of 1,878 mw.  These 
projects are located in eight states and abroad with geographic concentration 
in California, Virginia and the Northeast.

Deregulation of the electricity utility market presents both opportunities 
and risks for FPL Energy. Opportunities exist for the selective acquisition 
of generation assets that are being divested under deregulation plans and for 
the construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell low-cost 
power in competitive markets. However, market-based pricing, competitive 
sources of supply and the reduced availability of long-term power sales 
agreements may result in fluctuations in revenues and earnings.  
Substantially all of the energy produced by FPL Energy's independent power 
projects is sold through long-term power sales agreements with utilities.

FPL Energy is a party to a contract to purchase all of Central Maine's non-
nuclear generation assets for $846 million.  The contract is subject to a 
civil action initiated by FPL Energy.  For more information see Item 3 - 
Legal Proceedings and Note 9.

		   EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTS (a)(b





Item 2.  Properties

FPL Group and its subsidiaries maintain properties which are adequate for 
their operations.  At December 31, 1998, the electric generating, 
transmission, distribution and general facilities of FPL represent 46%, 13%, 
34% and 7%, respectively, of FPL's gross investment in electric utility plant 
in service.

Generating Facilities.  As of December 31, 1998, FPL Group had the following 
generating facilities:





N/M - Not meaningful

Transmission and Distribution.  FPL owns and operates 480 substations with a 
total capacity of 105,535,440 kva.  Electric transmission and distribution 
lines owned and in service as of December 31, 1998 are as follows:






Character of Ownership.  Substantially all of FPL's properties are subject 
to the lien of FPL's mortgage, which secures most debt securities issued by 
FPL.  The principal properties of FPL Group are held by FPL in fee and are 
free from other encumbrances, subject to minor exceptions, none of which is 
of such a nature as to substantially impair the usefulness to FPL of such 
properties.  Some of FPL's electric lines are located on land not owned in 
fee but are covered by necessary consents of governmental authorities or 
rights obtained from owners of private property.


Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

In 1991, FPL entered into 30-year power purchase agreements with two 
qualifying facilities (as defined by PURPA) located in Palm Beach County, 
Florida.  The power plants, which have a total generating capacity of 125 mw, 
were intended to sell capacity and energy to FPL and to provide steam to 
sugar processors.  The plants were to be fueled by bagasse (sugar cane waste) 
and wood waste.  Construction of the plants was funded, in part, through the 
sale of $288.5 million of solid waste industrial development revenue bonds 
(the bonds).  The plants are owned by Okeelanta Power Limited Partnership 
(Okeelanta); Osceola Power Limited Partnership (Osceola); Flo-Energy Corp.; 
Glades Power Partnership; Gator Generating Company, Limited Partnership; and 
Lake Power Leasing Partnership (collectively, the partnerships).

In January 1997, FPL filed a complaint against Okeelanta and Osceola in the 
Circuit Court for Palm Beach County, Florida, seeking an order declaring that 
FPL's obligations under the power purchase agreements were rendered of no 
force and effect because the power plants failed to accomplish commercial 
operation before January 1, 1997, as required by the agreements.  In November 
1997, the complaint was amended to include the partnerships.

The partnerships filed for bankruptcy under Chapter XI of the U.S. Bankruptcy 
Code in May 1997 and ceased all attempts to operate the power plants in 
September 1997.  In November 1997, the partnerships entered into an agreement 
with the holders of more than 70% of the bonds.  This agreement gives the 
holders of a majority of the principal amount of the bonds (the majority 
bondholders) the right to control, fund and manage any litigation against FPL 
and the right to settle with FPL on any terms such majority bondholders 
approve, provided that certain agreements with sugar processors are not 
affected and certain other conditions are met.

In January 1998, the partnerships (through the attorneys for the majority 
bondholders) filed an answer denying the allegations in FPL's complaint and 
asserting a counterclaim for approximately $2 billion of actual damages, 
consisting of all capacity payments that could have been made over the 30-
year term of the power purchase agreements plus some security deposits.  The 
partnerships also seek three times their actual damages for alleged 
violations of Florida antitrust laws, plus attorneys' fees.  In October 1998, 
the court dismissed all of the partnerships' antitrust claims against FPL.  
The partnerships have since moved for summary judgment on FPL's claims 
against them.

In December 1991, the FMPA, an organization comprised of municipal electric 
utilities operating in the state, filed a suit against FPL in the Circuit 
Court of the Ninth Judicial Circuit in Orange County, Florida.  The suit was 
subsequently removed to the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of 
Florida.  The FMPA alleges that FPL is in breach of a "contract," consisting 
of several different documents, by refusing to provide transmission service 
to the FMPA and its members on the FMPA's terms.  The FMPA also alleges that 
FPL has violated federal and Florida antitrust laws by monopolizing or 
attempting to monopolize the provision, coordination and transmission of 
electric power in FPL's area of operation by refusing to provide transmission 
service or to permit the FMPA to invest in and use FPL's transmission system 
on the FMPA's proposed terms.  The FMPA seeks $140 million in damages, before 
trebling for the antitrust claim, and asks the court to require FPL:  to 
transmit electric power among the FMPA and its members on "reasonable terms 
and conditions"; to permit the FMPA to contribute to and use FPL's 
transmission system on "reasonable terms and conditions"; and to recognize 
the FMPA transmission investments as part of FPL's transmission system such 
that the FMPA can obtain transmission on a basis equivalent to FPL or, 
alternatively, to provide transmission service equivalent to such FMPA 
transmission ownership.  In 1993, the District Court granted summary judgment 
in favor of FPL.  In 1995, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit 
vacated the District Court's summary judgment and remanded the matter to the 
District Court for further proceedings.  In 1996, the District Court ordered 
the FMPA to seek a declaratory ruling from the FERC regarding certain issues 
in the case.  In November 1998, the FERC declined to make the required 
ruling in the FMPA case.  The District Court has yet to act further.

In the event that FPL Group or FPL does not prevail in these suits, there may 
be a material adverse effect on their financial statements.  However, FPL 
Group and FPL believe that they have meritorious defenses to the litigation 
to which they are parties and are vigorously defending these suits.  
Accordingly, the liabilities, if any, arising from these proceedings are not 
anticipated to have a material adverse effect on their financial statements.

In November 1989, Johnson Enterprises of Jacksonville, Inc. (Johnson 
Enterprises) filed suit in the U.S. Court for the Middle District of Florida 
against FPL Group, FPL Group Capital and Telesat Cablevision, Inc. (Telesat), 
a subsidiary of FPL Group Capital.  The suit alleged breach of contract, 
fraud, violation of racketeering statutes and several other claims.  
Plaintiff claimed more than $24 million in compensatory damages, treble 
damages under racketeering statutes, punitive damages and attorneys' fees.  
In December 1998, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit: 
affirmed the District Court's judgment in favor of FPL Group and Telesat on 
nine of twelve counts, including all of the racketeering and fraud claims, 
and in favor of FPL Group Capital on all counts; reversed the District Court 
and directed it to enter judgment in favor of FPL Group on Johnson 
Enterprise's breach of contract and tortious interference claims; and vacated 
the approximately $6 million damages award against Telesat for breach of 
contract and directed the District Court to enter judgment for Johnson 
Enterprises for nominal damages no greater than one dollar.  No appeal was 
filed and all appeal periods have expired.

In November 1998, a subsidiary of FPL Energy filed a civil action with the 
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York requesting a 
declaratory judgment that Central Maine cannot meet essential terms of the 
agreement with FPL Energy's subsidiary regarding the purchase of Central 
Maine's non-nuclear generating assets.  FPL Group believes that recent FERC 
rulings regarding transmission prevent Central Maine from delivering on its 
contractual obligation that FPL Energy's subsidiary be able to operate the 
power plants in a manner that is substantially consistent with Central 
Maine's historical operation of the assets.  FPL Group believes the FERC 
rulings constitute a material adverse effect under the purchase agreement and 
that FPL Energy's subsidiary should therefore not be bound to complete the 
transaction.  The trial is scheduled for March 1999.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None

				  PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrants' Common Equity and Related Stockholder 
Matters

Common Stock Data.  All of FPL's common stock is owned by FPL Group.  FPL 
Group's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange.  The high and 
low sales prices for the common stock of FPL Group as reported in the 
consolidated transaction reporting system of the New York Stock Exchange for 
each quarter during the past two years are as follows:






Approximate Number of Stockholders.  As of the close of business on 
January 31, 1999, there were 54,655 holders of record of FPL Group's common 
stock.

Dividends.  Quarterly dividends have been paid on common stock of FPL Group 
during the past two years in the following amounts:





The amount and timing of dividends payable on FPL Group's common stock are 
within the sole discretion of FPL Group's board of directors.  The board of 
directors reviews the dividend rate at least annually (in February) to 
determine its appropriateness in light of FPL Group's financial position and 
results of operations, legislative and regulatory developments affecting the 
electric utility industry in general and FPL in particular, competitive 
conditions and any other factors the board deems relevant.  The ability of 
FPL Group to pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon dividends 
paid to it by its subsidiaries, primarily FPL.  There are no restrictions in 
effect that currently limit FPL's ability to pay dividends to FPL Group.  See 
Management's Discussion -Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 4 - Common 
Stock Dividend Restrictions regarding dividends paid by FPL to FPL Group.
Item 6.  Selected Financial Data





Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
	 Results of Operations

Results of Operations

During 1998, FPL Group, Inc. (FPL Group) achieved net income and earnings 
per share growth of 7.4% and 7.8%, respectively, compared to 1997 growth 
rates of 6.7% and 7.2%.  The growth reflects better operating results from 
FPL Energy, Inc.'s (FPL Energy) independent power projects, primarily from 
its natural gas-fired projects.

Florida Power & Light Company's (FPL) operating revenues and net income 
represent approximately 96% and 93% of the corresponding amounts of FPL 
Group.  Approximately 20% of the 1998 growth in earnings per share was 
provided by FPL. FPL's growth was primarily associated with an increase in 
total kilowatt-hour (kwh) sales and lower interest charges and preferred 
stock dividends.  Offsetting these items were higher depreciation and other 
operations and maintenance (O&M) expenses.

FPL's operating revenues consist primarily of revenues from base rates, 
cost recovery clauses and franchise fees.  Revenues from FPL's base rates 
were $3.7 billion, $3.5 billion and $3.4 billion in 1998, 1997 and 1996, 
respectively.  There were no changes in base rates during those years.  
Revenues from cost recovery clauses and franchise fees represent a pass-
through of costs and do not significantly affect net income.  Fluctuations 
in these revenues are primarily driven by changes in energy sales, fuel 
prices and capacity charges.  

FPL's retail customer accounts increased 1.8% for the third consecutive 
year.  In 1998 and 1997, warmer weather contributed to an increase in 
retail customer usage of 4.8% and 1.2%, respectively.  Together these 
factors and changes in sales to other utilities contributed to an increase 
in FPL's total energy sales of 8.0%, 2.3% and 1.4% in 1998, 1997 and 1996, 
respectively.

The Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC) regulates FPL's retail sales, 
which represent approximately 95% of FPL Group's total operating revenues. 
FPL reported a retail regulatory return on common equity (ROE) of 12.6%, 
12.3% and 12.1% in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  FPL's allowed ROE 
range for 1996 through 1998 was 11% to 13% with a midpoint of 12%.  In 
December 1998, after negotiations between FPL and the FPSC staff, the FPSC 
issued a proposed order approving a settlement regarding FPL's allowed ROE, 
equity ratio and the special amortization program.  Under the proposed 
settlement, beginning in 1999 FPL's allowed ROE range would be 10.2% to 12.2% 
with a midpoint of 11.2%.  FPL agreed to a maximum adjusted equity ratio of 
55.83% through 2000.  The adjusted equity ratio reflected a discounted 
amount for off-balance sheet obligations under certain long-term purchase 
power contracts.  See Note 9 - Contracts.  The proposed settlement also 
extended the special amortization program through 2000 and modified the 
program to include an additional fixed amount of $140 million per year in 
addition to the variable amount.  FPL continues to record a $30 million 
fixed nuclear amount under a previous FPSC order.  In January 1999, several 
parties challenged the FPSC's proposed order.  In mid-February 1999, FPL 
withdrew from the settlement agreement; the FPSC subsequently approved this 
withdrawal and concluded the proceeding.  FPL is authorized to continue to 
record special amortization through 1999 in accordance with the extension 
of the special amortization program approved by the FPSC in 1997.

In January 1999, the State of Florida Office of Public Counsel (Public 
Counsel) petitioned the FPSC to conduct a full rate proceeding for FPL and 
requested that certain revenues be held subject to refund.  Other parties 
have requested participation with Public Counsel.  The FPSC is scheduled to 
address Public Counsel's request in March 1999.  FPL is unable to predict 
the outcome of this matter or any potential effect on its financial 
statements.  See Note 1 - Regulation.

FPL Group's 1998 operating revenues reflect the receipt by an independent 
power project of a settlement relating to a contract dispute.  Beginning in 
1997, FPL Group's operating revenues, energy sales and fuel, purchased power
and interchange expense include the effects of consolidating some independent 
power projects.

O&M expenses increased in 1998, primarily as a result of additional costs 
associated with improving the service reliability of FPL's distribution 
system.  Partly offsetting the higher distribution expenses were lower 
nuclear maintenance costs and conservation clause expenses.  Conservation 
clause expenses are essentially a pass-through and do not affect net 
income.  In 1997, additional costs associated with the conservation clause 
and higher distribution system maintenance costs were partially offset by a 
slight decline in nuclear refueling and lower payroll-related costs.

The increases in depreciation and amortization expense are primarily the 
result of the FPSC-approved special amortization program.  Pursuant to the 
FPSC-approved special amortization program, FPL records as depreciation and 
amortization expense a fixed amount of $30 million per year for nuclear 
assets.  FPL also records under this program variable amortization based on 
the actual level of retail base revenues compared to a fixed amount.  The 
variable amounts recorded in 1998, 1997 and 1996 were $348 million, $169 
million and $130 million, respectively.  These variable amounts include, as 
depreciation and amortization expense, $161 million, $169 million and $20 
million, respectively, for amortization of regulatory assets.  The remaining 
variable amounts were applied against nuclear and fossil production assets.  
Amortization of debt reacquisition costs, a regulatory asset, was completed 
in 1998.  In addition to amounts recorded under the special amortization 
program in 1998, 1997 and 1996, FPL amortized $24 million, $22 million and 
$28 million, respectively, of plant-related regulatory assets deferred 
since FPL's last rate case in 1984.  Amortization of plant-related 
regulatory assets was completed in 1998.  In 1998 and 1997, the FPSC 
approved higher depreciation rates for certain assets which resulted in 
additional depreciation of $26 million and $31 million, respectively. 

The 1998 increase in FPL Group's interest charges reflects the cost of 
terminating agreements designed to fix interest rates.  This was partially 
offset by lower interest charges and preferred stock dividends at FPL, 
which reflect the impact of reducing debt and preferred stock balances.  
FPL Group has reduced these balances, net of commercial paper increases, 
over the past three years by $1.0 billion ($1.1 billion for FPL).  In 1997, 
additional debt was assumed as a result of FPL Energy's portfolio 
restructuring and expansion resulting in higher interest charges at FPL 
Group.

Improved results in 1998 from independent power partnerships contributed to 
an increase in the non-operating line other-net of FPL Group.  Also 
reflected in other-net for FPL Group is the December 1998 loss from the 
sale of Turner Foods Corporation's (Turner) assets.  Turner was an 
agricultural subsidiary of FPL Group Capital Inc (FPL Group Capital) which 
owned and operated citrus groves in Florida.  The loss of Turner's revenues 
as a result of the sale will not have a significant effect on FPL Group's 
future operating revenues or net income.

FPL Group's 1998 lower effective income tax rate reflects adjustments 
relating to prior years' tax matters, including the resolution of an audit 
issue with the Internal Revenue Service.  The effective income tax rates in 
1997 and 1996 reflect increased amortization of FPL's deferred investment 
tax credits due to the special amortization program and adjustments 
relating to prior years' tax matters.

The electric utility industry is facing increasing competitive pressure.  
FPL currently faces competition from other suppliers of electrical energy 
to wholesale customers and from alternative energy sources and self-
generation for other customer groups, primarily industrial customers.  In 
1998, operating revenues from wholesale and industrial customers combined 
represented approximately 4% of FPL's total operating revenues.  Since 
there is no deregulation proposal currently under consideration in Florida, 
FPL is unable to predict what impact would result from a change to a more 
competitive environment or when such a change might occur.  Various states, 
other than Florida, have either enacted legislation or are pursuing 
initiatives designed to deregulate the production and sale of electricity. 
 Deregulation related activities are also being pursued on the federal 
level.  See Note 1 - Regulation.  Deregulation of the electricity utility 
market presents both opportunities and risks for FPL Energy. Opportunities 
exist for the selective acquisition of generation assets that are being 
divested under deregulation plans and for the construction and operation of 
efficient plants that can sell low-cost power in competitive markets. 
However, market-based pricing, competitive sources of supply and the reduced 
availability of long-term power sales agreements may result in fluctuations 
in revenues and earnings.  Substantially all of the energy produced by FPL 
Energy's independent power projects is sold through long-term power sales 
agreements with utilities.

FPL Group is continuing to work to resolve the potential impact of the year 
2000 on the processing of information by its computer systems.  A multi-
phase plan has been developed consisting of inventorying potential 
problems, assessing what will be required to address each potential 
problem, taking the necessary action to fix each problem, testing to see 
that the action taken did result in year 2000 readiness and implementing 
the required solution.  The inventory and assessment of the information 
technology infrastructure, computer applications and computerized processes 
embedded in operating equipment has been completed and approximately 80% of 
the necessary modifications have been tested and implemented.  FPL Group's 
efforts to assess the year 2000 readiness of third parties include 
surveying important suppliers.  Meetings are being conducted with sole 
source and certain suppliers.  Results of our supplier readiness assessment 
are being considered in the development of our contingency plans to help 
ensure that critical supplies are not interrupted, that large customers are 
able to receive power and that transactions with or processed by financial 
institutions will occur as intended.  FPL Group is on schedule with its 
multi-phase plan and all phases are expected to be completed by mid-1999, 
except for confirmatory testing at St. Lucie Unit No. 1, which will be 
completed during a scheduled refueling outage beginning October 1999.  The 
estimated cost of addressing year 2000 issues is not expected to exceed $50 
million, of which approximately 40% had been spent through December 31, 
1998.  Approximately 80% of the total estimate is for the multi-phase plan. 
The remainder is an estimate for project and inventory contingencies.  The 
majority of these costs represent the redeployment of existing resources 
and, therefore, are not expected to have a significant effect on O&M 
expenses.

At this time, FPL Group believes that the most reasonably likely worst case 
scenarios relating to the year 2000 could include a temporary disruption of 
service to customers, caused by a potential disruption in fuel supply, 
water supply and telecommunications, as well as transmission grid 
disruptions caused by other companies whose electrical systems are 
interconnected with FPL.  FPL Group's year 2000 contingency planning is 
currently underway to address risk scenarios at the operating level (such 
as generation, transmission and distribution), as well as at the business 
level (such as customer service, procurement and accounting).  These plans 
are intended to mitigate both internal risks and potential risks in FPL 
Group's supply chain.  Contingency plans are expected to be completed by 
mid-1999, allowing the second half of 1999 for communication and training. 
In addition to preparing internal contingency plans, FPL also participated 
in the development of the state's electric grid contingency plans and 
expects to participate in national drills during 1999 that are designed to 
test various operating risk scenarios.

In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued 
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. (FAS) 133, "Accounting for 
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities."  The statement establishes 
accounting and reporting standards requiring that every derivative 
instrument (including certain derivative instruments embedded in other 
contracts) be recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset or liability 
measured at its fair value.  The statement requires that changes in the 
derivative's fair value be recognized currently in earnings unless specific 
hedge accounting criteria are met.  FPL Group and FPL are currently assessing 
the effect, if any, on their financial statements of implementing FAS 133.  
FPL Group and FPL will be required to adopt the standard in 2000.

In January 1999, an FPL Group Capital subsidiary sold 3.5 million common 
shares of Adelphia Communications Corporation stock resulting in an after-tax 
gain of approximately $96 million.  An agreement was also reached to sell FPL 
Group Capital's one-third interest in a limited partnership.  While the terms 
have not been finalized, the sale of the limited partnership interest is 
expected to have a positive effect on FPL Group's results of operations.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

FPL Group's primary capital requirements consist of expenditures to meet 
increased electricity usage and customer growth of FPL.  Capital 
expenditures of FPL for the 1999-2001 period are expected to be 
approximately $2.8 billion, including $910 million in 1999.  The increase 
in FPL Group's 1998 capital expenditures reflects the investment in two 
power plants in the Northeast, while the increase in FPL's 1998 capital 
expenditures is primarily the result of improving distribution system 
reliability.  FPL Group Capital and its subsidiaries have guaranteed 
approximately $305 million of purchase power agreement obligations, debt 
service payments and other payments subject to certain contingencies.  FPL 
Energy is a party to a contract to purchase all of Central Maine Power 
Company's non-nuclear generation assets for $846 million.  The contract is 
subject to a civil action initiated by FPL Energy.  See Note 9 - 
Commitments and Contingencies.

Debt maturities of FPL Group's subsidiaries will require cash outflows of 
approximately $671 million ($525 million for FPL) through 2003, including 
$359 million ($230 million for FPL) in 1999.  It is anticipated that cash 
requirements for FPL's capital expenditures, energy-related investments and 
debt maturities in 1999 will be satisfied with internally generated funds 
and debt issuances.  Any internally generated funds not required for 
capital expenditures and current maturities may be used to reduce 
outstanding debt or common stock, or for investment.  Any temporary cash 
needs will be met by short-term bank borrowings.  In January 1999, FPL 
Group Capital redeemed $125 million of its 7 5/8% debentures.  Bank lines 
of credit currently available to FPL Group and its subsidiaries aggregate 
$1.9 billion ($900 million for FPL).

During 1998, FPL Group repurchased 1.0 million shares of common stock under 
the 10 million share repurchase program. As of December 31, 1998, FPL Group 
may repurchase an additional 8.3 million shares under this program.

FPL self-insures for damage to certain transmission and distribution 
properties and maintains a funded storm reserve to reduce the financial 
impact of storm losses.  The balance of the storm fund reserve at December 
31, 1998 was $259 million.  Bank lines of credit of $300 million, included 
in the $1.9 billion above, are also available if needed to provide cash for 
storm restoration costs.  The FPSC has indicated that it would consider 
future storm losses in excess of the funded reserve for possible recovery 
from customers.

In 1996, the FASB issued an exposure draft on accounting for obligations 
associated with the retirement of long-lived assets. The method proposed by 
the FASB in the exposure draft would require the present value of estimated 
future cash flows to decommission FPL's nuclear power plants and dismantle 
its fossil plants to be recorded as an increase to asset balances and as a 
liability.  Under that proposal, it is anticipated that there will be no 
effect on cash flows and, because of the regulatory treatment, there will 
be no significant effect on net income. The matter has been restudied by the 
FASB and another exposure draft is scheduled to be issued in 1999.

FPL's charter and mortgage contain provisions which, under certain 
conditions, restrict the payment of dividends and the issuance of 
additional unsecured debt, first mortgage bonds and preferred stock.  Given 
FPL's current financial condition and level of earnings, expected financing 
activities and dividends are not affected by these limitations.

Market Risk Sensitivity

Substantially all financial instruments and positions held by FPL Group and 
FPL described below are held for purposes other than trading.

Interest rate risk - The special use funds of FPL include restricted funds 
set aside to cover the cost of storm damage and for the decommissioning of 
FPL's nuclear power plants.  A portion of these funds is invested in fixed 
income debt securities carried at their market value of approximately $650 
million and $640 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.  
Adjustments to market value result in a corresponding adjustment to the 
related liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment.  Because 
the funds set aside for storm damage could be needed at any time, the 
related investments are generally more liquid and, therefore, are less 
sensitive to changes in interest rates.  The nuclear decommissioning funds, 
in contrast, are generally invested in longer-term securities, as 
decommissioning activities are not expected to begin until at least 2012.  
Market risk associated with all of these securities is estimated as the 
potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% increase in 
interest rates and amounts to $17 million and $19 million at December 31, 
1998 and 1997, respectively.

The fair value of FPL Group's and FPL's long-term debt is also affected by 
changes in interest rates.  The following presents the sensitivity of the 
fair value of debt and interest rate swap agreements to a hypothetical 10% 
decrease in interest rates






While a decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of debt, 
it is unlikely that events that would result in a realized loss will occur.

Equity price risk - Included in the special use funds of FPL are marketable 
equity securities carried at their market value of approximately $556 
million and $367 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.  A 
hypothetical 10% decrease in the prices quoted by stock exchanges would 
result in a $56 million and $37 million reduction in fair value and 
corresponding adjustment to the related liability accounts based on current 
regulatory treatment at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.
Other risks - Under current cost-based regulation, FPL's cost of fuel is 
recovered through the fuel and purchased power cost recovery clause (fuel 
clause), with no effect on earnings.  FPL's Energy Marketing & Trading 
Division buys and sells wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas 
and electric power.  The division primarily procures natural gas for FPL's 
own use in power generation and sells excess electric power.  Substantially 
all of the results of these activities are passed through to customers in 
the fuel or capacity cost recovery clauses.  The level of trading activity 
is expected to grow as FPL seeks to manage the risk associated with 
fluctuating fuel prices and increase value from its own power generation.  
At December 31, 1998, there were no material open positions in these 
activities.

Item 7a.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

See Management's Discussion - Market Risk Sensitivity



Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


		     INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



FPL GROUP, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY:

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of FPL Group, Inc. and 
of Florida Power & Light Company, listed in the accompanying index at Item 
14(a)1 of this Annual Report (Form 10-K) to the Securities and Exchange 
Commission for the year ended December 31, 1998.  These financial statements 
are the responsibility of the respective company's management.  Our 
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based 
on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free 
of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, 
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. 
 An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and 
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall 
financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all 
material respects, the financial position of FPL Group, Inc. and Florida 
Power & Light Company at December 31, 1998 and 1997 and the results of their 
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period 
ended December 31, 1998 in conformity with generally accepted accounting 
principles.





DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Certified Public Accountants

Miami, Florida
February 12, 1999



			   FPL GROUP, INC.
		   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
		(In millions, except per share amounts)





The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral 
part of these statements.






			   FPL GROUP, INC.
		     CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
		      (Millions of Dollars)



 
 
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral 
part of these statements.






			    FPL GROUP,  INC.
		 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
			 (Millions of Dollars)




The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral 
part of these statements.






			      FPL GROUP, INC.
	      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
			      (In Millions)




The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral 
part of these statements.





		      FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
		   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
			(Millions of Dollars)




The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral 
part of these statements.





		      FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
		      CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
			(Millions of Dollars)




The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral 
part of these statements.






		      FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
		 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
		       (Millions of Dollars)




The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral 
part of these statements.






			FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
		CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY
			  (Millions of Dollars)





The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral 
part of these statements.






	     FPL GROUP, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
	       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	      Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996


1.  Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies

Basis of Presentation - FPL Group, Inc.'s (FPL Group) operations are 
conducted primarily through Florida Power & Light Company (FPL), a rate-
regulated public utility, and FPL Energy, Inc. (FPL Energy).  FPL supplies 
electric service to approximately 3.7 million customers throughout most of 
the east and lower west coasts of Florida.  FPL Energy invests in independent 
power projects which consist of controlled and consolidated entities and non-
controlling ownership interests in joint ventures.

The consolidated financial statements of FPL Group and FPL include the 
accounts of their respective majority-owned and controlled subsidiaries.  All 
significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in 
consolidation.  Certain amounts included in prior years' consolidated 
financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year's 
presentation.  The preparation of financial statements requires the use of 
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, 
liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets 
and liabilities.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Regulation - FPL is subject to regulation by the Florida Public Service 
Commission (FPSC) and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).  Its 
rates are designed to recover the cost of providing electric service to its 
customers including a reasonable rate of return on invested capital.  As a 
result of this cost-based regulation, FPL follows the accounting practices 
set forth in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. (FAS) 71, 
"Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation."  FAS 71 
indicates that regulators can create assets and impose liabilities that would 
not be recorded by non-regulated entities.  Regulatory assets and liabilities 
represent probable future revenues that will be recovered from or refunded to 
customers through the ratemaking process.  The continued applicability of FAS 
71 is assessed at each reporting period.

Various states, other than Florida, have either enacted legislation or are 
pursuing initiatives designed to deregulate the production and sale of 
electricity.  By allowing customers to choose their electricity supplier, 
deregulation is expected to result in a shift from cost-based rates to 
market-based rates for energy production and other services provided to 
retail customers.  Similar initiatives are also being pursued on the federal 
level.  Although the legislation and initiatives vary substantially, common 
areas of focus include when market-based pricing will be available for 
wholesale and retail customers, what existing prudently incurred costs in 
excess of the market-based price will be recoverable and whether generation 
assets should be separated from transmission, distribution and other assets. 
 It is generally believed transmission and distribution activities would 
remain regulated.

In the event that FPL's generating operations are no longer subject to the 
provisions of FAS 71, portions of the existing regulatory assets and 
liabilities that relate to generation would be written off unless regulators 
specify an alternative means of recovery or refund.  The principal regulatory 
assets and liabilities are as follows:





The storm and property insurance reserve is primarily related to transmission 
and distribution properties.  The amounts presented above exclude clause-
related regulatory assets and liabilities that are recovered or refunded over 
twelve-month periods.  These amounts are included in current assets and 
liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.  Further, other aspects of 
the business, such as generation assets and long-term power purchase 
commitments, would need to be reviewed to assess their recoverability in a 
changed regulatory environment.  Since there is no deregulation proposal 
currently under consideration in Florida, FPL is unable to predict what 
impact would result from a change to a more competitive environment or when 
such a change might occur.


FPL's allowed return on equity (ROE) range for 1996 through 1998 was 11% to 
13% with a midpoint of 12%.  In December 1998, after negotiations between FPL 
and the FPSC staff, the FPSC issued a proposed order approving a settlement 
regarding FPL's allowed ROE, equity ratio and the special amortization 
program.  Under the proposed settlement, beginning in 1999 FPL's allowed ROE 
range would be 10.2% to 12.2% with a midpoint of 11.2%.  FPL agreed to a 
maximum adjusted equity ratio of 55.83% through 2000.  The adjusted equity 
ratio reflected a discounted amount for off-balance sheet obligations under 
certain long-term purchase power contracts.  See Note 9 - Contracts.  The 
proposed settlement also extended the special amortization program through 
2000 and modified the program to include an additional fixed amount of $140 
million per year in addition to the variable amount.  FPL continues to 
record a $30 million fixed nuclear amount under a previous FPSC order.  In 
January 1999, several parties challenged the FPSC's proposed order.  In 
mid-February 1999, FPL withdrew from the settlement agreement; the FPSC 
subsequently approved this withdrawal and concluded the proceeding.  FPL is 
authorized to continue to record special amortization through 1999 in 
accordance with the extension of the special amortization program approved 
by the FPSC in 1997.

In January 1999, the State of Florida Office of Public Counsel (Public 
Counsel) petitioned the FPSC to conduct a full rate proceeding for FPL and 
requested that certain revenues be held subject to refund.  Other parties 
have requested participation with Public Counsel.  The FPSC is scheduled to 
address Public Counsel's request in March 1999. FPL is unable to predict 
the outcome of this matter or any potential effect on its financial 
statements.

FPL amortized the plant-related deferred costs as approved by the FPSC and 
recorded $24 million, $22 million and $28 million, in 1998, 1997 and 1996, 
respectively.  Pursuant to the FPSC-approved special amortization program, 
FPL recorded as depreciation and amortization expense a fixed amount of $30 
million per year for nuclear assets.  FPL also records under this program 
variable amortization based on the actual level of retail base revenues 
compared to a fixed amount.  The variable amounts recorded in 1998, 1997 and 
1996 were $348 million, $169 million and $130 million, respectively.  These 
variable amounts include, as depreciation and amortization expense, $161 
million, $169 million and $20 million, respectively, for amortization of 
regulatory assets.  The remaining variable amounts were applied against 
nuclear and fossil production assets.

Revenues and Rates - FPL's retail and wholesale utility rate schedules are 
approved by the FPSC and the FERC, respectively. FPL records unbilled base 
revenues for the estimated amount of energy delivered to customers but not 
yet billed.  Unbilled base revenues are included in customer receivables and 
amounted to $152 million and $154 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, 
respectively.  Substantially all of the energy produced by FPL Energy's 
independent power projects is sold through long-term power sales agreements 
with utilities and revenue is recorded on an as-billed basis.

FPL's revenues include amounts resulting from cost recovery clauses, certain 
revenue taxes and franchise fees.  Cost recovery clauses, which are designed 
to permit full recovery of certain costs and provide a return on certain 
assets utilized by these programs, include substantially all fuel, purchased 
power and interchange expenses, conservation- and environmental-related 
expenses and certain revenue taxes.  Revenues from cost recovery clauses are 
recorded when billed; FPL achieves matching of costs and related revenues by 
deferring the net under or over recovery.  Any under recovered costs or over 
recovered revenues are collected from or returned to customers in subsequent 
periods.

Electric Plant, Depreciation and Amortization - The cost of additions to 
units of utility property of FPL is added to electric utility plant.  The 
cost of units of utility property retired, less net salvage, is charged to 
accumulated depreciation.  Maintenance and repairs of property as well as 
replacements and renewals of items determined to be less than units of 
utility property are charged to other operations and maintenance (O&M) 
expenses.  At December 31, 1998, the generating, transmission, distribution 
and general facilities of FPL represented approximately 46%, 13%, 34% and 7%, 
respectively, of FPL's gross investment in electric utility plant in service. 
 Substantially all electric utility plant of FPL is subject to the lien of a 
mortgage securing FPL's first mortgage bonds.

Depreciation of electric property is primarily provided on a straight-line 
average remaining life basis.  FPL includes in depreciation expense a 
provision for fossil plant dismantlement and nuclear plant decommissioning.  
For substantially all of FPL's property, depreciation and fossil fuel plant 
dismantlement studies are performed and filed with the FPSC at least every 
four years.  The most recent depreciation studies were approved by the FPSC 
effective for 1998.  That approval has since been challenged and hearings 
have been requested.  Fossil fuel plant dismantlement studies were filed in 
September 1998 and will be effective January 1, 1999.  The weighted annual 
composite depreciation rate for FPL's electric plant in service was 
approximately 4.4% for 1998, 4.3% for 1997 and 4.1% for 1996, excluding the 
effects of decommissioning and dismantlement.  Further, these rates exclude 
the special and plant-related deferred cost amortization.  See Regulation.

Nuclear Fuel - FPL leases nuclear fuel for all four of its nuclear units.  
Nuclear fuel lease expense was $83 million, $85 million and $94 million in 
1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  Included in this expense was an interest 
component of $9 million, $9 million and $10 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, 
respectively.  Nuclear fuel lease payments and a charge for spent nuclear 
fuel disposal are charged to fuel expense on a unit of production method.  
These costs are recovered through the fuel and purchased power cost recovery 
clause (fuel clause).  Under certain circumstances of lease termination, FPL 
is required to purchase all nuclear fuel in whatever form at a purchase price 
designed to allow the lessor to recover its net investment cost in the fuel, 
which totaled $146 million at December 31, 1998.  For ratemaking, these 
leases are classified as operating leases.  For financial reporting, the 
capital lease obligation is recorded at the amount due in the event of lease 
termination.
Decommissioning and Dismantlement of Generating Plant - FPL accrues nuclear 
decommissioning costs over the expected service life of each unit.  Nuclear 
decommissioning studies are performed at least every five years and are 
submitted to the FPSC for approval.  Decommissioning expense accruals 
included in depreciation and amortization expense, were $85 million in each 
of the years 1998, 1997 and 1996.  At December 31, 1998 and 1997, the 
accumulated provision for nuclear decommissioning totaled $1.205 billion 
and $998 million, respectively, and is included in accumulated 
depreciation.  In October 1998, FPL filed updated nuclear decommissioning 
studies with the FPSC.  These studies assume prompt dismantlement for the 
Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 with decommissioning activities commencing 
in 2012 and 2013, respectively.  St Lucie Unit No. 1 will be mothballed 
beginning in 2016 with decommissioning activities integrated with the 
prompt dismantlement of St. Lucie Unit No. 2 beginning in 2023.  These 
studies also assume that FPL will be storing spent fuel on site pending 
removal to a U.S. Government facility.  The studies indicate FPL's portion 
of the ultimate costs of decommissioning its four nuclear units, including 
costs associated with spent fuel storage, to be $7.3 billion.  The updated 
studies, which are pending FPSC approval, indicate there is an estimated 
reserve deficiency at December 31, 1998, of approximately $535 million.  
FPL is proposing to maintain the current approved annual decommissioning 
accrual at $85 million per year and to recover the reserve deficiency 
through the special amortization program.  See Regulation.  The annual 
accrual will be adjusted once the amount of deficiency is approved and 
recovery through the amortization program has been completed.

Similarly, FPL accrues the cost of dismantling its fossil fuel plants over 
the expected service life of each unit.  Fossil dismantlement expense was $17 
million in each of the years 1998, 1997 and 1996, and is included in 
depreciation and amortization expense.  FPL's portion of the ultimate cost to 
dismantle its fossil units is $521 million.  At December 31, 1998 and 1997, 
the accumulated provision for fossil dismantlement totaled $185 million and 
$162 million, respectively, and is included in accumulated depreciation.  The 
dismantlement studies filed in 1998 indicated an estimated reserve deficiency 
of $38 million which FPL is proposing to recover through the special 
amortization program.  See Regulation.

Restricted trust funds for the payment of future expenditures to decommission 
FPL's nuclear units are included in special use funds of FPL.  At 
December 31, 1998 and 1997, decommissioning fund assets were $1.046 billion 
and $850 million, respectively. Securities held in the decommissioning fund 
are carried at market value with market adjustments resulting in a 
corresponding adjustment to the accumulated provision for nuclear 
decommissioning.  See Note 3 - Special Use Funds.  Contributions to the funds 
are based on current period decommissioning expense.  Additionally, fund 
earnings, net of taxes are reinvested in the funds.  The tax effects of 
amounts not yet recognized for tax purposes are included in accumulated 
deferred income taxes.

In 1996, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an exposure 
draft on accounting for obligations associated with the retirement of long-
lived assets.  The method proposed by the FASB in the exposure draft would 
require the present value of estimated future cash flows to decommission 
FPL's nuclear power plants and dismantle its fossil power plants to be 
recorded as an increase to asset balances and as a liability.  Under that 
proposal, it is anticipated that there will be no effect on cash flows and, 
because of the regulatory treatment, there will be no significant effect on 
net income.  The matter has been restudied by the FASB and another exposure 
draft is scheduled to be issued in 1999.

Accrual for Nuclear Maintenance Costs - Estimated nuclear maintenance costs 
for each nuclear unit's next planned outage are accrued over the period from 
the end of the last outage to the end of the next planned outage.  Any 
difference between the estimated and actual costs are included in O&M 
expenses when known.

Construction Activity - In accordance with an FPSC rule, FPL is not permitted 
to capitalize interest or a return on common equity during construction, 
except for projects that cost in excess of 1/2% of the plant in service 
balance and will require more than one year to complete.  The FPSC allows 
construction projects below that threshold as an element of rate base.  FPL 
Group's non-regulated operations capitalize interest on construction 
projects.

Storm and Property Insurance Reserve Fund (storm fund) - The storm fund 
provides coverage toward storm damage costs and possible retrospective 
premium assessments stemming from a nuclear incident under the various 
insurance programs covering FPL's nuclear generating plants.  The storm fund, 
which totaled $160 million and $157 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, 
respectively, is included in special use funds of FPL.  Securities held in 
the fund are carried at market value with market adjustments resulting in a 
corresponding adjustment to the storm and property insurance reserve.  See 
Note 3 - Special Use Funds and Note 9 - Insurance.  Fund earnings, net of 
taxes, are reinvested in the fund.  The tax effects of amounts not yet 
recognized for tax purposes are included in accumulated deferred income 
taxes.

Other Investments - Included in other investments in FPL Group's consolidated 
balance sheets is FPL Group's participation in leveraged leases of $154 
million at both December 31, 1998 and 1997.  Additionally, other investments 
include non-controlling non-majority owned interests in partnerships and 
joint ventures, essentially all of which are accounted for under the equity 
method.

Cash Equivalents - Cash equivalents consist of short-term, highly liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months or less.

Short-Term Debt - The year end weighted-average interest rate on short-term 
debt at December 31, 1998 was 5.2% for FPL Group.

Retirement of Long-Term Debt - The excess of FPL's reacquisition cost over 
the book value of long-term debt is deferred and amortized to expense ratably 
over the remaining life of the original issue, which is consistent with its 
treatment in the ratemaking process.  Through this amortization and amounts 
recorded under the special amortization program, the remaining balance of 
this regulatory asset was fully amortized in 1998.  See Regulation.  FPL 
Group Capital, Inc. (FPL Group Capital) expenses this cost in the period 
incurred. 

Income Taxes - Deferred income taxes are provided on all significant 
temporary differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets 
and liabilities.  FPL is included in the consolidated federal income tax 
return filed by FPL Group.  FPL determines its income tax provision on the 
"separate return method."  The deferred regulatory credit - income taxes of 
FPL represents the revenue equivalent of the difference in accumulated 
deferred income taxes computed under FAS 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," 
as compared to regulatory accounting rules.  This amount is being amortized 
in accordance with the regulatory treatment over the estimated lives of the 
assets or liabilities which resulted in the initial recognition of the 
deferred tax amount.  Investment tax credits (ITC) for FPL are deferred and 
amortized to income over the approximate lives of the related property in 
accordance with the regulatory treatment.  The special amortization program 
included amortization of regulatory assets related to income taxes of $59 
million and $20 million in 1997 and 1996, respectively.

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities - In June 1998, 
the FASB issued FAS 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging 
Activities."  The statement establishes accounting and reporting standards 
requiring that every derivative instrument (including certain derivative 
instruments embedded in other contracts) be recorded in the balance sheet as 
either an asset or liability measured at its fair value.  The statement 
requires that changes in the derivative's fair value be recognized currently 
in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met.  FPL Group and 
FPL are currently assessing the effect, if any, on their financial statements 
of implementing FAS 133.  FPL Group and FPL will be required to adopt the 
standard in 2000.

2.  Employee Retirement Benefits

FPL Group and its subsidiaries sponsor a noncontributory defined benefit 
pension plan and defined benefit postretirement plans for health care and 
life insurance benefits (other benefits) for substantially all employees.  
The following tables provide a reconciliation of the changes in the plans' 
benefit obligations and fair value of assets over the two-year period ending 
September 30, 1998 and a statement of the funded status of both years:





The following table provides the components of net periodic benefit cost 
for the plans for fiscal years 1998, 1997 and 1996:





The weighted-average discount rate used in determining the benefit 
obligations was 6.0% and 6.5% for 1998 and 1997, respectively.  The assumed 
level of increase in future compensation levels was 5.5% for all years.  The 
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets was 7.75% for all years.

Based on the current discount rates and current health care costs, the 
projected 1999 trend assumptions used to measure the expected cost of 
benefits covered by the plans are 6.6% and 5.8%, for persons prior to age 65 
and over age 65, respectively.  The rate is assumed to decrease over the next 
4 years to the ultimate trend rate of 5% for all age groups and remain at 
that level thereafter.

Assumed health care cost trend rates can have a significant effect on the 
amounts reported for the health care plans.  A 1% increase (decrease) in 
assumed health care cost trend rates would increase (decrease) the service 
and interest cost components and the accumulated obligation of other benefits 
by $1 million and $13 million, respectively.

3.  Financial Instruments

The carrying amounts of cash equivalents and short-term debt approximate 
their fair values.  Certain investments of FPL Group, included in other 
investments, are carried at estimated fair value which was $72 million and 
$51 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.  The following 
estimates of the fair value of financial instruments have been made using 
available market information and other valuation methodologies.  However, the 
use of different market assumptions or methods of valuation could result in 
different estimated fair values.





Special Use Funds - Securities held in the special use funds are carried at 
estimated fair value.  The nuclear decommissioning fund consists of 
approximately one-half equity securities and one-half municipal, government, 
corporate and mortgage-backed debt securities with a weighted-average 
maturity of approximately 10 years.  The storm fund primarily consists of 
municipal debt securities with a weighted-average maturity of approximately 3 
years.  The cost of securities sold is determined on the specific 
identification method.  The funds had approximate realized gains of $24 
million and approximate realized losses of $4 million in 1998, $3 million and 
$2 million in 1997 and $8 million and $9 million in 1996, respectively.  The 
funds had unrealized gains of approximately $210 million and $126 million at 
December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively; the unrealized losses at those 
dates were approximately $2 million and $1 million.  The proceeds from the 
sale of securities in 1998, 1997 and 1996 were approximately $1.2 billion, 
$800 million, and $1.1 billion, respectively.

4.  Common Stock

Common Stock Dividend Restrictions - FPL Group's charter does not limit the 
dividends that may be paid on its common stock. As a practical matter, the 
ability of FPL Group to pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon 
dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries, primarily FPL.  FPL's charter and a 
mortgage securing FPL's first mortgage bonds contain provisions that, under 
certain conditions, restrict the payment of dividends and other distributions 
to FPL Group.  These restrictions do not currently limit FPL's ability to pay 
dividends to FPL Group.  In 1998, 1997 and 1996, FPL paid, as dividends to 
FPL Group, its net income available to FPL Group on a one-month lag basis.

Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) - The employee thrift plans of FPL Group 
include a leveraged ESOP feature.  Shares of common stock held by the Trust 
for the thrift plans (Trust) are used to provide all or a portion of the 
employers' matching contributions.  Dividends received on all shares, along 
with cash contributions from the employers, are used to pay principal and 
interest on an ESOP loan held by FPL Group Capital.  Dividends on shares 
allocated to employee accounts and used by the Trust for debt service are 
replaced with an equivalent amount of shares of common stock at prevailing 
market prices.

ESOP-related compensation expense of approximately $19 million in 1998, $19 
million in 1997 and $23 million in 1996 was recognized based on the fair 
value of shares allocated to employee accounts during the period.  Interest 
income on the ESOP loan is eliminated in consolidation.  ESOP-related 
unearned compensation included as a reduction of shareholders' equity at 
December 31, 1998 was approximately $248 million, representing 8.5 million 
unallocated shares at the original issue price of $29 per share.  The fair 
value of the ESOP-related unearned compensation account using the closing 
price of FPL Group stock as of December 31, 1998 was approximately $526 
million.

Long-Term Incentive Plan -  Under FPL Group's long-term incentive plan, 9 
million shares of common stock are reserved and available for awards to 
officers and employees of FPL Group and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 
1998.  Total compensation charged against earnings under the incentive plan 
was not material in any year.  The changes in share awards under the 
incentive plan are as follows:






FAS 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," encourages a fair value-
based method of accounting for stock-based compensation.  FPL Group, however, 
uses the intrinsic value-based method of accounting as permitted by the 
statement.  The results of utilizing the accounting method recommended in 
FAS 123 would not have a material effect on FPL Group's results of operations 
or change earnings per share.

Other - Each share of common stock has been granted a Preferred Share 
Purchase Right (Right), at a price of $120, subject to adjustment, in the 
event of certain attempted business combinations.  The Rights will cause 
substantial dilution to a person or group attempting to acquire FPL Group on 
terms not approved by FPL Group's board of directors.

5.  Preferred Stock

FPL Group's charter authorizes the issuance of 100 million shares of serial 
preferred stock, $.01 par value.  None of these shares is outstanding.  FPL 
Group has reserved 3 million shares for issuance upon exercise of preferred 
share purchase rights which expire in June 2006.  Preferred stock of FPL 
consists of the following: (a)






6.  Long-Term Debt

Long-term debt consists of the following:





Minimum annual maturities of long-term debt for FPL Group for 1999-2003 are 
approximately $359 million, $129 million, $4 million, $4 million and $175 
million, respectively.  The amounts for FPL are $230 million, $125 million 
and $170 million for 1999, 2000 and 2003, respectively.  FPL has no amounts 
due in 2001 and 2002.

Available lines of credit aggregated approximately $1.9 billion ($900 million 
for FPL) at December 31, 1998, all of which were based on firm commitments.

7.  Income Taxes

The components of income taxes are as follows:






A reconciliation between the effective income tax rates and the applicable 
statutory rates is as follows:





The income tax effects of temporary differences giving rise to consolidated 
deferred income tax liabilities and assets are as follows:





The carryforward period for a capital loss from the disposition in a prior 
year of an FPL Group Capital subsidiary expired at the end of 1996.  The 
amount of the deductible loss from this disposition was limited by IRS rules. 
FPL Group is challenging the IRS loss limitation and the IRS is disputing 
certain other positions taken by FPL Group.  Tax benefits, if any, associated 
with these matters will be reported in future periods when resolved.

8.  Jointly-Owned Electric Utility Plant

FPL owns approximately 85% of St. Lucie Unit No. 2, 20% of the St. Johns 
River Power Park units and coal terminal and approximately 76% of Scherer 
Unit No. 4.  At December 31, 1998, FPL's gross investment in these units was 
$1.174 billion, $328 million and $571 million, respectively; accumulated 
depreciation was $663 million, $142 million and $239 million, respectively.

FPL is responsible for its share of the operating costs, as well as providing 
its own financing.  At December 31, 1998, there was no significant balance of 
construction work in progress on these facilities.

9.  Commitments and Contingencies

Commitments - FPL has made commitments in connection with a portion of its 
projected capital expenditures.  Capital expenditures for the construction or 
acquisition of additional facilities and equipment to meet customer demand 
are estimated to be approximately $2.8 billion for 1999 through 2001.  
Included in this three-year forecast are capital expenditures for 1999 of 
approximately $910 million.  FPL Energy is a party to a contract to purchase 
all of Central Maine Power Company's (Central Maine) non-nuclear generation 
assets for $846 million.  The contract is subject to a civil action initiated 
by FPL Energy.  See Litigation.  FPL Group and its subsidiaries, other than 
FPL, have guaranteed approximately $305 million of purchase power agreement 
obligations, debt service payments and other payments subject to certain 
contingencies.

Insurance - Liability for accidents at nuclear power plants is governed by 
the Price-Anderson Act, which limits the liability of nuclear reactor 
owners to the amount of the insurance available from private sources and 
under an industry retrospective payment plan.  In accordance with this Act, 
FPL maintains $200 million of private liability insurance, which is the 
maximum obtainable, and participates in a secondary financial protection 
system under which it is subject to retrospective assessments of up to $363 
million per incident at any nuclear utility reactor in the United States, 
payable at a rate not to exceed $43 million per incident per year.
FPL participates in nuclear insurance mutual companies that provide $2.75 
billion of limited insurance coverage for property damage, decontamination 
and premature decommissioning risks at its nuclear plants.  The proceeds 
from such insurance, however, must first be used for reactor stabilization 
and site decontamination before they can be used for plant repair.  FPL 
also participates in an insurance program that provides limited coverage 
for replacement power costs if a nuclear plant is out of service because of 
an accident.  In the event of an accident at one of FPL's or another 
participating insured's nuclear plants, FPL could be assessed up to $51 
million in retrospective premiums.

In the event of a catastrophic loss at one of FPL's nuclear plants, the 
amount of insurance available may not be adequate to cover property damage 
and other expenses incurred.  Uninsured losses, to the extent not recovered 
through rates, would be borne by FPL and could have a material adverse 
effect on FPL Group's and FPL's financial condition.

FPL self-insures certain of its transmission and distribution (T&D) 
property due to the high cost and limited coverage available from third-
party insurers.  As approved by the FPSC, FPL maintains a funded storm and 
property insurance reserve, which totaled approximately $259 million at 
December 31, 1998, for T&D property storm damage or assessments under the 
nuclear insurance program. Recovery from customers of any losses in excess 
of the storm and property insurance reserve will require the approval of 
the FPSC.  FPL's available lines of credit include $300 million to provide 
additional liquidity in the event of a T&D property loss.

Contracts - FPL has entered into long-term purchased power and fuel 
contracts.  Take-or-pay purchased power contracts with the Jacksonville 
Electric Authority (JEA) and with subsidiaries of The Southern Company 
(Southern Companies) provide approximately 1,300 megawatts (mw) of power 
through mid-2010 and 383 mw thereafter through 2022.  FPL also has various 
firm pay-for-performance contracts to purchase approximately 1,000 mw from 
certain cogenerators and small power producers (qualifying facilities) with 
expiration dates ranging from 2002 through 2026.  The purchased power 
contracts provide for capacity and energy payments.  Energy payments are 
based on the actual power taken under these contracts.  Capacity payments 
for the pay-for-performance contracts are subject to the qualifying 
facilities meeting certain contract conditions.  Fuel contracts provide for 
the transportation and supply of natural gas and coal.  FPL Energy has 
long-term contracts for the transportation and storage of natural gas to 
its Doswell plant which expire in 2007, with a five-year renewal option, 
and in 2017, respectively.

The required capacity and minimum payments through 2003 under these 
contracts are estimated to be as follows:





Charges under these contracts were as follows:





Litigation - In 1997, FPL filed a complaint against the owners of two 
qualifying facilities (plant owners) seeking an order declaring that FPL's 
obligations under the power purchase agreements with the qualifying 
facilities were rendered of no force and effect because the power plants 
failed to accomplish commercial operation before January 1, 1997, as 
required by the agreements.  In 1997, the plant owners filed for bankruptcy 
under Chapter XI of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, ceased all attempts to 
operate the power plants and entered into an agreement with the holders of 
more than 70% of the bonds that partially financed the construction of the 
plants.  This agreement gives the holders of a majority of the principal 
amount of the bonds (the majority bondholders) the right to control, fund 
and manage any litigation against FPL and the right to settle with FPL on 
any terms such majority bondholders approve, provided that certain 
agreements are not affected and certain conditions are met.  In January 
1998, the plant owners (through the attorneys for the majority bondholders) 
filed an answer denying the allegations in FPL's complaint and asserting 
counterclaims for approximately $2 billion, consisting of all capacity 
payments that could have been made over the 30-year term of the power 
purchase agreements and three times their actual damages for alleged 
violations of Florida antitrust laws, plus attorneys' fees.  In October 
1998, the court dismissed all of the plant owners' antitrust claims against 
FPL.  The plant owners have since moved for summary judgment on FPL's 
claims against them.

The Florida Municipal Power Agency (FMPA), an organization comprised of 
municipal electric utilities, has sued FPL for allegedly breaching a 
"contract" to provide transmission service to the FMPA and its members and 
for breaching antitrust laws by monopolizing or attempting to monopolize 
the provision, coordination and transmission of electric power in refusing 
to provide transmission service, or to permit the FMPA to invest in and use 
FPL's transmission system, on the FMPA's proposed terms.  The FMPA seeks 
$140 million in damages, before trebling for the antitrust claim, and court 
orders requiring FPL to permit the FMPA to invest in and use FPL's 
transmission system on "reasonable terms and conditions" and on a basis 
equal to FPL.  In 1995, a court of appeals vacated the district court's 
summary judgment in favor of FPL and remanded the matter to the district 
court for further proceedings.  In 1996, the district court ordered the 
FMPA to seek a declaratory ruling from the FERC regarding certain issues in 
the case.  In November 1998, the FERC declined to make the requested 
ruling.  The district court has yet to act further.

FPL Group and FPL believe that they have meritorious defenses to the 
litigation to which they are parties and are vigorously defending the 
suits.  Accordingly, the liabilities, if any, arising from the proceedings 
are not anticipated to have a material adverse effect on their financial 
statements.

In November 1998, a subsidiary of FPL Energy filed a civil action with the 
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York requesting a 
declaratory judgment that Central Maine cannot meet essential terms of the 
agreement with FPL Energy's subsidiary regarding the purchase of Central 
Maine's non-nuclear generating assets.  FPL Group believes that recent FERC 
rulings regarding transmission prevent Central Maine from delivering on its 
contractual obligation that FPL Energy's subsidiary be able to operate the 
power plants in a manner that is substantially consistent with Central 
Maine's historical operation of the assets.  FPL Group believes the FERC 
rulings constitute a material adverse effect under the purchase agreement and 
that FPL Energy's subsidiary should therefore not be bound to complete the 
transaction.  The trial is scheduled for March 1999.

10.  Segment Information

Effective December 31, 1998, FPL Group adopted FAS 131, "Disclosures about 
Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information."  FPL Group's only 
reportable segment is FPL, a regulated utility.  Differences between FPL 
Group and FPL financial statement amounts represent other business activities 
and other segments that are not reportable.  For the years ended December 31, 
1998, 1997 and 1996, approximately 98%, 98% and 97%, respectively, of FPL 
Group's operating revenues were derived from the sale of electricity in the 
United States.  As of December 31, 1998 and 1997, less than 1% of long-lived 
assets were located in foreign countries.






11.  Subsequent Event

In January 1999, an FPL Group Capital subsidiary sold 3.5 million common 
shares of Adelphia Communications Corporation (Adelphia) stock, which had 
been accounted for on the equity method, resulting in an after-tax gain of 
approximately $96 million.  In addition, an agreement was reached with 
Adelphia to sell FPL Group Capital's one-third interest in a limited 
partnership.  While the terms have not been finalized, the sale of the 
limited partnership interest is expected to have a positive effect on FPL 
Group's results of operations.

12.  Summarized Financial Information of FPL Group Capital (Unaudited)

FPL Group Capital's debentures, when outstanding, are guaranteed by FPL 
Group and included in FPL Group's consolidated balance sheets.  Operating 
revenues of FPL Group Capital for the three years ended December 31, 1998, 
1997 and 1996 were $295 million, $237 million and $50 million, 
respectively.  For the same periods, operating expenses were $225 million, 
$186 million and $65 million, respectively.  Net income for 1998, 1997 and 
1996 was $68 million, $27 million and $11 million, respectively

At December 31, 1998, FPL Group Capital had $317 million of current assets, 
$1.445 billion of noncurrent assets, $310 million of current liabilities and 
$703 million of noncurrent liabilities.  At December 31, 1997, FPL Group 
Capital had current assets of $156 million, noncurrent assets of $1.447 
billion, current liabilities of $252 million and noncurrent liabilities of 
$999 million.

13.  Quarterly Data (Unaudited)

Condensed consolidated quarterly financial information for 1998 and 1997 is 
as follows:









Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and 
	 Financial Disclosure

None
			    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrants

FPL Group - The information required by this Item will be included in FPL 
Group's Proxy Statement which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission in connection with the 1999 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (FPL 
Group's Proxy Statement) and is incorporated herein by reference, or is 
included in Item I. Business - Executive Officers of the Registrants.

			  FPL DIRECTORS(a)

James L. Broadhead.  Mr. Broadhead, 63, is chairman and chief executive 
officer of FPL and FPL Group.  He is a director of Delta Air Lines, Inc., New 
York Life Insurance Company and The Pittston Company, and a trustee of 
Cornell University.  Mr. Broadhead has been a director of FPL and FPL Group 
since 1989.

Dennis P. Coyle.  Mr. Coyle, 60, is general counsel and secretary of FPL and 
FPL Group.  He is a director of Adelphia Communications Corporation.  Mr. 
Coyle has been a director of FPL since 1990.

Paul J. Evanson.  Mr. Evanson, 57, is the president of FPL.  He was formerly 
senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer of FPL and vice 
president, finance and chief financial officer of FPL Group.  He is a 
director of Lynch Corporation and Southern Energy Homes, Inc.  Mr. Evanson 
has been a director of FPL since 1992 and a director of FPL Group since 1995.

Lawrence J. Kelleher.  Mr. Kelleher, 51, is senior vice president, human 
resources of FPL and vice president, human resources of FPL Group.  Mr. 
Kelleher has been a director of FPL since 1990. 

Thomas F. Plunkett.  Mr. Plunkett, 59, is president of FPL's nuclear 
division.  He was formerly site vice president at Turkey Point.  Mr. Plunkett 
has been a director of FPL since 1996.

C. O. Woody.  Mr. Woody, 60, is president of the power generation division.  
He was formerly senior vice president, power generation of FPL.  Mr. Woody 
has been a director of FPL since 1989.

Michael W. Yackira.  Mr. Yackira, 47, is the president of FPL Energy, Inc.  
He was formerly senior vice president, finance and chief financial officer of 
FPL and vice president, finance and chief financial officer of FPL Group from 
January 1995 to January 1998.  Prior to that, Mr. Yackira was senior vice 
president, market and regulatory services of FPL.  Mr. Yackira has been a 
director of FPL since 1990.

Roger Young.  Mr. Young, 55, became the president and a director of FPL Group 
and a director of FPL in February 1999.  From 1988 until its merger with 
Southern Electric plc in December 1998, he was chief executive of Scottish 
Hydro-Electric plc, a utility that generated and marketed electricity 
throughout Great Britain and operated an electric transmission and 
distribution system in northern Scotland.
____________________
(a)  Directors are elected annually and serve until their resignation, 
     removal or until their respective successors are elected.  Each 
     director's business experience during the past five years is noted 
     either here or in the Executive Officers table in Item 1. Business -
     Executive Officers of the Registrants.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

FPL Group - The information required by this Item will be included in FPL 
Group's Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference, provided 
that the Compensation Committee Report and Performance Graph which are 
contained in FPL Group's Proxy Statement shall not be deemed to be 
incorporated herein by reference.
FPL - The following table sets forth FPL's portion of the compensation paid 
during the past three years to FPL's chief executive officer and the other 
four most highly-compensated persons who served as executive officers of FPL 
at December 31, 1998.

		     SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE





Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards - In 1998, performance awards under FPL 
Group's Long-Term Incentive Plan were made to the executive officers named in 
the Summary Compensation Table as set forth in the following tables.

			LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AWARDS





Shown in the preceding table, the performance share awards are payable at the 
end of the four-year performance period.  The amount of the payout is 
determined by multiplying the participant's target number of shares by his 
average level of attainment, expressed as a percentage, which may not exceed 
160%, of his targeted awards under the Annual Incentive Plans for each of the 
years encompassed by the award period.  Annual incentive compensation is 
based on the attainment of net income goals for FPL and FPL Group, which are 
established by the Compensation Committee of FPL Group's Board of Directors 
(the Committee) at the beginning of the year.  The amounts earned on the 
basis of this performance measure are subject to reduction based on the 
degree of achievement of other corporate and business unit performance 
measures, and in the discretion of the Committee.  Mr. Broadhead's annual 
incentive compensation for 1998 was based on the achievement of FPL Group's 
net income goals and the following performance measures for FPL (weighted 
75%) and the non-utility and/or new businesses (weighted 25%) and upon 
certain qualitative factors.  For FPL, the incentive performance measures 
were financial indicators (weighted 50%) and operating indicators (weighted 
50%).  The financial indicators were operations and maintenance costs, 
capital expenditure levels, net income, regulatory return on equity and 
operating cash flow.  The operating indicators were service reliability as 
measured by the frequency and duration of service interruptions and service 
unavailability, system performance as measured by availability factors for 
the fossil power plants, WANO index for nuclear power plants, employee 
safety, number of significant environmental violations, customer satisfaction 
survey results, load management installed capability and conservation 
programs' annual installed capacity.  For the non-utility and/or new 
businesses, the performance measures were total combined net income and 
return on equity, the completion of the purchase of the generation assets of 
Central Maine, the development of out-of-territory residential product supply 
and customer service capabilities, the development and implementation of 
energy trading and marketing management policies and procedures and the 
evaluation of international and domestic acquisitions.  The qualitative 
factors included measures to position FPL Group for greater competition and 
initiating other actions that significantly strengthen FPL and FPL Group and 
enhance shareholder value.





Shown in the preceding table, the shareholder value share awards are payable 
at the end of the three-year performance period.  The amount of the payout is 
determined by multiplying the participant's target number of shares by a 
factor derived by dividing the average annual total shareholder return of FPL 
Group (price appreciation of FPL Group common stock plus dividends) by the 
total shareholder return of the Dow Jones Electric Utilities Index companies 
over the three-year performance period. This payment may not exceed 160% of 
targeted awards.

Retirement Plans - FPL Group maintains a non-contributory defined benefit 
pension plan and a supplemental executive retirement plan which covers FPL 
employees.  The following table shows the estimated annual benefits, 
calculated on a straight-line annuity basis, payable upon retirement in 1998 
at age 65 after the indicated years of service.

			    PENSION PLAN TABLE





The compensation covered by the plans includes annual salaries and bonuses of 
certain officers of FPL Group and annual salaries of officers of FPL, as 
shown in the respective Summary Compensation Tables, but no other amounts 
shown in that table.  The estimated credited years of service for the 
executive officers named in the Summary Compensation Table are:  Mr. 
Broadhead, 10 years; Mr. Evanson, 6 years; Mr. Coyle, 9 years; Mr. Woody, 42 
years; and Mr. Kelleher, 31 years.  Amounts shown in the table reflect 
deductions to partially cover employer contributions to Social Security.

A supplemental retirement plan for Mr. Broadhead provides for a lump-sum 
retirement benefit equal to the then present value of a joint and survivor 
annuity providing annual payments to him or his surviving beneficiary equal 
to 61% to 70% of his average annual compensation for the three years prior to 
his retirement between age 62 (1998) and age 65 (2001), reduced by the then 
present value of the annual amount of payments to which he is entitled under 
all other pension and retirement plans of FPL Group and former employers.  
This benefit is further reduced by the then value of 96,800 shares of 
restricted common stock which vest as to 77,000 shares in 2000 and as to 
19,800 shares in 2001.  Upon a change of control of FPL Group (as defined 
below under Employment Agreements), the restrictions on the restricted stock 
lapse and the full retirement benefit becomes payable.  Upon termination of 
Mr. Broadhead's employment agreement (also described below) without cause, 
the restrictions on the restricted stock lapse and he becomes fully vested 
under the supplemental retirement plan.

A supplemental retirement plan for Mr. Coyle provides for benefits, upon 
retirement at age 62 or more, based on two times his credited years of 
service.  A supplemental retirement plan for Mr. Evanson provides for 
benefits based on two times his credited years of service up to age 65 and 
one times his credited years of service thereafter.

FPL Group sponsors a split-dollar life insurance plan for certain of FPL and 
FPL Group's senior officers.  Benefits under the split-dollar plan are 
provided by universal life insurance policies purchased by FPL Group.  If the 
officer dies prior to retirement, the officer's beneficiaries generally 
receive two and one-half times the officer's annual salary at the time of 
death.  If the officer dies after retirement, the officer's beneficiaries 
receive between 50% to 100% of the officer's final annual salary.  Each 
officer is taxable on the insurance carrier's one year term rate for his or 
her life insurance coverage.

Employment Agreements - FPL Group has an employment agreement with Mr. 
Broadhead that provides for automatic one-year extensions after 1998 unless 
either party elects not to extend.  The agreement provides for a minimum base 
salary of $765,900 per year, subject to increases based upon corporate and 
individual performance and increases in cost-of-living indices, plus annual 
and long-term incentive compensation opportunities at least equal to those 
currently in effect.  If FPL Group terminates Mr. Broadhead's employment 
without cause, he is entitled to receive a lump sum payment of two years' 
compensation.  Compensation is measured by the then current base salary plus 
the average of the preceding two years' annual incentive awards.  He would 
also be entitled to receive all amounts accrued under all performance share 
grants in progress, prorated for the year of termination and assuming 
achievement of the targeted award, and to full vesting of his benefits under 
his supplemental retirement plan.

FPL Group and FPL have entered into employment agreements with certain 
officers, including the individuals named in the Summary Compensation Table, 
to become effective in the event of a change of control of FPL Group, which 
is defined as the acquisition of beneficial ownership of 20% of the voting 
power of FPL Group, certain changes in FPL Group's board of directors, or 
approval by the shareholders of the liquidation of FPL Group or of certain 
mergers or consolidations or of certain transfers of FPL Group's assets.  
These agreements are intended to assure FPL Group and FPL of the continued 
services of key officers.  The agreements provide that each officer shall be 
employed by FPL Group or one of its subsidiaries in his or her then current 
position, with compensation and benefits at least equal to the then current 
base and incentive compensation and benefit levels, for an employment period 
of four and, in certain cases, five years after a change in control occurs.

In the event that the officer's employment is terminated (except for death, 
disability or cause) or if the officer terminates his or her employment for 
good reason, as defined in the agreement, the officer is entitled to 
severance benefits in the form of a lump sum payment equal to the 
compensation due for the remainder of the employment period or for two years, 
whichever is longer.  Such benefits would be based on the officer's then base 
salary plus an annual bonus at least equal to the average bonus for the two 
years preceding the change of control.  The officer is also entitled to the 
maximum amount payable under all long-term incentive compensation grants 
outstanding, continued coverage under all employee benefit plans, 
supplemental retirement benefits and reimbursement for any tax penalties 
incurred as a result of the severance payments.

Director Compensation - All of the directors of FPL are salaried employees of 
FPL Group and its subsidiaries and do not receive any additional compensation 
for serving as a director.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

FPL Group - The information required by this Item will be included in FPL 
Group's Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

FPL - FPL Group owns 100% of FPL's common stock.  FPL's directors and 
executive officers beneficially own shares of FPL Group's common stock as 
follows:





Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance - FPL's directors 
and executive officers are required to file initial reports of ownership and 
reports of changes of ownership of FPL Group common stock with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission.  Based upon a review of these filings and written 
representations from FPL directors and executive officers, all required 
filings were timely made in 1998.


Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

FPL Group - The information required by this Item will be included in FPL 
Group's Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

FPL - None

	PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)   1. Financial Statements                                Page(s)

	 Independent Auditors' Report                          16
	 FPL Group:
	   Consolidated Statements of Income                   17
	   Consolidated Balance Sheets                         18
	   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows               19
	   Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity      20

	 FPL:
	   Consolidated Statements of Income                   21
	   Consolidated Balance Sheets                         22
	   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows               23
	   Consolidated Statement of Shareholder's Equity      24
	   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          25-36

      2. Financial Statement Schedules - Schedules are omitted as not 
	 applicable or not required.

      3. Exhibits including those Incorporated by Reference

4. 



(b)   Reports on Form 8-K
      On November 19, 1998 a Current Report on Form 8-K was filed by FPL 
      Group relating to one event under Item 5. Other Events.

      On December 2, 1998 a Current Report on Form 8-K was filed by FPL 
      Group and FPL reporting one event under Item 5. Other Events.





			FPL GROUP, INC. SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed 
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

			     FPL Group, Inc.


			  JAMES L. BROADHEAD 
			  ------------------
			  James L. Broadhead
		       Chairman of the Board and
			Chief Executive Officer
	       (Principal Executive Officer and Director)

Date:  February 25, 1999

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.









	       FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed 
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

		    Florida Power & Light Company



			 PAUL J. EVANSON 
			-----------------
			 Paul J. Evanson
		      President and Director

Date:  February 25, 1999

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.






