
10-K
FPL GROUP/FPL FORM 10-K
                        YEAR ENDED 12/31/97



UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
           WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                 FORM 10-K

[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997

                     OR

[  ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
     THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization:  Florida


Indicate by check mark whether the registrants (1) have filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months and (2) have been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes X    No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of Registrants' knowledge in definitive proxy
or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [   ]

Aggregate market value of the voting stock of FPL Group, Inc. held by
non-affiliates as of January 31, 1998 (based on the closing market
price on the Composite Tape on January 31, 1998) was $10,407,089,108
(determined by subtracting from the number of shares outstanding on
that date the number of shares held by directors and officers of FPL
Group, Inc.).

There was no voting stock of Florida Power & Light Company held by
non-affiliates as of January 31, 1998.

The number of shares outstanding of each class of FPL Group, Inc.
common stock, as of the latest practicable date:  Common Stock, $.01
Par Value, outstanding at January 31, 1998:  181,762,385 shares

As of January 31, 1998, there were issued and outstanding 1,000
shares of Florida Power & Light Company's common stock, without par
value, all of which were held, beneficially and of record, by FPL
Group, Inc.

    DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of FPL Group, Inc.'s Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III hereof.
       ______________________________

This combined Form 10-K represents separate filings by FPL Group,
Inc. and Florida Power & Light Company.  Information contained herein
relating to an individual registrant is filed by that registrant on
its own behalf.  Florida Power & Light Company makes no
representations as to the information relating to FPL Group, Inc.'s
other operations.

                DEFINITIONS


Acronyms and defined terms used in the text include the following:


SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM
ACT OF 1995

In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Reform Act, FPL
Group and FPL (collectively, the Company) are hereby filing
cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause
the Company's actual results to differ materially from those
projected in forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in
the Reform Act) of the Company made by or on behalf of the Company
which are made in this combined Form 10-K, in presentations, in
response to questions or otherwise.  Any statements that express, or
involve discussions as to, expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives,
assumptions or future events or performance (often, but not always,
through the use of words or phrases such as will likely result, are
expected to, will continue, is anticipated, estimated, projection,
outlook) are not statements of historical facts and may be
forward-looking.  Forward-looking statements involve estimates,
assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to
differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking
statements.  Accordingly, any such statements are qualified in their
entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following
important factors that could cause the Company's actual results to
differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements
of the Company made by or on behalf of the Company.

Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which
such statement is made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to
update any forward-looking statement or statements to reflect events
or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to
reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.  New factors emerge
from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict
all of such factors, nor can it assess the impact of each such factor
on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of
factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those
contained in any forward-looking statements.

Some important factors that could cause actual results or outcomes to
differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking
statements include prevailing governmental policies and regulatory
actions, including those of the FERC, the FPSC and the NRC, with
respect to allowed rates of return, industry and rate structure,
operation of nuclear power facilities, acquisition and disposal of
assets and facilities, operation and construction of plant
facilities, recovery of fuel and purchased power costs,
decommissioning costs, and present or prospective wholesale and
retail competition (including but not limited to retail wheeling and
transmission costs).

The business and profitability of the Company are also influenced by
economic and geographic factors including political and economic
risks, changes in and compliance with environmental and safety laws
and policies, weather conditions (including natural disasters such as
hurricanes), population growth rates and demographic patterns,
competition for retail and wholesale customers, pricing and
transportation of commodities, market demand for energy from plants
or facilities, changes in tax rates or policies or in rates of
inflation, unanticipated development project delays or changes in
project costs, unanticipated changes in operating expenses and
capital expenditures, capital market conditions, competition for new
energy development opportunities, and legal and administrative
proceedings (whether civil, such as environmental, or criminal) and
settlements.

All such factors are difficult to predict, contain uncertainties
which may materially affect actual results, and are beyond the
control of the Company.

                   PART I

Item 1.  Business

                 FPL GROUP

FPL Group is a public utility holding company, as defined in the
Holding Company Act.  It was incorporated in 1984 under the laws of
Florida.  FPL Group's principal subsidiary, FPL, is engaged in the
generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy. 
Other operations are conducted through FPL Group Capital and its
subsidiaries and mainly consist of independent power projects and
agricultural operations.  FPL Group and its subsidiaries employ
10,039 persons.

FPL Group is exempt from substantially all of the provisions of the
Holding Company Act on the basis that FPL Group's and FPL's
businesses are predominantly intrastate in character and carried on
substantially in a single state in which both are incorporated.

               FPL OPERATIONS

General.  FPL was incorporated under the laws of Florida in 1925 and
is a wholly-owned subsidiary of FPL Group.  FPL supplies electric
service throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of Florida. 
This service territory contains 27,650 square miles with a population
of approximately 7 million.  During 1997, FPL served 3.6 million
customer accounts.  Operating revenues were as follows:


Regulation.  The retail operations of FPL provided approximately 99%
of FPL's operating revenues for 1997.  Such operations are regulated
by the FPSC which has jurisdiction over retail rates, service
territory, issuances of securities, planning, siting and construction
of facilities and other matters.  FPL is also subject to regulation
by the FERC in various respects, including the acquisition and
disposition of facilities, interchange and transmission services and
wholesale purchases and sales of electric energy.

FPL's nuclear power plants are subject to the jurisdiction of the
NRC.  NRC regulations govern the granting of licenses for the
construction and operation of nuclear power plants and subject such
power plants to continuing review and regulation.

Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations cover air
and water quality, land use, power plant and transmission line
siting, EMF from power lines and substations, noise and aesthetics,
solid waste and other environmental matters.  Compliance with these
laws and regulations increases the cost of electric service by
requiring, among other things, changes in the design and operation of
existing facilities and changes or delays in the location, design,
construction and operation of new facilities.  FPL estimates that
capital expenditures required to comply with environmental laws and
regulations for 1998 through 2000 will not be material.  These
expenditures are included in FPL's projected capital expenditures set
forth in Item 1. Business - FPL Operations - Capital Expenditures.

FPL holds franchises with varying expiration dates to provide
electric service in various municipalities and counties in Florida. 
FPL considers its franchises to be adequate for the conduct of its
business.

Retail Ratemaking.  The underlying concept of utility ratemaking is
to set rates at a level that allows the utility to collect from
customers total revenues (revenue requirements) equal to its cost of
providing service, including a reasonable rate of return on invested
capital.  To accomplish this, the FPSC uses various ratemaking
mechanisms.

The basic costs of providing electric service, other than fuel and
certain other costs, are recovered through base rates, which are
designed to recover the costs of constructing, operating and
maintaining the utility system.  These basic costs include O&M
expenses, depreciation and taxes, as well as a return on FPL's
investment in assets used and useful in providing electric service
(rate base).  The rate of return on rate base approximates FPL's
weighted cost of capital, which includes its costs for debt and
preferred stock and an allowed ROE.  FPL's currently authorized ROE
range is 11% to 13% with a midpoint of 12%.  The FPSC monitors FPL's
ROE through a surveillance report that is filed monthly by FPL with
the FPSC.  The FPSC does not provide assurance that the allowed ROE
will be achieved.  Base rates are determined in rate proceedings
which occur at irregular intervals at the initiative of FPL, the FPSC
or a substantially affected party.  FPL's last base rate proceeding
was in 1984.  In 1990, FPL's base rates were reduced following a
change in federal income tax rates.  In December 1997, a large
customer of FPL filed a petition with the FPSC requesting a limited
scope proceeding to reduce FPL's base rates.  The petition asks the
FPSC to reduce FPL's authorized ROE and to exclude amounts recorded
under an FPSC-approved special amortization program in determining
the amount of the rate reduction.  FPL Group is unable to predict
what course of action the FPSC might take and what effect, if any,
this matter would have on FPL Group's and FPL's financial statements.

Fuel costs totaled $1.7 billion in 1997 and are recovered through
levelized charges per kwh established pursuant to the fuel clause. 
These charges are calculated semi-annually based on estimated costs
of fuel and estimated customer usage for the ensuing six-month
period, plus or minus a true-up adjustment to reflect the variance of
actual costs and usage from the estimates used in setting the fuel
adjustment charges for prior periods.

Capacity payments to other utilities and generating companies for
purchased power are recovered through the capacity clause and base
rates.  In 1997, $430 million was recovered through the capacity
clause.  Costs associated with implementing energy conservation
programs totaled $119 million in 1997 and are recovered through the
conservation clause.  Costs of complying with federal, state and
local environmental regulations enacted after April 1993 totaled $14
million in 1997 and are recovered through the environmental clause to
the extent not included in base rates.

The FPSC has the authority to disallow recovery of costs that it
considers excessive or imprudently incurred.  Such costs may include
O&M expenses, the cost of replacing power lost when fossil and
nuclear units are unavailable and costs associated with the
construction or acquisition of new facilities.

Competition.  The electric utility industry is facing increasing
competitive pressure.  FPL currently faces competition from other
suppliers of electrical energy to wholesale customers and from
alternative energy sources and self-generation for other customer
groups, primarily industrial customers.  In 1997, operating revenues
from wholesale and industrial customers combined represented
approximately 4% of FPL's total operating revenues.  Various states,
other than Florida, have either enacted legislation or are pursuing
initiatives designed to deregulate the production and sale of
electricity.  By allowing customers to choose their electricity
supplier, deregulation is expected to result in a shift from
cost-based rates to market-based rates for energy production and
other services provided to retail customers.  Similar initiatives are
also being pursued on the federal level.  Although the legislation
and initiatives vary substantially, common areas of focus include
when market-based pricing will be available for wholesale and retail
customers, what existing prudently incurred costs in excess of the
market-based price will be recoverable and whether generation assets
should be separated from transmission, distribution and other assets.

In the event the basis of regulation for some or all of FPL's
business changes from cost-based regulation, existing regulatory
assets and liabilities would be written off unless regulators specify
an alternative means of recovery or refund.  Further, other aspects
of the business, such as generation assets and long-term power
purchase commitments, would need to be reviewed to assess their
recoverability in a changed regulatory environment.  See Management's
Discussion - Results of Operations and Note 1 - Regulation.

While legislators and state regulatory commissions will decide what
impact, if any, competitive forces will have on retail transactions,
the FERC has jurisdiction over potential changes which could affect
competition in wholesale transactions.  In 1993, FPL filed with the
FERC a comprehensive revision of its service offerings in the
wholesale market.  FPL proposed changes to its wholesale sales
tariffs for service to municipal and cooperatively-owned electric
utilities and its power sharing (interchange) agreements with other
utilities.  In addition, FPL proposed expanding its transmission
offerings for new services by switching from individually negotiated
contracts to three tariffs of general applicability.  FPL began
collecting the proposed rates in 1994, subject to refund pending the
final ruling on its proposal.  In December 1995, the administrative
law judge issued his initial decision, ruling in favor of FPL on some
issues and against FPL on others.  In 1996, the FERC revised its
policies with respect to transmission service and required all
jurisdictional utilities to have on file at the FERC open access
transmission tariffs.  In general, these policies require a utility
to provide to third parties access to the utility's transmission
system on a basis comparable to the uses the utility makes of its own
system and at comparable rates.  FPL updated its 1993 filing to
accommodate the FERC's revised policies.  A final decision on these
filings is pending before FERC.

FPL is a defendant in an antitrust suit filed by the FMPA.  The
complaint includes an alleged inability to utilize FPL's transmission
facilities to wheel power.  See Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

System Capability and Load.  FPL's resources for serving load as of
December 31, 1997 consisted of 18,589 mw of electric power, of which
16,416 mw are from FPL-owned facilities (see Item 2.
Properties - Generating Facilities) and 2,173 mw are obtained through
purchased power contracts.  See Note 9 - Contracts.  The compounded
annual growth rate of kwh sales and customers was 2.5% and 1.9%,
respectively, for the three years ended December 31, 1997.

Customer usage and operating revenues are typically higher during the
summer months largely due to the prevalent use of air conditioning in
FPL's service territory.  However, occasionally, extremely cold
temperatures during the winter months result in unusually high
electricity usage for a short period of time.

Capital Expenditures.  FPL's capital expenditures totaled $551
million in 1997, $474 million in 1996 and $669 million in 1995. 
Capital expenditures for the 1998-2000 period are expected to be
approximately $1.8 billion, including $620 million in 1998.  This
estimate is subject to continuing review and adjustment, and actual
capital expenditures may vary from this estimate.  See Management's
Discussion - Liquidity and Capital Resources.

Nuclear Operations.  FPL owns and operates four nuclear units, two at
St. Lucie and two at Turkey Point.  The operating licenses for St.
Lucie Units Nos. 1 and 2 expire in 2016 and 2023, respectively.  The
operating licenses for Turkey Point Units Nos. 3 and 4 expire in 2012
and 2013, respectively.  The nuclear units are periodically removed
from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages,
repairs and certain other modifications.  A condition of the
operating license for each unit requires an approved plan for
decontamination and decommissioning.  FPL's current plans provide for
dismantlement of the Turkey Point units commencing in 2013.  St.
Lucie Unit No. 1 will be mothballed in 2016 until 2023 when
dismantlement of both Unit No. 1 and Unit No. 2 will commence.  See
estimated cost data in Note 1 - Decommissioning and Dismantlement of
Generating Plant.

In mid-1995, the St. Lucie nuclear plant began experiencing a series
of mechanical and operational problems that resulted in increased
attention and fines from the NRC.  In 1997, St. Lucie's operating
performance improved as a result of corrective actions implemented by
St. Lucie's management team.  Also during 1997, the St. Lucie Unit
No. 1 steam generators were replaced and put into service.

Fuel.  FPL's generating plants use a variety of fuels.  See Item 2.
Properties - Generating Facilities and Note 9 - Contracts.  The
diverse fuel options, along with purchased power, enable FPL to shift
between sources of generation to achieve an economical fuel mix. 
FPL's oil requirements are obtained under short-term contracts and in
the spot market.

FPL has contracts in place with FGT that satisfy substantially all of
the anticipated needs for natural gas transportation.  The existing
contracts expire in 2005 and 2010, but can be extended at FPL's
option.  To the extent desirable, FPL can also purchase interruptible
gas transportation service from FGT based on pipeline availability. 
FPL has a 15-year firm natural gas supply contract at market rates
with an affiliate of FGT to provide approximately two-thirds of FPL's
anticipated needs for natural gas.  The remainder of FPL's gas
requirements will be purchased under other contracts and in the spot
market.

FPL has, through its joint ownership interest in SJRPP Units Nos. 1
and 2, long-term coal supply and transportation contracts for a
portion of the fuel needs for those units.  All of the transportation
requirements and a portion of the fuel supply needs for Scherer Unit
No. 4 are covered by a series of annual and long-term contracts.  The
remaining fuel requirements will be obtained in the spot market.

FPL leases nuclear fuel for all four of its nuclear units.  See
Note 1 - Nuclear Fuel.  Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, the DOE
is required to construct permanent disposal facilities and take title
to and provide transportation and disposal for spent nuclear fuel by
January 31, 1998 for a specified fee based on current generation from
nuclear power plants.  Through 1997, FPL has paid approximately $341
million in such fees to the DOE's Nuclear Waste Fund.  The DOE did
not meet its statutory obligation for disposal of spent nuclear fuel
under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act.  In 1997, FPL joined a number of
other utilities in a lawsuit against the DOE seeking to suspend
payments for future transportation and disposal.  Alternatively, the
utilities proposed to hold the funds in escrow until a nuclear waste
storage facility is available.  In November 1997, a court ruled that
DOE failed to meet the statutory deadline for spent fuel disposal,
and ordered that the DOE could not assert a claim that its delay was
unavoidable in any defense against lawsuits seeking money damages. 
The DOE has appealed this decision.  The court also declined the
utilities' request for an order to have the DOE begin disposal of
spent nuclear fuel, and did not specifically address the request to
escrow the Nuclear Waste Fund payments.  In December 1997, FPL and a
number of other utilities filed a petition with the DOE requesting
suspension of payments into the Nuclear Waste Fund in light of the
DOE's impending default on taking title to and disposing of spent
nuclear fuel.  This Petition was denied by the DOE.  In February
1998, FPL and the other utilities petitioned an appeals court for an
order preventing the DOE from using money in the Nuclear Waste Fund
to pay the utilities' damages for the DOE's breach of obligation. 
Currently, FPL is storing spent fuel on site and plans to provide
adequate storage capacity for all of its spent nuclear fuel, pending
its removal by the DOE.

In 1994, FPL entered into a 20-year contract with Bitor America to
purchase Orimulsion, a fuel that is an emulsion of bitumen and water
and is priced equivalently to coal.  FPL has committed to purchase
Orimulsion to satisfy approximately 60% of the capacity of the
Manatee units, but may elect to purchase sufficient Orimulsion to
satisfy the Manatee units' total capacity.  See Item 2.
Properties - Generating Facilities.  The contract is contingent upon
FPL obtaining an operating permit from environmental agencies to use
Orimulsion at the Manatee units.  In 1996, Florida's Power Plant
Siting Board denied FPL's request to burn Orimulsion at the Manatee
power plant.  FPL appealed the denial.  In 1997, Florida's Power
Plant Siting  Board remanded selected issues for hearing before an
administrative law judge.  Hearings took place in January and
February 1998.  A decision is pending.

Energy Marketing and Trading.  During 1997, FPL formed a division to
buy and sell wholesale energy commodities, such as natural gas and
electric power.  Initially, the primary focus of the Energy Marketing
& Trading Division has been the procurement of natural gas for FPL's
own use in power generation (the effects of which are reflected in
the cost of fuel recovered through the fuel clause) and the sale of
excess electric power.  The level of trading activity is expected to
grow as FPL seeks to manage the risk associated with fluctuating fuel
prices, increase value from its own power generation and position
itself to take advantage of opportunities in evolving energy-related
markets throughout the country.

Electric and Magnetic Fields.  In recent years, public, scientific
and regulatory attention has been focused on possible adverse health
effects of EMF.  These fields are created whenever electricity flows
through a power line or an appliance.  Several epidemiological (i.e.,
statistical) studies have suggested a linkage between EMF and certain
types of cancer, including leukemia and brain cancer; other studies
have been inconclusive, contradicted earlier studies or have shown no
such linkage.  Neither these epidemiological studies nor clinical
studies have produced any conclusive evidence that EMF does or does
not cause adverse health effects.

The FDEP has promulgated regulations setting standards for EMF levels
within and at the edge of the rights of way for transmission lines,
and FPL is in compliance with these regulations.  The FDEP reviewed
its EMF standards in 1997 and confirmed the field limits previously
established.  Future changes in the standards could require
additional capital expenditures by FPL for such things as increasing
the right of way corridors or relocating or reconfiguring
transmission facilities.  At present it is not known whether any such
expenditures will be required.

Employees.  FPL had 9,588 employees at December 31, 1997. 
Approximately 34% of the employees are represented by the IBEW under
a collective bargaining agreement with FPL.  In 1997, IBEW members
approved a new collective bargaining agreement which expires on
October 31, 2000.

         OTHER FPL GROUP OPERATIONS

FPL Group Capital, a wholly-owned subsidiary of FPL Group, holds the
capital stock and provides funding for the operating subsidiaries
other than FPL.  At December 31, 1997, FPL Group Capital and its
subsidiaries represented approximately 10% of FPL Group's total
assets.  The business activities of these companies primarily consist
of independent power projects and agricultural operations.

FPL Energy.  In January 1998, FPL Energy was formed as a subsidiary
of FPL Group Capital to manage existing non-regulated investments and
to pursue new investment opportunities in the domestic and
international energy markets.  All of the capital stock of ESI and
FPL Group International was transferred to FPL Energy in January and
two separate investment transactions were announced.  First, FPL
Energy announced an agreement to acquire, subject to approval by
federal and state regulators, the non-nuclear generation assets of
Central Maine, in a transaction that is expected to close in the
second half of 1998.  FPL Energy, through ESI, also announced
participation in a joint venture that owns and operates two 300 mw
combined-cycle power plants located in Massachusetts and New Jersey. 
FPL Energy's focus is on environmentally-favored generation including
natural gas, wind, geothermal, solar, biomass, and, with the expected
addition of the Central Maine assets later in 1998, hydro.

FPL Energy's participation in the domestic energy market has changed
in recent years from non-controlling equity investments to a more
active role including ownership, management, operation, construction
and development of many projects.  This active role is expected to
continue as opportunities in the non-regulated generation market are
pursued.  FPL Energy currently owns or has non-controlling ownership
interests in a number of independent power projects totaling
approximately 3,100 mw of generating capacity.  These projects are
geographically concentrated in California and Virginia.  Upon
completion of the acquisition of the Central Maine assets, generating
capacity will increase to over 4,200 mw.

Deregulation of the electricity utility market across the United
States presents both opportunities and risks for FPL Energy.
Opportunities exist for the selective acquisition of generation
assets that are being divested under deregulation plans and for the
construction and operation of efficient plants that can sell low-cost
power in competitive markets. However, market-based pricing, new
entrants and the possibility of reduced availability of long-term
power purchase agreements may result in fluctuations in revenues and
earnings.  FPL Energy has long-term power purchase agreements in
place with utilities for essentially all of its existing portfolio. 
The majority of power generated by the Central Maine assets will be
sold under a power purchase agreement until the year 2000, when
market-based pricing is implemented.

FPL Energy also holds non-controlling investments in natural gas and
geothermal generator projects totaling 300 mw located in Colombia and
Indonesia, and owns a 5 mw wind farm in Northern Ireland. 
Essentially all of the output from these projects is subject to long-
term power purchase agreements.  The project in Colombia is expanding
its generating capability and the Indonesian project is under
development.  FPL Energy is monitoring the economic uncertainty in
Indonesia, but currently anticipates no material adverse effect on
FPL Group's financial statements from its investment there.

Turner.  FPL Group Capital's agricultural subsidiary, Turner, owns
and operates citrus groves in Florida.  Turner's primary product is
juice oranges, which are sold to processors for the premium
not-from-concentrate, as well as the domestic frozen-concentrate,
orange juice markets.  Other products include grapefruit and
specialty fruits.  Turner's operations are seasonal, with the
majority of the citrus harvest taking place between January and
April.

As of December 31, 1997, Turner owned or leased approximately 30,000
acres of citrus properties, which included 19,000 planted acres,
3,000 acres of undeveloped land and 8,000 acres of infrastructure,
wetlands and reservoirs.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTS (a)(b)


Item 2.  Properties

FPL Group and its subsidiaries maintain properties which are adequate
for their operations.  At December 31, 1997, the electric generating,
transmission, distribution and general facilities of FPL represent
47%, 13%, 33% and 7%, respectively, of FPL's gross investment in
electric utility plant in service.

Generating Facilities.   As of December 31, 1997, FPL had the
following generating facilities: 



FPL Energy has wholly-owned generating facilities totaling 830 mw,
the largest being a 665 mw gas-fired combined-cycle plant in
Virginia.  The remaining facilities include solar- and wind-power
generators located in California and Northern Ireland.

Transmission and Distribution.  FPL owns and operates 478 substations
with a total capacity of 104,493,440 kva.  Electric transmission and
distribution lines owned and in service as of December 31, 1997 are
as follows:


Character of Ownership.  Substantially all of FPL's properties are
subject to the lien of its mortgage, which secures most debt
securities issued by FPL.  The principal properties of FPL are held
by it in fee and are free from other encumbrances, subject to minor
exceptions, none of which is of such a nature as to substantially
impair the usefulness to FPL of such properties.  Some of the
electric lines are located on land not owned in fee but are covered
by necessary consents of governmental authorities or rights obtained
from owners of private property.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

In 1991, FPL entered into 30-year power purchase agreements with two
qualifying facilities (as defined by PURPA) located in Palm Beach
County, Florida.  The power plants, which have a total generating
capacity of 125 mw, were intended to sell capacity and energy to FPL
and to provide steam to sugar processors. The plants were to be
fueled by bagasse (sugar cane waste) and wood waste. Construction of
the plants was funded, in part, through the sale of $288.5 million of
solid waste industrial development revenue bonds (the bonds). The
plants are owned by Okeelanta Power Limited Partnership (Okeelanta);
Osceola Power Limited Partnership (Osceola); Flo-Energy Corp.; Glades
Power Partnership; Gator Generating Company, Limited Partnership; and
Lake Power Leasing Partnership (collectively, the partnerships).

In January 1997, FPL filed a complaint against Okeelanta and Osceola
in the Circuit Court for Palm Beach County, Florida, seeking an order
declaring that FPL s obligations under the power purchase agreements
were rendered of no force and effect because the power plants failed
to accomplish commercial operation before January 1, 1997, as
required by the agreements. In November 1997, the complaint was
amended to include all the partnerships.

The partnerships filed for bankruptcy under Chapter XI of the United
States Bankruptcy Code in May 1997 and ceased all attempts to operate
the power plants in September 1997. In November 1997, the
partnerships entered into an agreement with the holders of more than
70% of the bonds. This agreement gives the holders of a majority of
the principal amount of the bonds (the majority bondholders) the
right to control, fund and manage any litigation against FPL and the
right to settle with FPL on any terms such majority bondholders
approve, provided that certain agreements with the sugar processors
are not affected and certain other conditions are met.

In January 1998, the partnerships (through the attorneys for the
majority bondholders) filed an answer denying the allegations in
FPL s complaint and asserting a counterclaim for approximately $2
billion, consisting of all capacity payments that could have been
made over the 30-year term of the power purchase agreements plus some
security deposits. The partnerships also seek three times their
actual damages for alleged violations of Florida antitrust laws, plus
attorneys  fees.

In December 1991, the FMPA, an organization comprised of municipal
electric utilities operating in the state, filed a suit against FPL
in the Circuit Court of the Ninth Judicial Circuit in Orange County,
Florida.  The suit was subsequently removed to the United States
District Court for the Middle District of Florida.  The FMPA alleges
that FPL is in breach of a "contract," consisting of several
different documents, by refusing to provide transmission service to
the FMPA and its members on the FMPA's terms.  The FMPA also alleges
that FPL has violated federal and Florida antitrust laws by
monopolizing or attempting to monopolize the provision, coordination
and transmission of electric power in FPL's area of operation by
refusing to provide transmission service or to permit the FMPA to
invest in and use FPL's transmission system on the FMPA's proposed
terms.  The FMPA seeks $140 million in damages, before trebling for
the antitrust claim, and asks the court to require FPL:  to transmit
electric power among the FMPA and its members on "reasonable terms
and conditions"; to permit the FMPA to contribute to and use FPL's
transmission system on "reasonable terms and conditions"; and to
recognize the FMPA transmission investments as part of FPL's
transmission system such that the FMPA can obtain transmission on a
basis equivalent to FPL or, alternatively, to provide transmission
service equivalent to such FMPA transmission ownership.  In 1993, the
District Court granted summary judgment in favor of FPL.  In 1995,
the court of appeals vacated the District Court's summary judgment
and remanded the matter to the district court for further
proceedings.  In 1996, the District Court ordered the FMPA to seek a
declaratory ruling from the FERC regarding certain issues in the
case.  All other action in the case has been stayed pending the
FERC's ruling.

In November 1989, Johnson Enterprises of Jacksonville, Inc. (Johnson
Enterprises) filed suit in the United States District Court for the
Middle District of Florida against FPL Group, FPL Group Capital and
Telesat Cablevision, Inc. (Telesat), a subsidiary of FPL Group
Capital.  The suit alleged breach of contract, fraud, violation of
racketeering statutes and several other claims.  Plaintiff claimed
more than $24 million in compensatory damages, treble damages under
racketeering statutes, punitive damages and attorneys' fees.  The
District Court entered a judgment in favor of FPL Group and Telesat
on nine of twelve counts, including all of the racketeering and fraud
claims, and in favor of FPL Group Capital on all counts.  It also
denied all parties' claims for attorneys' fees.  However, the jury in
the case awarded the contractor damages totaling approximately $6
million against FPL Group and Telesat for breach of contract and
tortious interference.  All parties have appealed.

In the event that FPL Group or FPL does not prevail in these suits,
there may be a material adverse effect on their financial statements. 
However, FPL Group and FPL believe that they have meritorious
defenses to the litigation to which they are parties and are
vigorously defending these suits.  Accordingly, the liabilities, if
any, arising from these proceedings are not anticipated to have a
material adverse effect on their financial statements.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None

                  PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrants' Common Equity and Related
Stockholder Matters

Common Stock Data.  All of FPL's common stock is owned by FPL Group. 
FPL Group's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 
The high and low sales prices for the common stock of FPL Group as
reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system of the New
York Stock Exchange for each quarter during the past two years are as
follows:



Approximate Number of Stockholders.  As of the close of business on
January 31, 1998, there were 60,024 holders of record of FPL Group's
common stock.

Dividends.  Quarterly dividends have been paid on common stock of
FPL Group during the past two years in the following amounts:



The amount and timing of dividends payable on FPL Group's common
stock are within the sole discretion of FPL Group's board of
directors.  The board of directors reviews the dividend rate at least
annually (in February) to determine its appropriateness in light of
FPL Group's financial position and results of operations, legislative
and regulatory developments affecting the electric utility industry
in general and FPL in particular, competitive conditions and any
other factors the board deems relevant.  The ability of FPL Group to
pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon dividends paid to
it by its subsidiaries, primarily FPL.  There are no restrictions in
effect that currently limit FPL's ability to pay dividends to FPL
Group.  See Management's Discussion - Liquidity and Capital Resources
and Note 4 regarding dividends paid by FPL to FPL Group.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations

Results of Operations

FPL Group's net income and earnings per share for 1997 grew 6.7% and
7.2%, respectively.  The improvement over the respective 1996 growth
rates of 4.7% and 5.4% is primarily due to better operating results
in FPL Group's other businesses, particularly ESI's independent power
projects.  A number of ESI's projects have been restructured to gain
more direct operating control and projects have been added. 
Beginning in 1997, several projects are consolidated in FPL Group's
financial statements, including the accounts of a 665 mw gas-fired
EWG and two solar projects.  In January 1998, FPL Group announced the
formation of FPL Energy, an FPL Group Capital subsidiary, that will
hold directly or indirectly all generation assets not owned by FPL.

FPL continues to represent the predominant portion of FPL Group's
operations.  FPL's results over the past three years reflect a
combination of continued growth in the number of customers served by
FPL and actions taken by management to accelerate the amortization of
nuclear and fossil fuel generating assets and regulatory assets, and
to reduce debt and preferred stock balances.

FPL's operating revenues represent about 96% of FPL Group's operating
revenues and primarily consist of revenues from base rates, cost
recovery clauses and franchise fees.  Revenues from FPL's base rates
were $3.5 billion, $3.4 billion and $3.4 billion in 1997, 1996 and
1995, respectively.  There were no changes in base rates during those
years.  Revenues from cost recovery clauses and franchise fees
represent a pass-through of costs and do not significantly affect net
income.  Fluctuations in these revenues are primarily driven by
changes in energy sales, fuel prices and capacity charges.  Clause
revenues and the related fuel, purchased power and interchange
expense increased in 1996 primarily due to higher fuel prices and
higher capacity charges as an additional purchased power contract
became effective.  See Note 9 - Contracts.  In 1997, FPL Group's
operating revenues and fuel, purchased power and interchange expense
include the effects of consolidating some independent power projects
formerly accounted for as equity investments.

The population in FPL's service territory continued to grow,
contributing to retail customer growth of 1.8%, 1.8% and 1.9% in
1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  In 1997, warmer weather
contributed to an increase in retail customer usage of 1.2%, while in
1996, milder weather conditions resulted in a decrease in retail
customer usage of 1.3%.  Extreme weather in 1995 contributed to an
increase in usage of 2.5%.  Together these factors and changes in
sales to other utilities contributed to an increase in FPL's total
energy sales of 2.3%, 1.4% and 3.5% in 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.  The consolidation of some independent power projects
increased FPL Group energy sales in 1997.

The FPSC regulates FPL's retail sales, which represent approximately
94% of FPL Group's total operating revenues.  FPL reported a retail
regulatory ROE of 12.3%, 12.1% and 12.3% in 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.  The ROE range authorized by the FPSC for these periods
was 11% to 13% with a midpoint of 12%.  In December 1997, a large
customer of FPL filed a petition with the FPSC requesting a limited
scope proceeding to reduce FPL's base rates.  The petition asks the
FPSC to reduce FPL's authorized ROE and to exclude amounts recorded
under an FPSC-approved special amortization program in determining
the amount of the rate reduction.  FPL Group is unable to predict
what course of action the FPSC might take and what effect, if any,
this matter would have on FPL Group's and FPL's financial statements.

O&M expenses increased in 1997, following several years of decline,
primarily as a result of additional costs associated with the
conservation clause.  Excluding these costs, which are essentially a
pass-through and do not affect net income, O&M expenses declined
slightly as a result of lower nuclear refueling and lower payroll-
related costs.  Partially offsetting these items were higher
maintenance costs on FPL's distribution system to improve service
reliability.  O&M expenses are expected to increase in 1998 due to a
continuing focus on improving service reliability and higher storm
fund accruals.  In 1996, cost savings from operational improvements
were partially offset by the third quarter adoption of an
FPSC-approved change in accounting for costs associated with nuclear
refueling outages.  See Note 1 - Accrual for Nuclear Maintenance
Costs.  O&M expenses in 1995 include charges associated with
facilities consolidation and inventory reductions.

The increases in depreciation and amortization expense are primarily
the result of an FPSC-approved special amortization program initiated
by FPL in 1995.  The program calls for recording as amortization
expense a fixed amount of $30 million per year for nuclear assets
plus, through 1997, an additional amount of amortization based on the
level of retail base revenues achieved compared to a fixed amount for
nuclear and fossil generating assets and certain regulatory assets. 
Under this program, $199 million, $160 million and $126 million of
special amortization was recorded in 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.  The 1997 and 1996 amounts include, as depreciation and
amortization expense, $169 million and $20 million, respectively, for
amortization of regulatory assets.  All other special amortization
amounts were applied against nuclear and fossil production assets. 
In December 1997, the FPSC voted to extend this program through 1999
and added costs associated with the decommissioning of nuclear plants
and dismantling fossil plants to the cost categories covered by the
plan.  The decision was made after the FPSC conducted hearings that
were requested by a third party.  In addition to depreciation and
amortization recorded under the special amortization program, in
1997, 1996 and 1995 FPL amortized $22 million, $28 million and $37
million, respectively, of plant-related regulatory assets deferred
since FPL's last rate case in 1984.  It is anticipated that
substantially all of the remaining $24 million balance will be
amortized in 1998 as authorized by the FPSC.  In 1997 and 1996 the
FPSC approved higher depreciation rates for certain assets which
resulted in additional depreciation of $31 million and $22 million in
1997 and 1996, respectively.

FPL lowered its interest charges and preferred stock dividends by
reducing debt and preferred stock balances.  FPL Group has reduced
these balances, net of commercial paper increases, over the past
three years by $1.0 billion ($1.4 billion for FPL).  In 1997,
additional debt has been assumed as a result of ESI's portfolio
restructuring and expansion resulting in higher interest charges at
FPL Group.

Improved results in 1997 from independent power partnerships
contributed to an increase in the non-operating line other - net of
FPL Group.  The 1996 change in other - net of both FPL Group and FPL
resulted from an accounting rule change, approved by the FPSC, that
eliminated the capitalization of interest and return on equity on all
but very large construction projects.

The lower effective income tax rate in 1997 and 1996 reflects
increased amortization of FPL's deferred investment tax credits due
to the special amortization program and adjustments of prior years'
tax matters.

The electric utility industry is facing increasing competitive
pressure.  FPL currently faces competition from other suppliers of
electrical energy to wholesale customers and from alternative energy
sources and self-generation for other customer groups, primarily
industrial customers.  In 1997, operating revenues from wholesale and
industrial customers combined represented approximately 4% of FPL's
total operating revenues.  Various states, other than Florida, have
either enacted legislation or are pursuing initiatives designed to
deregulate the production and sale of electricity.  By allowing
customers to choose their electricity supplier, deregulation is
expected to result in a shift from cost-based rates to market-based
rates for energy production and other services provided to retail
customers.  Similar initiatives are also being pursued on the federal
level.  Although the legislation and initiatives vary substantially,
common areas of focus include when market-based pricing will be
available for wholesale and retail customers, what existing prudently
incurred costs in excess of the market-based price will be
recoverable and whether generation assets should be separated from
transmission, distribution and other assets.  In the event the basis
of regulation for some or all of FPL's business changes from
cost-based regulation, existing regulatory assets and liabilities
would be written off unless regulators specify an alternative means
of recovery or refund.  Further, other aspects of the business, such
as generation assets and long-term power purchase commitments, would
need to be reviewed to assess their recoverability in a changed
regulatory environment.  Since there is no deregulation proposal
currently under consideration in Florida, FPL is unable to predict
what impact would result from a change to a more competitive
environment or when such a change might occur.  See
Note 1 - Regulation.

FPL Group is working to resolve the potential impact of the year 2000
on the processing of information by its computer systems.  An
assessment of identified software, including vendor-supplied
software, has been completed and work has begun to make the necessary
modifications.  The estimated cost of addressing year 2000 issues in
software applications is not expected to have a material adverse
effect on FPL Group's financial statements.  FPL Group continues to
assess the potential financial and operational impacts of
computerized processes embedded in operating equipment.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

FPL Group's primary capital requirements consist of expenditures to
meet increased electricity usage and customer growth of FPL.  Capital
expenditures of FPL for the period 1998 through 2000 are expected to
be approximately $1.8 billion, including $620 million for 1998. 
Also, in January 1998 FPL Group acquired interests in two power
plants in the Northeast and announced plans to purchase all of
Central Maine's non-nuclear generation assets.  The Central Maine
transaction is expected to close in the second half of 1998 and is
subject to approval by federal and state regulators.  Commitments for
energy-related acquisitions, including the acquisitions mentioned
above, are $1.1 billion for 1998.  Other acquisitions may be made as
opportunities arise.  See Note 9 - Commitments.  In 1997, FPL's
capital expenditures were higher than 1996 as a result of costs
associated with the replacement of steam generators at St. Lucie Unit
No. 1.  The further planned increase in 1998 reflects reliability
improvements to be made to the distribution system.  Expenditures on
independent power projects in 1997 by FPL Group's other operating
subsidiaries, primarily ESI, were $291 million. This increase over
prior years is the result of ESI's expansion and restructuring of
various projects.

Debt maturities of FPL Group's subsidiaries will require cash
outflows of approximately $718 million ($535 million for FPL) through
2002, including $198 million ($180 million for FPL) in 1998.  See
Note 6.  It is anticipated that cash requirements for FPL's capital
expenditures, energy-related investments and debt maturities in 1998
will be satisfied with internally generated funds and debt issuances. 
Any internally generated funds not required for capital expenditures
and current maturities may be used to reduce outstanding debt,
preferred or common stock, or for investment.  Any temporary cash
needs will be met by short-term bank borrowings.  Bank lines of
credit currently available to FPL Group and its subsidiaries
aggregate $1.3 billion ($900 million for FPL).

In 1997, FPL Group's board of directors authorized the repurchase of
up to 10 million shares of common stock over an unspecified period. 
During 1997, FPL Group repurchased 0.7 million shares of common stock
under this program and 0.3 million shares under a previously
authorized stock repurchase program.  

FPL self-insures for damage to certain transmission and distribution
properties and maintains a funded storm reserve to reduce the
financial impact of storm losses.  The balance of the storm fund
reserve at December 31, 1997 was $252 million.  Bank lines of credit
of $300 million, included in the $1.3 billion above, are also
available if needed to provide cash for storm restoration costs.  The
FPSC has indicated that it would consider future storm losses in
excess of the funded reserve for possible recovery from customers. 
FPL filed a request for FPSC approval to increase the annual storm
fund contribution from $20 million to $35 million; a decision by the
FPSC is pending.

In 1996, the FASB issued an exposure draft on accounting for
obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets and
recently decided to restudy the matter.  A method proposed by the
FASB would require the present value of estimated future cash flows
to decommission FPL's nuclear power plants and dismantle its fossil
power plants to be recorded as an increase to asset balances and as a
liability.  This amount is currently estimated to be $1.5 billion. 
Under that proposal, it is anticipated that there will be no effect
on cash flows and, because of the regulatory treatment, there will be
no significant effect on net income.

FPL Group Capital and its subsidiaries have guaranteed approximately
$240 million of lease obligations, debt service payments and other
payments subject to certain contingencies.  This amount includes
guarantees associated with acquisitions occurring in early 1998.

FPL's charter and mortgage contain provisions which, under certain
conditions, restrict the payment of dividends and the issuance of
additional unsecured debt, first mortgage bonds and preferred stock. 
Given FPL's current financial condition and level of earnings,
expected financing activities and dividends are not affected by these
limitations.

Market Risk Sensitivity

All financial instruments and positions held by FPL Group and FPL
described below are held for purposes other than trading.

Interest rate risk - The special use funds of FPL include restricted
funds set aside to cover the cost of storm damage and for the
decommissioning of FPL's nuclear power plants.  A portion of these
funds is invested in fixed income debt securities carried at their
market value of $640 million at December 31, 1997.  Adjustments to
market value result in a corresponding adjustment to the related
liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment.  Because
the funds set aside for storm damage could be needed at any time, the
related investments are generally more liquid and, therefore, are
less sensitive to changes in interest rates.  The nuclear
decommissioning funds, in contrast, are generally invested in longer
term securities as decommissioning activities are not expected to
begin until 2012.  Market risk associated with all of these
securities is estimated as the potential loss in fair value resulting
from a hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates and amounts to $19
million.

The fair value of FPL Group's and FPL's long-term debt is also
affected by changes in interest rates.  Over the last several years,
the outstanding long-term debt balance has been substantially
reduced, resulting in a significant decrease in the related interest
expense, and a portion of the remaining debt balance has been
converted to variable rate debt.  Interest rate swap agreements
entered into by an FPL Group subsidiary reduce the impact of interest
rate changes on its variable rate debt (total notional principal
amount of $267 million at December 31, 1997).  The following presents
the sensitivity of the fair value of debt and interest rate swap
agreements to a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates:

While a decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of
debt, it is unlikely that events that would result in a realized loss
will occur.

Equity price risk - Included in the special use funds of FPL are
marketable equity securities carried at their market value of $367
million at December 31, 1997.  A hypothetical 10% decrease in the
prices quoted by stock exchanges would result in a $37 million
reduction in fair value and corresponding adjustment to the related
liability accounts based on current regulatory treatment.

Other risks - Under current cost-based regulation, FPL's cost of fuel
is recovered through the fuel clause, with no effect on earnings.  In
line with FPL's ongoing efforts to control costs, and to address the
commodity price risk that FPL would face in a deregulated
environment, FPL formed a division to buy and sell wholesale energy
commodities, such as natural gas and electric power.  Initially, the
primary focus of the Energy Marketing & Trading Division has been the
procurement of natural gas for FPL's own use in power generation (the
effects of which are reflected in the cost of fuel recovered through
the fuel clause) and the sale of excess electric power.  At December
31, 1997, there were no material open positions in these activities. 
The level of trading activity is expected to grow as FPL seeks to
manage the risk associated with fluctuating fuel prices, increase
value from its own power generation and position itself to take
advantage of opportunities in evolving energy-related markets
throughout the country.

Item 7a.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
See Management's Discussion - Market Risk Sensitivity.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


        INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



FPL GROUP, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY:

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of FPL Group,
Inc. and of Florida Power & Light Company, listed in the accompanying
index at Item 14(a)1 of this Annual Report (Form 10-K) to the
Securities and Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31,
1997.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the
companies' management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of FPL
Group, Inc. and Florida Power & Light Company at December 31, 1997
and 1996 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1997 in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.





DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Certified Public Accountants

Miami, Florida
February 13, 1998

              FPL GROUP, INC.
     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
  (In millions, except per share amounts)



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an
integral part of these statements.

              FPL GROUP, INC.
        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
           (Millions of Dollars)



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an
integral part of these statements.

              FPL GROUP,  INC.
   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
           (Millions of Dollars)



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an
integral part of these statements.

       FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
           (Millions of Dollars)


The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an
integral part of these statements.

       FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
           (Millions of Dollars)


The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an
integral part of these statements.

       FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
           (Millions of Dollars)


The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an
integral part of these statements.

FPL GROUP, INC. AND FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Years Ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


1.  Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies

Basis of Presentation - FPL Group, Inc.'s (FPL Group) operating
activities consist of a rate-regulated public utility, Florida Power
& Light Company (FPL), independent power projects and agricultural
operations.  FPL supplies electric service to 3.6 million customers
throughout most of the east and lower west coasts of Florida.  The
independent power projects consist of owned and controlled entities,
which are consolidated, and non-controlling ownership interests in
joint ventures or leveraged leases.

The consolidated financial statements of FPL Group and FPL include
the accounts of their respective majority-owned and controlled
subsidiaries.  All significant intercompany balances and transactions
have been eliminated in consolidation.  Certain amounts included in
prior years' consolidated financial statements have been reclassified
to conform to the current year's presentation.  The preparation of
financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and
expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. 
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Regulation - FPL is subject to regulation by the Florida Public
Service Commission (FPSC) and the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission (FERC).  Its rates are designed to recover the cost of
providing electric service to its customers including a reasonable
rate of return on invested capital.  As a result of this cost-based
regulation, FPL follows the accounting practices set forth in
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. (FAS) 71, "Accounting
for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation."  FAS 71 indicates
that regulators can create assets and impose liabilities that would
not be recorded by non-regulated entities.  Regulatory assets and
liabilities represent probable future revenues that will be recovered
from or refunded to customers through the ratemaking process. 
Recoverability of regulatory assets is assessed at each reporting
period.

Various states, other than Florida, have either enacted legislation
or are pursuing initiatives designed to deregulate the production and
sale of electricity.  By allowing customers to choose their
electricity supplier, deregulation is expected to result in a shift
from cost-based rates to market-based rates for energy production and
other services provided to retail customers.  Similar initiatives are
also being pursued on the federal level.  Although the legislation
and initiatives vary substantially, common areas of focus include
when market-based pricing will be available for wholesale and retail
customers, what existing prudently incurred costs in excess of the
market-based price will be recoverable and whether generation assets
should be separated from transmission, distribution and other assets. 
It is generally believed that under any proposal, transmission and
distribution activities would remain regulated.

In the event that FPL's generating operations are no longer subject
to the provisions of FAS 71, as a result of market-based pricing due
to regulatory or other changes, portions of the existing regulatory
assets and liabilities that relate to generation would be written off
unless regulators specify an alternative means of recovery or refund. 
The principal regulatory assets and liabilities are as follows:


The storm and property insurance reserve is primarily related to
transmission and distribution properties.  The amounts presented above
exclude clause-related regulatory assets and liabilities that are recovered
or refunded over six- or twelve-month periods.  These amounts are
included in current assets and liabilities in the consolidated balance
sheets.  Further, other aspects of the business, such as generation
assets and long-term power purchase commitments, would need to be
reviewed to assess their recoverability in a changed regulatory
environment.  Since there is no deregulation proposal currently under
consideration in Florida, FPL is unable to predict what impact would
result from a change to a more competitive environment or when such a
change might occur.

In 1995, FPL began amortizing the plant-related deferred costs in the
preceding table over a period of no more than five years as approved by
the FPSC.  Amounts recorded in 1997, 1996 and 1995 were $22 million,
$28 million and $37 million, respectively.  Pursuant to an FPSC-
approved program started in 1995, FPL recorded as amortization
expense a fixed amount of $30 million per year for nuclear assets plus,
through 1997, an additional amount of amortization based on the level of
retail base revenues achieved compared to a fixed amount for nuclear
and fossil generating assets and certain regulatory assets.  Under this
program, $199 million, $160 million and $126 million of special
amortization was recorded in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  The
1997 and 1996 amounts include, as depreciation and amortization
expense, $169 million and $20 million, respectively, for amortization of
regulatory assets.  All other special amortization amounts were applied
against nuclear and fossil production assets.  In December 1997, the
FPSC voted to extend this program through 1999 and added costs
associated with the decommissioning of nuclear plants and dismantling
fossil plants to the cost categories covered by the plan.  The decision
was made after the FPSC conducted hearings that were requested by a
third party.

Revenues and Rates - FPL's retail and wholesale utility rate schedules
are approved by the FPSC and the FERC, respectively. FPL records
unbilled base revenues for the estimated amount of energy delivered to
customers but not yet billed.  Unbilled base revenues are included in
customer receivables and amounted to approximately $154 million and
$161 million at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

Revenues include amounts resulting from cost recovery clauses, which
are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs and provide a return
on certain assets utilized by these programs, and franchise fees.  These
revenues generally represent a pass-through of costs and include
substantially all fuel, purchased power and interchange expenses,
conservation- and environmental-related expenses, certain revenue
taxes and franchise fees.  Revenues from cost recovery clauses are
recorded when billed; FPL achieves matching of costs and related
revenues by deferring the net under or over recovery.  Any under
recovered costs or over recovered revenues are collected from or
returned to customers in subsequent periods.

In December 1997, a large customer of FPL filed a petition with the
FPSC requesting a limited scope proceeding to reduce FPL's base rates. 
The petition asks the FPSC to reduce FPL's authorized return on
common equity and to exclude amounts recorded under the FPSC-
approved special amortization program in determining the amount of the
rate reduction.  FPL Group is unable to predict what course of action the
FPSC might take and what effect, if any, this matter would have on FPL
Group's and FPL's financial statements.

Electric Plant, Depreciation and Amortization - The cost of additions to
units of utility property of FPL is added to electric utility plant.  The cost
of units of utility property retired, less net salvage, is charged to
accumulated depreciation.  Maintenance and repairs of property as well
as replacements and renewals of items determined to be less than units
of utility property are charged to other operations and maintenance
(O&M) expenses.  At December 31, 1997, the generating, transmission,
distribution and general facilities of FPL represented approximately 47%,
13%, 33% and 7%, respectively, of FPL's gross investment in electric
utility plant in service.  Substantially all electric utility plant of FPL is
subject to the lien of a mortgage securing FPL's first mortgage bonds; a
portion of the remaining electric plant in service is pledged as collateral
for the senior term loan of FPL Group Capital Inc (FPL Group Capital).

Depreciation of electric property is primarily provided on a straight-line
average remaining life basis.  FPL includes in depreciation expense a
provision for fossil plant dismantlement and nuclear plant
decommissioning.  For substantially all of FPL's property, depreciation
and fossil fuel plant dismantlement studies are performed and filed with
the FPSC at least every four years.  Depreciation studies were filed in
December 1997 and will be effective for 1998.  The next fossil fuel plant
dismantlement studies are scheduled to be filed by October 1, 1998 and
will be effective for 1999.  The weighted annual composite depreciation
rate was approximately 4.3% for 1997, 4.1% for 1996 and 4.0% for
1995, excluding the effects of decommissioning and dismantlement. 
Further, these rates exclude approximately $222 million, $188 million
and $163 million, respectively, of special and plant-related deferred cost
amortization.  See Regulation.

Nuclear Fuel - FPL leases nuclear fuel for all four of its nuclear units. 
Nuclear fuel lease expense was $85 million, $94 million and $104 million
in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  Included in this expense was an
interest component of $9 million, $10 million and $11 million in 1997,
1996 and 1995, respectively.  Nuclear fuel lease payments and a charge
for spent nuclear fuel disposal are charged to fuel expense on a unit of
production method.  These costs are recovered through the fuel and
purchased power cost recovery clause (fuel clause).  Under certain
circumstances of lease termination, FPL is required to purchase all
nuclear fuel in whatever form at a purchase price designed to allow the
lessor to recover its net investment cost in the fuel, which totaled $186
million at December 31, 1997.  For ratemaking, these leases are
classified as operating leases.  For financial reporting, the capital lease
obligation is recorded at the amount due in the event of lease
termination.

Decommissioning and Dismantlement of Generating Plant - FPL
accrues nuclear decommissioning costs over the expected service life of
each unit.  Nuclear decommissioning studies are performed at least once
every five years for FPL's four nuclear units and are submitted to the
FPSC for approval.  The next studies are scheduled to be filed by
October 1, 1998 and will be effective for 1999.  These studies assume
prompt dismantlement for the Turkey Point Unit Nos. 3 and 4 with
decommissioning activities commencing in 2012 and 2013, respectively. 
St. Lucie Unit No. 1 will be mothballed in 2016 until St. Lucie Unit No. 2
is ready for decommissioning in 2023.  These studies also assume that
FPL will be storing spent fuel on site pending removal to a U.S.
Government facility.  Decommissioning expense accruals, included in
depreciation and amortization expense, were $85 million in 1997, 1996
and 1995.  FPL's portion of the ultimate cost of decommissioning its four
units, including dismantlement and reclamation, expressed in 1997
dollars, is currently estimated to aggregate $1.5 billion.  At December 31,
1997 and 1996, the accumulated provision for nuclear decommissioning
totaled $998 million and $805 million, respectively, and is included in
accumulated depreciation.

Similarly, FPL accrues the cost of dismantling its fossil fuel plants over
the expected service life of each unit.  Fossil dismantlement expense
totaled $17 million in both 1997 and 1996 and $25 million in 1995, and is
included in depreciation and amortization expense.  The ultimate cost of
dismantlement for the fossil units, expressed in 1997 dollars, is
estimated to be $266 million.  At December 31, 1997 and 1996, the
accumulated provision for fossil dismantlement totaled $162 million and
$146 million, respectively, and is a component of accumulated
depreciation.

Restricted assets for the payment of future expenditures to
decommission FPL's nuclear units are included in special use funds of
FPL.  At December 31, 1997 and 1996, decommissioning fund assets
were $850 million and $667 million, respectively.  Securities held in the
decommissioning fund are carried at market value with market
adjustments resulting in a corresponding adjustment to the accumulated
provision for nuclear decommissioning.  See Note 3.  Contributions to
the funds are based on current period decommissioning expense. 
Additionally, fund earnings, net of taxes are reinvested in the funds.  The
tax effects of amounts not yet recognized for tax purposes are included
in accumulated deferred income taxes.

In 1996, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an
exposure draft on accounting for obligations associated with the
retirement of long-lived assets and recently decided to restudy the
matter.  A method proposed by the FASB would require the present
value of estimated future cash flows to decommission FPL's nuclear
power plants and dismantle its fossil power plants to be recorded as an
increase to asset balances and as a liability.  This amount is currently
estimated to be $1.5 billion.  Under that proposal, it is anticipated that
there will be no effect on cash flows and, because of the regulatory
treatment, there will be no significant effect on net income.

Accrual for Nuclear Maintenance Costs - In 1996, the FPSC approved a
new method of accounting for maintenance costs incurred during nuclear
refueling outages.  Under this new method, the estimated maintenance
costs relating to each unit's next planned outage will be accrued over the
period beginning when the unit resumes operations until the end of the
next refueling outage.  Any difference between the estimated and actual
costs will be included in O&M expenses when known.  This approach
results in FPL recognizing maintenance costs equivalent to slightly less
than three outages per year based upon the current refueling outage
schedule for FPL's four nuclear units.  The cumulative effect of adopting
this accounting method was $35 million and, in accordance with the
FPSC order, was recorded as a regulatory asset which will be amortized
and included in O&M expenses over a period not to exceed five years. 
In 1997 and 1996, $7 million and $14 million, respectively, of the
cumulative adjustment was expensed.

Construction Activity - In accordance with an FPSC rule, FPL is not
permitted to capitalize interest or a return on common equity during
construction, except for projects that cost in excess of 1/2% of plant in
service and will require more than one year to complete.  The FPSC
allows construction projects below the 1/2% threshold as an element of
rate base.  FPL Group's non-regulated operations capitalize interest on
construction projects.

Storm and Property Insurance Reserve Fund (storm fund) - The storm
fund provides coverage toward storm damage costs and possible
retrospective premium assessments stemming from a nuclear incident
under the various insurance programs covering FPL's nuclear generating
plants.  The storm fund, which totaled $157 million and $139 million at
December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively, is included in special use
funds of FPL.  Securities held in the fund are carried at market value
with market adjustments resulting in a corresponding adjustment to the
storm and property insurance reserve.  See Note 3 and
Note 9 - Insurance.  Fund earnings, net of taxes, are reinvested in the
fund.  The tax effects of amounts not yet recognized for tax purposes
are included in accumulated deferred income taxes.

Other Investments - Included in other investments in FPL Group's
consolidated balance sheets are FPL Group's participation in leveraged
leases of $154 million and $157 million at December 31, 1997 and 1996,
respectively.  Additionally, other investments include non-majority owned
interests in partnerships and joint ventures, essentially all of which are
accounted for under the equity method.

Cash Equivalents - Cash equivalents consist of short-term, highly liquid
investments with original maturities of three months or less.

Short-Term Debt - The year end weighted-average interest rate on short-
term debt at December 31, 1997 was 6.3% (6.6% for FPL). 
Approximately $29 million of the non-FPL fossil-fuel inventory is pledged
as collateral for short-term debt.

Retirement of Long-Term Debt - The excess of FPL's reacquisition cost
over the book value of long-term debt is deferred and amortized to
expense ratably over the remaining life of the original issue, which is
consistent with its treatment in the ratemaking process.  Under the
special amortization program, $110 million of this regulatory asset was
amortized in 1997.  See Regulation.  FPL Group Capital expenses this
cost in the period incurred. 

Income Taxes - Deferred income taxes are provided on all significant
temporary differences between the financial statement and tax bases of
assets and liabilities.  FPL is included in the consolidated federal income
tax return filed by FPL Group.  FPL determines its income tax provision
on the "separate return method."  The deferred regulatory credit -
income taxes of FPL represents the revenue equivalent of the difference
in accumulated deferred income taxes computed under FAS 109,
"Accounting for Income Taxes," as compared to regulatory accounting
rules.  This amount is being amortized in accordance with the regulatory
treatment over the estimated lives of the assets or liabilities which
resulted in the initial recognition of the deferred tax amount.  Investment
tax credits (ITC) for FPL are deferred and amortized to income over the
approximate lives of the related property in accordance with the
regulatory treatment.  The special amortization program included
amortization of regulatory assets related to income taxes of $59 million
and $20 million in 1997 and 1996, respectively.

2.  Employee Retirement Benefits

Pension Benefits - Substantially all employees of FPL Group and its
subsidiaries are covered by a noncontributory defined benefit pension
plan.  Plan benefits are generally based on employees' years of service
and compensation during the last years of employment.  Participants are
vested after five years of service.  During 1997, the pension plan was
amended and restated to a cash balance design.  This plan amendment,
together with changes in assumptions, caused a $38 million decrease in
1997 pension cost and a $236 million decrease in the 1997 projected
benefit obligation.  Under this new design, benefits are described in
terms of account balances and they accrue ratably over the years of
service.  All costs of the FPL Group pension plan are allocated to
participating subsidiaries on a pro rata basis.  In September 1997, a
special retirement program was accepted by 456 bargaining unit
employees at FPL.

For 1997, 1996 and 1995 the components of pension cost are as
follows:


FPL Group and its subsidiaries fund the pension cost calculated under
the entry age normal level percentage of pay actuarial cost method,
provided that this amount satisfies the minimum funding standards of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and is
not greater than the maximum tax deductible amount for the year.  No
contributions to the plan were required for 1997, 1996 or 1995.

A reconciliation of the funded status of the plan to the amounts
recognized in FPL Group's consolidated balance sheets is presented
below:


The weighted-average discount rate used in determining the actuarial
present value of the projected benefit obligation was 6.50% and 7.00%
for 1997 and 1996, respectively.  The assumed rate of increase in future
compensation levels was 5.5% for both years.  The expected long-term
rate of return on plan assets used in determining pension cost was
7.75% for 1997, 1996 and 1995.  In 1996, FPL Group elected to change
the measurement date for pension obligations and plan assets from
December 31 to September 30.  The effect of this accounting change
was not material.

Other Postretirement Benefits - FPL Group and its subsidiaries have
defined benefit postretirement plans for health care and life insurance
benefits that cover substantially all employees.  All costs of the FPL
Group plans are allocated to participating subsidiaries on a pro rata
basis.  Eligibility for health care benefits is based upon age plus years of
service at retirement.  The plans are contributory and contain
cost-sharing features such as deductibles and coinsurance.  FPL Group
has set a cap on company contributions for postretirement health care
which may be reached at some point in the future depending on actual
claims experience.  Generally, life insurance benefits for retirees are
capped at $50,000.  FPL Group's policy is to fund postretirement
benefits in amounts determined at the discretion of management.

For 1997, 1996 and 1995, the components of net periodic postretirement
benefit cost are as follows:


A reconciliation of the funded status of the plan to the amounts
recognized in FPL Group's consolidated balance sheets is presented
below:


The weighted-average annual assumed rate of increase in the per capita
cost of covered benefits (i.e., health care cost trend rate) for 1997 was
7.0% for retirees under age 65 and 6.0% for retirees over age 65. 
These rates are assumed to decrease gradually to 5.0% by 2003.  The
cap on FPL Group's contributions mitigates the potential significant
increase in costs resulting from an increase in the health care cost trend
rate.  Increasing the assumed health care cost trend rate by one
percentage point would increase the plan's accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation as of September 30, 1997 by $12 million, and the
aggregate of the service and interest cost components of net periodic
postretirement benefit cost of the plan for 1997 by approximately $1
million.

The weighted-average discount rate used in determining the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was 6.50% and 7.00% for
1997 and 1996, respectively.  The expected long-term rate of return on
plan assets used in determining postretirement benefit cost was 7.75%
for 1997, 1996 and 1995.  In 1996, FPL Group elected to change the
measurement date for benefit obligations and plan assets from
December 31 to September 30.  The effect of this accounting change
was not material.

3.  Financial Instruments

The carrying amounts of cash equivalents and short-term debt
approximate their fair values.  Certain investments of FPL Group,
included in other investments, are carried at estimated fair value which
was $51 million and $66 million at December 31, 1997 and 1996,
respectively.  The following estimates of the fair value of financial
instruments have been made using available market information and
other valuation methodologies.  However, the use of different market
assumptions or methods of valuation could result in different estimated
fair values.


Special Use Funds - Securities held in the special use funds are
carried at estimated fair value.  Slightly more than one-half of the
nuclear decommissioning fund consists of municipal and corporate debt
securities with a weighted-average maturity of 10 years.  The
remaining balance consists of equity securities.  The storm fund
primarily consists of municipal debt securities with a
weighted-average maturity of 4 years.  The cost of securities sold is
determined on the specific identification method.  The funds had
realized gains of $3 million and realized losses of $2 million in
1997, $8 million and $9 million in 1996 and $13 million and $4
million in 1995, respectively.  The funds had unrealized gains of
$126 million and $55 million at December 31, 1997 and 1996,
respectively; the unrealized losses at those dates were $1 million
and $2 million.  The proceeds from the sale of securities in 1997,
1996 and 1995 were $800 million, $1.05 billion and $950 million,
respectively.

4.  Common Shareholders' Equity

FPL Group - The changes in common shareholders' equity accounts of
FPL Group are as follows:


Common Stock Dividend Restrictions - FPL Group's charter does not
limit the dividends that may be paid on its common stock. As a practical
matter, the ability of FPL Group to pay dividends on its common stock is
dependent upon dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries, primarily FPL. 
FPL's charter and a mortgage securing FPL's first mortgage bonds
contain provisions that, under certain conditions, restrict the payment of
dividends and other distributions to FPL Group.  These restrictions do
not currently limit FPL's ability to pay dividends to FPL Group.  In 1997,
1996 and 1995, FPL paid, as dividends to FPL Group, its net income
available to FPL Group on a one-month lag basis.

Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) - The employee thrift plans of
FPL Group include a leveraged ESOP feature.  Shares of common stock
held by the Trust for the thrift plans (Trust) are used to provide all or a
portion of the employers' matching contributions.  Dividends received on
all shares, along with cash contributions from the employers, are used to
pay principal and interest on an ESOP loan held by FPL Group Capital. 
Dividends on shares allocated to employee accounts and used by the
Trust for debt service are replaced with an equivalent amount of shares
of common stock at prevailing market prices.

ESOP-related compensation expense of approximately $19 million in
1997, $23 million in 1996 and $18 million in 1995 was recognized based
on the fair value of shares allocated to employee accounts during the
period.  Interest income on the ESOP loan is eliminated in consolidation. 
ESOP-related unearned compensation included as a reduction of
shareholders' equity at December 31, 1997 was approximately $259
million, representing 8.9 million unallocated shares at the original issue
price of $29 per share.  The fair value of the ESOP-related unearned
compensation account using the closing price of FPL Group stock as of
December 31, 1997 was approximately $528 million.

Long-Term Incentive Plan - In 1994, FPL Group's board of directors and
its shareholders approved FPL Group's current long-term incentive plan. 
Under this plan, 9 million shares of common stock are reserved and
available for awards to officers and employees of FPL Group and its
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997.  Total compensation charged
against earnings under the incentive plan was not material in any year. 
The changes in share awards under the incentive plan are as follows:


The accounting and disclosure requirements of FAS 123, "Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation," became effective in 1996.  The
statement encourages a fair value-based method of accounting for
stock-based compensation.  FPL Group, however, elected to continue
the use of the intrinsic value-based method of accounting as
permitted by the statement.  The results of utilizing the accounting
method recommended in FAS 123 would not have a material effect on FPL
Group's results of operations or earnings per share.

Other - Each share of common stock has been granted a Preferred Share
Purchase Right (Right), which is exercisable in the event of certain
attempted business combinations.  The Rights will cause substantial
dilution to a person or group attempting to acquire FPL Group on
terms not approved by FPL Group's board of directors.

FPL - The changes in common shareholder's equity accounts of FPL are
as follows:


5.  Preferred Stock

FPL Group's charter authorizes the issuance of 100 million shares of
serial preferred stock, $.01 par value.  None of these shares is
outstanding.  FPL Group has reserved 3 million shares for issuance
upon exercise of preferred share purchase rights which expire in June
2006.  Preferred stock of FPL consists of the following: (a)


6.  Long-Term Debt

Long-term debt consists of the following:


Minimum annual maturities of long-term debt for FPL Group for
1998-2002 are approximately $198 million, $322 million, $147 million,
$24 million and $27 million, respectively.  The respective amounts for
FPL are $180 million, $230 million, $125 million, with no amounts due in
2001 and 2002.

Available lines of credit aggregated approximately $1.3 billion ($900
million for FPL) at December 31, 1997, all of which were based on firm
commitments.


7.  Income Taxes

The components of income taxes are as follows:


A reconciliation between the effective income tax rates and the
applicable statutory rates is as follows:


The income tax effects of temporary differences giving rise to
consolidated deferred income tax liabilities and assets are as follows:


The carryforward period for a capital loss from the disposition in a prior
year of an FPL Group Capital subsidiary expired at the end of 1996. 
The amount of the deductible loss from this disposition was limited by
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) rules.  FPL Group is challenging the IRS
loss limitation and the IRS is disputing certain other positions taken by
FPL Group.  Tax benefits, if any, associated with these matters will be
reported in future periods when resolved.

8.  Jointly-Owned Electric Utility Plant

FPL owns approximately 85% of the St. Lucie Unit No. 2, 20% of the St.
Johns River Power Park units and coal terminal and approximately 76%
of Scherer Unit No. 4.  At December 31, 1997, FPL's gross investment in
these units was $1.173 billion, $328 million and $573 million,
respectively; accumulated depreciation was $484 million, $155 million
and $160 million, respectively.

FPL is responsible for its share of the operating costs, as well as
providing its own financing.  At December 31, 1997, there was no
significant balance of construction work in progress on these facilities.

9.  Commitments and Contingencies

Commitments - FPL has made commitments in connection with a portion
of its projected capital expenditures.  Capital expenditures for the
construction or acquisition of additional facilities and equipment to meet
customer demand are estimated to be approximately $1.8 billion for
1998 through 2000.  Included in this three-year forecast are capital
expenditures for 1998 of approximately $620 million.  Also, in January
1998 FPL Group acquired interests in two power plants in the Northeast
and announced plans to purchase all of Central Maine Power Company's
(Central Maine) non-nuclear generation assets.  The Central Maine
transaction is expected to close in the second half of 1998 and is subject
to approval by federal and state regulators.  Commitments for energy-
related acquisitions, including the acquisitions mentioned above, are $1.1
billion for 1998.  FPL Group Capital and its subsidiaries have guaranteed
approximately $240 million of lease obligations, debt service payments
and other payments subject to certain contingencies.  This amount
includes guarantees associated with acquisitions occurring in early 1998.

Insurance - Liability for accidents at nuclear power plants is governed by
the Price-Anderson Act, which limits the liability of nuclear reactor
owners to the amount of the insurance available from private sources
and under an industry retrospective payment plan.  In accordance with
this Act, FPL maintains $200 million of private liability insurance, which is
the maximum obtainable, and participates in a secondary financial
protection system under which it is subject to retrospective assessments
of up to $327 million per incident at any nuclear utility reactor in the
United States, payable at a rate not to exceed $40 million per incident
per year.

FPL participates in nuclear insurance mutual companies that provide
$2.75 billion of limited insurance coverage for property damage,
decontamination and premature decommissioning risks at its nuclear
plants.  The proceeds from such insurance, however, must first be used
for reactor stabilization and site decontamination before they can be
used for plant repair.  FPL also participates in an insurance program that
provides limited coverage for replacement power costs if a nuclear plant
is out of service because of an accident.  In the event of an accident at
one of FPL's or another participating insured's nuclear plants, FPL could
be assessed up to $68 million in retrospective premiums.

FPL also participates in a program that provides $200 million of tort
liability coverage industry wide for nuclear worker claims.  In the event of
a tort claim by an FPL or another insured's nuclear worker, FPL could be
assessed up to $12 million in retrospective premiums per incident.

In the event of a catastrophic loss at one of FPL's nuclear plants, the
amount of insurance available may not be adequate to cover property
damage and other expenses incurred.  Uninsured losses, to the extent
not recovered through rates, would be borne by FPL and could have a
material adverse effect on FPL Group's and FPL's financial condition.

FPL self-insures certain of its transmission and distribution (T&D)
property due to the high cost and limited coverage available from
third-party insurers.  FPL maintains a funded storm and property
insurance reserve, which totaled approximately $252 million at
December 31, 1997, for T&D property storm damage or assessments
under the nuclear insurance program.  Recovery from customers of any
losses in excess of the storm and property insurance reserve will require
the approval of the FPSC.  FPL's available lines of credit include $300
million to provide additional liquidity in the event of a T&D property loss.

Contracts - FPL has entered into certain long-term purchased power and
fuel contracts.  Take-or-pay purchased power contracts with the
Jacksonville Electric Authority (JEA) and with subsidiaries of the
Southern Company (Southern Companies) provide approximately 1,300
megawatts (mw) of power through mid-2010 and 374 mw through 2022. 
FPL also has various firm pay-for-performance contracts to purchase
approximately 1,000 mw from certain cogenerators and small power
producers (qualifying facilities) with expiration dates ranging from 2002
through 2026.  The purchased power contracts provide for capacity and
energy payments.  Energy payments are based on the actual power
taken under these contracts.  Capacity payments for the
pay-for-performance contracts are subject to the qualifying facilities
meeting certain contract conditions.  The fuel contracts provide for the
transportation and supply of natural gas and coal and the supply and
use of Orimulsion.  Orimulsion is a new fuel that FPL expected to begin
using in 1998.  The contract and related use of this fuel is subject to
regulatory approvals.  In 1996, Florida's Power Plant Siting Board denied
FPL's request to burn Orimulsion at the Manatee power plant.  FPL
appealed the denial.  In 1997, Florida's Power Plant Siting Board
remanded selected issues for hearing before an administrative law
judge.  Hearings took place in January and February 1998.  A decision is
pending.

The required capacity and minimum payments through 2001 under these
contracts are estimated to be as follows:


Capacity, energy and fuel charges under these contracts were as
follows:


Litigation - In 1997, FPL filed a complaint against the owners of two
qualifying facilities (plant owners) seeking an order declaring that FPL's
obligations under the power purchase agreements with the qualifying
facilities were rendered of no force and effect because the power plants
failed to accomplish commercial operation before January 1, 1997, as
required by the agreements.  In 1997, the plant owners filed for
bankruptcy under Chapter XI of the United States Bankruptcy Code,
ceased all attempts to operate the power plants and entered into an
agreement with the holders of more than 70% of the bonds that partially
financed the construction of the plants.  This agreement gives the holder
of a majority of the principal amount of the bonds (the majority
bondholders) the right to control, fund and manage any litigation against
FPL and the right to settle with FPL on any terms such holders approve,
provided that certain agreements are not affected and certain conditions
are met.  In January 1998, the plant owners (through the attorneys for
the majority bondholders) filed an answer denying the allegations in
FPL's complaint and asserted a counterclaim for approximately $2
billion, consisting of all capacity payments that could have been made
over the 30-year term of the power purchase agreements, plus some
security deposits.  The plant owners also seek three times their actual
damages for alleged violations of Florida antitrust laws, plus attorneys'
fees.

The Florida Municipal Power Agency (FMPA), an organization comprised
of municipal electric utilities, has sued FPL for allegedly breaching a
"contract" to provide transmission service to the FMPA and its members
and for breaching antitrust laws by monopolizing or attempting to
monopolize the provision, coordination and transmission of electric
power in refusing to provide transmission service, or to permit the FMPA
to invest in and use FPL's transmission system, on the FMPA's
proposed terms.  The FMPA seeks $140 million in damages, before
trebling for the antitrust claim, and court orders requiring FPL to permit
the FMPA to invest in and use FPL's transmission system on
"reasonable terms and conditions" and on a basis equal to FPL.  In
1995, the Court of Appeals vacated the District Court's summary
judgment in favor of FPL and remanded the matter to the District Court
for further proceedings.  In 1996, the District Court ordered the FMPA to
seek a declaratory ruling from the FERC regarding certain issues in the
case.  All other action in the case has been stayed pending the FERC's
ruling.

A former cable installation contractor for Telesat Cablevision, Inc.
(Telesat), a wholly-owned subsidiary of FPL Group Capital, sued FPL
Group, FPL Group Capital and Telesat for breach of contract, fraud,
violation of racketeering statutes and several other claims.  The trial
court entered a judgment in favor of FPL Group and Telesat on nine of
twelve counts, including all of the racketeering and fraud claims, and in
favor of FPL Group Capital on all counts.  It also denied all parties'
claims for attorneys' fees.  However, the jury in the case awarded the
contractor damages totaling approximately $6 million against FPL Group
and Telesat for breach of contract and tortious interference.  All parties
have appealed.

FPL Group and FPL believe that they have meritorious defenses to the
litigation to which they are parties described above and are vigorously
defending these suits.  Accordingly, the liabilities, if any, arising from
these proceedings are not anticipated to have a material adverse effect
on their financial statements.

10.  Summarized Financial Information of FPL Group Capital
(Unaudited)

FPL Group Capital's debenture is guaranteed by FPL Group and
included in FPL Group's consolidated balance sheets.  Operating
revenues of FPL Group Capital for the three years ended December 31,
1997, 1996 and 1995 were $237 million, $50 million and $62 million,
respectively.  For the same periods, operating expenses were $186
million, $65 million and $77 million, respectively.  Net income for 1997,
1996 and 1995 was $27 million, $11 million and $2 million, respectively.

At December 31, 1997, FPL Group Capital had $156 million of current
assets, $1.447 billion of noncurrent assets, $252 million of current
liabilities and $999 million of noncurrent liabilities.  At December 31,
1996, FPL Group Capital had current assets of $144 million, noncurrent
assets of $857 million, current liabilities of $182 million and noncurrent
liabilities of $595 million.  
The expansion and restructuring of a number of ESI Energy, Inc.
projects contributed to the fluctuation in certain account balances as
disclosed above.  Beginning in 1997, several projects are consolidated in
FPL Group Capital's financial statements, including the accounts of a
665 mw gas-fired exempt wholesale generator and two solar projects. 
These transactions increased noncurrent assets by approximately $555
million and noncurrent liabilities by approximately $336 million as of
December 31, 1997, as well as contributed to the increase in operating
revenues and operating expenses during 1997.

11.  Quarterly Data (Unaudited)

Condensed consolidated quarterly financial information for 1997 and
1996 is as follows:


Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting
and Financial Disclosure

None
                  PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrants

FPL Group - The information required by this Item will be included in
FPL Group's Proxy Statement which will be filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission in connection with the 1998 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders (FPL Group's Proxy Statement) and is incorporated herein
by reference, or is included in Item I. Business - Executive Officers
of the Registrants.

              FPL DIRECTORS(a)

James L. Broadhead.  Mr. Broadhead, 62, is chairman and chief
executive officer of FPL and chairman, president and chief executive
officer of FPL Group.  He is a director of Delta Air Lines, Inc. and
The Pittston Company, and a board fellow of Cornell University.  Mr.
Broadhead has been a director of FPL and FPL Group since 1989.

Dennis P. Coyle.  Mr. Coyle, 59, is general counsel and secretary of
FPL and FPL Group.  Mr. Coyle has been a director of FPL since 1990.

Paul J. Evanson.  Mr. Evanson, 56, became the president of FPL in
January 1995, after having served as senior vice president, finance
and chief financial officer of FPL and vice president, finance and
chief financial officer of FPL Group since December 1992.  He is a
director of Lynch Corporation and Southern Energy Homes, Inc.  Mr.
Evanson has been a director of FPL since 1992 and a director of FPL
Group since 1995.

Lawrence J. Kelleher.  Mr. Kelleher, 50, is senior vice president,
human resources of FPL and vice president, human resources of FPL
Group.  Mr. Kelleher has been a director of FPL since 1990. 

Thomas F. Plunkett.  Mr. Plunkett, 58, is president of FPL's nuclear
division.  He was formerly site vice president at Turkey Point.  Mr.
Plunkett has been a director of FPL since 1996.

C. O. Woody.  Mr. Woody, 59, became president of the power generation
division in January 1998.  He was formerly senior vice president,
power generation of FPL.  Mr. Woody has been a director of FPL since
1989.

Michael W. Yackira.  Mr. Yackira, 46, became president of FPL Energy,
Inc. in January 1998.  Prior to that, Mr.Yackira was senior vice
president, finance and chief financial officer of FPL and vice
president, finance and chief financial officer of FPL Group from
January 1995 to January 1998.  Prior to that, Mr. Yackira was senior
vice president, market and regulatory services of FPL.  Mr. Yackira
has been a director of FPL since 1990.

(a)    Directors are elected annually and serve until their
       resignation, removal or until their respective
       successors are elected.  Each director's business
       experience during the past five years is noted either
       here or in the Executive Officers table in Item 1.
       Business - Executive Officers of the Registrants.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

FPL Group - The information required by this Item will be included in
FPL Group's Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference,
provided that the Compensation Committee Report and Performance Graph
which are contained in FPL Group's Proxy Statement shall not be
deemed to be incorporated herein by reference.

FPL - The following table sets forth FPL's portion of the
compensation paid during the past three years to FPL's chief
executive officer and the other four most highly-compensated persons
who served as executive officers of FPL at December 31, 1997.

         SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE

Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards - In 1997, performance awards under
FPL Group's Long-Term Incentive Plan were made to the executive
officers named in the Summary Compensation Table as set forth in the
following tables.

      LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AWARDS


Shown in the preceding table, the performance share awards are
payable at the end of the four-year performance period.  The amount
of the payout is determined by multiplying the participant's target
number of shares by his average level of attainment, expressed as a
percentage, which may not exceed 160%, of his targeted awards under
the Annual Incentive Plans for each of the years encompassed by the
award period.  Annual incentive compensation is based on the
attainment of net income goals for FPL and FPL Group, which are
established by the Compensation Committee of FPL Group's Board of
Directors (the Committee) at the beginning of the year.  The amounts
earned on the basis of this performance measure are subject to
reduction based on the degree of achievement of other corporate and
business unit performance measures, and in the discretion of the
Committee.  Mr. Broadhead's annual incentive compensation for 1997
was based on the achievement of FPL Group's net income goals and the
following performance measures for FPL (weighted 85%) and the non-
utility and/or new businesses (weighted 15%) and upon certain
qualitative factors.  For FPL, the incentive performance measures
were financial indicators (weighted 50%) and operating indicators
(weighted 50%).  The financial indicators were operations and
maintenance costs, capital expenditure levels, net income, regulatory
return on equity and operating cash flow.  The operating indicators
were service reliability as measured by the frequency and duration of
service interruptions, system performance as measured by availability
factors for the fossil and nuclear power plants, SALP ratings for
nuclear power plants, unplanned trips of nuclear power plants,
employee safety, number of significant environmental violations,
customer satisfaction survey results, load management installed
capability, conservation programs' annual installed capacity and
full-time equivalent workforce.  For the non-utility and/or new
businesses, the performance measures were total combined net income
and the achievement of the net income targets for ESI Energy, Inc.
and Turner Foods Corporation and to develop wholesale energy
marketing capabilities, develop retail marketing strategy, evaluate
international acquisitions and evaluate domestic electric and gas
acquisitions.  The qualitative factors included measures to position
FPL Group for greater competition and initiating other actions that
significantly strengthen FPL and FPL Group and enhance shareholder
value.

Shown in the preceding table, the shareholder value share awards are
payable at the end of the three-year performance period.  The amount
of the payout is determined by multiplying the participant's target
number of shares by a factor determined based on the average annual
total shareholder return of FPL Group (includes appreciation in FPL
Group common stock plus dividends) as compared to the total
shareholder return of the Dow Jones Electric Utilities Index
companies over the three-year performance period. This payment may
not exceed 160% of targeted awards.

Retirement Plans - FPL Group maintains a non-contributory defined
benefit pension plan and a supplemental executive retirement plan
which covers FPL employees.  The following table shows the estimated
annual benefits, calculated on a straight-line annuity basis, payable
upon retirement in 1997 at age 65 after the indicated years of
service.

             PENSION PLAN TABLE


The compensation covered by the plans includes annual salaries and
bonuses of officers of FPL Group and subsidiaries other than FPL, and
annual salaries of officers of FPL, as shown in the respective
Summary Compensation Tables, but no other amounts shown in that
table.  The estimated credited years of service for the executive
officers named in the Summary Compensation Table are:  Mr. Broadhead,
9 years; Mr. Evanson, 5 years; Mr. Coyle, 8 years; Mr. Woody, 41
years; and Mr. Yackira, 8 years.  Amounts shown in the table reflect
deductions to partially cover employer contributions to Social
Security.

A supplemental retirement plan for Mr. Broadhead provides for a
lump-sum retirement benefit equal to the then present value of a
joint and survivor annuity providing annual payments to him equal to
61% to 70% of his average annual compensation for the three years
prior to his retirement between age 62 (1998) and age 65 (2001) and
to his surviving beneficiary of 61% to 70% of such average annual
compensation, reduced by the then present value of the annual amount
of payments to which he is entitled under all other pension and
retirement plans of FPL Group and former employers.  This benefit is
further reduced by the then value of 96,800 shares of restricted
common stock which vest as to 77,000 shares in 1998 (Mr. Broadhead
has elected to defer vesting and payment of these shares until at
least 1999) and as to 19,800 shares in 2001.  Upon a change of
control of FPL Group (as defined below under Employment Agreements),
the restrictions on the restricted stock lapse and the full
retirement benefit becomes payable.  Upon termination of Mr.
Broadhead's employment agreement (also described below) without
cause, the restrictions on the restricted stock lapse and he becomes
fully vested under the supplemental retirement plan.

A supplemental retirement plan for Mr. Coyle provides for benefits,
upon retirement at age 62 or more, based on two times his credited
years of service.  A supplemental retirement plan for Mr. Evanson
provides for benefits based on two times his credited years of
service up to age 65 and one times his credited years of service
thereafter.

FPL Group sponsors a split-dollar life insurance plan for certain of
FPL and FPL Group's senior officers.  Benefits under the split-dollar
plan are provided by universal life insurance policies purchased by
FPL Group.  If the officer dies prior to retirement, the officer's
beneficiaries generally receive two and one-half times the officer's
annual salary at the time of death.  If the officer dies after
retirement, the officer's beneficiaries receive between 50% to 100%
of the officer's final annual salary.  Each officer is taxable on the
insurance carrier's one year term rate for his or her life insurance
coverage.

Employment Agreements - FPL Group has entered into an employment
agreement with Mr. Broadhead for an initial term ending
December 1997, with automatic one-year extensions thereafter unless
either party elects not to extend.  The agreement provides for a
minimum base salary of $765,900 per year, subject to increases based
upon corporate and individual performance and increases in
cost-of-living indices, plus annual and long-term incentive
compensation opportunities at least equal to those currently in
effect.  If FPL Group terminates Mr. Broadhead's employment without
cause, he is entitled to receive a lump sum payment of two years'
compensation.  Compensation is measured by the then current base
salary plus the average of the preceding two years' annual incentive
awards.  He would also be entitled to receive all amounts accrued
under all performance share grants in progress, prorated for the year
of termination and assuming achievement of the targeted award, and to
full vesting of his benefits under his supplemental retirement plan.

FPL Group and FPL have entered into employment agreements with
certain officers, including the individuals named in the Summary
Compensation Table, to become effective in the event of a change of
control of FPL Group, which is defined as the acquisition of
beneficial ownership of 20% of the voting power of FPL Group, certain
changes in FPL Group's board of directors, or approval by the
shareholders of the liquidation of FPL Group or of certain mergers or
consolidations or of certain transfers of FPL Group's assets.  These
agreements are intended to assure FPL Group and FPL of the continued
services of key officers.  The agreements provide that each officer
shall be employed by FPL Group or one of its subsidiaries in his or
her then current position, with compensation and benefits at least
equal to the then current base and incentive compensation and benefit
levels, for an employment period of four and, in certain cases, five
years after a change in control occurs.

In the event that the officer's employment is terminated (except for
death, disability or cause) or if the officer terminates his or her
employment for good reason, as defined in the agreement, the officer
is entitled to severance benefits in the form of a lump sum payment
equal to the compensation due for the remainder of the employment
period or for two years, whichever is longer.  Such benefits would be
based on the officer's then base salary plus an annual bonus at least
equal to the average bonus for the two years preceding the change of
control.  The officer is also entitled to the maximum amount payable
under all long-term incentive compensation grants outstanding,
continued coverage under all employee benefit plans, supplemental
retirement benefits and reimbursement for any tax penalties incurred
as a result of the severance payments.

Director Compensation - All of the directors of FPL are salaried
employees of FPL Group and its subsidiaries and do not receive any
additional compensation for serving as a director.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management

FPL Group - The information required by this Item will be included in
FPL Group's Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

FPL - FPL Group owns 100% of FPL's common stock.  FPL's directors
and executive officers beneficially own shares of FPL Group's common
stock as follows:


Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance - FPL's
directors and executive officers are required to file initial reports
of ownership and reports of changes of ownership of FPL Group common
stock with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Based upon a
review of these filings and written representations from FPL
directors and executive officers, all required filings were timely
made in 1997.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

FPL Group - The information required by this Item will be included in
FPL Group's Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

FPL - None

                  PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form
8-K

      (a) 1.  Financial Statements                                  Page(s)

            Independent Auditors' Report                            15
            FPL Group:
              Consolidated Statements of Income                     16
              Consolidated Balance Sheets                           17
              Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows                 18
            FPL:
              Consolidated Statements of Income                     19
              Consolidated Balance Sheets                           20
              Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows                 21
            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements              22-36

          2.  Financial Statement Schedules - Schedules are omitted as
              not applicable or not required.

          3.  Exhibits including those Incorporated by Reference


      (b) Reports on Form 8-K - None

         FPL GROUP, INC. SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.

              FPL Group, Inc.



             JAMES L. BROADHEAD
             James L. Broadhead
    Chairman of the Board, President and
          Chief Executive Officer
 (Principal Executive Officer and Director)

Date:  February 26, 1998

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf
of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.


  FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.

       Florida Power & Light Company



              PAUL J. EVANSON
              Paul J. Evanson
           President and Director

Date:  February 26, 1998

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf
of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.


