
10-K405
FPL GROUP, INC. FORM 10-K
                        FOR THE YEAR ENDED 12/31/94




UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
           WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                 FORM 10-K

[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (FEE REQUIRED)

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994

                     OR

[  ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)

         Commission File No. 1-8841

              FPL GROUP, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        Florida                                          59-2449419
(State or other jurisdiction of                          (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                           Identification No.)

           700 Universe Boulevard
         Juno Beach, Florida 33408
  (Address of principal executive offices)
                 (Zip Code)

               (407) 694-4647
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  Common
Stock, $.01 Par Value and Preferred Share Purchase Rights

   Registered on New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes   X    
        No      

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge in definitive proxy
or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [ X ]

Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant as of February 28, 1995 (based on the closing market
price on the Composite Tape on February 28, 1995) was $6,678,699,725
(determined by subtracting from the number of shares outstanding on
that date the number of shares held by directors and officers of the
registrant).

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's
classes of common stock, as of the close of the latest practicable
date.

Common Stock, $.01 Par Value, outstanding at February 28, 1995: 
186,442,735 shares

    DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Incorporated documents
(to the extent indicated herein)                             Part of Form 10-K
Portions of Definitive Proxy Statement for
the 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareholders                      Part III

                DEFINITIONS


Acronyms and defined terms used in the text include the following:


Item 2.  Properties

FPL Group and its subsidiaries maintain properties which are adequate
for their operations.  The electric generating, transmission,
distribution and general facilities of FPL represent approximately
49%, 12%, 32% and 7%, respectively, of FPL Group's gross investment
in electric utility plant in service.


Generating Facilities.  FPL has improved its ability to operate
generating units at higher output levels to help meet peak loads. As
a result of equipment upgrades and changes in operating procedures,
FPL has gained approximately 570 mw of capacity.  As of December 31,
1994, FPL had the following generating facilities: 


Transmission and Distribution.  FPL owns and operates 464 substations
with a total capacity of 101,311,970 kva.  Electric transmission and
distribution lines owned and in service as of December 31, 1994 are
as follows:


Character of Ownership.  Substantially all of FPL's properties are
subject to the lien of its mortgage, which secures debt securities
issued by FPL.  The principal properties of FPL are held by it in fee
and are free from other encumbrances, subject to minor exceptions,
none of which is of such a nature as to substantially impair the
usefulness to FPL of such properties.  Some of the electric lines are
located on land not owned in fee but are covered by necessary
consents of governmental authorities or rights obtained from owners
of private property.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

In October 1988, Union Carbide Corporation, the corporate predecessor
of Praxair, Inc. (Praxair), filed suit against FPL and Florida Power
Corporation (Florida Power) in the United States District Court for
the Middle District of Florida.  Praxair requested that Florida Power
sell power to its facility located within FPL's service territory,
and that FPL transport (wheel) the power to the facility.  Florida
Power and  FPL denied the request as being inconsistent with Florida
law and public policy.  The FPSC issued a declaratory statement that
FPL's denial of Praxair's request was proper and ordered FPL not to
wheel power under such circumstances.  The suit alleges that through
a territorial agreement, FPL and Florida Power have conspired to

eliminate competition for the sale of electric power to retail
customers, thereby unreasonably restraining trade and commerce in
violation of federal antitrust laws as contained in Section 1 of the
Sherman Antitrust Act (Sherman Act).  The suit seeks treble damages
of an unspecified amount based on alleged higher prices paid for
electricity and product sales lost.  Cross motions for summary
judgment were denied.  Both parties are appealing the denials.

In November 1988, TEC Cogeneration, Inc., its affiliate Thermo
Electron Corporation, RRD Corp. and its affiliate Rolls Royce Inc.
filed suit in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Florida against FPL Group and its subsidiaries, FPL and
ESI, on behalf of South Florida Cogeneration Associates (SFCA), a
joint venture which since 1986 has operated a cogeneration facility
for Metropolitan Dade County within FPL's service territory in Miami,
Florida.  The suit alleges that the defendants have engaged in anti-
competitive conduct intended to prevent and defeat competition from
cogenerators within FPL's service territory, and from SFCA's
Metropolitan Dade County facility in particular.  It alleges that the
defendants' actions constitute monopolization and attempts to
monopolize in violation of Section 2 of the Sherman Act; conspiracy
in restraint of trade in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act;
unlawful discrimination in prices, services or facilities in
violation of Section 2 of the Clayton Act; and intentional
interference with SFCA's contractual relationship with Metropolitan
Dade County in violation of Florida law.  The suit seeks damages in
excess of $100 million, before trebling under antitrust law, plus
other unspecified compensatory and punitive damages.  A motion for
summary judgment by FPL Group, FPL and ESI has been denied.  FPL
Group, FPL and ESI are appealing the denial.

In December 1991, the FMPA, an association of municipal electric
utilities operating in the state, filed a suit against FPL in the
Circuit Court of the Ninth Judicial Circuit in Orange County,
Florida.  The suit was subsequently removed to the United States
District Court for the Middle District of Florida.  The FMPA alleges
that FPL is in breach of a "contract," consisting of several
different documents, by refusing to provide transmission service to
the FMPA and its members on the FMPA's terms.  The FMPA also alleges
that FPL has violated federal and Florida antitrust laws by
monopolizing or attempting to monopolize the provision, coordination
and transmission of electric power in FPL's area of operation by
refusing to provide transmission service or to permit the FMPA to
invest in and use FPL's transmission system on the FMPA's terms.  The
FMPA seeks $140 million in damages, before trebling for the antitrust
claim, and asks the court to require FPL:  to transmit electric power
among the FMPA and its members on "reasonable terms and conditions";
to permit the FMPA to contribute to and use FPL's transmission system
on "reasonable terms and conditions"; and to recognize the FMPA
transmission investments as part of FPL's transmission system such
that the FMPA can obtain transmission on a basis equivalent to FPL
or, alternatively, to provide transmission service equivalent to such
FMPA transmission ownership.  In December 1993, the District Court
granted summary judgment in favor of FPL.  The FMPA has appealed.

In November 1989, Johnson Enterprises of Jacksonville, Inc. (Johnson
Enterprises) filed suit in the United States District Court for the
Middle District of Florida against FPL Group, FPL Group Capital and
Telesat, a subsidiary of FPL Group Capital.  The suit alleged breach
of contract, fraud, violation of racketeering statutes and several
other claims.  Plaintiff claimed more than $24 million in
compensatory damages, treble damages under racketeering statutes,
punitive damages and attorneys' fees.  The trial court entered a
judgment in favor of FPL Group and Telesat on nine of twelve counts,
including all of the racketeering and fraud claims, and in favor of
FPL Group Capital on all counts.  It also denied all parties' claims
for attorneys' fees.  However, the jury in the case awarded the
contractor damages totaling approximately $6 million against FPL
Group and Telesat for breach of contract and tortious interference. 
All parties have appealed.

FPL Group believes that it and its subsidiaries have meritorious
defenses to all of the litigation described above and is vigorously
defending these suits.  Accordingly, the liabilities, if any, arising
from these proceedings are not anticipated to have a material adverse
effect on FPL Group's financial statements.  However, in the event
that FPL Group does not prevail in these suits, there may be a
material adverse effect on FPL Group's financial position or results
of operations.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
None 
                  PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related
Stockholder Matters

Common Stock Data.  FPL Group's common stock is traded on the New
York Stock Exchange.  The high and low sales prices for the common
stock of FPL Group as reported in the consolidated transaction
reporting system of the New York Stock Exchange for each quarter
during the past two years are as follows:


The amount and timing of dividends payable on common stock are within
the sole discretion of FPL Group's board of directors.  In May 1994,
FPL Group's board of directors announced a change in dividend policy
which included a revised dividend payout ratio target of
approximately 60% of prior year's earnings and changing the date the
board reviews the dividend rate from May to February.  The ability of
FPL Group to pay dividends on its common stock is dependent upon
dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries, primarily FPL.  Given FPL's
current financial condition, there are no restrictions in effect that
currently limit FPL's ability to pay dividends to FPL Group.  See
Management's Discussion - Liquidity and Capital Resources.


Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

Certain amounts included in prior years' selected financial data were
reclassified to conform to current year's presentation.



Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations

Results of Operations

FPL Group's operating results reflect management's continuing focus
on controlling costs and on reducing the net investment in assets
used in electric utility operations.  Increased energy sales,
combined with cost control efforts, resulted in increased earnings in
1994 despite higher depreciation expense, as well as costs associated
with the consolidation of facilities and inventory reductions.  Also,
reduced operating expenses reflect the benefits of the 1993 cost
reduction program which lowered FPL's work force by approximately
1,700 positions.  The charge associated with the cost reduction
program, primarily consisting of severance pay and employee
retirement benefits, adversely affected net income in 1993. See Note
4.

FPL's retail operations, which represent approximately 97% of FPL
Group's operating revenues, are regulated by the Florida Public
Service Commission (FPSC).  FPL reported a retail regulatory return
on equity of 12.3%, 9.8% and 12.4% in 1994, 1993 and 1992,
respectively.  The return on equity range authorized by the FPSC for
these periods was 11% to 13% with a midpoint of 12%.

Operating revenues from energy sales primarily consist of revenues
from base rates and cost recovery clauses.  Revenues from base rates
were $3.2 billion, $3.0 billion and $2.9 billion in 1994, 1993 and
1992, respectively.  There were no changes in base rates during those
years.  Revenues from cost recovery clauses (including fuel) and
franchise fees represent a pass-through of costs and do not
significantly affect net income.  Such revenues declined in each of
the years 1994, 1993 and 1992 primarily due to lower fuel costs.

Retail customer growth was 2.1%, 2.1% and 1.7% in 1994, 1993 and
1992, respectively.  Customer growth, together with favorable weather
conditions and an improving economy, increased energy sales in 1994
and 1993.  The benefits of customer growth in 1992 were largely
offset by the effects of Hurricane Andrew.

Other operations and maintenance expense in 1994 reflects
management's determination to control costs and a full year of lower
employee-related expenses resulting from the 1993 cost reduction
program.  Partially offsetting these reductions were charges
associated with facilities consolidation (including capital lease
terminations) and inventory reductions, as well as costs relating to
the growth in customer base and placement of additional generating
units in service. FPL also incurred costs relating to four planned
nuclear refueling outages in 1994 compared to two in 1993.  Two of
the outages occurred in the fourth quarter of 1994 affecting the
comparison of quarterly results.  Other operations and maintenance
expense in 1993 was adversely affected by the cost of supporting an
increasing customer base, as well as the implementation of two new
accounting standards relating to postretirement and postemployment
benefits.  The 1993 benefit of the cost reduction program on other
operations and maintenance expense was limited as it was implemented
late in the year.  Other operations and maintenance expense is
expected to decline in 1995, despite projected sales growth,
primarily due to two fewer nuclear refueling outages, the absence of
the facilities consolidation and inventory reduction charges recorded
in 1994 and continuing cost control measures.

An increase in depreciation rates for generating units, as well as
the accelerated write-off of plant overhaul costs from prior years,
consistent with FPSC orders, resulted in higher depreciation expense
in 1994.  Depreciation expense in all periods reflects higher utility
plant balances added to meet customer growth.  A proposal by FPL to
increase its nuclear decommissioning and fossil fuel plant
dismantlement accruals is pending FPSC approval.  In addition, FPL
requested and the FPSC approved, in February 1995, the amortization
of approximately $111 million of deferred litigation items over a
period not to exceed five years.  These actions, together with
continued growth in electric utility plant, will result in higher
depreciation expense in future years.  See Note 1.

Allowance for funds used during construction (AFUDC) declined in 1994
due to the completion of new generating capacity placed in service in
1994 and 1993.  During the past few years, FPL Group has refinanced
substantially all of its existing debt with lower interest rate
instruments.  In addition, efforts continued in 1994 to reduce the
overall debt level and replace some higher fixed interest rate debt
with currently lower cost variable interest rate debt.  These
activities led to the decline in interest expense and preferred stock
dividend requirements in 1994.

In 1994, FPL Group adopted AICPA Statement of Position (SOP) 93-6,
"Employer's Accounting for Employee Stock Ownership Plans."  Under
the new accounting rules, 10.6 million shares held in trust are not
included in the earnings per share computation until allocated to
employee accounts over the next 15 years.  Additionally, compensation
expense is measured at the fair value of shares allocated to employee
accounts during the period and interest income on the ESOP loan held
by FPL Group Capital, which was presented in other - net in 1993 and
1992, is eliminated in consolidation.  The net effect of adopting SOP
93-6 was to reduce net income for 1994 by approximately $21 million
and increase earnings per share by $0.05.

Planned dispositions of non-utility properties held for sale had a
positive effect on cash flows, and a related reduction in other
investments, but no significant effect on earnings.  Income was
reduced in 1993 by costs associated with the refinancing of high cost
debt for the non-regulated subsidiaries.  FPL's debt reacquisition
costs are amortized over the remaining life of the respective debt
securities, consistent with the ratemaking treatment.  See Note 1.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

FPL Group's primary capital requirements consist of expenditures to
meet increased electricity usage and customer growth of FPL.  FPL's
capital expenditures for the period 1995 through 1999, including
AFUDC, are expected to be approximately $3.0 billion, including $712
million in 1995.  See Note 11.  FPL's capital expenditure forecast
has declined significantly over the past few years as a result of
continuing efforts to reduce costs and the completion of its
generation expansion plan.  No new generating plants are expected to
be constructed before the year 2004.

Debt maturities and minimum sinking fund requirements will require
cash outflows of approximately $612 million through 1999, including
$87 million in 1995.  See Notes 7 and 8.  It is anticipated that cash
requirements for construction expenditures and debt repayments in
1995 will be financed from internally generated funds.  FPL Group
expects no new long-term external financings in 1995; however,
refinancing of existing debt or preferred stock with lower interest
rate instruments, which could include variable interest rate debt,
may occur based on market conditions.  Excess internally generated
funds may be used to reduce outstanding debt, preferred stock or
common stock.  Any temporary cash shortages will be met by the
issuance of commercial paper. Bank lines of credit currently
available to FPL Group and its subsidiaries aggregate $985 million.

FPL self-insures for damage to certain transmission and distribution
properties and maintains a funded reserve to guard against storm
losses.  Bank lines of credit of $300 million, included in the $985
million above, are available if needed to provide cash for
restoration costs.  The FPSC has indicated that it would consider
future storm losses in excess of the funded reserve for possible
recovery from ratepayers.

In 1994, FPL Group liquidated its participation in a consolidated
limited partnership, contributing to the reduction in marketable
securities and other current liabilities.  FPL Group Capital and its
subsidiaries, primarily ESI, have guaranteed up to approximately $105
million of lease obligations, debt service payments and other
payments subject to certain contingencies. 

In 1993 and 1992, FPL Group's dividend payout ratio was 90% or
greater.  In its annual review of dividends in May 1994, the board of
directors met with outside advisors and management on this issue
which resulted in the adoption of a new financial policy. The key
elements of this policy include a revised dividend payout ratio
target of approximately 60% of prior year's earnings and acceleration
of the dividend review to February of each year.  In addition, the
board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to 10 million
shares of common stock through 1997, 4 million of which were
repurchased through December 31, 1994.

FPL Group's charter does not limit the dividends that may be paid on
its common stock; however, FPL's charter and mortgage contain
provisions which, under certain conditions, restrict the payment of
dividends and other distributions to FPL Group. Given FPL's current
financial condition and level of earnings, these restrictions do not
currently limit FPL's ability to pay dividends to FPL Group.  At
December 31, 1994, limits under FPL's charter and mortgage would
allow the issuance of approximately $1.4 billion of additional
unsecured debt and $5.7 billion of additional first mortgage bonds,
respectively.  The amount of additional first mortgage bonds that are
permitted to be issued will increase as the amount of unfunded
property additions increases.  FPL's charter also prohibits the
issuance of preferred stock unless the preferred stock coverage
ratio, as prescribed, is at least 1.5; for the twelve months ended
December 31, 1994 it was 2.6.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


        INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



FPL GROUP, INC.:

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of FPL Group,
Inc. and its subsidiaries, listed in the accompanying index as Item
14(a)1 of this Annual Report (Form 10-K) to the Securities and
Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 1994.  These
financial statements are the responsibility of the company's
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of FPL
Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 1994 and 1993 and
the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1994 in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.





DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Certified Public Accountants

Miami, Florida
February 10, 1995

      FPL GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
  (In thousands, except per share amounts)





The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an
integral part of these statements.

      FPL GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
           (Thousands of dollars)



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an
integral part of these statements.

     FPL GROUP,  INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
           (Thousands of Dollars)




The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an
integral part of these statements.

      FPL GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992


1.  Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies

Basis of Presentation - The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of FPL Group, Inc. (FPL Group) and its subsidiaries. 
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been
eliminated in consolidation.  Certain amounts included in prior
years' consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to
conform to the current year's presentation.

Regulation - The principal operating company of FPL Group is Florida
Power & Light Company (FPL), a utility subject to regulation by the
Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC) and the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission (FERC).  As a result of such regulation, FPL
follows the accounting practices set forth in Statement of Financial
Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of
Certain Types of Regulation."  SFAS 71 indicates that regulators can
create assets and impose liabilities that would not be recorded by
non-regulated entities.  Recoverability of these assets is judged the
same as for enterprises in general.  The principal assets recorded
under SFAS 71 are unamortized debt reacquisition costs and deferred
litigation items, aggregating $403 million at December 31, 1994,
which are presented in the other assets section of the consolidated
balance sheets.  The principal SFAS 71-related liabilities are
deferred regulatory credit - income taxes, unamortized investment tax
credits and the storm and property insurance reserve, aggregating
$595 million at December 31, 1994, which are presented in the other
liabilities and deferred credits section of the consolidated balance
sheets.  Other accounting practices followed by regulated electric
utilities that differ from non-regulated entities are outlined below,
including deferral of clause under or over recoveries, nuclear
decommissioning and allowance for funds used during construction.

Revenues and Rates - FPL's retail and wholesale utility rate
schedules are approved by the FPSC and the FERC, respectively. FPL
records the estimated amount of base revenues for energy delivered to
customers but not billed.  Such unbilled revenues are included in
customer receivables and amounted to approximately $117 million and
$112 million at December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

Revenues include amounts resulting from cost recovery clauses, which
are designed to permit full recovery of certain costs and provide a
return on certain assets utilized by these programs, and franchise
fees.  Such revenues represent a pass-through of costs and include
substantially all fuel, purchased power and interchange expenses,
conservation-related expenses, revenue taxes and franchise fees. 
Revenues from cost recovery clauses are recorded when billed; FPL
achieves matching of costs and related revenues by deferring the net
under or over recovery.

Electric Utility Plant, Depreciation and Amortization - The cost of
additions to units of utility property is added to electric utility
plant.  The cost of units of property retired, less net salvage, is
charged to accumulated depreciation.  Maintenance and repairs of
property as well as replacements and renewals of items determined to
be less than units of property are charged to other operations and
maintenance expense.  At December 31, 1994, the generating,
transmission, distribution and general facilities of FPL represented
approximately 49%, 12%, 32% and 7%, respectively, of FPL Group's
gross investment in electric utility plant in service.  Substantially
all electric utility plant is subject to the lien of a mortgage,
securing FPL's first mortgage bonds.

Depreciation of utility property is primarily provided on a
straight-line average remaining life basis and includes a provision
for dismantlement.  For substantially all utility property,
depreciation and fossil fuel plant dismantlement studies are
performed at least every four years.  The most recent depreciation
studies were filed with the FPSC and approved in 1994; approval of
fossil fuel plant dismantlement studies also filed in 1994 is
pending.  The weighted annual composite depreciation rate was
approximately 4.0%, 3.9% and 3.5% for the years 1994, 1993 and 1992,
respectively.  Excluded from the composite rate for 1994 is the
accelerated write-off of certain accumulated plant overhaul costs.

Nuclear fuel costs, including a charge for spent nuclear fuel
disposal, is accrued in fuel expense on a unit of production method.

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) - FPL recognizes
AFUDC as a noncash item which represents the allowed cost of capital
used to finance a portion of FPL's construction work in progress. 
AFUDC is capitalized as an additional cost of utility plant and is
recorded as an addition to income.  The capitalization rate used in
computing AFUDC was 8.26% in 1994, 8.67% from January 1993 through
June 1993, 8.26% from July 1993 through December 1993 and 8.61% in
1992.  FPL allocates total AFUDC between borrowed funds and other
funds.  The portion of AFUDC attributable to short- and long-term
borrowed funds amounted to $10 million, $31 million and $27 million
for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

Nuclear Decommissioning - FPL accrues nuclear decommissioning costs
over the expected service life of each plant.  Nuclear
decommissioning studies are performed at least every five years for
FPL's four nuclear units and are submitted to the FPSC for approval. 
The most recent studies were filed in December 1994 and are pending
approval.  These studies assume prompt dismantlement for the Turkey
Point nuclear units commencing in the year 2013 and for St. Lucie
Unit No. 2 commencing in

2023.  St. Lucie Unit No. 1 will be mothballed in 2016 until St.
Lucie Unit No. 2 is ready for dismantlement.  Decommissioning expense
accruals, included in depreciation and amortization expense in the
consolidated statements of income, were $38 million for each of the
years 1994, 1993 and 1992, and are projected to be $46 million for
1995 and future years.  FPL's portion of the ultimate cost of
decommissioning its four units, including dismantlement and
reclamation, expressed in 1994 dollars, is currently estimated to
aggregate $1.1 billion.  At December 31, 1994 and 1993, the
accumulated provision for nuclear decommissioning totaled $507
million and $445 million, respectively, and is included in
accumulated depreciation.

Amounts equal to decommissioning expense are deposited in funds which
may be used only for the payment of the cost of decommissioning FPL's
nuclear units.  Included in special use funds of FPL in the
consolidated balance sheets were $373 million and $325 million of
decommissioning funds at December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively. 
Securities held in the decommissioning funds primarily consist of
tax-exempt obligations with a weighted-average maturity of 10 years
and, in 1994, are carried at market value.  Any market value
adjustment results in a corresponding adjustment to the accumulated
provision for nuclear decommissioning.  See Note 9.  Fund earnings,
net of taxes, are reinvested in the funds.  Both fund earnings and
the reinvestment of the earnings are included in other - net,
resulting in no net impact on FPL Group's earnings.  The related
income tax effects are included in accumulated deferred income taxes.

In 1994, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) added a
project to its agenda to review current accounting practices for
nuclear decommissioning.  The objective of the project is to
determine if and when a liability for nuclear decommissioning should
be recognized, how the liability should be measured and whether a
corresponding asset is created.  FPL is unable to predict the outcome
of this project; however, these deliberations could result in a
significant change to FPL Group's balance sheet.  Some or all of the
accumulated provision for nuclear decommissioning could be
reclassified out of accumulated depreciation and presented as a
liability.  Additionally, the amount of the liability could be
increased to the total estimated decommissioning cost stated in
current dollars, or the present value of projected future dollars,
with an offset to a property or other account.  FPL Group expects no
significant adverse effect on results of operations from potential
changes currently being considered by the FASB.

Storm and Property Insurance Reserve Fund - A storm and property
insurance reserve fund (storm fund) provides coverage toward storm
damage costs and possible retrospective premium assessments stemming
from a nuclear incident under the various insurance programs covering
FPL's nuclear generating plants.  Securities held in the fund are
carried at market value in 1994 and are included in special use funds
of FPL in the consolidated balance sheets.  The related income tax
effects are included in accumulated deferred income taxes.  These
securities primarily consist of tax-exempt obligations with a
weighted-average maturity of 7 years.  Any market value adjustment
results in a corresponding adjustment to the storm and property
insurance reserve.  See Note 9.  Included in special use funds in the
consolidated balance sheets were $62 million and $54 million of storm
funds at December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

Other Investments - Included in other investments are FPL Group's
non-majority owned interests in partnerships and joint ventures,
essentially all of which are accounted for under the equity method. 
Additionally, other investments include FPL Group's participation in
leveraged leases of $158 million and $155 million at December 31,
1994 and 1993, respectively.

Marketable Securities - In 1993, marketable securities and a related
liability for securities sold short were held by a consolidated
limited partnership and accounted for at market value.  Earnings on
the investments are included in other - net in the consolidated
statements of income.  The partnership was liquidated during 1994.

Cash Equivalents - Cash equivalents consist of short-term, highly
liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.

Commercial Paper - The year end weighted-average interest rate on
commercial paper at December 31, 1994 and 1993 was 5.9% and 3.4%,
respectively.  The average annual rate for 1994 and 1993 was 4.4% and
3.2%, respectively.  In 1994, $200 million of commercial paper was
classified as long-term debt as FPL expects to maintain this level of
commercial paper usage for the foreseeable future.

Retirement of Long-Term Debt - The excess of FPL's reacquisition cost
over the book value of long-term debt is deferred and amortized to
expense ratably over the remaining life of the original issue, which
is consistent with its treatment in the ratemaking process.  FPL
Group Capital Inc (FPL Group Capital) expenses this cost in the
period incurred.

Rate Matters - Deferred litigation items primarily consist of
deferred costs associated with the replacement of steam generators at
the Turkey Point nuclear units.  In 1986, the FPSC approved recovery
of these costs over five years commencing with FPL's next general
rate proceeding.  In February 1995, the FPSC approved FPL's request
to amortize these costs over a period of no more than five years,
commencing in 1995.

Income Taxes - Deferred income taxes are provided on all significant
temporary differences between the financial statement and tax bases
of assets and liabilities.  Investment tax credits are used to reduce
current federal income taxes and, in the case of FPL, are deferred
and amortized to income over the approximate lives of the related
property in accordance with the regulatory treatment.

2.  Income Taxes

The components of income taxes are as follows:


A reconciliation between income tax expense and the income tax
expense calculated at the applicable statutory rates is as follows:


In 1993, FPL Group adopted SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income
Taxes," which requires the use of the liability method in accounting for
income taxes.  At FPL, the principal effect of adopting SFAS 109 was
the establishment of a new account, deferred regulatory credit - income
taxes.  This amount, which represents the revenue equivalent of the
difference in accumulated deferred income taxes computed under
SFAS 109 as compared to prior accounting rules, will be amortized over
the estimated lives of the assets or liabilities which resulted in the initial
recognition of the deferred tax amount.  Adoption of this standard had no
effect on results of operations.

The valuation allowance in 1994 and 1993 offsets a related amount of
deferred tax assets recorded pursuant to SFAS 109. The primary
component of the valuation allowance relates to capital loss
carryforwards from the disposition of a subsidiary in a prior year.  The
amount of the deductible loss from this disposition was limited by
Internal Revenue Service rules which are being challenged by FPL
Group.  FPL Group is unable to predict the outcome of this challenge.

3.  Employee Retirement Benefits

Pension Benefits - Substantially all employees of FPL Group and its
subsidiaries are covered by a noncontributory defined benefit pension
plan.  Plan benefits are generally based on employees' years of service
and compensation during the last years of employment.  Participants are
vested after five years of service.

For 1994, 1993 and 1992 the components of pension cost, net of
amounts capitalized, are as follows:


Prior to 1993, an adjustment was made to reflect in the results of
operations FPL's pension cost calculated under the actuarial cost
method used for utility ratemaking purposes.  In 1993, FPL adopted
consistent pension measurements for ratemaking and financial reporting. 
The accumulated regulatory adjustment is being amortized to income
over five years.  At December 31,

1994 and 1993, the unamortized balance of this regulatory adjustment
included in other liabilities was approximately $12 million and $16 million,
respectively.

FPL Group funds the pension cost calculated under the entry age normal
level percentage of pay actuarial cost method, provided that this amount
satisfies the minimum funding standards of the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and is not greater than the
maximum tax deductible amount for the year.  No contributions to the
plan were required for 1994, 1993 or 1992.

A reconciliation of the funded status of the plan to the amounts
recognized in the consolidated balance sheets is presented below:


The weighted-average discount rate used in determining the actuarial
present value of the projected benefit obligation was 7.75% and 7.0% for
1994 and 1993, respectively.  The assumed rate of increase in future
compensation levels was 5.5% for both years.  The expected long-term
rate of return on plan assets used in determining pension cost was
7.75% for 1994 and 1993 and 7.0% for 1992.

Other Postretirement Benefits - FPL Group and its subsidiaries have
defined benefit postretirement plans for health care and life insurance
benefits that cover substantially all employees.  Eligibility for health care
benefits is based upon age plus years of service at retirement.  The
plans are contributory, and contain cost-sharing features such as
deductibles and coinsurance. FPL Group has capped company
contributions for postretirement health care at a defined level which,
depending on actual claims experience, may be reached by the year
2000.  Generally, life insurance benefits for retirees are capped at
$50,000. FPL Group's policy is to fund postretirement benefits in
amounts determined at the discretion of management.

In 1993, FPL Group adopted SFAS No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for
Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions."  For 1994 and 1993, the
components of net periodic postretirement benefit cost, net of amounts
capitalized, are as follows:


The weighted-average annual assumed rate of increase in the per capita
cost of covered benefits (i.e., health care cost trend rate) for 1994 is
9.0% for retirees under age 65 and 8.0% for retirees over age 65. 
These rates are assumed to decrease gradually to 5.0% by the year
2003, which is when it is anticipated that benefit costs will reach the
defined level at which company contributions will be capped.  The cap
on FPL Group's contributions mitigates the potential significant increase
in costs resulting from an increase in the health care cost trend rate. 
Increasing the assumed health care cost trend rate by one percentage
point would increase the plan's accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation as of December 31, 1994 by $7 million, and the aggregate of
the service and interest cost components of net periodic postretirement
benefit cost of the plan for 1994 by approximately $1 million.

The weighted-average discount rate used in determining the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was 7.75% and 7.0% for
1994 and 1993, respectively.  The expected long-term rate of return on
plan assets used in determining postretirement benefit cost was 7.75%
for 1994 and 1993.

4.  Cost Reduction Program Charge

In 1993, FPL implemented a cost reduction program which resulted in a
$138 million ($85 million after-tax) charge, primarily consisting of
severance payments and employee retirement benefits.  The impact on
pension cost and postretirement benefits was approximately $34 million
and $29 million, respectively, and was included as part of the total
charge of $138 million.  See Note 3.  A total of 1,700 positions
throughout FPL were eliminated.

5.  Jointly-Owned Electric Utility Plant

FPL owns approximately 85% of the St. Lucie Nuclear Unit No. 2, 20%
of the St. Johns River Power Park (SJRPP) units and coal terminal and
approximately 66% undivided interest in Scherer Unit No. 4.  FPL
expects to purchase an additional 11% undivided ownership interest in
Scherer Unit No. 4 in 1995.  At December 31, 1994, FPL's investment in
St. Lucie Unit No. 2 was $719 million, net of accumulated depreciation of
$448 million; the investment in the SJRPP units and coal terminal was
$209 million, net of accumulated depreciation of $121 million; the
investment in Scherer Unit No. 4 was $384 million, net of accumulated
depreciation of $85 million.

FPL is responsible for its share of the operating costs, as well as
providing its own financing.  At December 31, 1994, there was no
significant balance of construction work in progress on these facilities.


6.  Common Shareholders' Equity

The changes in common shareholders' equity accounts are as follows:


Common Stock Dividend Restrictions - FPL Group's Charter does not
limit the dividends that may be paid on its common stock. As a practical
matter, the ability of FPL Group to pay dividends on its common stock is
dependent upon dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries, primarily FPL.
FPL's charter and a mortgage securing FPL's first mortgage bonds
contain provisions that, under certain conditions, restrict the payment of
dividends and other distributions to FPL Group.  Given FPL's current
financial condition and level of earnings, these restrictions do not
currently limit FPL's ability to pay dividends to FPL Group.

Employee Stock Ownership Plan - The employee thrift plans of FPL
Group include a leveraged Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)
feature.  Shares of common stock held by the Trust for the Thrift Plans
(Trust) are used to provide all or a portion of the employers' matching
contributions.  In 1990, the Trust borrowed funds from FPL Group
Capital, at an interest rate of 9.69% to purchase 12.4 million shares and
is repaying the loan with dividends received on all shares along with
cash contributions from the employers.  Dividends on shares allocated to
employee accounts and used by the Trust for debt service are replaced
with an equivalent amount of shares of common stock at prevailing
market prices.  Dividends paid aggregated approximately $23 million in
1994 and $30 million in 1993 and 1992.

In 1994, FPL Group adopted American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants Statement of Position (SOP) 93-6, "Employer's Accounting
for Employee Stock Ownership Plans."  Under the new accounting rules,
unallocated shares held by the Trust were removed from the earnings
per share computation until allocated to employee accounts over the
next 15 years.  Additionally, compensation expense totaling
approximately $18 million is now measured at the fair value of shares
allocated to employee accounts during the period and interest income on
the ESOP loan held by FPL Group Capital is eliminated in consolidation. 
The net effect of adopting SOP 93-6 was to reduce net income for 1994
by approximately $21 million and increase earnings per share by $0.05.

ESOP-related unearned compensation included as a reduction of
shareholders' equity at December 31, 1994 was approximately $300
million, representing 10.4 million unallocated shares at the original issue
price of $29 per share.  The fair value of the unearned compensation
account using the closing price of FPL Group stock as reported on the
Composite Tape for New York Stock Exchange listed companies as of
December 31, 1994 was approximately $364 million.

Long-Term Incentive Plan - In 1994, FPL Group's board of directors and
its shareholders approved a new long-term incentive plan which replaced
the prior long-term incentive plan.  Under the new plan, 9 million shares
of common stock are reserved and available for awards to officers and
employees of FPL Group and its subsidiaries.  No further awards will be
made under the prior plan.  Total compensation charged against
earnings under the incentive plan, and the effect on earnings per share,
were not material in any year.  The changes in share awards under the
incentive plan are as follows:



In conjunction with the options referred to above, stock appreciation
rights have been granted in an equivalent amount.  No awards of
incentive stock options had been granted as of December 31, 1994.

Other - FPL Group has 19 million shares of common stock reserved for
issuance under the Dividend Reinvestment and Common Share Purchase
Plan and Employee Benefit Plans at December 31, 1994.

Each share of common stock has been granted a Preferred Share
Purchase Right, which is exercisable in the event of certain
attempted business combinations.  The Rights will cause substantial
dilution to a person or group attempting to acquire FPL Group on
terms not approved by FPL Group's board of directors.

7.  Preferred Stock (1)(2)

Preferred stock consists of the following:


9.  Financial Instruments

The following estimates of the fair value of financial instruments
have been made using available market information and other valuation
methodologies.  However, the use of different market assumptions or
methods of valuation could result in different estimated fair values.


FPL's capacity and energy charges under these contracts were as
follows:


Natural gas payments, which were recovered through the fuel clause,
were $232 million, $270 million and $269 million for 1994, 1993 and
1992, respectively.

Litigation - Union Carbide Corporation sued FPL and Florida Power
Corporation alleging that, through a territorial agreement approved
by the FPSC, they conspired to eliminate competition in violation of
federal antitrust laws.  Praxair, Inc., an entity that was formerly a
unit of Union Carbide, has been substituted as the plaintiff.  The
suit seeks treble damages of an unspecified amount based on alleged
higher prices paid for electricity and for product sales lost.  Cross
motions for summary judgment were denied.  Both parties are appealing
the denials.

A suit brought by the partners in a cogeneration project located in
Dade County, Florida, alleges that FPL Group, FPL and ESI engaged in
anti-competitive conduct intended to eliminate competition from
cogenerators generally, and from their facility in particular, in
violation of federal antitrust laws and wrongfully interfered with
the cogeneration project's contractual relationship with Metropolitan
Dade County.  The suit seeks damages in excess of $100 million,
before trebling under antitrust laws, plus other unspecified
compensatory and punitive damages.  A motion for summary judgment by
FPL Group, FPL and ESI was denied.  FPL Group, FPL and ESI are
appealing the denial.

The Florida Municipal Power Agency (FMPA), an organization comprised
of municipal electric utilities, has sued FPL for allegedly breaching
a "contract" to provide transmission service to the FMPA and its
members and for breaching antitrust laws by monopolizing or
attempting to monopolize the provision, coordination and transmission
of electric power in refusing to provide transmission service, or to
permit the FMPA to invest in and use FPL's transmission system, on
the FMPA's proposed terms.  The FMPA seeks $140 million in damages,
before trebling for the antitrust claim, and court orders requiring
FPL to permit the FMPA to invest in and use FPL's transmission system
on "reasonable terms and conditions" and on a basis equal to FPL.  In
December 1993, a district court granted summary judgement in favor of
FPL.  The FMPA has appealed.

A former cable installation contractor for Telesat Cablevision, Inc.
(Telesat) sued FPL Group, FPL Group Capital and Telesat for breach of
contract, fraud, violation of racketeering statutes and several other
claims.  The trial court entered a judgment in favor of FPL Group and
Telesat on nine of twelve counts, including all of the racketeering
and fraud claims, and in favor of FPL Group Capital on all counts. 
It also denied all parties' claims for attorney's fees.  However, the
jury in the case awarded the contractor damages totaling
approximately $6 million against FPL Group and Telesat for breach of
contract and tortious interference.  All parties have appealed.

FPL Group believes that it and its subsidiaries have meritorious
defenses to all of the litigation described above and is vigorously
defending these suits.  Accordingly, the liabilities, if any, arising
from these proceedings are not anticipated to have a material adverse
effect on FPL Group's financial statements.

12.  Summarized Financial Information (Unaudited)

Summarized financial information of FPL Group Capital, a consolidated
wholly-owned subsidiary whose debentures are guaranteed by FPL Group,
is provided below:




13.  Quarterly Data (Unaudited)

Condensed consolidated quarterly financial information for 1994 and
1993 is as follows:


14.  Subsequent Event (Unaudited)

In March 1995, FPL issued notices to call 400,000 shares of its
8.625% Preferred Stock, Series R and $66.2 million principal amount
of First Mortgage Bonds, 9 3/8% Series due July 1, 2019.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting
and Financial Disclosure

None
                  PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The information required by this Item will be included in FPL Group's
Definitive Proxy Statement which will be filed with the SEC in
connection with the 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (FPL Group's
Proxy Statement) and is incorporated herein by reference, or is
included in Part I under Executive Officers of the Registrant.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

The information required by this Item will be included in FPL Group's
Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference, provided
that the Compensation Committee Report and Performance Graphs which
are contained in FPL Group's Proxy Statement shall not be deemed to
be incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management

The information required by this Item will be included in FPL Group's
Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information required by this Item will be included in FPL Group's
Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

                  PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form
8-K

      (a) 1.  Financial Statements                                  Page(s)

            Independent Auditors' Report                            14
            Consolidated Statements of Income                       15
            Consolidated Balance Sheets                             16
            Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows                   17
            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements              18-30

          2.  Financial Statement Schedules

            Schedules are omitted as not applicable or not required.

          3.  Exhibits including those Incorporated by Reference

            Exhibit
            Number                    Description

           *3(i)  Restated Articles of Incorporation of FPL Group
                  dated December 31, 1984, as amended through
                  December 17, 1990 (filed as Exhibit 4(a) to
                  Post-Effective Amendment No. 5 to Form S-8, File
                  No. 33-18669)

          *3(ii)  Bylaws of FPL Group dated November 15, 1993
                  (filed as Exhibit 3(ii) to Form 10-K for the
                  year ended December 31, 1993, File No. 1-8841)

           *4(a)  Rights Agreement, dated as of June 16, 1986,
                  between FPL Group, Inc. and the First National
                  Bank of Boston (filed as Exhibit 4(e) to
                  Post-Effective Amendment No. 5 to Form S-8, File
                  No. 33-18669)

           *4(b)  Mortgage and Deed of Trust dated as of January
                  1, 1944, and Ninety-five Supplements thereto
                  between FPL and Bankers Trust Company and The
                  Florida National Bank of Jacksonville (now First
                  Union National Bank of Florida), Trustees (as of
                  September 2, 1992, the sole trustee is Bankers
                  Trust Company) (filed as Exhibit B-3, File No.
                  2-4845; Exhibit 7(a), File No. 2-7126; Exhibit
                  7(a), File No. 2-7523; Exhibit 7(a), File No.
                  2-7990; Exhibit 7(a), File No. 2-9217; Exhibit
                  4(a)-5, File No. 2-10093; Exhibit 4(c), File 
                  No. 2-11491; Exhibit 4(b)-1, File No. 2-12900;
                  Exhibit 4(b)-1, File No. 2-13255; Exhibit 
                  4(b)-1, File No. 2-13705; Exhibit  4(b)-1, File
                  No.  2-13925; Exhibit 4(b)-1, File No. 2-15088;
                  Exhibit 4(b)-1, File No. 2-15677; Exhibit
                  4(b)-1, File No. 2-20501; Exhibit 4(b)-1, File
                  No. 2-22104; Exhibit 2(c), File No. 2-23142;
                  Exhibit 2(c), File No. 2-24195; Exhibit 4(b)-1,
                  File No. 2-25677; Exhibit 2(c), File No.

                  2-27612; Exhibit 2(c), File No. 2-29001; Exhibit
                  2(c), File No. 2-30542; Exhibit 2(c), File
                  No. 2-33038; Exhibit 2(c), File No. 2-37679;
                  Exhibit 2(c), File No. 2-39006; Exhibit 2(c),
                  File No. 2-41312; Exhibit 2(c), File
                  No. 2-44234; Exhibit 2(c), File No. 2-46502;
                  Exhibit 2(c), File No. 2-48679; Exhibit 2(c),
                  File No. 2-49726; Exhibit 2(c), File
                  No. 2-50712; Exhibit 2(c), File No. 2-52826;
                  Exhibit 2(c), File No. 2-53272; Exhibit 2(c),
                  File No. 2-54242; Exhibit 2(c), File
                  No. 2-56228; Exhibits 2(c) and 2(d), File No.
                  2-60413; Exhibits 2(c) and 2(d), File No.
                  2-65701; Exhibit 2(c), File No. 2-66524; Exhibit
                  2(c), File No. 2-67239; Exhibit 4(c), File No.
                  2-69716; Exhibit 4(c), File No. 2-70767; Exhibit
                  4(b), File No. 2-71542; Exhibit 4(b), File
                  No. 2-73799; Exhibits 4(c), 4(d) and 4(e), File
                  No. 2-75762; Exhibit 4(c), File No. 2-77629;
                  Exhibit 4(c), File No. 2-79557; Exhibit 99(a) to
                  Post-Effective Amendment No. 5 to Form S-8, File
                  No. 33-18669; Exhibit 99(a) to Post-Effective
                  Amendment No. 1 to Form S-3, File No. 33-46076);
                  Exhibit 4(b) to Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1993, File No. 1-3545; and Exhibit
                  4(i) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
                  1994, File No. 1-3545)

          *10(a)  Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as
                  amended and restated (filed as Exhibit 99(b) to
                  Post-Effective Amendment No. 5 to Form S-8, File
                  No. 33-18669)

          *10(b)  Benefit Restoration Plan of FPL Group and
                  affiliates, as amended and restated (filed as
                  Exhibit 99(c) to Post-Effective Amendment No. 5
                  to Form S-8, File No. 33-18669)

          *10(c)  FPL Group Amended and Restated Supplemental
                  Executive Retirement Plan for J. L. Broadhead
                  (filed as Exhibit 99(d) to Post-Effective
                  Amendment No. 5 to Form S-8, File No. 33-18669)

          *10(d)  Employment Agreement between FPL Group and D. P.
                  Coyle dated June 12, 1989 (filed as Exhibit
                  99(e) to Post-Effective Amendment No. 5 to Form
                  S-8, File No. 33-18669)

          *10(e)  Employment Agreement between FPL and Stephen E.
                  Frank dated July 31, 1990 (filed as
                  Exhibit 99(f) to Post-Effective Amendment No. 5
                  to Form S-8, File No. 33-18669)

          *10(f)  Employment Agreement between FPL and Jerome H.
                  Goldberg dated August 9, 1989 (filed as
                  Exhibit 99(g) to Post-Effective Amendment No. 5
                  to Form S-8, File No. 33-18669)

          *10(g)  FPL Group Long-Term Incentive Plan of 1985, as
                  amended (filed as Exhibit 99(h) to
                  Post-Effective Amendment No. 5 to Form S-8, File
                  No. 33-18669)

          *10(h)  Director and Executive Compensation Deferral
                  Plan of FPL, as amended (filed as Exhibit 99(i)
                  to Post-Effective Amendment No. 5 to Form S-8,
                  File No. 33-18669)

          *10(i)  Employment Agreement between FPL Group and James
                  L. Broadhead dated February 13, 1989 (filed as
                  Exhibit 99(j) to Post-Effective Amendment No. 5
                  to Form S-8, File No. 33-18669)

          *10(j)  Employment Agreement between FPL Group and James
                  L. Broadhead dated as of December 13, 1993
                  (filed as Exhibit 10(j) to Form 10-K for the
                  year ended December 31, 1993, File No. 1-8841)

          *10(k)  Annual Incentive Plan dated as of March 31, 1994
                  (filed as Exhibit 10(k) to Form 10-Q for the
                  quarter ended March 31, 1994, File No. 1-8841)

          *10(l)  Long-Term Incentive Plan 1994 (filed as Exhibit
                  4(d) to Form S-8, File No. 33-57673)

          *10(m)  Employment Agreement between FPL and Jerome H.
                  Goldberg dated July 25, 1994 (filed as Exhibit
                  10(m) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                  June 30, 1994, File No. 1-8841)

              21  Subsidiaries of the Registrant

              23  Independent Auditors' Consent

              27  Financial Data Schedule

* Incorporated herein by reference

      (b) Reports on Form 8-K
          None

                 SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.

              FPL Group, Inc.



             JAMES L. BROADHEAD
             James L. Broadhead
    Chairman of the Board, President and
          Chief Executive Officer
 (Principal Executive Officer and Director)

Date:  March 20, 1995

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf
of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.


