
10-K
FORM 10-K FOR APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.




                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, DC  20549

                                   FORM 10-K
                                    Mark one
[ X ]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES
       EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended OCTOBER 30, 1994

[   ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
       SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from _______________  to  ______________
COMMISSION FILE NUMBER   0-6920

                            APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)





Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes   X      No        .

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.   [     ]

Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non affiliates of the
registrant as of November 1, 1994: $4,138,522,014

Number of shares outstanding of the issuer's Common Stock, $.01 par value, as
of November 1, 1994:  84,119,287.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
Portions of Applied Materials 1994 Annual Report for the year ended October 30,
1994 are incorporated by reference into Parts I , II and IV of this Form 10-K.
Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement for the Company's Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on March 14, 1995 are incorporated by reference into
Part III of this Form 10-K.

Index of Exhibits on pages 29 through 31.

                                   1 of 217



                                     PART I

ITEM 1:  BUSINESS

         Organized in 1967, Applied Materials, Inc.  ("Applied Materials" or
the "Company") develops, manufactures, markets and services semiconductor wafer
fabrication equipment and related spare parts.  The Company's worldwide
customers include both companies which manufacture semiconductor devices for
use in their own products and companies which manufacture semiconductor devices
for sale to others. Applied Materials operates exclusively in the semiconductor
wafer fabrication equipment industry. The Company is also a fifty percent
stockholder in Applied Komatsu Technology, Inc., which produces thin film
transistor manufacturing systems for  active-matrix liquid crystal displays.


PRODUCTS
         Applied Materials' products are sophisticated systems requiring
state-of-the-art technology in wafer processing chemistry and physics,
particulate management, automation, process control and software.  Many of
these technologies are complementary and can be applied across all of the
Company's products.  The Company's products provide enabling technology,
productivity and yield enhancements to semiconductor manufacturers.  The
Company's products are used to fabricate semiconductor devices on a substrate
of semiconductor material (usually silicon).  Finished devices consist of thin
film layers which can form anywhere from one to millions of tiny electronic
components that combine to perform desired electrical functions.  The
fabrication process must control film and feature quality to ensure proper
device performance while meeting yield and throughput goals.  The Company
currently manufactures equipment that addresses three steps in wafer
fabrication:  deposition, etch and ion implantation.

Single-wafer, multichamber architecture.
         Recognizing the trend toward more stringent process requirements and
larger wafer sizes, Applied Materials developed a single-wafer, multichamber
system called the Precision 5000. The Company introduced the Precision 5000
with dielectric Chemical Vapor Deposition (CVD) processes in 1987, etch
processes in 1988 and CVD tungsten processes (WCVD) in 1989.  The Precision
5000's single-wafer, multichamber architecture which features several
processing chambers, each of which is attached to a central handling system, is
designed for both serial and integrated processing.  The Precision 5000's
integrated processing capability makes it possible to perform multiple process
steps without the wafer leaving a controlled environment, thus reducing the
risk of particulate contamination.  The Company leveraged its expertise in
single-wafer, multichamber architecture to develop an evolutionary platform
called the Endura 5500 PVD (physical vapor deposition) in 1990 featuring a
staged, ultra-high vacuum architecture for the rapid sputtering of aluminum and
other metal films used to form the circuit interconnections on advanced
devices.  In October 1991, the Company announced its second-generation
Precision 5000 system, the Precision 5000 Mark II, with numerous enhancements
to the platform, process chambers and remote support equipment.  The Precision
5000 Mark II is used to manufacture advanced devices, such as 16 megabit DRAMs
(Dynamic Random Access Memories), on wafers up to 200mm (8-inch) in diameter.
In September 1992, the Company announced its latest generation single-wafer,
multichamber platform, the Centura, to target the high temperature thin films
market as well as future process applications with 0.5 micron and below
specifications.  The Company has shipped more than 2,000 multichamber platforms
and more than 6,000 process chambers.  For the fiscal year ended October 30,
1994, sales of the Company's single-wafer, multichamber systems accounted for
approximately 86% of systems revenue.




Deposition.
         A fundamental step in semiconductor fabrication, deposition is the
process of layering either electrically insulating (dielectric) or electrically
conductive material on the wafer.  Applied Materials currently participates in
chemical vapor deposition (CVD), physical vapor deposition (PVD), and epitaxial
and polysilicon deposition.

                 CVD.  Chemical vapor deposition deposits thin films
         (insulators, conductors and semiconductors) from gaseous sources.  In
         1987, the Company introduced the Precision 5000 CVD which performs a
         broad range of deposition processes utilizing up to four individual
         chambers on a single system.  In 1989, the Company entered the market
         for metal CVD with a new system for blanket tungsten deposition, the
         Precision 5000 WCVD.  This system is based on the single-wafer,
         multichamber Precision 5000 CVD system architecture and is designed to
         reduce operating costs for tungsten deposition and to produce
         high-quality tungsten films for interconnect applications in advanced
         semiconductor devices.  In 1990, the Company introduced integrated
         tungsten plug fabrication capability by combining its blanket tungsten
         CVD deposition and etchback capabilities onto the same system.  In
         1991, the Company introduced tungsten silicide capabilities and in
         1993, titanium nitride (TiN) capabilities to further extend the
         Precision 5000 platform offerings.  The Company released its newest
         generation of sub-atmospheric process technology on the Precision 5000
         Mark II CVD platform in April 1994, addressing 0.35 micron
         applications.  In May 1994, the Company introduced a new
         multi-platform chamber for blanket tungsten deposition on wafers up to
         200mm (8 inch) in diameter.

                 PVD.  Physical vapor deposition sputters metals on wafers
         during semiconductor fabrication.  Unlike CVD, the sources of the
         deposited materials are solid sources of the films to be deposited.
         Applied Materials entered the PVD market in April 1990 with the Endura
         PVD system. The system utilizes a modular, single-wafer, multichamber
         platform which accommodates ultra-high vacuum (UHV) processes like
         PVD, and conventional high-vacuum processes like CVD and etch. In July
         of 1993, the Company introduced the Endura High Productivity (HP) PVD
         system, an enhanced version of the Endura PVD system.  In November
         1993, the Centura HP PVD was introduced in order to offer customers a
         choice of platforms using the Company's PVD technology.

                 Epitaxial and polysilicon deposition.  Epitaxial and
         polysilicon deposition involve depositing a layer of high-quality,
         silicon-based compounds on the surface of the silicon wafer. The
         epitaxial layer forms the base of some types of integrated circuits.
         In 1989, the Company introduced the Precision 7700 Epi system for
         advanced silicon deposition. The 7700 system extends the capabilities
         of radiantly-heated "barrel" technology and incorporates
         fully-automated wafer handling as well as many features for
         particulate control.  In September 1992, the Company announced the
         Centura Poly, a single-wafer, multichamber platform targeted at the
         high-temperature thin film deposition of  polysilicon on wafers up to
         200mm (8 inch) in diameter. The Centura Epi system, which deposits
         epitaxial silicon, was announced in March 1993. In December 1993, the
         Company launched the Polycide Centura which combines chambers for
         polysilicon and tungsten silicide deposition on the Centura platform.







Etch.
         Before etch processing begins, a wafer is patterned with photoresist
during photolithography.  Etching then selectively removes material from areas
which are not covered by the photoresist pattern.  Applied Materials entered
the etch market in 1981 with the introduction of the AME 8100 etch system,
which utilized a batch process technology for dry plasma etching.  In 1985, the
Company introduced the Precision Etch 8300, which featured improved levels of
automation and particulate control.  The Company continues to sell the
Precision Etch 8300 product and has shipped approximately 825 systems.  Applied
Materials' first single-wafer, multichamber system for the dry etch market was
the Precision 5000 Etch, introduced in 1988.  In 1990, the Company introduced a
metal etch system based on the Precision 5000 architecture which provides
single-wafer, aluminum etch capabilities.  In July 1993, the Company introduced
its next generation etch system, the Omega Centura, designed for critical oxide
etch applications requiring sub-0.5 micron design rules. This announcement was
followed by the October 1993 introduction of the Precision 5000 Mark II Etch
MxP, a new model of the Precision 5000-series etch system with several
enhancements including process capability for 0.35 micron applications.  In
July 1994, Applied Materials introduced the Metal Etch MxP Centura, which
combines sub-0.5 micron process technology with improved throughput.

Ion Implantation.
         During ion implantation, silicon wafers are bombarded by a
high-velocity beam of electrically charged ions.  These ions penetrate the
wafer at selected sites and change the electrical properties of the implanted
area.  Applied Materials entered the high-current portion of the implant market
in 1985 with the Precision Implant 9000 and introduced the Precision Implant
9200 in 1988.  In 1989, the Company added enhancements to the 9200 series
including a new option for automated selection of implant angles, and new
hardware/software options that enable customers to perform remote monitoring
and diagnostics.  In 1991, the Company announced an enhanced version of its
high-current ion implanter and designated it the Precision Implant 9200XJ.  In
November 1992, the Company introduced a new high-current ion implantation
system, the Precision Implant 9500, to address the production of high-density
semiconductor devices, such as 16 megabit and 64 megabit memory devices and
advanced microprocessors.

CUSTOMER SERVICE AND SUPPORT
         The customer requirement for high yields of integrated circuits during
the manufacturing process requires that semiconductor wafer fabrication
equipment operates reliably, with maximum uptime and within very precise
tolerances.  Applied Materials installs its equipment and provides warranty
service worldwide through offices located in the United States, Japan, Europe
and the Asia-Pacific region (Korea, Taiwan, China and Singapore).  Applied
Materials maintains 54 service/sales offices worldwide, with 15 offices in
Japan, 9 offices in Europe, 8 offices in the Asia/Pacific region, and the
remainder in the United States.  The Company offers a variety of service
contracts to customers for maintenance of installed equipment and provides a
comprehensive training program for all customers.

BACKLOG
         At October 30, 1994, the Company's backlog totaled $715.2 million,
compared to $365.8 million at October 31, 1993.  The Company expects to fill
the present backlog of orders during fiscal 1995.







MANUFACTURING, RAW MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
         The Company's manufacturing activities consist primarily of assembling
various commercial and proprietary components into finished systems,
principally in the United States, with additional operations in England and
Japan. Production requires some raw materials and a wide variety of mechanical
and electrical components, which are manufactured to the Company's
specifications.  Multiple commercial sources are available for most components.
The Company has consolidated the number of sources for several key purchased
items for purposes of improving its position with its suppliers, resulting in
higher levels of on-time delivery, lower inventory levels and better pricing to
the Company.  There have been no significant delays in receiving components
from sole source suppliers; however, the unavailability of any of these sources
could disrupt scheduled deliveries to customers.

MARKETING AND SALES
         Because of the highly technical nature of its products, the Company
markets its products worldwide through a direct sales force, with sales,
service and spare parts offices in the United States, Japan, Europe and the
Asia-Pacific region. For the fiscal year ended October 30, 1994, sales to
customers in the United States, Japan, Europe and Asia-Pacific accounted for
approximately 37%, 27%, 18% and 18%, respectively, of the Company's net sales.
For the fiscal year ended October 31, 1993, sales to customers in the United
States, Japan, Europe and Asia-Pacific accounted for approximately 38%, 25%,
20% and 17%, respectively, of the Company's net sales. The Company's business
is not considered to be seasonal in nature, but it is subject to the capital
equipment expenditure patterns of major semiconductor manufacturers which are
based on many factors including anticipated market demand for integrated
circuits, the development of new technologies and global economic conditions.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
        The market served by the Company is characterized by rapid
technological change. The Company's research and development efforts are global
in nature.  Engineering organizations are located in the United States,
England, Israel and Japan, with process support and customer demonstration
laboratories in the United States, England and Japan.  In 1991, the Company 
announced the opening of an expanded technology center in Narita, Japan. In
1994, the Company announced plans to build and operate technology centers in
South Korea and Taiwan.  The Company also operates a technology center in
Israel which is being used to develop controller configuration and software
tools for its semiconductor processing systems.  Applied Materials' research
and development activities are primarily directed toward the development of new
wafer processing systems and new process applications for existing products. 
Applied Materials works closely with its global customers to design its systems
to meet its customers' planned technical and production requirements.

COMPETITION
         The global semiconductor equipment industry is highly competitive and
is characterized by rapid technological advancements and demanding worldwide
service requirements. Each of the Company's products competes in markets
defined by the particular wafer fabrication process it performs. There are
several companies that compete with Applied Materials in each of these markets.
Competition is based on many factors, primarily technological advancements,
productivity and cost-effectiveness, customer support, contamination control,
and overall product quality.  Management believes that the Company's
competitive advantage in each of its served markets is based on the ability of
its products and services to address customer requirements as they relate to
these competitive factors.







         Applied Materials is a principal supplier in each of its served
markets. The Company faces strong competition throughout the world from other
semiconductor equipment manufacturers as well as semiconductor manufacturers
who design and produce fabrication equipment for their own internal uses and,
in some cases, for resale. Management believes that the Company is a strong
competitor with respect to its products, services and resources. However, new
products,  pricing pressures,  and other competitive actions from both new and
existing competitors could adversely affect the Company's market position.

JOINT VENTURE
         In September 1991, the Company announced its plans to develop thin
film transistor (TFT) manufacturing systems for Active-Matrix Liquid Crystal
Displays (AMLCDs). The AMLCD market currently includes screens for laptop,
notebook and palmtop computers and instrument displays, and the Company
believes that this market in the future may include high-resolution
workstations and high definition television (HDTV).  In September 1993, a joint
venture company was formed with Applied Materials, Inc. and Komatsu Ltd. of
Japan sharing a 50-50 ownership of the joint venture.  The joint venture,
Applied Komatsu Technology, Inc. (AKT), is accounted for using the equity
method.  The Company's management believes that systems developed by AKT have
the potential to lower the manufacturing costs of AMLCDs. The Company has
granted to AKT an exclusive license to use the Company's intellectual property
to develop, make, and sell products for the manufacture of flat panel displays,
in exchange for royalties in respect thereof.  AKT anticipates accelerating its
investment in product technologies for both PVD and Etch in addition to
expanding the substrate size of its CVD product in fiscal 1995 and 1996.

PATENTS AND LICENSES
         Management believes that the Company's competitive position is
primarily dependent upon skills in engineering, production, and marketing
rather than its patent position.  However, protection of the Company's
technology assets by obtaining and enforcing patents is increasingly important.
Consequently, the Company has an active program to file applications in both
the United States and in other countries on inventions which the Company
considers significant.  The Company has a number of patents in the United
States and other countries and additional applications are pending relating to
new developments in its equipment and processes.  In addition to patents, the
Company also possesses other proprietary intellectual property, including
trademarks, know-how, trade secrets and copyrights.

         The Company enters into patent and technology licensing agreements
with others when management determines that it is in the Company's interest to
do so.  The Company pays reasonable royalties under existing patent license
agreements for the use, in several of its products, of certain patents which
are licensed to the Company for the life of the patents.

         The Company has made its technology, including patents, available to
AKT through a license arrangement which permits AKT to use the Company's
technology to develop, manufacture and sell equipment for the flat panel
display industry.

         In the normal course of business, the Company from time to time
receives and makes inquiries with regard to possible patent infringement.  In
dealing with such inquiries, it may become necessary or useful in the future
for the Company to obtain and grant licenses or other rights.  However, there
can be no assurance that such license rights will be available to the Company
on commercially reasonable terms.  While there can be no assurance about the
outcome of such inquiries, the Company believes it is unlikely that their
resolution will have a material adverse effect on its financial position.







ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
         Although one of the Company's locations has been designated as a
Superfund site by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, neither compliance
with Federal, State and local provisions regulating discharge of materials into
the environment, nor remedial agreements or other actions relating to the
environment, has had or is expected to have a material effect on the Company's
capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

EMPLOYEES
         At October 30, 1994, the Company employed 6,497 persons.  None of
these employees was represented by a union.  Management considers its relations
with its employees to be good.

         The following portions of the Company's 1994 Annual Report are
incorporated herein by reference:  "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations," pages  27 through 30, and the
Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes thereto, pages 31
through 45.







ITEM 2:  PROPERTIES

Certain information concerning the Company's principal properties at October
30, 1994 is set forth below:



         The Company also leases office space for 54 service and sales offices
throughout the world: 15 offices are located in Japan, 22 offices are in the
United States, 9 offices are in Europe, and 8 offices are located in the
Asia-Pacific region.

         The Company owns 173 acres of land in Austin, Texas. This site can
accommodate approximately 1.5 million square feet of building space to help
satisfy the Company's current and future needs. In fiscal 1993, the Company
began volume production at a 154,000 square-foot manufacturing facility.  The
Company expects a second facility to be completed in the first quarter of
fiscal 1995.

         Management considers the above facilities suitable and adequate to
meet the Company's requirements.


* Subject to loans totaling $50 million secured by property and equipment
  having an approximate net book value of $84 million at October 30, 1994.







ITEM 3:  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         On February 6, 1991, the Company filed a lawsuit against Advanced
Semiconductor Materials America, Inc., Epsilon Technology, Inc.  (doing
business as ASM Epitaxy) and Advanced Semiconductor Materials International
N.V. (the defendants, together, hereafter referred to as "ASM") in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of California.  The Company
alleges that ASM has been and is currently infringing certain of the Company's
patents which relate to epitaxial reactors by making and selling, among other
products, the ASM Epsilon I epitaxial reactor.  The Company seeks an injunction
against further infringement of these patents, damages for ASM's infringement,
trebling of damages for willful infringement, and reasonable attorneys' fees
and costs.  In October, 1992, the Company filed an additional suit against the
same defendants, alleging infringement of an additional patent by the same ASM
Epsilon I epitaxial reactor.

         The defendants (except ASM International N.V.) have made counterclaims
against the Company for declaratory judgment of invalidity, unenforceability
and noninfringement of the patents in suit.  The defendants also claim that the
Company monopolizes and is attempting to monopolize the market for epitaxial
reactor systems.  The defendants seek dismissal, payment by the Company of the
defendants' costs and attorneys' fees, injunctions against the Company, damages
according to proof and trebling of damages.

         Trial of the first lawsuit against ASM concluded in August 1993 and in
April 1994, the court issued its decision.  The court found that ASM infringed
three of the Company's patents, one of the patents asserted against ASM was
found not infringed and one was found invalid.  Subsequently, the court issued
an injunction against ASM's sale and use of Epsilon I epitaxial reactors in the
United States, but granted a stay of the injunction pending an appeal of the
court's decision.  The stay order requires ASM to pay a fee, as a security for
the Company's interests, for each Epsilon I sold by ASM in the United States
after the date of the injunction.  Proceedings to resolve the issues of
damages, willful infringement, and ASM's counterclaims, which have been
bifurcated for separate trial, will be stayed pending the appeal of the trial
court's infringement and validity decision.  Both ASM and the Company are
appealing that decision.  The second of the Company's lawsuits against ASM is
currently set for trial in February, 1995.

         On January 19, 1993, ASM served a lawsuit on the Company which alleges
that the Company infringes two patents of ASM.  The lawsuit was originally
filed by ASM in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona in
Phoenix, Arizona, but has been transferred by the court to the Northern
District of California in San Jose, California.  One of the patents relates to
the Company's CVD product lines and the second patent to the Company's
epitaxial product line.  The lawsuit seeks to enjoin the Company from
infringing the patents and seeks monetary damages of an unspecified amount and
costs.  After substantial discovery, ASM filed a voluntary stay of the
proceedings with respect to one of the patents in suit.  Trial of its claims on
the other patent is currently set for May 1995.  The Company believes it has
meritorious defenses against ASM's claims.

         On September 6, 1994, General Signal Corporation filed a lawsuit
against the Company in the United States District Court, District of Delaware.
General Signal alleges that the Company infringes five of General Signal's
United States Patents by making, using, selling or offering for sale
multichamber wafer fabrication equipment, including for example, the Precision
5000 series machines.  General Signal seeks an injunction, multiple damages and
costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and interest, and other relief as
the court may deem just and proper.







         The suit is in the early stages of discovery and no date has been set
for trial.  The Company believes that it has meritorious defenses against
General Signal's claims.

         The Company is a defendant in other litigation arising in the normal
course of business.  The Company believes that it is unlikely that the outcome
of these lawsuits will have an adverse material effect on the Company's
financial position or results of operations.

         Also see "Environmental Matters" and "Patents and Licenses" under
"Item 1: BUSINESS" above.

ITEM 4:  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS IN FOURTH QUARTER
         OF FISCAL 1994

         None.







                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

   The following table and notes thereto identify and set forth information
about the Company's seven executive officers:



(1)      Mr. Morgan, age 56, has been Chief Executive Officer since 1977 and
         Chairman of the Board of Directors since 1987. Mr. Morgan also served
         as President of the Company from 1976 to 1987.

(2)      Mr. Bagley, age 55, was appointed Vice Chairman of the Board of
         Directors in December 1993. Mr. Bagley has been Chief Operating
         Officer of the Company since 1987 and served as President of the
         Company from 1987 to 1993. Prior to that, Mr. Bagley served as Senior
         Vice President of the Company since 1981.

(3)      Dr. Maydan, age 59, was appointed President of the Company in December
         1993. Dr. Maydan served as Executive Vice President from 1990 to 1993.
         Prior to that, Dr. Maydan had been Group Vice President since February
         1989.  Dr. Maydan joined Applied Materials in 1980 as a Director of
         Technology.

(4)      Mr. Taylor, age 54, has been Chief Financial Officer of the Company
         since 1984 and Senior Vice President since 1991.  Prior to that, Mr.
         Taylor had been Vice President of Finance since 1984.

(5)      Mr. Iwasaki, age 48, has been Chairman of Applied Materials Japan,
         Inc. since 1991.  Prior to that, Mr. Iwasaki had been President of
         Applied Materials Japan, Inc. since 1981.  Mr. Iwasaki became
         President of Applied Komatsu Technology, Inc. (a 50-50 joint venture
         corporation with Komatsu, Ltd.) in 1993.

(6)      Dr. Somekh, age 48, was appointed Senior Vice President of the Company
         in December 1993. Dr. Somekh served as  Group Vice President from 1990
         to 1993.  Prior to that, Dr. Somekh had been a divisional Vice
         President.  Dr. Somekh joined Applied Materials in 1980 as a Project
         Manager.

(7)      Dr. Wang, age 48, was appointed Senior Vice President of the Company
         in December 1993. Dr. Wang served as Group Vice President from 1990 to
         1993.  Prior to that, Dr. Wang had been a divisional Vice President.
         Dr. Wang joined Applied Materials in 1980 as a Manager, Process
         Engineering and Applications.







                                    PART II

ITEM 5:  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

    "Stock Price History" on page 47 of the Applied Materials' 1994 Annual
Report is incorporated herein by reference.

    The Company's common stock is traded over-the-counter. As of November 1,
1994 there were approximately 1,175 record holders of the common stock.

    To date, the Company has paid no cash dividends to its stockholders.  The
Company has no plans to pay cash dividends in the near future.


ITEM 6:  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    "Selected Consolidated Financial Data" on page 26 of the Applied Materials
1994 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 7:  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    "Management's Discussion and Analysis" on pages 27 through 30 of
the Applied Materials 1994 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.







ITEM 8:  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

         The consolidated financial statements, together with the report
thereon of Price Waterhouse LLP, independent accountants, dated November 23,
1994 and appearing in pages 31 through 47 of Applied Materials 1994 Annual
Report are incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K Annual Report.  With the
exception of the aforementioned information and the information incorporated by
reference in items 1, 5, 6, and 7, Applied Materials 1994 Annual Report is not
deemed to be filed as part of this report.


ITEM 9:  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         None.







                                    PART III

         Pursuant to Paragraph G(3) of the General Instructions to Form 10-K,
portions of the information required by Part III of Form 10-K are incorporated
by reference from the Company's Proxy Statement to be filed with the Commission
in connection with the 1995 Annual Meeting of Stockholders ("the Proxy
Statement").

ITEM 10:  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    (a) Information concerning directors of the Company appears in the
        Company's Proxy Statement, under Item 1 "Election of Directors." This
        portion of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

    (b) For information with respect to Executive Officers, see Part I of this
        Form 10-K.


ITEM 11:  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         Information concerning executive compensation appears in the Company's
Proxy Statement, under the caption "Executive Compensation," and is
incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12:  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         Information concerning the security ownership of certain beneficial
owners and management appears in the Company's Proxy Statement, under Item 1
"Election of Directors," and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 13:  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         Information concerning certain relationships and related transactions
appears in the Company's Proxy Statement, under Item 1 "Election of Directors,"
and is incorporated herein by reference.







                                    PART IV

ITEM 14:  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this Form 10-K:

    (1)      Consolidated Financial Statements.  The following consolidated
             financial statements of Applied Materials, Inc. and
             subsidiaries, and the related notes and the report of
             Price Waterhouse LLP, independent accountants, dated
             November 23, 1994, included in the Applied Materials
             1994 Annual Report, are incorporated herein by
             reference:
                 

                    

    Schedules not listed above have been omitted because they are not required
or the information required to be set forth therein is included in the
Consolidated Financial Statements or Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.







             (3)  Exhibits - See Exhibit Index on page 29 of this report. The
             following exhibits listed in the exhibit index are filed with this
             Report.

Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements



























(b) Report on Form 8-K was filed on August 17, 1994.

(c) Exhibits:  The exhibits listed in Item (a)(3) above are submitted as a
    separate section of this report.

(d) The individual financial statements of the registrant have been omitted
    since the registrant is primarily an operating company and all subsidiaries
    are included in the consolidated financial statements.







                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
                                                         APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.

                                                    By /s/James C. Morgan
                                                       -------------------------
                                                            James C. Morgan
                                                       Chairman of the Board and
                                                        Chief Executive Officer

                                                      Dated:   December 21, 1994

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


              A majority of the members of the Board of Directors.







                      Report of Independent Accountants on
                         Financial Statement Schedules




To the Board of Directors of Applied Materials, Inc.

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our report
dated November 23, 1994 appearing on page 47 of the 1994 Annual Report of
Applied Materials, Inc., (which report and consolidated financial statements
are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included
an audit of the Financial Statement Schedules listed in Item 14(a) of this Form
10-K.  In our opinion, these Financial Statement Schedules present fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.



/s/ Price Waterhouse LLP
- - ------------------------
Price Waterhouse LLP
San Jose, California
November 23, 1994







                                   SCHEDULE I
                    MARKETABLE SECURITIES-OTHER INVESTMENTS
                                 (In thousands)

                                October 30, 1994

                                                     


(1)  No individual issuer or group of issuers, as defined in Rule 12-02 of
     Regulation S-X, exceeds 2% of total assets.
(2)  Carried at cost which approximates fair market value.







                                  SCHEDULE II
                 AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
                                 (In thousands)

                     


(a)      Interest-free promissory note of $200 due fiscal 1995, secured by a
         subordinated residential deed of trust.

(b)      Bearing interest at 7.16% per annum.  Interest only payable annually
         and principal due January 31, 2004, secured by non-voting preferred
         stock of Applied Komatsu Technology, Inc., a 50% investee of Applied
         Materials, Inc.







                                   SCHEDULE V
                         PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
                                 (In thousands)



* Includes transfers between accounts.
**Includes foreign currency translation adjustments.







                                  SCHEDULE VI
           ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
                                 (In thousands)



** Includes foreign currency translation adjustments.







                                 SCHEDULE VIII

                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                        ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS
                                 (In thousands)

                                                           







                                  SCHEDULE IX

                             SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
                                BANK BORROWINGS
                                 (In thousands)




 *       An average amount outstanding for each week was calculated, and an
         average of the averages was calculated for the year.

**       Total annual interest expense related to short-term borrowings was
         divided by the average amount of borrowings outstanding during the
         year.







                                   SCHEDULE X

                   SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
                                 (In thousands)




*  Maintenance and repairs expense was less than 1% of revenue for the year
   ended October 30, 1994.







                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS

These Exhibits are numbered in accordance with the Exhibit Table of Item 601 of
Regulation S-K:




















  


