
10-K405
FORM 10-K405 DATED 10-25-1998



================================================================================

                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549

                                    Form 10-K

Mark one
[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended October 25, 1998

[ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the transition period from __________ to
                          Commission file number 0-6920

                             APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


                     DELAWARE                          94-1655526
           (State or other jurisdiction             (I.R.S. Employer
         of incorporation or organization)         Identification No.)


   3050 Bowers Avenue, Santa Clara, California            95054
    (Address of principal executive offices)            (Zip Code)


        Registrant's telephone number, including area code (408) 727-5555

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                  Name of each exchange 
               Title of class                      on which registered
               --------------                     ---------------------
                    None                                  None

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                          Common Stock, $.01 par value

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ].

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

     Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant as of December 18, 1998: $16,799,361,740

     Number of shares outstanding of the issuer's Common Stock, $.01 par value,
as of December 18, 1998: 371,763,263

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

     Portions of the Applied Materials 1998 Annual Report for the year ended
October 25, 1998 are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV of this
Form 10-K.

     Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement for Applied Materials' Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on March 31, 1999 are incorporated by
reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.

================================================================================



When used in this Form 10-K, the words "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," and
similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These
forward-looking statements reflect management's opinion as of the date hereof
and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those stated or implied. Applied Materials,
Inc. (Applied Materials or the Company) assumes no obligation to update this
information. Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those
discussed in the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis-
Trends, Risks and Uncertainties" in the Applied Materials 1998 Annual Report,
which section is incorporated herein by reference.

                                     PART I

ITEM 1: BUSINESS

Organized in 1967, Applied Materials develops, manufactures, markets and
services semiconductor wafer fabrication equipment and related spare parts for
the worldwide semiconductor industry. The Company's customers include
semiconductor wafer manufacturers and semiconductor integrated circuit (IC)
manufacturers, who either use the ICs they manufacture in their own products or
sell them to other companies. In early fiscal 1999, the Company entered the
semiconductor and electronics manufacturing execution systems software and
services business through its acquisition of Consilium, Inc.

PRODUCTS

Applied Materials' products are used to build ICs, or chips, on a substrate of
material (typically silicon). These products, also referred to as equipment or
systems, are designed using sophisticated physics, chemistry and engineering
technology to provide chipmakers productive, reliable and cost-effective
solutions for the manufacture of their products.

Building a chip requires the deposition of a series of film layers, which may be
conductors, insulators (called "dielectrics") or semiconductors. The deposition
of these film layers is interspersed with numerous other processes that create
circuit patterns, remove portions of the film layers, and perform other
functions, such as heat treatment, measurement and inspection. Most advanced
chip designs require well over 300 individual steps, so many of these processes
are performed multiple times. Most chips are built on a base of silicon, called
a wafer, and consist of two main structures. The lower structure is made up of
components, typically transistors or capacitors, that perform the "smart"
functions of the chip. The upper structure consists of the "interconnect"
circuitry that connects the components.

Applied Materials' product line includes equipment capable of performing the
following major steps in the chip-building process: film deposition, etching,
ion implantation, rapid thermal processing (RTP), chemical mechanical polishing
(CMP), reticle inspection, wafer defect detection and review, and metrology. In
calendar 1998, the Company estimates that it was the leading supplier of
chemical and physical vapor deposition, plasma etch, epitaxial deposition, RTP
and CMP systems to the semiconductor industry.

SYSTEM ARCHITECTURES

The architecture of most semiconductor processing equipment is basically either
a "batch" or "single-wafer" type. Batch systems process many wafers at once,
whereas single-wafer systems process each wafer individually. Among single-wafer
systems, there are single-chamber and multi-chamber designs. Multi-chamber
systems can accept two or more individual processing chambers or stations on a
"platform" and can process wafers in each of these chambers simultaneously.

In addition to the process precision and control afforded by single-wafer
process chambers, the multi-chamber platform concept provides customers a
significant benefit in processing productivity and integration. Several process
chambers can be mounted on a platform, which acts as a central wafer-handling
system. This architecture provides a closed, vacuum controlled environment for
the wafer and enables the system to process several wafers simultaneously. Since
Applied Materials' first multi-chamber platform (the Precision 5000(R)) was
introduced in 1987, the use of multi-chamber platform technology has helped the
Company achieve fast and efficient entry into new market segments by allowing
new technology development to focus on the process chamber.

Applied Materials is the global leader in single-wafer, multi-chamber platforms,
and has four major processing architectures--the Precision 5000, the Centura(R),
the Endura(R) and the Producer(TM) platforms, which together have a global
installed base exceeding 6,500 systems. These platforms currently support
chemical vapor deposition, physical vapor deposition, RTP, epitaxy,






polysilicon and plasma etch technologies. The Company's Mirra(R) CMP, ion
implantation, reticle inspection, wafer defect detection and review, and
metrology systems each use their own proprietary platform due to the unique
nature of their technologies.

PROCESS TECHNOLOGIES

Deposition. Deposition is a fundamental step in fabricating an integrated
circuit. During deposition, a layer of either electrically insulating
(dielectric) or electrically conductive material is deposited or grown on a
wafer. The Company offers products in chemical vapor deposition, physical vapor
deposition, epitaxial deposition and polysilicon deposition. Additionally, the
Company offers certain types of dielectric deposition processes with its RTP 
systems (see page 5).

Chemical Vapor Deposition (CVD) Systems. CVD is used to deposit films that
function as dielectrics (insulators), metals (conductors) or semiconductors
(partial conductors). Applied Materials uses three platforms for depositing
dielectric CVD films: Precision 5000, Centura and Producer. The Company entered
the CVD market with the Precision 5000 platform in 1987, and continued product
development on the Precision 5000 and Centura platforms during the 1990s. The
Producer was introduced in June 1998 for high-volume blanket film applications,
and features unique Twin-Chamber(TM) process modules with two single-wafer
process chambers per module unit. Up to three Twin-Chamber modules can be
mounted on each Producer platform, thus considerably increasing wafer throughput
by allowing six wafers to be processed simultaneously. Producer offers many of
the Company's standard dielectric CVD applications for blanket (non-gap-fill)
films.

High-Density Plasma CVD (HDP-CVD) is one of the most advanced technology market
segments in dielectric CVD because of its ability to fill very small, deep
spaces (gaps) without voids. In November 1996, the Company launched a
second-generation HDP-CVD technology, called the Ultima HDP-CVD(TM) Centura. A
unique "Remote Plasma Clean" technology was first introduced on the Ultima
HDP-CVD system, and has since been expanded to other CVD systems, offering
"soft" chamber cleaning without damage to chamber parts and virtually zero
perfluorocompound "global warming" emissions. This feature provides
environmental benefits that are becoming increasingly important to chipmakers.

Other dielectric CVD process technologies include films deposited using
plasma-enhanced CVD (PECVD) methods as well as sub-atmospheric CVD (SACVD)
methods. A steady stream of chamber enhancements and new chamber designs -- like
the zero-consumables xZ(TM)-series of chambers -- have contributed to the
continuing acceptance of these products in the most advanced fabs. The Company's
newest dielectric film is Black Diamond(TM), a low dielectric constant (low k)
film used as insulating material between copper circuit lines.

Metal films are used in specific areas of an integrated circuit to form the
interconnect circuitry, or wiring, of a semiconductor device. Applied Materials
has offered metal CVD systems since 1989, beginning with blanket tungsten
capability on the Precision 5000 CVD system and later extended to the Centura
platform. Since that time, tungsten silicide, titanium, titanium nitride and
aluminum have been added to the Company's metal CVD capabilities. Fiscal 1998
new process announcements included a proprietary low-resistivity tungsten
process that cuts the electrical resistance of tungsten by up to 40 percent. A
new type of titanium/titanium nitride (Ti/TiN) process using TiCl4 chemistry was
launched for very small, deep contacts in DRAM (Dynamic Random Access Memory)
ICs.

Physical Vapor Deposition (PVD) Systems. PVD is mainly a physical, rather than
chemical, process used to deposit metal films on a wafer. Applied Materials
entered the PVD market in April 1990 with the Endura PVD system. This system is
designed with a multi-chamber, dual-loadlock architecture that moves a wafer
through a staged vacuum sequence to an ultra-high vacuum level, which ensures
maximum purity of the deposited films. The Endura system, with its many
subsequent enhancements, has been the basis for a broad range of advanced PVD
applications. A variety of process advancements have also been continually
introduced to keep pace with customers' changing technology requirements.

Ion Metal Plasma (IMP) PVD, introduced in 1997, uses a proprietary technology to
allow metal atoms to fill very narrow, deep structures with a uniform layer of
film. IMP has been generally accepted by the industry as a technology that
extends low-cost PVD technology to future processing schemes. IMP technology is
used in Applied Materials' Endura Electra(TM) Barrier/Seed Cu system and Endura
Ti/TiN Liner/Barrier systems.

The flexible architecture of the Endura system has encouraged the development of
integrated processes that combine multiple PVD processes or integrated
combinations of metal CVD and PVD technologies. In 1996, two integrated
processes combining metal CVD and PVD technologies were announced on the Endura
platform. The Endura Advanced Liner system features PVD titanium technology
coupled with either CVD TiN or IMP PVD TiN to form the critical liner/barrier
films in interconnect structures. The Cool Al(TM)





process uses CVD aluminum and PVD aluminum for the bulk filling of very small,
deep interconnect structures. The low temperature of the process is compatible
with the low k dielectric films that are being developed to make high speed,
multi-level devices at or below 0.25-micron design geometries.

Epitaxial Deposition Systems. Epitaxial deposition (epitaxy or epi) systems grow
a layer of extremely pure silicon on a wafer in a perfectly uniform
crystalline structure to form a high quality base for building certain types of
chips. Applied Materials' experience in epi dates from the Company's inception.
In 1993, the Company introduced the Epi Centura, a single-wafer, multi-chamber
epi system for wafers up to 200mm (8 inches) in diameter. The Epi Centura is
also being used to develop and manufacture leading-edge silicon-germanium
(SiGe)-based devices for faster performing transistors with lower power
consumption.

Polysilicon Deposition Systems. Polysilicon (often called poly) is a material
used to form various portions of a transistor structure within a semiconductor
device. In September 1992, the Company announced the Poly Centura, a
single-wafer, multi-chamber system that deposits thin polysilicon films at high
temperatures. The Polycide Centura, launched in December 1993, combines chambers
for polysilicon and tungsten silicide deposition in an integrated process to
create the "polycide" structures found in advanced semiconductors. By depositing
both films in a single integrated sequence under vacuum, the Polycide Centura
avoids oxide growth at the film interface for high device reliability. An
enhancement was made to the system in 1998 called the Polycide xZ system, which
features the extension of the integrated polysilicon-tungsten silicide process
technology to the most recent "xZ" process chamber for tungsten silicide.

In 1997, using a variant of the technology for polysilicon deposition, Applied
Materials launched a new process for depositing high-temperature, single-wafer
silicon nitride, a film previously deposited almost exclusively in batch
furnaces. The process control of the single-wafer approach results in films of
greater uniformity and precision, which is increasingly important as transistor
structures shrink to smaller dimensions.

Dry Etching. The etching process selectively removes patterned material from the
surface of a wafer to create the device structures. With the advent of
sub-micron feature sizes, "dry" (plasma) etching has become one of the most
frequently-used processes in semiconductor manufacturing. Applied Materials
entered the etch market in 1981, and has since introduced systems for etching
three basic materials, including metal, silicon and dielectric films.

Since 1993, the Company has launched a series of MxP(TM) process chambers for
metal, dielectric and silicon etching, available on both the Precision 5000 and
Centura platforms. This reactive ion etch chamber has proven capable of
continuous technology improvements, with the latest chamber enhancement in use
for 0.25-micron designs. In addition to providing excellent etch technology, MxP
chambers are known for reliability and low operating costs in high-volume
production environments.

Beginning in 1996, the Company introduced a new series of high-density plasma
etch systems for critical, advanced etch applications. The introductions of the
Metal Etch DPS(TM) (Decoupled Plasma Source) Centura system and the Silicon Etch
DPS Centura system target 0.35-micron and below device designs for etching metal
and silicon, respectively. In July 1997, a second-generation chamber design was
introduced for the Metal Etch DPS Centura system, employing several key
engineering enhancements to the system. Both DPS etch systems offer leading-edge
technology for multiple device generations: from 0.35-micron to 0.18-micron
feature sizes and beyond.

In April 1997, the Company launched its most advanced, high-density plasma
system for etching dielectric films, called the Dielectric Etch IPS(TM) Centura.
It is designed for etching very small, deep interconnect structures, including
damascene, as well as for other dielectric etch applications.

Ion Implantation. Ion implantation inserts carefully controlled amounts of
selected impurities or "dopant" elements into parts of a transistor structure to
create the electronic properties that govern the transistor's operation. Applied
Materials entered the high-current portion of the implant market in 1985 with
the Precision Implant 9000 and introduced the Precision Implant 9200 in 1988. In
November 1992, the Company introduced a new high-current ion implantation
system, the Precision Implant 9500, for the production of high-density
semiconductors, such as 16Mb and 64Mb memory devices and advanced
microprocessors.

In 1996, the Company introduced a new series of compact implant systems with the
Implant xR80, and subsequently added two new systems to the xR family--the
Implant xR120 and Implant xR LEAP(TM) (Low Energy Advanced Processing). The
xR120 extended the energy range of the xR80 to 120 kilovolts while maintaining
the same small size. The xR LEAP enhanced low energy performance by





doubling beam current in the sub-5 kilovolt energy range. These systems were
enhanced in 1997 with an "S" series that offers significantly increased system
throughput and lower cost of ownership.

In 1998, the low-energy capabilities of the xR LEAP system were being used by
many chipmakers to create ultra-shallow junction transistors, enabling denser
and higher speed devices. The xR LEAP system is being used in collaboration with
the Company's RTP (see below) technology to offer the Ultra-Shallow Junction
Equipment Set Solution, a module consisting of both implant and RTP technologies
that has been optimized for the highest degree of technical performance. Also in
1998, the Company entered into a collaborative arrangement with Orion
Technologies for the development of a completely new generation of ion implant
systems.

Rapid Thermal Processing (RTP). RTP subjects the wafer to short, intense bursts
of heat to modify the properties of various materials, such as those implanted
with dopants. In June 1995, Applied Materials launched its first RTP system, the
RTP Centura. Its proprietary temperature sensing and heating calibration
technologies allow wafer temperature control that is completely insensitive to
wafer backside emissivity. An enhanced version, called the XE model, was
introduced in 1997, with a further enhancement, called the XEplus, in August
1998. Moving beyond core heat treatment applications, the Company's RTP system
is now also used to deposit very thin dielectric films. A nitric oxide process
deposits critical (50 angstroms) gate dielectric layers required for the most
advanced logic, DRAM and flash memory devices. A wet oxide process, introduced
in 1997, can grow gate oxides as thin as 25 angstroms.

Chemical Mechanical Polishing (CMP). CMP is a process in which uneven film
material is removed from the wafer to create a flat (planarized) surface, thus
making it easier to pattern subsequent layers before etching. The Company
announced its entry into the CMP market with the Mirra CMP system in December
1995. This system uses a four-station, rotating "carousel" design, in which
three separate "active" planarization stations process wafers while a fourth
station loads and unloads wafers. In June 1997, the Company announced the new
Titan Head(TM) polishing unit for the Mirra CMP system, which allows better
uniformity and a higher degree of planarity than traditional polishing heads.
The Mirra CMP system has steadily expanded its library of CMP processes, which
now includes several dielectric films as well as tungsten.

RETICLE INSPECTION, WAFER DEFECT DETECTION AND REVIEW, AND METROLOGY

Reticle Inspection. Reticles are high precision quartz plates that contain
microscopic images of electronic circuits. These recticles are used to transfer
circuit patterns onto semiconductor wafers to fabricate ICs. The reticle must be
defect-free, with perfect image fidelity, because any imperfection will be
replicated on the wafer. Reticle inspection systems look for possible defects
that could be transmitted to the design pattern on the wafer. Applied Materials'
RT 8000 reticle inspection system was upgraded in August 1998 to the RT 8200ES
with a variety of new features that improved its sensitivity, productivity and
reliability to meet the demands of the sub-0.25 micron, 256Mb generation of
semiconductor devices. The RT 8200ES doubles the scan speed and throughput of
the earlier model and reduces reticle inspection cost. The system's enhanced
sensitivity capabilities enable detection for the most advanced technologies
such as optical proximity correction and phase-shifting masks.

Wafer Defect Detection and Review. Patterned wafer defect detection systems
inspect wafers as they move between processing steps. Defect detection requires
advanced image-capturing technology combined with high-speed computer data
processing to maintain high yield in chip production. Defects may include
particles, design abnormalities and other problems. Launched in February 1998,
the WF-731 and WF-736 DUO are used to inspect highly advanced semiconductor
devices and perform "on-the-fly" classification of defects as they are detected.
Defect Review Scanning Electron Microscopes (DR-SEMs) analyze and then classify
even smaller defects on the wafer, such as small particles, scratches or
residues. Introduced in May 1998, Applied Materials' SEMVision(TM) system
reviews and classifies a broad range of defect types found on blanket or
patterned wafers. SEMVision is the industry's first high-throughput, fully
automatic DR-SEM, marking a major advance over conventional, manually operated
systems.

Metrology. SEMs use an electron beam to image and measure surface features on a
semiconductor wafer at a much higher resolution than images captured by optical
microscopes. Critical Dimension (CD) SEMs are used by semiconductor makers to
measure the "dimension" of critical sub-micron-sized design features on a chip,
thus assuring the accuracy of the manufacturing process. Applied Materials'
7830Si CD-SEM, introduced in 1997, generates images of critical device
structures having depth to width ratios of up to 10:1 with high resolution of
the bottom details of these structures. The production-proven OperatorFree(TM)
platform allows advanced measurement of 0.18-micron processes with 3-nanometer
precision for lines and spaces.





300mm

Throughout its history, the semiconductor industry has migrated to increasingly
larger wafer sizes--from one and two-inch wafers in its early days, through
several intermediate sizes, to today's 200mm (8 inch) standard. To gain the
economic advantages of a larger surface area on which to fabricate semiconductor
devices, the industry is generally anticipating that 300mm (12 inches) will be
the next wafer size (300mm wafers have a 2.25x-greater surface area than 200mm
wafers). The hardware required for processing 300mm wafers will be entirely new
or scaled up from 200mm dimensions depending on the equipment's configuration.
The Company is designing some systems with dual 200mm-300mm capabilities.

With many customers in the planning process for possible migration to 300mm
wafer fabs, Applied Materials has been developing a complete line of 300mm
systems in its mainstream process technologies, covering more than 60
applications. In March 1997, Applied Materials shipped the industry's first
300mm system, for RTP, to a customer. Several other 300mm systems, including epi
and CVD systems, have been delivered to customers and to industry consortia at
various locations, including a multi-system purchase by Semiconductor 300 in
Dresden, Germany, the industry's only operating 300mm fab. The success of these
new and enhanced products in the market has yet to be determined. Over the
course of fiscal 1998, and particularly in the second half, the Company's 300mm
product development efforts were reduced significantly to reflect the
semiconductor industry's decision to slow migration to 300mm wafer processing.

EQUIPMENT SET SOLUTIONS

Applied Materials is proactive in developing advanced technology that enables
chipmakers to meet the demand for more complex chips. In addition to
manufacturing, selling and supporting individual systems, the Company has
recently begun to offer customers fully supported, integrated "sets" of
equipment designed to reduce customers' development and engineering time and
enable faster time-to-market when those customers introduce new chip
technologies. An Equipment Set Solution(TM) (ESS(TM)) combines multiple systems
and/or technologies into a single package.

TRANSITION TO NEW MATERIALS

After decades of using the same materials to build ICs, advanced generation
devices are now being designed with many new materials. Each new material
involves a number of challenges in making it a reliable part of the
semiconductor device. The most significant material change involves a switch
from aluminum to copper as the conducting material used in the interconnect.

In the next several years, the Company believes that chipmakers will transition
from aluminum to copper as the interconnect material in ICs to reduce costs and
improve speed and performance. Applied Materials has been working with key
customers to develop copper-related technologies and believes that such
technologies will be available to meet the anticipated demand. In December 1997,
Applied Materials announced the industry's first system for depositing the
critical barrier and copper seed layers of the copper interconnect structure --
the Endura Electra Barrier/Seed Cu system. The barrier and seed layers are key
to ensuring the integrity of the copper structure.

In November 1998, Applied Materials announced the industry's first integrated,
multi-system product for building the copper interconnect structure (Copper
Interconnect ESS). Since using copper will demand a new process methodology, the
Copper Interconnect ESS eases the transition to these new materials for
chipmakers by providing a completely demonstrated, tested and pre-qualified set
of systems. This set of systems includes the following products, technologies
and services: Black Diamond low k deposition system; Dielectric Etch IPS Centura
system; 7830Si CD-SEM; Endura Electra Barrier/Seed Cu system; electroplating
technology; Mirra CMP Cu system; low temperature annealing technology; WF-736
DUO system; SEMVision(TM); test chips; mask set for test chips; and Applied
Materials' ESS start-up and implementation support package at the customer's
location.

The Copper Interconnect ESS can be fully demonstrated in Applied Materials' new
Equipment and Process Integration Center (EPIC) facility. Opened in November
1998, EPIC houses all of the equipment and processes needed for chipmakers to
develop and test a multi-level metal, completely integrated copper interconnect
process before installing it in their fabs.

In addition to the transition to copper wiring on the IC, many chipmakers are
planning to incorporate new low k dielectric (insulating) materials between the
metal lines to replace the conventional silicon dioxide dielectric for better
performance. In November 1998, Applied Materials introduced Black Diamond, a
product that provides chipmakers a cost efficient low k dielectric deposition
solution for this application. This film can be integrated with other existing
process technologies.





There are other new materials being evaluated for use in the transistor
structure, particularly high k dielectrics that can store a larger charge in the
capacitor of memory chips. The first of these new materials is tantalum
pentoxide, which was introduced in July 1998 on the Company's Tanox xZ Centura
system.

CUSTOMER SERVICE AND SUPPORT

The Installed Base Support Services organization (IBSS) plays a unique and
critical role in the Company's ability to satisfy its customers' production
requirements. IBSS installs equipment and provides warranty service worldwide
through offices located in the United States, Europe (including Israel), Japan,
Korea, Taiwan and Asia-Pacific (China and Southeast Asia). IBSS has more than
2,000 highly-trained customer engineers and process support engineers, usually
located in or near the customers' fab site, servicing more than 10,000 Applied
Materials' systems currently operating in customer facilities. IBSS also manages
a complex global spare parts operation. Semiconductor fabrication systems are
highly complex, often elaborately customized machines with thousands of
specialized parts. Having the required consumable and spare parts available to
customers anywhere in the world on very short notice enables a cost-effective,
profitable production system. In addition, IBSS provides service and labor,
technical training, product enhancements and systems refurbishment.

The Company maintains approximately 79 sales and service offices worldwide, with
29 offices located in North America (primarily the United States), 14 in Europe,
23 in Japan, 6 in Korea, 2 in Taiwan and 5 in Asia-Pacific.

BACKLOG

The Company's backlog decreased from $1.7 billion at October 26, 1997 to $917
million at October 25, 1998. The Company schedules production of its systems
based upon order backlog and customer commitments. Backlog includes only orders
for which written authorizations have been accepted and shipment dates within 12
months have been assigned. However, customers may delay delivery of products or
cancel orders at their option. Due to possible customer changes in delivery
schedules and cancellation of orders, the Company's backlog at any particular
date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. A
reduction of backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.

MANUFACTURING, RAW MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

The Company's manufacturing activities consist primarily of assembling various
commercial and proprietary components into finished systems, principally in the
United States, with additional operations in England, Israel, Japan, Korea and
Taiwan. Production requires some raw materials and a wide variety of mechanical
and electrical components that are manufactured to the Company's specifications.
The Company uses numerous suppliers to supply parts, components and
subassemblies (collectively, "parts") for the manufacture and support of its
products. Although the Company makes reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are
available from multiple suppliers, this is not always possible; accordingly,
certain key parts may be obtained from a single supplier or a limited group of
suppliers. These suppliers are, in some cases, thinly capitalized, independent
companies that generate significant portions of their business from the Company
and/or a small group of other companies in the semiconductor industry. The
Company has sought, and will continue to seek, to minimize the risk of
production and service interruptions and/or shortages of key parts by: (1)
selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts; (2) monitoring the
financial stability of key suppliers; and (3) maintaining appropriate
inventories of key parts. There can be no assurance that the Company's results
of operations will not be materially and adversely affected if, in the future,
the Company is unable to receive a sufficient supply of parts to meet its
requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner.

MARKETING AND SALES

Because of the highly technical nature of its products, the Company markets its
products worldwide through a direct sales force, with sales and service offices
in the United States, Europe, Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Asia-Pacific. For the
fiscal year ended October 25, 1998, net sales to customers in North America
(primarily the United States), Europe, Japan, Korea, Taiwan and Asia-Pacific
were 38 percent, 16 percent, 17 percent, 4 percent, 20 percent and 5 percent,
respectively, of the Company's total net sales. The Company's business is not
usually seasonal in nature, but it is cyclical based on the capital equipment
investment patterns of major semiconductor manufacturers. These expenditure
patterns are based on many factors, including anticipated market demand for
integrated circuits, the development of new technologies and global and regional
economic conditions.





The Company sells systems and provides services to customers located throughout
the world. Managing global operations and sites located throughout the world
presents challenges associated with, among other things, cultural diversities
and organizational alignment. Moreover, each region in the global semiconductor
equipment market exhibits unique characteristics that can cause capital
equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period.
Periodic economic downturns, trade balance issues, political instability and
fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates are all risks that
could materially and adversely affect, and in the past have affected, global
product and service demand, and therefore, the Company's financial performance.

Information on sales to unaffiliated customers, transfers among geographic
regions, net sales, income/(loss) from operations and identifiable assets
attributable to the Company's geographic regions is included in Note 12 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the Applied Materials 1998
Annual Report, which note is incorporated herein by reference.

RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING

Applied Materials' long-term growth strategy requires continued development of
new semiconductor manufacturing technology. The Company's significant investment
in research, development and engineering (RD&E) has generally enabled it to
deliver new products and technologies before the emergence of strong
competition, thus allowing customers to incorporate these products into their
manufacturing plans at an early stage in the technology selection cycle. The
Company works closely with its global customers to design systems that meet
their planned technical and production requirements. Engineering organizations
are located in the United States, England, Israel and Japan, with process
support and customer demonstration laboratories in the United States, England,
Israel, Japan, Korea and Taiwan.

In fiscal 1998, the Company invested $644 million, or 15.9 percent of net sales,
in RD&E for product development and engineering programs to improve or sustain
existing product lines. During fiscal 1996 and 1997, RD&E expenses were $481
million and $568 million, respectively. The Company has spent an average of 13
percent of net sales on RD&E over the last five years. In addition to RD&E in
specific product technologies, the Company maintains ongoing programs in
software, automation control systems, materials research, microcontamination and
environmental control that have applications to its products.

Key activities during fiscal 1998 involved development of a number of process
technologies used in fabricating the copper/low k interconnect structure for
emerging copper-based devices. These technologies include copper CMP,
electrochemical deposition, copper etch, low k dielectric CVD and
inspection/metrology tools.

As part of its technology development program, Applied Materials has built the
semiconductor equipment industry's first complete interconnect fabrication line,
containing all necessary process tools to fabricate and test the interconnect
structures in copper-based devices. This facility enables customers to develop
and test a completely integrated copper interconnect process flow before
installing it in their fab.

COMPETITION

The global semiconductor equipment industry is highly competitive and is
characterized by increasingly rapid technological advancements and demanding
worldwide service requirements. Applied Materials' ability to compete depends on
its ability to continually improve its products, processes and services, as well
as its ability to develop new products that meet constantly evolving customer
requirements. Each of the Company's products competes in markets defined by the
particular wafer fabrication process it performs. There are several companies
that compete with Applied Materials in each of these markets. Competitors are
primarily based in the United States, Japan and Europe, and range in size from
small companies competing in specific market segments (single product) to large
multinationals with products that span several market segments. At present, no
single company competes with Applied Materials in all of the same market
segments. Competitors in a given technology tend to have different degrees of
market presence in the various regional geographic markets. Competition is based
on many factors, primarily technological advancements, productivity and
cost-effectiveness, customer support, contamination control and overall product
quality. Management believes that the Company's competitive position in each of
its served markets is based on the ability of its products and services to
address customer requirements related to these competitive factors. Management
believes that the Company is a strong competitor with respect to its products,
services and resources. However, new products, pricing pressures, rapid changes
in technology and other competitive actions from both new and existing
competitors could materially affect the Company's market position.







APPLIED KOMATSU TECHNOLOGY, INC. JOINT VENTURE

In September 1993, the Company entered into an agreement with Komatsu, Ltd. to
form Applied Komatsu Technology, Inc. (AKT), a joint venture corporation that
develops, manufactures and markets systems used to produce Flat Panel Displays
for laptop, notebook and palmtop computers, desktop monitors, digital/video
cameras, portable televisions and instrument displays. During the fourth fiscal
quarter of 1998, the Company decided to discontinue the operations of AKT. The
Company's interest in this joint venture will be wound down over a period not to
exceed twelve months from the date of the decision to discontinue operations. As
a result of this decision, AKT has stopped selling PVD and Etch systems and has
ceased development efforts on new and next generation systems and technology.
AKT will continue to offer its existing CVD product line for sale and will also
provide existing customers with ongoing system support. See "Management's
Discussion and Analysis - AKT Joint Venture" and Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by reference from the
Applied Materials 1998 Annual Report.

ACQUISITION

On October 12, 1998, the Company announced that it entered into an agreement to
acquire Consilium, Inc. (Consilium), a leading independent supplier of
integrated semiconductor and electronics manufacturing execution systems
software and services, in a stock-for-stock merger. The acquisition was
consummated on December 11, 1998 and will be accounted for as a pooling of
interests. The Company issued approximately 2 million shares of its common stock
in connection with this transaction. Consilium's financial condition and
historical results of operations are not material in relation to the Company's
financial condition and historical results of operations.

PATENTS AND LICENSES

Management believes that the Company's competitive position is significantly
dependent upon skills in engineering, production and marketing, rather than its
patent position. However, protection of the Company's technology assets by
obtaining and enforcing patents is important. Therefore, the Company has an
active program to file patent applications in the United States and other
countries for inventions that the Company considers significant. The Company has
a number of patents in the United States and other countries and additional
applications are pending for new developments in its equipment and processes. In
addition to patents, the Company also possesses other proprietary intellectual
property, including trademarks, know-how, trade secrets and copyrights.

The Company enters into patent and technology licensing agreements with other
companies when management determines it is in the Company's best interest. The
Company pays royalties under existing patent license agreements for the use, in
several of its products, of certain patented technologies that are licensed to
the Company for the life of the patents. The Company also receives royalties
from licenses granted to third parties. Royalties received from third parties
have not been, and are not expected to be, material.

In the normal course of business, the Company from time to time receives and
makes inquiries regarding possible patent infringement. In dealing with such
inquiries, it may become necessary or useful for the Company to obtain or grant
licenses or other rights. However, there can be no assurance that such licenses
or rights will be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms.
Although there can be no assurance about the outcome of patent infringement
inquiries, the Company believes it is unlikely that their resolution will have a
material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Two of the Company's locations have been designated as Superfund sites by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency since 1987; however, neither
compliance with Federal, State and local provisions regulating discharge of
materials into the environment, nor remedial agreements or other actions
relating to the environment, has had, or is expected to have, a material effect
on the Company's capital expenditures, financial condition, results of
operations or competitive position. The Company has been designated a
"Responsible Party" by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency with respect to
one site and a "Potentially Responsible Party" with respect to the other site.





EMPLOYEES

At October 25, 1998, the Company employed 12,060 regular employees. In the
high-technology industry, competition for highly-skilled employees is intense.
The Company believes that its future success is highly dependent upon on its
continued ability to attract and retain qualified employees. There can be no
assurance that the Company will be able to attract and retain qualified
employees. In response to the current semiconductor industry downturn, the
Company completed two separate restructuring actions in 1998 that reduced its
global workforce by approximately 2,800 employees. All activities of the Company
were subject to this restructuring effort. None of the Company's employees are
represented by a trade union, and management considers its relations with
employees to be good.

ITEM 2:  PROPERTIES

Certain information concerning the Company's principal properties at October 25,
1998 is set forth below:



- -------------
(1) Includes approximately 765,000 square feet that is either currently being
    subleased or is being marketed for sublease.

(2) Subject to loans of $43 million, secured by property and equipment having an
    approximate net book value of $63 million at October 25, 1998.

The Company also leases office space for 79 sales and service offices throughout
the world: 29 offices are located in North America (primarily the United
States), 14 in Europe, 23 in Japan, 6 in Korea, 2 in Taiwan and 5 in
Asia-Pacific.

The Company currently owns 167,000 square feet of manufacturing and other
operating facilities in California that have not yet been completed and placed
in service. In addition, the Company is currently constructing 330,000 square
feet of manufacturing facilities in Texas.




The Company also owns 99 acres of buildable land in Austin, Texas, 43 acres of
buildable land in Santa Clara, California and 9 acres of buildable land in
Narita, Japan. The Austin, Santa Clara and Narita land can accommodate
approximately 1,509,000, 1,046,000 and 766,000 square feet, respectively, of
additional building space to help satisfy the Company's current and future
needs.

Management considers the above facilities suitable and adequate to meet the
Company's requirements.

ITEM 3:  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

In April 1997, the Company initiated separate lawsuits against AST Electronik
GmbH and AST Electronik USA, Inc. (collectively AST), and AG Associates, Inc.
(AG) (case no. C-97-20375-RWM) in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of California, alleging infringement of certain patents
concerning rapid thermal processing technology. Discovery has commenced and
trial in the AG matter has been set for July 1999. In October 1997, AST and AG
each filed counterclaims against the Company alleging patent infringement
concerning related technology. AG later filed additional counterclaims, alleging
infringement of several patents. These additional counterclaims were dismissed
by the court in July 1998. In response, in August 1998, AG filed two separate
patent infringement lawsuits based on these same patents, one in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of California (case no.
C98-03044-WHO) and one in the United States District Court for the District of
Delaware (civil action no. 98-479). No trial dates have been set in these
actions. The Company and AST have resolved their dispute under terms and
conditions set forth in a Memorandum of Understanding signed by the parties, and
a final Settlement Agreement is being completed. The settlement is not expected
to be material. The Company continues to believe it has meritorious claims and
defenses against AG, and intends to pursue them vigorously.

As a result of the Company's acquisition of Orbot Instruments, Ltd. (Orbot), the
Company is involved in a lawsuit captioned KLA Instruments Corporation (KLA) v.
Orbot (case no. C93-20886-JW) in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of California. KLA alleges that Orbot infringes one patent
regarding equipment for the inspection of masks and reticles, and seeks an
injunction, damages and such other relief as the Court may find appropriate.
There has been limited discovery, but no trial date has been set. Management
believes it has meritorious defenses and intends to pursue them vigorously.

On June 13, 1997, the Company filed a lawsuit against Varian Associates, Inc.
(Varian) captioned Applied Materials, Inc. v. Varian Associates, Inc. (case no.
C-97-20523-RMW), alleging infringement of several of the Company's patents
concerning physical vapor deposition (PVD) technology. The complaint was later
amended on July 7, 1997 to include Novellus Systems, Inc. (Novellus) as a
defendant as a result of Novellus' acquisition of Varian's thin film systems PVD
business. The Company seeks damages for past infringement, a permanent
injunction, treble damages for willful infringement, pre-judgment interest and
attorneys' fees. Varian answered the complaint by denying all allegations,
counterclaiming for declaratory judgment of invalidity and unenforceability and
alleging conduct by the Company in violation of antitrust laws. On June 23,
1997, Novellus filed a separate lawsuit against the Company captioned Novellus
Systems, Inc. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (case no. C-97-20551-EAI), alleging
infringement by the Company of three patents concerning PVD technology that were
formerly owned by Varian. On July 8, 1997, Varian filed a separate lawsuit
against the Company captioned Varian Associates, Inc. v. Applied Materials, Inc.
(case no. C-97-20597-PVT), alleging a broad range of conduct in violation of
federal antitrust laws and state unfair competition and business practice laws.
Discovery has commenced in these actions, but no trial dates have been set.
Management believes it has meritorious claims and defenses and intends to
pursue them vigorously.

During fiscal 1998, the Company settled all outstanding litigation with ASM
International N.V. As a result of this settlement, the Company received a
convertible note for $80 million, against which $15 million was collected in
November 1997. Because of the impact of the current industry downturn on ASM's
financial condition and liquidity, ASM was not able to pay the $65 million
remaining balance at the maturity date. Therefore, ASM's obligations under the
November 1997 litigation settlement agreement were restructured in December
1998. Pursuant to the new agreement, ASM paid $20 million upon completion of the
restructuring, and agreed to pay $10 million on November 2, 1999 and $35 million
no later than November 2, 2000. Certain other obligations of ASM were also
modified; however, these modifications are not expected to be material to the
Company's financial condition or results of operations.

In November 1997, OKI Electric Industry, Co., Ltd. (OKI) filed suit against one
of the Company's wholly-owned subsidiaries, Applied Materials Japan (AMJ), in
Tokyo District Court in Japan, alleging that AMJ is obligated to indemnify OKI
for a portion of patent license royalties paid by OKI to Texas Instruments, Inc.
Several hearings have been held, but no trial date has been set. Management
believes it has meritorious defenses and intends to pursue them vigorously.






The Company is subject to various other legal proceedings and claims, either
asserted or unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business. Although
the outcome of these claims cannot be predicted with certainty, management does
not believe that any of these legal matters will have a material adverse effect
on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.

ITEM 4: SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS IN FOURTH FISCAL
        QUARTER OF 1998

None.

                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The following table and notes thereto identify and set forth information about
the Company's five executive officers:



- ----------
(1) Mr. Morgan, age 60, has been Chief Executive Officer since 1977 and
    Chairman of the Board of Directors since 1987. Mr. Morgan also served as
    President of the Company from 1976 to 1987.

(2) Dr. Maydan, age 63, was appointed President of the Company in December 1993.
    Dr. Maydan served as Executive Vice President from 1990 to December 1993.
    Prior to that, Dr. Maydan had been Group Vice President since February 1989.
    Dr. Maydan joined the Company in 1980 as a Director of Technology.

(3) Mr. Bronson, age 50, was appointed Senior Vice President, Office of the
    President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer in
    January 1998. Mr. Bronson served as Group Vice President from April 1994 to
    January 1998. Prior to that, Mr. Bronson had been Vice President since
    November 1990. Mr. Bronson joined the Company in September 1984 as Corporate
    Controller.

(4) Dr. Somekh, age 52, was appointed to the Office of the President in January
    1998, and was appointed Senior Vice President of the Company in December
    1993. Dr. Somekh served as Group Vice President from 1990 to 1993. Prior to
    that, Dr. Somekh had been a divisional Vice President. Dr. Somekh joined the
    Company in 1980 as a Project Manager.

(5) Dr. Wang, age 52, was appointed to the Office of the President in January
    1998, and was appointed Senior Vice President of the Company in December
    1993. Dr. Wang served as Group Vice President from 1990 to 1993. Prior to
    that, Dr. Wang had been a divisional Vice President. Dr. Wang joined Applied
    Materials in 1980 as a Manager, Process Engineering and Applications.


                                     PART II

ITEM 5: MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

"Stock Price History" on page 66 of the Applied Materials 1998 Annual Report is
incorporated herein by reference.

The Company's common stock is traded on the Nasdaq over-the-counter market. As
of December 18, 1998, there were approximately 5,791 holders of record of the
common stock.

To date, the Company has paid no cash dividends to its stockholders. The Company
has no plans to pay cash dividends in the near future.





ITEM 6: SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

"Selected Consolidated Financial Data" on page 29 of the Applied Materials 1998
Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7: MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
        RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

"Management's Discussion and Analysis" on pages 30 through 43 of the Applied
Materials 1998 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7a: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

"Market Risk Disclosure" on page 43 of the Applied Materials 1998 Annual Report
is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The consolidated financial statements, together with the report thereon of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent Accountants, dated November 17, 1998,
except as to Note 14 which is dated as of December 23, 1998, and appearing on
pages 44 through 64 and page 66 of the Applied Materials 1998 Annual Report, are
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9: CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

                                    PART III

Pursuant to Paragraph G(3) of the General Instructions to Form 10-K, portions of
the information required by Part III of Form 10-K are incorporated by reference
from the Company's Proxy Statement to be filed with the Commission in connection
with the 1999 Annual Meeting of Stockholders ("the Proxy Statement").

ITEM 10: DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

(a) Information concerning directors of the Company appears in the Company's
    Proxy Statement, under Item 1 -- "Election of Directors." This portion of
    the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

(b) For information with respect to Executive Officers, see Part I of this
    Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 11: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information concerning executive compensation appears in the Company's Proxy
Statement, under Item 1 -- "Election of Directors." This portion of the Proxy
Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12: SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Information concerning the security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management appears in the Company's Proxy Statement, under Item 1 -- "Election
of Directors." This portion of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 13: CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information concerning certain relationships and related transactions appears in
the Company's Proxy Statement, under Item 1 -- "Election of Directors." This
portion of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.





                                     PART IV

ITEM 14: EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

        The consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying "Index
        to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule" are 
        incorporated herein by reference from the Applied Materials 1998 Annual
        Report.

     2. FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

        The financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying "Index to
        Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule" is filed as part
        of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

     3. EXHIBITS

        The exhibits listed in the accompanying index to exhibits are filed or
        incorporated by reference as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

(b)  The Company filed a Report on Form 8-K on October 23, 1998. The report
     contains the Company's press release, dated October 23, 1998, announcing
     the completion of a previously announced restructuring plan and one-time
     charges for the fourth fiscal quarter of 1998.

                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
                                  (Item 14(a))





Schedules not listed above have been omitted because they are not required or
the information required to be set forth therein is included in the Consolidated
Financial Statements or Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The consolidated financial statements listed in the above index that are
included in the Applied Materials 1998 Annual Report are incorporated herein by
reference. With the exception of the pages listed in the above index and the
portion of such report referred to in items 1, 5, 6, 7, 7a and 8 of this Form
10-K, the Applied Materials 1998 Annual Report is not to be deemed filed as part
of this report.






                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS

These Exhibits are numbered in accordance with the Exhibit Table of Item 601 of
Regulation S-K:

 EXHIBIT NO.                            DESCRIPTION
 -----------                            -----------
     2.1      Agreement and Plan of Merger, by and among Applied Materials,
              Inc., Orion Corp. I, and Opal, Inc. dated as of November 24, 1996,
              previously filed with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
              the year ended October 27, 1996, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
     2.2      Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of November 24, 1996 by and
              among Applied Materials, Inc., Orbot Instruments, Ltd. and the
              Stockholders of Orbot Instruments, Ltd., previously filed with the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October
              27, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference.
     2.3      Agreement and Plan of Merger And Reorganization between Applied
              Materials, Inc. and Consilium, Inc., previously filed with the
              Company's Form S-4A dated November 6, 1998, and incorporated
              herein by reference.
     3(i)     Certificate of Incorporation of Applied Materials, Inc., a
              Delaware corporation, as amended to March 18, 1996, previously
              filed with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
              ended October 27, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference.
     3(i)(a)  Amendment to Articles of Incorporation dated March 27, 1998,
              previously filed with the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter
              ended July 26, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference.
     3(i)(b)  Articles of Incorporation (as amended to March 27, 1998),
              previously filed with the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter
              ended July 26, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference.
     3(ii)    Bylaws of Applied Materials, Inc., as amended to December 13,
              1996, previously filed with the Company's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the year ended October 27, 1996, and incorporated herein
              by reference.
     4.1      Rights Agreement, dated as of June 14, 1989, between Applied
              Materials, Inc. and Bank of America NT&SA, as Rights Agent,
              including Form of Rights Certificate and Form of Summary of Rights
              to Purchase Common Stock, previously filed with the Company's
              report on Form 8-K dated June 14, 1989, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
     4.2      Form of Indenture (including form of debt security) dated as of 
              August 24, 1994 between Applied Materials, Inc. and Harris Trust 
              Company of California, as Trustee, previously filed with the 
              Company's Form 8-K on August 17, 1994, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
    10.1*     The 1976 Management Stock Option Plan, as amended to October 5,
              1993, previously filed with the Company's Form 10-K for fiscal
              year 1993, and incorporated herein by reference.
    10.2*     Applied Materials, Inc., Supplemental Income Plan, as amended,
              including Participation Agreements with James C. Morgan, Walter
              Benzing, and Robert Graham, previously filed with the Company's
              Form 10-K for fiscal year 1981, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
    10.3*     Amendment to Supplemental Income Plan, dated July 20, 1984,
              previously filed with the Company's Form 10-K for fiscal year
              1984, and incorporated herein by reference.
    10.4*     The Applied Materials Employee Financial Assistance Plan,
              previously filed with the Company's definitive Proxy Statement in
              connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on March
              5, 1981, and incorporated herein by reference.
    10.5*     The 1985 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors, previously
              filed with the Company's Form 10-K for fiscal year 1985, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.6*     Amendment 1 to the 1985 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
              Directors dated June 14, 1989, previously filed with the Company's
              Form 10-K for fiscal year 1989, and incorporated herein by 
              reference.
    10.7*     Applied Materials, Inc. Supplemental Income Plan as amended to
              December 15, 1988, including the Participation Agreement with
              James C. Morgan, previously filed with the Company's Form 10-K for
              fiscal year 1988, and incorporated herein by reference.





    10.8      License Agreement dated January 1, 1992 between the Company and
              Varian Associates, Inc., previously filed with the Company's Form
              10-K for fiscal year 1992, and incorporated herein by reference.
    10.9*     Amendment dated December 9, 1992 to Applied Materials, Inc.
              Supplemental Income Plan dated June 4, 1981 (as amended to
              December 15, 1988), previously filed with the Company's Form 10-K
              for fiscal year 1993, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
    10.10*    The Applied Materials, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
              dated July 1, 1993 and as amended on September 2, 1993, previously
              filed with the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 1,
              1993, and incorporated herein by reference.
    10.11     Joint Venture Agreement between Applied Materials, Inc. and 
              Komatsu, Ltd. dated September 14, 1993 and exhibits thereto,
              previously filed with the Company's Form 10-K for fiscal year 
              1993, and incorporated herein by reference. (Confidential
              treatment has been requested for certain portions of the 
              agreement).
    10.12*    Amendment No. 2 to Applied Materials, Inc. 1985 Stock Option Plan
              for Non-Employee Directors, dated September 10, 1992, previously
              filed with the Company's Form 10-K for fiscal year 1993, and 
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.13*    Amendment No. 3 to Applied Materials, Inc. 1985 Stock Option Plan
              for Non-Employee Directors, dated October 5, 1993, previously 
              filed with the Company's Form 10-K for fiscal year 1993, and 
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.14*    Amendment No. 2 to the Applied Materials, Inc. Executive Deferred
              Compensation Plan, dated May 9, 1994, previously filed with the
              Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 1, 1994, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.15*    Amendment No. 4 to Applied Materials, Inc. 1985 Stock Option Plan
              for Non-Employee Directors, dated December 8, 1993, previously
              filed with the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 1,
              1994, and incorporated herein by reference.
    10.16*    Applied Komatsu Technology, Inc. 1994 Executive Incentive Stock
              Purchase Plan, together with forms of Promissory Note, 1994
              Executive Incentive Stock Purchase Agreement, and Loan and
              Security Agreement, previously filed with the Company's Form 10-Q
              for the quarter ended July 31, 1994, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
    10.17*    The Applied Materials, Inc. 1995 Equity Incentive Plan, dated
              April 5, 1995, previously filed with the Company's Form 10-Q for
              the quarter ended April 30, 1995, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
    10.18*    The Applied Materials, Inc. Senior Executive Bonus Plan, dated
              September 23, 1994, previously filed with the Company's Form 10-Q
              for the quarter ended April 30, 1995, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
    10.19*    The Applied Materials, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan,
              as amended and restated on April 1, 1995, previously filed with
              the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 1995, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.20     Applied Materials, Inc. Medium-Term Notes, Series A Distribution
              Agreement, dated August 24, 1995, previously filed with the 
              Company's Form 10-K for fiscal year 1995, and incorporated herein
              by reference.
    10.21*    Resolution pertaining to the Amendment of the Applied Materials,
              Inc. 1995 Equity Incentive Plan, adopted by the Stock Option and
              Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Applied
              Materials on December 12, 1996, previously filed with the
              Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 27, 1997, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.22     Participation Agreement dated as of April 30, 1997 among Applied
              Materials, Inc. (as Lessee and Construction Agent), Credit Suisse
              Leasing 92A, L.P., (as Lessor and Borrower), Greenwich funding
              Corporation (as CP Lender), The Persons Named on Schedule I (as
              Eurodollar Lenders) and Credit Suisse First Boston (acting through
              its New York Branch, as Agent), previously filed with the
              Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 27, 1997, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.23     Appendix 1 to Participation Agreement, Master Lease Agreement and
              Loan Agreement, dated as of April 30, 1997 (Definitions and
              Interpretation) for Applied Materials, Inc., previously filed with
              the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 27, 1997, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.24     Loan Agreement dated as of April 30, 1997 among Credit Suisse 
              Leasing 92A, L.P. (as





              Borrower), Greenwich Funding Corporation (as CP Lender), The
              Persons Named on Schedule I (as Eurodollar Lenders) and Credit
              Suisse First Boston (acting through its New York Branch, as Agent)
              for Revolving Commercial Paper, Eurodollar Credit and Base Rate
              Program, previously filed with the Company's Form 10-Q for the
              quarter ended April 27, 1997, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
    10.25     Real Estate and Equipment Facility Master Lease dated as of April
              30, 1997 between Credit Suisse Leasing 92A, L.P. (as Lessor), and
              Applied Materials, Inc. (as Lessee), previously filed with the
              Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 27, 1997, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.26     Underwriting Agreement between Applied Materials, Inc. and Morgan
              Stanley & Co. Incorporated dated October 9, 1997, previously filed
              with the Company's Form S-3 dated October 9, 1997, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.27     Prospectus Supplement for Applied Materials' $400 million Senior
              Notes dated October 9, 1997, previously filed with the Company's
              Form S-3 dated October 9, 1997, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
    10.28     $250,000 Five Year Credit Agreement and $250,000 364-Day Credit
              Agreement, each dated as of March 13, 1998 among Applied
              Materials, Inc., Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as
              Documentation Agent and Administrative Agent, and Citicorp
              Securities, Inc., as Syndication Agent, previously filed with the
              Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 26, 1998, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.29*    Amendment No. 1 to the Applied Materials, Inc. Executive Deferred
              Compensation Plan dated August 1, 1997, previously filed with the
              Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 26, 1998, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.30*    Amendment No. 2 to the Applied Materials, Inc. Executive Deferred
              Compensation Plan dated December 1, 1997, previously filed with
              the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 26, 1998, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.31*    Applied Materials, Inc. 1995 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended on
              March 17, 1998, previously filed with the Company's Preliminary
              Proxy Statement dated January 27, 1998, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
    10.32     Letters of Guarantee dated October 28, 1998 between Applied
              Materials, Inc. and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd., Sanwa Bank,
              Ltd., Sakura Bank, Ltd. and Sumitomo Bank, Ltd. on behalf of 
              Applied Komatsu Technology, Inc.
    10.33     Promissory Note dated December 15, 1998 between Applied Materials,
              Inc. and Applied Komatsu Technology America, Inc.
    10.34     Receivables Purchase Agreement dated October 22, 1998 between
              Applied Materials, Inc. and Deutsche Financial Services 
              Corporation.
    10.35*    Amendment No. 1 to the Applied Materials, Inc. Senior Executive
              Bonus Plan dated September 2, 1998.
    12.1      Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
    13        Applied Materials 1998 Annual Report for the fiscal year ended
              October 25, 1998 (to the extent expressly incorporated by
              reference).
    21        Subsidiaries of Applied Materials, Inc.
    23        Consent of Independent Accountants.
    24        Power of Attorney.
    27        Financial Data Schedule: filed electronically.

- -----------
*   Indicates, as required by Item 14(a)3, a management contract or compensatory
    plan or arrangement.





                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.

                                          By /s/ JAMES C. MORGAN
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             James C. Morgan
                                             Chairman of the Board and
                                             Chief Executive Officer

Dated: January 20, 1999

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



* By /s/ JAMES C. MORGAN
     ------------------------------------
     James C. Morgan, Attorney-in-Fact **

**By authority of the power of attorney filed herewith.





                      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON
                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

To the Board of Directors of Applied Materials, Inc.

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our report
dated November 17, 1998, except as to Note 14, which is dated as of December 23,
1998, appearing on page 66 of the 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders of Applied
Materials, Inc. (which report and consolidated financial statements are
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K), also included an
audit of the Financial Statement Schedule listed in Item 14(a) of this Form
10-K. In our opinion, this Financial Statement Schedule presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction
with the related consolidated financial statements.

/s/  PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
- --------------------------------
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP


San Jose, California
November 17, 1998





                                   SCHEDULE II

                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                         ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS
                             (Dollars in thousands)








                                 EXHIBITS INDEX

These Exhibits are numbered in accordance with the Exhibit Table of Item 601 of
Regulation S-K:

 EXHIBIT NO.                            DESCRIPTION
 -----------                            -----------
     2.1      Agreement and Plan of Merger, by and among Applied Materials,
              Inc., Orion Corp. I, and Opal, Inc. dated as of November 24, 1996,
              previously filed with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
              the year ended October 27, 1996, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
     2.2      Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of November 24, 1996 by and
              among Applied Materials, Inc., Orbot Instruments, Ltd. and the
              Stockholders of Orbot Instruments, Ltd., previously filed with the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October
              27, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference.
     2.3      Agreement and Plan of Merger And Reorganization between Applied
              Materials, Inc. and Consilium, Inc., previously filed with the
              Company's Form S-4A dated November 6, 1998, and incorporated
              herein by reference.
     3(i)     Certificate of Incorporation of Applied Materials, Inc., a
              Delaware corporation, as amended to March 18, 1996, previously
              filed with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
              ended October 27, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference.
     3(i)(a)  Amendment to Articles of Incorporation dated March 27, 1998,
              previously filed with the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter
              ended July 26, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference.
     3(i)(b)  Articles of Incorporation (as amended to March 27, 1998),
              previously filed with the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter
              ended July 26, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference.
     3(ii)    Bylaws of Applied Materials, Inc., as amended to December 13,
              1996, previously filed with the Company's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the year ended October 27, 1996, and incorporated herein
              by reference.
     4.1      Rights Agreement, dated as of June 14, 1989, between Applied
              Materials, Inc. and Bank of America NT&SA, as Rights Agent,
              including Form of Rights Certificate and Form of Summary of Rights
              to Purchase Common Stock, previously filed with the Company's
              report on Form 8-K dated June 14, 1989, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
     4.2      Form of Indenture (including form of debt security) dated as of 
              August 24, 1994 between Applied Materials, Inc. and Harris Trust 
              Company of California, as Trustee, previously filed with the 
              Company's Form 8-K on August 17, 1994, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
    10.1*     The 1976 Management Stock Option Plan, as amended to October 5,
              1993, previously filed with the Company's Form 10-K for fiscal
              year 1993, and incorporated herein by reference.
    10.2*     Applied Materials, Inc., Supplemental Income Plan, as amended,
              including Participation Agreements with James C. Morgan, Walter
              Benzing, and Robert Graham, previously filed with the Company's
              Form 10-K for fiscal year 1981, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
    10.3*     Amendment to Supplemental Income Plan, dated July 20, 1984,
              previously filed with the Company's Form 10-K for fiscal year
              1984, and incorporated herein by reference.
    10.4*     The Applied Materials Employee Financial Assistance Plan,
              previously filed with the Company's definitive Proxy Statement in
              connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on March
              5, 1981, and incorporated herein by reference.
    10.5*     The 1985 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors, previously
              filed with the Company's Form 10-K for fiscal year 1985, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.6*     Amendment 1 to the 1985 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
              Directors dated June 14, 1989, previously filed with the Company's
              Form 10-K for fiscal year 1989, and incorporated herein by 
              reference.
    10.7*     Applied Materials, Inc. Supplemental Income Plan as amended to
              December 15, 1988, including the Participation Agreement with
              James C. Morgan, previously filed with the Company's Form 10-K for
              fiscal year 1988, and incorporated herein by reference.


                                       



    10.8      License Agreement dated January 1, 1992 between the Company and
              Varian Associates, Inc., previously filed with the Company's Form
              10-K for fiscal year 1992, and incorporated herein by reference.
    10.9*     Amendment dated December 9, 1992 to Applied Materials, Inc.
              Supplemental Income Plan dated June 4, 1981 (as amended to
              December 15, 1988), previously filed with the Company's Form 10-K
              for fiscal year 1993, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
    10.10*    The Applied Materials, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
              dated July 1, 1993 and as amended on September 2, 1993, previously
              filed with the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 1,
              1993, and incorporated herein by reference.
    10.11     Joint Venture Agreement between Applied Materials, Inc. and 
              Komatsu, Ltd. dated September 14, 1993 and exhibits thereto,
              previously filed with the Company's Form 10-K for fiscal year 
              1993, and incorporated herein by reference. (Confidential
              treatment has been requested for certain portions of the 
              agreement).
    10.12*    Amendment No. 2 to Applied Materials, Inc. 1985 Stock Option Plan
              for Non-Employee Directors, dated September 10, 1992, previously
              filed with the Company's Form 10-K for fiscal year 1993, and 
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.13*    Amendment No. 3 to Applied Materials, Inc. 1985 Stock Option Plan
              for Non-Employee Directors, dated October 5, 1993, previously 
              filed with the Company's Form 10-K for fiscal year 1993, and 
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.14*    Amendment No. 2 to the Applied Materials, Inc. Executive Deferred
              Compensation Plan, dated May 9, 1994, previously filed with the
              Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 1, 1994, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.15*    Amendment No. 4 to Applied Materials, Inc. 1985 Stock Option Plan
              for Non-Employee Directors, dated December 8, 1993, previously
              filed with the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 1,
              1994, and incorporated herein by reference.
    10.16*    Applied Komatsu Technology, Inc. 1994 Executive Incentive Stock
              Purchase Plan, together with forms of Promissory Note, 1994
              Executive Incentive Stock Purchase Agreement, and Loan and
              Security Agreement, previously filed with the Company's Form 10-Q
              for the quarter ended July 31, 1994, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
    10.17*    The Applied Materials, Inc. 1995 Equity Incentive Plan, dated
              April 5, 1995, previously filed with the Company's Form 10-Q for
              the quarter ended April 30, 1995, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
    10.18*    The Applied Materials, Inc. Senior Executive Bonus Plan, dated
              September 23, 1994, previously filed with the Company's Form 10-Q
              for the quarter ended April 30, 1995, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
    10.19*    The Applied Materials, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan,
              as amended and restated on April 1, 1995, previously filed with
              the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 1995, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.20     Applied Materials, Inc. Medium-Term Notes, Series A Distribution
              Agreement, dated August 24, 1995, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
    10.21*    Resolution pertaining to the Amendment of the Applied Materials,
              Inc. 1995 Equity Incentive Plan, adopted by the Stock Option and
              Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Applied
              Materials on December 12, 1996, previously filed with the
              Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 27, 1997, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.22     Participation Agreement dated as of April 30, 1997 among Applied
              Materials, Inc. (as Lessee and Construction Agent), Credit Suisse
              Leasing 92A, L.P., (as Lessor and Borrower), Greenwich funding
              Corporation (as CP Lender), The Persons Named on Schedule I (as
              Eurodollar Lenders) and Credit Suisse First Boston (acting through
              its New York Branch, as Agent), previously filed with the
              Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 27, 1997, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.23     Appendix 1 to Participation Agreement, Master Lease Agreement and
              Loan Agreement, dated as of April 30, 1997 (Definitions and
              Interpretation) for Applied Materials, Inc., previously filed with
              the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 27, 1997, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.24     Loan Agreement dated as of April 30, 1997 among Credit Suisse 
              Leasing 92A, L.P. (as


                                       



              Borrower), Greenwich Funding Corporation (as CP Lender), The
              Persons Named on Schedule I (as Eurodollar Lenders) and Credit
              Suisse First Boston (acting through its New York Branch, as Agent)
              for Revolving Commercial Paper, Eurodollar Credit and Base Rate
              Program, previously filed with the Company's Form 10-Q for the
              quarter ended April 27, 1997, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
    10.25     Real Estate and Equipment Facility Master Lease dated as of April
              30, 1997 between Credit Suisse Leasing 92A, L.P. (as Lessor), and
              Applied Materials, Inc. (as Lessee), previously filed with the
              Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 27, 1997, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.26     Underwriting Agreement between Applied Materials, Inc. and Morgan
              Stanley & Co. Incorporated dated October 9, 1997, previously filed
              with the Company's Form S-3 dated October 9, 1997, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.27     Prospectus Supplement for Applied Materials' $400 million Senior
              Notes dated October 9, 1997, previously filed with the Company's
              Form S-3 dated October 9, 1997, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
    10.28     $250,000 Five Year Credit Agreement and $250,000 364-Day Credit
              Agreement, each dated as of March 13, 1998 among Applied
              Materials, Inc., Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as
              Documentation Agent and Administrative Agent, and Citicorp
              Securities, Inc., as Syndication Agent, previously filed with the
              Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 26, 1998, and
              incorporated herein by reference..
    10.29*    Amendment No. 1 to the Applied Materials, Inc. Executive Deferred
              Compensation Plan dated August 1, 1997, previously filed with the
              Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 26, 1998, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.30*    Amendment No. 2 to the Applied Materials, Inc. Executive Deferred
              Compensation Plan dated December 1, 1997, previously filed with
              the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 26, 1998, and
              incorporated herein by reference.
    10.31*    Applied Materials, Inc. 1995 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended on
              March 17, 1998, previously filed with the Company's Preliminary
              Proxy Statement dated January 27, 1998, and incorporated herein by
              reference.
    10.32     Letters of Guarantee dated October 28, 1998 between Applied
              Materials, Inc. and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd., Sanwa Bank,
              Ltd., Sakura Bank, Ltd. and Sumitomo Bank, Ltd. on behalf of 
              Applied Komatsu Technology, Inc.
    10.33     Promissory Note dated December 15, 1998 between Applied Materials,
              Inc. and Applied Komatsu Technology America, Inc.
    10.34     Receivables Purchase Agreement dated October 22, 1998 between
              Applied Materials, Inc. and Deutsche Financial Services 
              Corporation.
    10.35*    Amendment No. 1 to the Applied Materials, Inc. Senior Executive
              Bonus Plan dated September 2, 1998.
    12.1      Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
    13        Applied Materials 1998 Annual Report for the fiscal year ended
              October 25, 1998 (to the extent expressly incorporated by
              reference).
    21        Subsidiaries of Applied Materials, Inc.
    23        Consent of Independent Accountants.
    24        Power of Attorney.
    27        Financial Data Schedule: filed electronically.

- -----------
*   Indicates, as required by Item 14(a)3, a management contract or compensatory
    plan or arrangement.




