
10-K405
ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY - DATED 12/31/97



 
================================================================================
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
                             ---------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
                             ---------------------
 
[X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
 
[ ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 1-9743
 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 

 
                  1400 SMITH STREET, HOUSTON, TEXAS 77002-7369
              (Address of principal executive offices) (zip code)
 
        REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: 713-853-6161
                             ---------------------
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
 
                                      NONE
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]     No [ ].
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X].
 
     Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant, based on the closing sale price in the daily composite list for
transactions on the New York Stock Exchange on February 27, 1998 was
$1,450,296,850. As of March 1, 1998, there were 154,762,377 shares of the
registrant's Common Stock, $.01 par value, outstanding.
 
     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE. Certain portions of the registrant's
definitive Proxy Statement for the May 5, 1998 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
("Proxy Statement") are incorporated in Part III by reference.
================================================================================

 
                                
                                     PART I
 

 
                                        i

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
     Enron Oil & Gas Company (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation organized
in 1985, is engaged, either directly or through a marketing subsidiary with
regard to domestic operations or through various subsidiaries with regard to
international operations, in the exploration for, and the development,
production and marketing of, natural gas and crude oil primarily in major
producing basins in the United States, as well as in Canada, Trinidad and India
and, to a lesser extent, selected other international areas. The Company's
principal producing areas are further described under "Exploration and
Production" below. At December 31, 1997, the Company's estimated net proved
natural gas reserves were 4,001 billion cubic feet ("Bcf"), including 1,180 Bcf
of proved undeveloped methane reserves in the Big Piney deep Paleozoic
formations, and estimated net proved crude oil, condensate and natural gas
liquids reserves were 78 million barrels ("MMBbl"). (See "Supplemental
Information to Consolidated Financial Statements"). At such date, approximately
67% of the Company's reserves (on a natural gas equivalent basis) was located in
the United States, 10% in Canada, 8% in Trinidad and 15% in India. As of
December 31, 1997, the Company employed approximately 825 persons.
 
     The Company's business strategy is to maximize the rate of return on
investment of capital by controlling both operating and capital costs and
enhancing the certainty of future revenues through the selective use of various
marketing mechanisms. This strategy enhances the generation of both income and
cash flow from each unit of production and allows for the growth of production
on a cost-effective basis by optimizing the reinvestment of cash flow. The
Company continued to focus its 1997 drilling activity toward natural gas
deliverability in addition to natural gas reserve enhancement and crude oil
exploitation in the United States in response to the higher United States
natural gas prices in recent periods. The Company also is focusing on the
cost-effective utilization of advances in technology associated with gathering,
processing and interpretation of 3-D seismic data, developing reservoir
simulation models and drilling operations through the use of new and/or improved
drill bits, mud motors, mud additives, formation logging techniques and
reservoir fracturing methods. These advanced technologies are used, as
appropriate, throughout the Company to reduce the risks associated with all
aspects of oil and gas reserve exploration, exploitation and development. The
Company implements its strategy by emphasizing the drilling of internally
generated prospects in order to find and develop low cost reserves. Achieving
and maintaining the lowest possible operating cost structure are also important
goals in the implementation of the Company's strategy. Consistent with the
Company's desire to optimize the use of its assets, it also maintains a strategy
of selling selected oil and gas properties that for various reasons may no
longer fit into future operating plans, or which are not assessed to have
sufficient future growth potential and when the economic value to be obtained by
selling the properties and reserves in the ground is evaluated to be greater
than what would be obtained by holding the properties and producing the reserves
over time. As a result, the Company typically receives each year a varying but
substantial level of proceeds related to such sales which proceeds are available
for general corporate use.
 
     As of December 31, 1997, Enron Corp. owned 55% of the outstanding shares of
the common stock of the Company. (See "Relationship Between the Company and
Enron Corp.").
 
     Unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to the Company
include Enron Oil & Gas Company, its predecessors and subsidiaries, and any
reference to the ownership of interests or pursuit of operations in any
international areas by the Company recognizes that all such interests are owned
and operations are pursued by subsidiaries of Enron Oil & Gas Company. Unless
the context otherwise requires, all references herein to Enron Corp. include
Enron Corp., its predecessors and affiliates, other than the Company and its
predecessors and subsidiaries.
 
     With respect to information on the Company's working interest in wells or
acreage, "net" oil and gas wells or acreage are determined by multiplying
"gross" oil and gas wells or acreage by the Company's working interest in the
wells or acreage. Unless otherwise defined, all references to wells are gross.
 

 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
 
     The Company's operations are all natural gas and crude oil exploration and
production related. Accordingly, such operations are classified as one business
segment.
 
EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION
 
  NORTH AMERICA OPERATIONS
 
     United States. The Company's eight principal United States producing areas
are the Big Piney area of Wyoming, South Texas area, East Texas area, Offshore
Gulf of Mexico area, Canyon/Strawn Trend area of West Texas, Sand Tank and
Pitchfork Ranch areas of New Mexico and Vernal area of Utah. Properties in these
areas comprised approximately 82% of the Company's United States reserves (on a
natural gas equivalent basis) and 79% of the Company's United States net natural
gas deliverability as of December 31, 1997 and are substantially all operated by
the Company.
 
     The Company's other United States natural gas and crude oil producing
properties are located primarily in other areas of Texas, Utah, New Mexico,
Oklahoma, California, Mississippi and Kansas.
 
     At December 31, 1997, 94% of the Company's proved United States reserves,
including the reserves in the Big Piney deep Paleozoic formations (on a natural
gas equivalent basis), was natural gas and 6% was crude oil, condensate and
natural gas liquids. A substantial portion of the Company's United States
natural gas reserves is in long-lived fields with well-established production
histories. The Company believes that opportunities exist to increase production
in many of these fields through continued infill and other development drilling.
 
     Big Piney Area. The Company's largest reserve accumulation is located in
the Big Piney area in Sublette and Lincoln counties in southwestern Wyoming. The
Company is the holder of the largest productive acreage base in this area, with
approximately 263,000 net acres under lease directly within field limits. The
Company operates approximately 780 oil and natural gas wells in this area in
which it owns an 85% average working interest. Deliveries from the area net to
the Company averaged 114 million cubic feet ("MMcf") per day of natural gas and
3.7 thousand barrels ("MBbl") per day of crude oil, condensate, and natural gas
liquids in 1997. At December 31, 1997, natural gas deliverability net to the
Company was approximately 130 MMcf per day.
 
     The current principal producing intervals are the Frontier and Mesaverde
formations. The Frontier formation, which occurs at 6,500 to 10,000 feet,
contains approximately 62% of the Company's Big Piney proved developed reserves.
The Company drilled 87 wells in the Big Piney area in 1997 and anticipates an
active drilling program will continue for several years.
 
     The Company has recorded as proved undeveloped reserves 1,180 Bcf of
methane contained, along with high concentrations of carbon dioxide as well as
small amounts of other gaseous substances, in the deep Wyoming Paleozoic
formation located under acreage leased by the Company and held by production in
the Big Piney area. The Company is actively pursuing the consummation of a
market or markets from several different potential sources to facilitate
realizing the value of these reserves.
 
     South Texas Area. The Company's activities in South Texas are focused in
the Lobo, Wilcox and Frio producing horizons. The principal areas of activity
are in the Lobo and Wilcox Trends which occur primarily in Webb, Zapata and
Starr counties.
 
     During 1997, the Company acquired an interest in a significant Wilcox Trend
property in Duval County. Net production from the acquired property as of
December 31, 1997 was 15 MMcf of natural gas equivalent per day.
 
     The Company now operates approximately 427 wells in the South Texas area.
Production is primarily from the Upper Wilcox and Lobo sands at depths ranging
from 5,000 to 16,000 feet. The Company has approximately 240,000 net leasehold
acres and more than 40,000 net mineral fee acres in this area. Natural gas
deliveries net to the Company averaged approximately 182 MMcf per day in 1997.
At December 31, 1997,
 

 
natural gas deliverability from this area net to the Company was approximately
180 MMcf per day. The Company drilled 65 wells in the South Texas area in 1997
and participated in sizable 3-D seismic and leasehold acquisition efforts during
the year. An active drilling program in this area is anticipated to continue for
several years.
 
     East Texas Area. The Company's activities in the East Texas area are
primarily in the Carthage field, located in Panola County, the North Milton
field, located in northern Harris County and the Stowell field, located in
Jefferson and Chambers Counties.
 
     The Carthage field production is primarily from the Cotton Valley, Travis
Peak and Pettit formations. The Company holds approximately 17,900 net acres
under lease with an average 77% working interest in this area. The Company
drilled 30 wells in the Carthage field in 1997 and anticipates an active
drilling program will continue for several years. The Company has continued its
activity in the North Milton field where it now operates 22 wells and holds a
100% working interest in the acreage. Further drilling is planned for 1998. The
Company drilled 3 wells in the Stowell field in 1997 and expects to expand the
program substantially in 1998. At December 31, 1997, deliverability from the
East Texas area was approximately 50 MMcf per day of natural gas with 1.9 MBbl
per day of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids both net to the
Company. The Company holds 60,000 net acres in southern Anderson County in the
East Texas Jurassic reef play and is presently shooting an 83.5 square mile 3-D
seismic survey to define drilling locations.
 
     Offshore Gulf of Mexico Area. During 1997, the Company participated in two
lease sales offering leases in the Gulf of Mexico and acquired approximately
81,200 net acres (17 leases). As a result of the lease sale activity, the
Company continued to build its deepwater portfolio by acquiring eight deepwater
(greater than 600 feet) tracts in 1997 to add to the seven tracts acquired in
1996. At December 31, 1997, the Company held an interest in 192 blocks in the
Offshore Gulf of Mexico area totaling approximately 546,000 net acres. Of the
192 blocks, 141 are operated by the Company. These interests are located
predominantly in federal waters offshore Texas and Louisiana. Natural gas
deliveries from this area averaged 111 MMcf per day during 1997 net to the
Company. A substantial portion of such deliveries was from interests in the
Matagorda trend with significant volumes also coming from the Mustang Island
area. Deliverability from the offshore Gulf of Mexico area at December 31, 1997
was approximately 110 MMcf per day net to the Company sourced principally as
noted above. During 1997, the Company participated in the drilling of 10 wells
(5.2 net wells) in the Gulf of Mexico, a decrease in drilling activity of
approximately 50% as compared to 1996 and 1995. In 1998, the Company anticipates
participating in the drilling of 15 to 20 wells.
 
     Canyon/Strawn Trend Area. The Company's activities in this area have been
concentrated in Crockett, Terrell and Val Verde Counties in Texas where the
Company drilled 51 natural gas wells during 1997. The Company holds
approximately 63,000 net acres and now operates approximately 325 natural gas
wells in this area in which it owns a 90% average working interest. Production
is from the Canyon sands and Strawn limestone at depths from 5,500 to 12,500
feet. At December 31, 1997, natural gas deliverability net to the Company was
approximately 35 MMcf per day. The Company plans an aggressive program on
several new prospects in 1998, including the potential for some horizontal
drilling.
 
     Sand Tank Area. The Sand Tank area located in Eddy County, New Mexico
produces from the Chester, Morrow, and Atoka formations. In 1997, the Company
acquired 42 square miles of 3-D seismic and drilled 13 wells, increasing natural
gas deliverability to approximately 20 MMcf per day at year end. The Company
holds 12,000 net acres and has an average working interest of approximately 57%.
Several wells are planned in 1998 for this stacked-pay area.
 
     Pitchfork Ranch Area. The Pitchfork Ranch area located in Lea County, New
Mexico, produces primarily from the Bone Spring, Atoka and Morrow formations. In
1997, deliveries net to the Company averaged 21 MMcf per day of natural gas and
approximately 2 MBbl per day of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
At December 31, 1997, deliverability net to the Company was approximately 15
MMcf per day of natural gas and 1.9 MBbl per day of crude oil, condensate and
natural gas liquids. The Company holds approximately 28,000 net acres and is
continuing to interpret a 3-D seismic survey shot over this entire area. The
Company expects to maintain a drilling program in this area for several years.
 

 
     Vernal Area. In the Vernal area, located primarily in Uintah County, Utah,
the Company operates approximately 245 producing wells and presently controls
approximately 74,000 net acres. In 1997, natural gas deliveries net to the
Company from the Vernal area averaged 15 MMcf per day. Deliverability at
December 31, 1997, was approximately 16 MMcf per day. Production is from the
Green River and Wasatch formations located at depths between 4,500 and 8,000
feet. The Company has an average working interest of approximately 60%. Numerous
drilling opportunities will be available in this area for several years.
 
     Canada. The Company is engaged in the exploration for and the development,
production and marketing of natural gas and crude oil and the operation of
natural gas processing plants in Western Canada, principally in the provinces of
Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Manitoba. The Company conducts operations from
offices in Calgary, and produces natural gas from seven major areas and crude
oil from four major areas. Additional interests were acquired in the Blackfoot
producing area through two separate transactions in July 1997 and September
1997. Net production from the acquired properties at December 31, 1997 was 13
MMcf of natural gas equivalent per day. The Sandhills area in southwestern
Saskatchewan is the largest single producing area in Canada. In 1997, 93 wells
were drilled in the area resulting in deliverability of approximately 40 MMcf
per day net to the Company at December 31, 1997. Total Canadian natural gas
deliverability net to the Company at December 31, 1997 was approximately 100
MMcf per day, and the Company held approximately 490,000 net undeveloped acres
in Canada. The Company expects to maintain an active drilling program for
several years.
 
  OUTSIDE NORTH AMERICA OPERATIONS
 
     The Company has producing operations offshore Trinidad and India, and is
evaluating and conducting exploration, exploitation and development in selected
other international areas.
 
     Trinidad. In November 1992, the Company was awarded a 95% working interest
concession in the South East Coast Consortium ("SECC") Block offshore Trinidad,
encompassing three undeveloped fields, previously held by three government-owned
energy companies. The Kiskadee field has since been developed. The Ibis field is
under development and the Oil Bird field is anticipated to be developed over the
next several years. Existing surplus processing and transportation capacity at
the Pelican field facilities owned and operated by Trinidad and Tobago
government-owned companies is being used to process and transport the
production. Natural gas is being sold into the local market under a take-or-pay
agreement with the National Gas Company of Trinidad and Tobago. In 1997,
deliveries net to the Company averaged 113 MMcf per day of natural gas and 3.4
MBbl per day of crude oil and condensate. At December 31, 1997, the Company held
approximately 168,000 net undeveloped acres in Trinidad.
 
     In 1995, the Company was awarded the right to develop the modified U(a)
block adjacent to the SECC Block. A production sharing contract was signed with
the Government of Trinidad and Tobago in 1996. A 3-D seismic data gathering
project has been completed and is being evaluated. Initial drilling is planned
to occur during 1998.
 
     India. In December 1994, the Company signed agreements covering profit
sharing, joint operations and product sales and representing a 30% working
interest in, and was designated operator of, the Tapti, Panna and Mukta Blocks
located offshore Bombay, India. The blocks were previously operated by the
Indian national oil company, Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Limited, which
retained a 40% working interest. The 363,000 acre Tapti Block contains two major
proved natural gas accumulations delineated by 22 expendable exploration wells
that have been plugged. The Company has substantially implemented an initial
development plan for the Tapti Block accumulations and production began during
1997. At December 31, 1997, production, net to the Company, from Tapti was 48
MMcf per day. The 106,000 acre Panna Block and the 192,000 acre Mukta Block are
partially developed with 29 wells producing from six production platforms
located in the Panna and Mukta fields. The fields were producing approximately
4.3 MBbl per day of crude oil net to the Company as of December 31, 1997.
Natural gas sales began from the Panna field during the first quarter of 1998.
The Company intends to continue development of the fields.
 
     Venezuela. The Company was awarded exploration, exploitation and
development rights for a block offshore the eastern state of Sucre, Venezuela in
early 1996. The Company signed agreements with the

 
government of Venezuela and other participants associated with a concession
awarded in the Gulf of Paria East. The Company holds an initial 90 percent
working interest in the joint venture and acts as operator. A 3-D seismic data
project is currently underway and initial drilling is anticipated in 1998.
 
     China. In August 1997, the Company signed a 30-year production sharing
contract with the China National Petroleum Corporation for the appraisal and
potential development of crude oil and natural gas reserves within the
Chuanzhong Block situated in one of China's oldest producing areas in the
central Sichuan Province. The Company holds a 100 percent interest in the fields
and is the operator.
 
     The contract provides for a two-year evaluation period during which the
Company will perform three workover/stimulations to improve productivity in
existing wells and will drill three new wells in the areas of proven production.
Further commitments, if any, would arise from entering into the development
period as specified in the contract.
 
     Other International. The Company continues to evaluate other selected
conventional natural gas and crude oil opportunities outside North America by
pursuing other exploitation opportunities in countries where indigenous natural
gas and crude oil reserves have been identified, particularly where synergies in
natural gas transportation, processing and power generation can be optimized
with other Enron Corp. affiliated companies. In early 1995, the Company, an
Enron Corp. affiliate and the Qatar General Petroleum Corporation signed a
nonbinding letter of intent concerning the possible development of a liquefied
natural gas project for natural gas to be produced from a block within the North
Dome Field. The Company and the Enron Corp. affiliate may jointly hold up to a
35% equity interest in the project. The Company has also completed the extension
and enhancement of an existing Memorandum of Understanding with Uzbekneftegaz
covering the pursuit of joint development and marketing opportunities for proven
hydrocarbon reserves in eleven fields in the Surhandarya and Bukhara regions of
Uzbekistan. The Company is also participating in discussions concerning the
potential for natural gas development opportunities in Mozambique as well as
other opportunities in Trinidad, India, Venezuela and Bangladesh. (See
"Relationship Between the Company and Enron Corp. - Business Opportunity
Agreement" for a further discussion of the relationship between the Company and
Enron Corp. in the projects in Qatar, Uzbekistan and Mozambique.)
 
MARKETING
 
     Wellhead Marketing. The Company's North America wellhead natural gas
production is currently being sold on the spot market and under long-term
natural gas contracts at market responsive prices. In many instances, the
long-term contract prices closely approximate the prices received for natural
gas being sold on the spot market. Wellhead natural gas volumes from Trinidad
are sold at prices that are based on a fixed price schedule with annual
escalations. Under terms of the production sharing contracts, natural gas
volumes in India are to be sold to a nominee of the Government of India at a
price linked to a basket of world market fuel oil quotations with floor and
ceiling limits. Approximately 15% of the Company's wellhead natural gas
production is currently being sold to pipeline and marketing subsidiaries of
Enron Corp. The Company believes that the terms of its transactions and
agreements with Enron Corp. are and intends that future such transactions and
agreements will be at least as favorable to the Company as could be obtained
from third parties.
 
     Substantially all of the Company's wellhead crude oil and condensate is
sold under various terms and arrangements at market responsive prices.
Approximately 10% of the Company's wellhead crude oil and condensate production
is currently being sold to affiliated companies.
 
     Other Marketing.  Enron Oil & Gas Marketing, Inc. ("EOGM"), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company, is a marketing company engaging in various marketing
activities. Both the Company and EOGM contract to provide, under short and
long-term agreements, natural gas to various purchasers and then aggregate the
necessary supplies for the sales with purchases from various sources including
third-party producers, marketing companies, pipelines or from the Company's own
production and arrange for any necessary transportation to the points of
delivery. In addition, EOGM has purchased and constructed several small
gathering systems in order to facilitate its entry into the gathering business
on a limited basis. Both the Company and EOGM utilize other short and long-term
hedging and trading mechanisms including sales and

 
purchases utilizing NYMEX-related commodity market transactions. These marketing
activities have provided an effective balance in managing a portion of the
Company's exposure to commodity price risks for both natural gas and crude oil
and condensate wellhead prices. (See "Other Matters - Risk Management").
 
     In September 1992, the Company sold a volumetric production payment for
$326.8 million to a limited partnership. (See "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Resources
and Liquidity - Sale of Volumetric Production Payment").
 
     In March 1995, in a series of transactions with Enron Corp., the Company
exchanged all of its fuel supply and purchase contracts and related price swap
agreements associated with a Texas City cogeneration plant (the "Cogen
Contracts") for certain natural gas price swap agreements (the "Swap
Agreements") of equivalent value. As a result of the transactions, the Company
was relieved of all performance obligations associated with the Cogen Contracts.
The Company will realize net operating revenues and receive corresponding cash
payments of approximately $91 million during the period extending through
December 31, 1999, under the terms of the Swap Agreements. The estimated fair
value of the Swap Agreements was approximately $81 million at the date the Swap
Agreements were received. The net effect of this series of transactions has
resulted in increases in net operating revenues and cash receipts for the
Company during 1995 and 1996 of approximately $13 million and $7 million,
respectively, with offsetting decreases in 1998 and 1999 versus that anticipated
under the Cogen Contracts.
 

 
WELLHEAD VOLUMES AND PRICES, AND LEASE AND WELL EXPENSES
 
     The following table sets forth certain information regarding the Company's
wellhead volumes of and average prices for natural gas per thousand cubic feet
("Mcf"), crude oil and condensate, and natural gas liquids per barrel ("Bbl"),
and average lease and well expenses per thousand cubic feet equivalent
("Mcfe" - natural gas equivalents are determined using the ratio of 6.0 Mcf of
natural gas to 1.0 Bbl of crude oil, condensate or natural gas liquids)
delivered during each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1997:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Includes 48 MMcf per day in 1997, 1996 and 1995 delivered under the terms of
    a volumetric production payment agreement effective October 1, 1992, as
    amended.
 
(2) Includes an average equivalent wellhead value of $1.73 per Mcf in 1997,
    $1.17 per Mcf in 1996, and $.80 per Mcf in 1995 for the volumes described in
    note (1), net of transportation costs.
 
(3) Includes certain nonrecurring startup costs.
 

 
COMPETITION
 
     The Company actively competes for reserve acquisitions and
exploration/exploitation leases, licenses and concessions, frequently against
companies with substantially larger financial and other resources. To the extent
the Company's exploration budget is lower than that of certain of its
competitors, the Company may be disadvantaged in effectively competing for
certain reserves, leases, licenses and concessions. Competitive factors include
price, contract terms, and quality of service, including pipeline connection
times and distribution efficiencies. In addition, the Company faces competition
from other producers and suppliers, including competition from other world wide
energy supplies, such as natural gas from Canada.
 
REGULATION
 
     United States Regulation of Natural Gas and Crude Oil Production. Natural
gas and crude oil production operations are subject to various types of
regulation, including regulation in the United States by state and federal
agencies.
 
     United States legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under
constant review for amendment or expansion. Also, numerous departments and
agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue and have
issued rules and regulations which, among other things, require permits for the
drilling of wells, regulate the spacing of wells, prevent the waste of natural
gas and liquid hydrocarbon resources through proration and restrictions on
flaring, require drilling bonds and regulate environmental and safety matters.
The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases its cost of doing
business and, consequently, affects its profitability.
 
     A substantial portion of the Company's oil and gas leases in the Big Piney
area and in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as some in other areas, are granted by
the federal government and administered by the Bureau of Land Management (the
"BLM") and the Minerals Management Service (the "MMS") federal agencies.
Operations conducted by the Company on federal oil and gas leases must comply
with numerous statutory and regulatory restrictions concerning the above and
other matters. Certain operations must be conducted pursuant to appropriate
permits issued by the BLM and the MMS.
 
     MMS leases contain relatively standardized terms requiring compliance with
detailed MMS regulations and, in the case of offshore leases, orders pursuant to
the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act ("OCSLA") (which are subject to change by
the MMS). For such offshore operations, lessees must obtain MMS approval for
exploration, development, and production plans prior to the commencement of such
operations. The MMS has promulgated regulations requiring offshore production
facilities located on the OCS to meet stringent engineering and construction
specifications. The MMS also has proposed additional safety-related regulations
concerning the design and operating procedures for OCS production platforms and
pipelines, but these proposed regulations were withdrawn pending further
discussions among interested federal agencies. With respect to conservation, the
MMS has regulations restricting the flaring or venting of natural gas and has
proposed to amend such regulations to prohibit the flaring of liquid
hydrocarbons and oil without prior authorization. The MMS has also promulgated
other regulations governing the plugging and abandonment of wells located
offshore and the removal of all production facilities. Under certain
circumstances, the MMS may require operations on federal leases to be suspended
or terminated. Any such suspension or termination could adversely affect the
Company's interests.
 
     The MMS has issued a notice of proposed rulemaking in which it proposes to
amend its regulations governing the calculation of royalties and the valuation
of crude oil produced from federal leases. This proposed rule would modify the
valuation procedures for both arm's length and non-arm's length crude oil
transactions to decrease reliance on oil posted prices and assign a value to
crude oil that better reflects its market value, establish a new MMS form for
collecting differential data, and amend the valuation procedure for the sale of
federal royalty oil. The Company cannot predict what action the MMS will take on
this matter, nor can it predict how the Company will be affected by any change
to this regulation.
 
     In April 1997, after two years of study, the MMS withdrew proposed changes
to the way it values natural gas for royalty payments. These proposed changes
would have established an alternative market-based method
 

 
to calculate royalties on certain natural gas sold to affiliates or pursuant to
non-arm's length sales contracts. Informal discussions among the MMS and
industry officials are continuing, although it is uncertain whether, and what
changes may be proposed regarding gas royalty valuation. In addition, MMS has
recently announced its intention to issue a proposed rule that would require all
but the smallest producers to be capable of reporting production information
electronically by the end of 1998. The MMS has recently issued a final rule to
clarify the types of costs that are deductible transportation costs for purposes
of royalty valuation of production sold off the lease. In particular, the MMS
will not allow deduction of costs associated with marketer fees, cash out and
other pipeline imbalance penalties, or long-term storage fees. The Company
cannot predict what, if any, effect the new rule will have on its operations.
 
     Sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids by the Company are
made at unregulated market prices.
 
     The transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate
commerce are regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (the "NGA") and
the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (the "NGPA"). These statutes are administered
by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the "FERC"). Effective January 1,
1993, the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 deregulated natural gas
prices for all "first sales" of natural gas, which includes all sales by the
Company of its own production. Consequently, sales of the Company's natural gas
currently may be made at market prices, subject to applicable contract
provisions.
 
     Since 1985, the FERC has endeavored to make natural gas transportation more
accessible to natural gas buyers and sellers on an open and nondiscriminatory
basis. These efforts have significantly altered the marketing and pricing of
natural gas. Commencing in April 1992, the FERC issued Order Nos. 636, 636A and
636B ("Order No. 636"), which mandate a fundamental restructuring of interstate
natural gas pipeline sales and transportation services, including the
"unbundling" by interstate natural gas pipelines of the sales, transportation,
storage, and other components of their previously existing city-gate sales
service, and to separately state the rates for each unbundled service. Under
Order No. 636, unbundled pipeline sales can be made only in the production
areas. The purpose of Order No. 636 is to further enhance competition in the
natural gas industry by assuring the comparability of pipeline sales service and
services offered by a pipeline's competitors. The FERC issued final orders
accepting most pipelines' Order No. 636 compliance filings, and has commenced a
series of one-year reviews of individual pipeline implementations of Order No.
636. The federal appellate courts have largely affirmed the significant features
of Order No. 636 and numerous related orders pertaining to the individual
pipelines. Order No. 636 does not directly regulate the Company's activities,
but has had and will have an indirect effect because of its broad scope. Because
further review of certain of these orders is still possible, various appeals
remain pending and the FERC continues to review and modify its open access
regulations, the outcome of such proceedings and their ultimate impact on the
Company's business is difficult to predict with precision. In many instances,
however, Order No. 636 has substantially reduced or brought to an end interstate
pipelines' traditional role as wholesalers of natural gas in favor of providing
only storage and transportation services. Order No. 636 has also substantially
increased competition in natural gas markets, even though there remains
significant uncertainty with respect to the marketing and transportation of
natural gas. In spite of this uncertainty, Order No. 636 may enhance the
Company's ability to market and transport its natural gas production, although
it may also subject the Company to more restrictive pipeline imbalance
tolerances and greater penalties for violation of such tolerances.
 
     In July 1994, the FERC eliminated a regulation that had rendered virtually
all sales of natural gas by pipeline affiliates, such as the Company, to be
deregulated first sales. As a result, only sales by the Company of its own
production now qualify for this status. All other sales of natural gas by the
Company, such as those of natural gas purchased from third parties, are now
jurisdictional sales subject to a blanket sales certificate issued by the FERC
under the NGA. The Company does not anticipate this change will have any
significant current adverse effects in light of the flexible terms and
conditions of the existing blanket certificate. Such sales are subject to the
future possibility of greater federal oversight, however, including the
possibility the FERC might prospectively impose more restrictive conditions on
such sales.
 

 
     The FERC has extended indefinitely its regulations (Order No. 497
regulations) governing relationships between interstate pipelines and their
marketing affiliates, subject to revisions to delete an out-of-date standard and
revise certain reporting and record keeping requirements. Among other matters,
these new rules require pipelines to post on their electronic bulletin boards,
within 24 hours of gas flow, information concerning discounted transportation
provided to marketing affiliates to enable competing marketers to request
comparable discounts. Order No. 497 does not directly regulate the Company's
activities, although a substantial portion of the Company's natural gas
production is sold to or transported by interstate pipeline affiliates which are
subject to the Order. The Company's activities may therefore be indirectly
affected by these regulations.
 
     The Company owns, directly or indirectly, certain natural gas pipelines
that it believes meet the traditional tests the FERC has used to establish a
pipeline's status as a gatherer not subject to FERC jurisdiction under the NGA.
State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety,
environmental, and in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements,
but does not generally entail rate regulation. Natural gas gathering may receive
greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels as the pipeline
restructuring under Order No. 636 is implemented. For example, the State of
Oklahoma in 1995 enacted legislation that essentially requires gatherers to
provide open access, non-discriminatory service. In addition, the FERC has
reiterated that, except in situations in which the gatherer acts in concert with
an interstate pipeline affiliate to frustrate the FERC's transportation
policies, it does not have jurisdiction over natural gas gathering facilities
and services and that such facilities and services are properly regulated by
state authorities. This FERC action may further encourage regulatory scrutiny of
natural gas gathering by state agencies. Indeed, the Texas Railroad Commission
recently approved changes to its regulations governing transportation and
gathering services performed by intrastate pipelines and gatherers, which
prohibit such entities from unduly discriminating in favor of their affiliates.
In addition, the FERC has approved several transfers by interstate pipelines,
including certain of the Company's pipeline affiliates, of gathering facilities
to unregulated independent or affiliated gathering companies. This could
increase competition among gatherers in the affected areas. Certain of the
FERC's orders delineating its new gathering policy are subject to pending court
appeals. The Company's gathering operations could be adversely affected should
they be subject in the future to the application of state or federal regulation
of rates and services.
 
     The FERC has recently announced its intention to reexamine certain of its
transportation-related policies, including the manner in which interstate
pipelines release transportation capacity under Order No. 636, and has announced
new policies concerning the use of alternative, non-cost based methods for
setting rates for interstate natural gas transmission. A number of pipelines
have obtained FERC authorization to charge negotiated rates as one such
alternative. Additionally, the FERC has recently requested comments on the
financial outlook of the gas pipeline industry, including, among other matters,
whether the FERC's current ratemaking policies are suitable in the current
industry environment. Finally, the FERC has recently issued a notice of proposed
rulemaking to further standardize pipeline transportation tariffs, which if
implemented as proposed, may adversely affect the reliability of scheduled
interruptible transportation. While any resulting FERC action would affect the
Company only indirectly, these inquiries are intended to further enhance
competition in natural gas markets.
 
     The FERC has also recently acted on rehearing in a proceeding involving its
regulatory treatment of pipelines located in offshore federal waters, and has
applied the announced policy in several individual proceedings to assert
jurisdiction over several proposed projects.
 
     The Company's natural gas gathering operations may be or become subject to
safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation,
testing, construction, operation, replacement, and management of facilities.
Pipeline safety issues have recently become the subject of increasing focus in
various political and administrative arenas at both the state and federal
levels. For example, an industry supported bill was enacted in 1996. Additional
pending legislation would, among other things, increase the frequency with which
certain pipelines must be inspected, as well as increase potential civil and
criminal penalties for violations of pipeline safety requirements. The Company
cannot predict what effect, if any, such legislation might have on its
operations, but the industry could be required to incur additional capital
expenditures and increased costs depending on future legislative and regulatory
changes.

 
     The Company cannot predict the effect that any of the aforementioned orders
or the challenges to such orders will ultimately have on the Company's
operations. Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural
gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress, the FERC and the
courts. The Company cannot predict when or whether any such proposals or
proceedings may become effective. It should also be noted that the natural gas
industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no
assurance that the less regulated approach currently being pursued by the FERC
will continue indefinitely. Thus, the Company cannot predict the ultimate
outcome or durability of the unbundled regulatory regime mandated by Order No.
636.
 
     Environmental Regulation. Various federal, state and local laws and
regulations covering the discharge of materials into the environment, or
otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, may affect the
Company's operations and costs as a result of their effect on natural gas and
crude oil exploration, development and production operations. It is not
anticipated that the Company will be required in the near future to expend
amounts that are material in relation to its total exploration and development
expenditure program by reason of environmental laws and regulations, but
inasmuch as such laws and regulations are frequently changed, the Company is
unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance.
 
     Canadian Regulation. In Canada, the petroleum industry operates under
federal and provincial legislation and regulations governing land tenure,
royalties, production rates, environmental protection, exports and other
matters. The price of natural gas and crude oil in Canada has been deregulated
and is now determined by market conditions and negotiations between buyers and
sellers.
 
     Various matters relating to the transportation and export of natural gas
continue to be subject to regulation by both provincial and federal agencies;
however, the North American Free Trade Agreement may have reduced the risk of
altering cross-border commercial transactions.
 
     Canadian governmental regulations may have a material effect on the
economic parameters for engaging in oil and gas activities in Canada and may
have a material effect on the advisability of investments in Canadian oil and
gas drilling activities. The Company is monitoring political, regulatory and
economic developments in Canada.
 
     Other International Regulation. The Company's exploration and production
operations outside North America are subject to various types of regulations
imposed by the respective governments of the countries in which the Company's
operations are conducted, and may affect the Company's operations and costs
within that country. The Company currently has producing operations offshore
Trinidad and India and exploration, exploitation and development activities in
other selected international areas.
 
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND ENRON CORP.
 
     Ownership of Common Stock. Enron Corp. owns a majority of the outstanding
shares of Common Stock of the Company. Through its ability to elect all of the
directors of the Company, Enron Corp. generally has the ability to control
matters relating to the management and policies of the Company, including
determination with respect to acquisition or disposition of Company assets, the
Company's exploration, development, and operating expenditure plans, future
issuances of Common Stock or other securities of the Company and dividends
payable on the Common Stock.
 
     Effective December 14, 1995, the Company ceased to be included in the
consolidated federal income tax return filed by Enron Corp., and the tax
allocation agreement (the "Base Agreement") previously in effect between the
Company and Enron Corp. was terminated. In addition, effective December 14,
1995, the Company and Enron Corp. entered into a new tax agreement (the "1995
Agreement") pursuant to which, among other things, Enron Corp. agreed (in
exchange for the payment of $13 million by the Company) to be liable for, and
indemnify the Company against, all U.S. federal and state income taxes and
certain foreign taxes imposed on the Company for periods prior to the date Enron
Corp. reduced its ownership in the Company to less than 80%. In 1997, the
Company and Enron Corp. agreed to terminate the 1995 Agreement and enter into a
new tax allocation agreement. In the new agreement, Enron Corp. agreed to refund
the $13 million payment made by the Company pursuant to the 1995 Agreement, the
Company agreed to release
 

 
Enron Corp. from the liabilities assumed related to the $13 million payment and
the parties agreed to indemnify each other in a manner consistent with the Base
Agreement. Enron Corp. also advanced the Company approximately $50 million to
fund certain federal income taxes related to the 1995 taxable year. This advance
is to be repaid in annual installments through January 1, 2001. The Company does
not believe that the cessation of consolidated tax reporting with Enron Corp.,
the termination of the Base Agreement concurrent with deconsolidation, the
signing of the 1995 Agreement and/or the newest tax allocation agreement with
Enron Corp. have had or will have in the future a material adverse effect on its
financial condition or results of operations.
 
     Conflicts of Interest. The nature of the respective businesses of the
Company and Enron Corp. and its other affiliates ("Enron") is such as to give
rise to conflicts of interest between the companies from time to time. Conflicts
may arise, for example, with respect to transactions involving purchases, sales
and transportation of natural gas and other business dealings between the
Company and Enron, potential acquisitions of businesses or crude oil and natural
gas properties or the payment of dividends by the Company. In connection with
its finance and trading business conducted by its subsidiaries, Enron Capital &
Trade Resources Corp. ("ECT") and Enron International Capital & Trade Corp.
("EICT"), Enron provides or arranges financing for others, including exploration
and production companies, some of which compete with the Company. Enron may make
investments in the debt or equity of such companies, may make loans secured by
crude oil and natural gas properties or securities of crude oil and natural gas
companies, may acquire production payments or may receive interests in crude oil
and natural gas properties as equity components of lending transactions. As a
result of its finance and trading business, Enron may also acquire crude oil and
natural gas properties or companies upon foreclosure of secured loans or as part
of a borrower's rearrangement of its obligations. Enron also has interests in
entities such as Joint Energy Development Investments Limited Partnership, which
makes debt and equity investments in energy-related businesses, including
exploration and production companies. The acquisition, exploration, development
and production activities of entities in which Enron has interests may directly
or indirectly compete with the Company's business.
 
     Business Opportunity Agreement. In December 1997, Enron Corp. and the
Company entered into an Equity Participation and Business Opportunity Agreement
(the "Business Opportunity Agreement") that defines certain obligations that
Enron owes to the Company and relieves Enron from certain obligations to the
Company that it might otherwise have, including the obligation to offer certain
business opportunities to the Company. Enron has advised the Company that,
although it believes that it has conducted its business in a manner that is
consistent with its duties as a majority shareholder of the Company, it was
motivated to enter into the Business Opportunity Agreement because of the
difficulty of determining the applicability of the law relating to duties that
Enron may owe to the Company in connection with Enron's finance and trading
business and because of Enron's desire to have more flexibility in pursuing
business opportunities identified by or developed solely by Enron personnel. The
Business Opportunity Agreement was approved by the Board of Directors of the
Company after it was approved unanimously by a special committee of the Board of
Directors consisting of the Company's independent directors. The special
committee retained its own legal and financial advisers in connection with its
evaluation of Enron's proposal, and the Business Opportunity Agreement as
executed reflects significant concessions on Enron's part resulting from its
negotiations with members of the special committee.
 
     The Business Opportunity Agreement provides generally that, so long as such
activities are conducted in compliance with the Business Opportunity Agreement
in all material respects, Enron may pursue business opportunities independently
of the Company. The Business Opportunity Agreement contains an acknowledgment by
the Company that Enron's finance and trading business may result in the
acquisition by Enron of oil and gas properties or companies and that in certain
cases Enron or entities in which Enron has an interest may acquire such assets
pursuant to bidding or auction processes in which the Company is also a bidder.
In the Business Opportunity Agreement, the Company acknowledges and agrees that
such activities may have an impact on the Company or the price it pays for
properties or securities it purchases from others, that Enron or entities in
which it has an interest may acquire direct or indirect interests in oil and gas
properties or companies as a result of such activities, may own, operate and
control any such assets in connection therewith, and may acquire additional oil
and gas properties or companies or pursue opportunities related thereto in
 

 
connection therewith, in each case without any duty to offer all or any portion
of such assets or opportunities to the Company. The Business Opportunity
Agreement contains an acknowledgment and agreement by the Company that, to the
extent that a court might hold that the conduct of such activity is a breach of
a duty to the Company (and without admitting that the conduct of such activity
is such a breach of duty), the Company waives any and all claims and causes of
action that it may have to claim that the conduct of such activity is a breach
of a duty to the Company.
 
     The Business Opportunity Agreement contains certain restrictions on the
conduct of Enron's business. It also provides that, except with respect to
business opportunities pursued jointly by Enron and the Company and except as
otherwise agreed to between Enron and the Company, Enron's business will be
conducted through the use of its own personnel and assets and not with the use
of any personnel or assets of the Company. Thus, without the consent of the
Company, the finance and trading business conducted by ECT, EICT or other Enron
entities may only involve business opportunities identified by or presented to
ECT personnel, EICT personnel or other Enron personnel and developed and pursued
solely through the use of the personnel and assets of ECT, EICT or other Enron
entities. Enron has agreed that, so long as it controls the Company, it will not
pursue any business opportunity a majority of the value of which involves oil
and gas properties if the opportunity is first presented to an officer or
director of Enron who is also an officer or director of the Company at the time
such opportunity is presented, unless Enron first offers such opportunity to the
Company. The Business Opportunity Agreement states that its provisions relate
exclusively to the duties that Enron owes the Company and that nothing in the
Business Opportunity Agreement affects the fiduciary or other duties owed to the
Company by any individual director or officer of the Company in his or her
capacity as such. In this connection, Enron has agreed that its representatives
on the Board of Directors of the Company will not, for the purpose of enabling
Enron to pursue an opportunity in the oil and gas business, vote in such a
manner as to effectively prevent, prohibit or restrict the Company from pursuing
such opportunity.
 
     In consideration for the Company's agreements in the Business Opportunity
Agreement, Enron provided valuable consideration to the Company, including
options to purchase common stock of Enron that will give the Company the
opportunity to participate in future appreciation in value of Enron, including
any appreciation in value resulting from activities that the Company has agreed
to permit Enron and its subsidiaries to pursue. Enron granted the Company ten
year options to purchase 3,200,000 shares of Enron common stock at $39.1875 per
share, the closing price per share on the date that the Company's Board of
Directors approved the Business Opportunity Agreement. The options vest in
accordance with a schedule that provides that 25% vested immediately, 15% vest
on the anniversary of the Business Opportunity Agreement in 1998 and 10% vest
each anniversary thereafter until all of the options are vested. Vesting will be
accelerated in the event of a change of control of the Company. For such
purposes a "change of control" means that (a) Enron no longer owns capital stock
of the Company representing at least 35% of the voting power for the election of
directors and (b) a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the
Company consists of persons who are not officers or directors of Enron or any
affiliate of Enron other than the Company. The Business Opportunity Agreement
also included (i) an agreement to replace the existing services agreement, under
which Enron provides certain services to the Company, with a new services
agreement under which the Company's maximum payments to Enron for allocated
indirect costs will be reduced by $2.8 million per year, (ii) an agreement by
Enron relieving the Company of the obligation to bear the costs of any
registration of sales by Enron of shares of common stock of the Company, (iii)
an agreement by Enron to pay the costs of registration of the Company's sales of
Enron common stock acquired upon exercise of the options granted in the Business
Opportunity Agreement, (iv) an agreement that if Enron takes any action that
results in the loss by the Company of its status as an "independent producer"
under the Internal Revenue Code, Enron will pay the Company each year through
2006 the lesser of (a) $1 million and (b) an amount which, after payment of
applicable taxes, will compensate the Company for the additional income tax
liability resulting from the loss of independent producer status, (v) an
agreement that if Enron requests that the Company relocate its offices, and if
the Company agrees to do so, Enron will pay the Company's moving expenses,
including expenses of building out or refurbishing the space in its new offices
and expenses of removing and reinstalling the Company's telecommunications and
information systems facilities and (vi) an agreement by Enron to reimburse the
Company for the costs and expenses of legal and financial consultants retained
to assist the special committee in connection with the Business Opportunity
Agreement. In addition, pursuant to the

 
Business Opportunity Agreement Enron agreed to cause its subsidiary, Houston
Pipe Line Company, to enter into various agreements with the Company rearranging
certain existing contractual arrangements between them, and Enron and the
Company entered into a licensing agreement covering the Enron name and mark and
recognizing that the EOG and EOGI names and marks belong to the Company. In the
Business Opportunity Agreement Enron and the Company also entered into
agreements in principle regarding the manner in which they will share the
burdens and benefits of the integrated projects under joint development by Enron
and the Company in Qatar, Mozambique and Uzbekistan. The agreements in principle
provide generally that the Company's interests in these projects will be 20%,
20% and 80%, respectively, of the combined ownership interest of the Company and
Enron.
 
     The Business Opportunity Agreement also contains provisions that give Enron
the right to maintain its equity interest in the Company at certain levels. It
provides that if the Company issues additional shares of its capital stock Enron
will have the right to purchase additional shares of capital stock of the
Company as follows: (i) if Enron owns a majority interest, Enron will have the
right to purchase sufficient shares to permit it to retain its majority
interest; (ii) if Enron does not own a majority interest but accounts for the
assets and operations of the Company on a consolidated basis for financial
reporting purposes Enron will have the right to purchase sufficient shares to
permit it to continue to account for the Company on a consolidated basis; and
(iii) if Enron accounts for the assets and operations of the Company using the
equity method for financial reporting purposes Enron will have the right to
purchase sufficient shares to permit it to continue to account for the Company
using the equity method. Any such purchase by Enron will be for cash at 97% of
the average closing price per share over a specified 20 day period (reflecting a
3% private placement discount).
 
     Contractual Arrangements. As part of the Business Opportunity Agreement,
the Company entered into a Services Agreement (the "Services Agreement") with
Enron Corp. effective January 1, 1997, pursuant to which Enron Corp. provides
various services, such as maintenance of certain employee benefit plans,
provision of certain telecommunications and computer services, lease of certain
office space and the provision of certain purchasing and operating services and
certain other corporate staff and support services. Such services historically
have been supplied to the Company by Enron Corp., and the Services Agreement
provides for the further delivery of such services substantially identical in
nature and quality to those services previously provided. The Company has agreed
to a fixed rate for the rental of office space and to reimburse Enron Corp. for
all other direct costs incurred in rendering services to the Company under the
contract and to pay Enron Corp. for allocated indirect costs incurred in
rendering such services up to a maximum of approximately $5.3 million in 1997.
The limit on cost for the allocated indirect services provided by Enron Corp. to
the Company will increase in subsequent years for inflation and certain changes
in the Company's allocation bases. The Services Agreement is for an initial term
of ten years through December 2006 and will continue thereafter until terminated
by either party.
 
     In March 1995, in a series of transactions with Enron Corp., the Company
exchanged all of its fuel supply and purchase contracts and related price swap
agreements associated with a Texas City cogeneration plant (the "Cogen
Contracts") for certain natural gas price swap agreements (the "Swap
Agreements") of equivalent value. As a result of the transactions, the Company
was relieved of all performance obligations associated with the Cogen Contracts.
The Company will realize net operating revenues and receive corresponding cash
payments of approximately $91 million during the period extending through
December 31, 1999 under the terms of the Swap Agreements. The estimated fair
value of the Swap Agreements was approximately $81 million at the date the Swap
Agreements were received. The net effect of this series of transactions has
resulted in increases in net operating revenues and cash receipts for the
Company during 1995 and 1996 of approximately $13 million and $7 million,
respectively, with offsetting decreases in 1998 and 1999 versus that anticipated
under the Cogen Contracts.
 
     The Company and Enron Corp. have in the past entered into material
intercompany transactions and agreements incident to their respective
businesses, and they may be expected to enter into such transactions and
agreements in the future. Such transactions and agreements have related to,
among other things, the purchase and sale of natural gas and crude oil, hedging
and trading activities, the financing of exploration and development efforts by
the Company, and the provision of certain corporate services. (See "Marketing"
and the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto). The Company
believes that its existing

 
transactions and agreements with Enron Corp. have been at least as favorable to
the Company as could be obtained from third parties, and the Company intends
that the terms of any future transactions and agreements between the Company and
Enron Corp. will be at least as favorable to the Company as could be obtained
from third parties.
 
OTHER MATTERS
 
     Energy Prices. Since the Company is primarily a natural gas company, it is
more significantly impacted by changes in natural gas prices than in the prices
for crude oil, condensate or natural gas liquids. During recent periods,
domestic natural gas has been priced significantly below parity with crude oil
and condensate based on the energy equivalency of, and differences in
transportation and processing costs associated with, the respective products
although that relationship improved during 1996. This imbalance in parity has
been primarily driven by, among other things, a supply of domestic natural gas
volumes in excess of demand requirements. The Company is unable to predict when
this supply imbalance may be resolved due to the significant impacts of factors
such as general economic conditions, technology developments, weather and other
international energy supplies over which the Company has no control.
 
     Average North America wellhead natural gas prices have fluctuated, at times
rather dramatically, during the last three years. While these fluctuations
resulted in a decrease in average wellhead natural gas prices realized by the
Company of 20% from 1994 to 1995, the average North America wellhead natural gas
price received by the Company increased 43% from 1995 to 1996 and 15% from 1996
to 1997. Wellhead natural gas volumes from Trinidad are sold at prices that are
based on a fixed schedule with periodic escalations. Natural gas deliveries in
India commenced in June 1997 and, under the terms of the production sharing
contracts, the price of such deliveries are indexed to a basket of world market
fuel oil quotations structured to include floor and ceiling limits. Due to the
many uncertainties associated with the world political environment, the
availabilities of other world wide energy supplies and the relative competitive
relationships of the various energy sources in the view of the consumers, the
Company is unable to predict what changes may occur in natural gas prices in the
future.
 
     Substantially all of the Company's wellhead crude oil and condensate is
sold under various terms and arrangements at market responsive prices. Crude oil
and condensate prices also have fluctuated during the last three years. Due to
the many uncertainties associated with the world political environment, the
availabilities of other world wide energy supplies and the relative competitive
relationships of the various energy sources in the view of the consumers, the
Company is unable to predict what changes may occur in crude oil and condensate
prices in the future.
 
     Risk Management. The Company engages in price risk management activities
from time to time primarily for non-trading and to a lesser extent for trading
purposes. Derivative financial instruments (primarily price swaps and costless
collars) are utilized for non-trading purposes to hedge the impact of market
fluctuations of natural gas and crude oil market prices on net income and cash
flow.
 
     At December 31, 1997, the Company had outstanding natural gas costless
collar transactions, designated as hedges, covering approximately 37 trillion
British thermal units ("TBtu") of natural gas for 1998 and price swaps covering
approximately 4 TBtu of natural gas for each of the years 1999 and 2000 and
approximately 1.3 MMBbl and .7 MMBbl of crude oil and condensate for the years
1998 and 1999, respectively. The fair value of the positions was a net revenue
increase of $1 million at December 31, 1997.
 
     At December 31, 1997, the Company had outstanding options, exercisable by a
counterparty, covering notional natural gas volumes averaging 3 TBtu per month
during 1998. The fair value of these options at December 31, 1997 was a revenue
reduction of $10.5 million. The Company also had outstanding at December 31,
1997 natural gas price swap positions in the same notional quantities as the
1998 options with a fair value revenue increase of $4.2 million.
 
     At December 31, 1997, based on the portion of the Company's anticipated
natural gas volumes for 1998 for which prices have not, in effect, been hedged
using NYMEX-related commodity market transactions and long-term marketing
contracts, the Company's net income and cash flow sensitivity to changing
natural gas
 

 
prices is approximately $19 million for each $.10 per Mcf change in average
wellhead natural gas prices. While the Company is not impacted as significantly
by changing crude oil prices for those volumes not otherwise hedged, its net
income and cash flow sensitivity is approximately $5 million for $1.00 per
barrel change in average wellhead crude oil prices.
 
     Tight Gas Sand Tax Credits (Section 29) and Severance Tax Exemption. United
States federal tax law provides a tax credit for production of certain fuels
produced from nonconventional sources (including natural gas produced from tight
formations), subject to a number of limitations. Fuels qualifying for the credit
must be produced from a well drilled or a facility placed in service after
November 5, 1990 and before January 1, 1993, and must be sold before January 1,
2003.
 
     The credit, which is currently approximately $.52 per million British
thermal units ("MMBtu") of natural gas, is computed by reference to the price of
crude oil, and is phased out as the price of crude oil exceeds $23.50 in 1980
dollars (adjusted for inflation) with complete phaseout if such price exceeds
$29.50 in 1980 dollars (similarly adjusted). Under this formula, the
commencement of phaseout would be triggered if the average price for crude oil
rose above approximately $47 per barrel in current dollars. Significant benefits
from the tax credit have accrued and continue to accrue to the Company since a
portion (and in some cases a substantial portion) of the Company's natural gas
production from new wells drilled after November 5, 1990, and before January 1,
1993, on the Company's leases in several of the Company's significant producing
areas qualify for this tax credit.
 
     Natural gas production from wells spudded or completed after May 24, 1989
and before September 1, 1996 in tight formations in Texas qualifies for a
ten-year exemption, ending August 31, 2001, from severance taxes, subject to
certain limitations. In 1995, the drilling qualification period was extended in
a modified and somewhat reduced form from September 1996 through August 2002.
Consequently, new qualifying production will be added prospectively to that
presently qualified.
 
     Other. All of the Company's natural gas and crude oil activities are
subject to the risks normally incident to the exploration for and development
and production of natural gas and crude oil, including blowouts, cratering and
fires, each of which could result in damage to life and property. Offshore
operations are subject to usual marine perils, including hurricanes and other
adverse weather conditions, and governmental regulations as well as interruption
or termination by governmental authorities based on environmental and other
considerations. In accordance with customary industry practices, insurance is
maintained by the Company against some, but not all, of the risks. Losses and
liabilities arising from such events could reduce revenues and increase costs to
the Company to the extent not covered by insurance.
 
     The Company's operations outside of North America are subject to certain
risks, including expropriation of assets, risks of increases in taxes and
government royalties, renegotiation of contracts with foreign governments,
political instability, payment delays, limits on allowable levels of production
and current exchange and repatriation losses, as well as changes in laws,
regulations and policies governing operations of foreign companies generally.
 

 
CURRENT EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The current executive officers of the Company and their names and ages are
as follows (all positions are with the Company unless otherwise noted):
 

 
     Forrest E. Hoglund joined the Company as Chairman of the Board, Chief
Executive Officer and Director in September 1987. He also served as President of
the Company from May 1990 until December 1996. Mr. Hoglund is an advisory
director of Chase Bank of Texas, National Association.
 
     Mark G. Papa was elected President and Chief Operating Officer in September
1997 and President of the Company in December 1996 and has been
President - North America Operations since February 1994. From May 1986 through
January 1994, Mr. Papa served as Senior Vice President - Operations. Mr. Papa
joined Belco Petroleum Corporation, a predecessor of the Company, in 1981.
 
     Edmund P. Segner, III became Vice Chairman and Chief of Staff of the
Company in September 1997. Mr. Segner was a director of the Company from January
1997 to October 1997. Mr. Segner joined Enron Corp. in 1988 and was Executive
Vice President and Chief of Staff.
 
     Dennis M. Ulak has been President - International Operations since January
1996 with responsibility for activities outside North America. Mr. Ulak also
serves as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Enron Oil & Gas International,
Inc. Mr. Ulak joined the Company in March 1987 as Senior Counsel and was named
Assistant General Counsel for international operations in February 1989,
Assistant General Counsel in August 1990 and Vice President and General Counsel
in March 1992.
 
     Jeffrey B. Sherrick joined the Company in July 1989 and has been President
and Chief Operating Officer of Enron Oil & Gas International, Inc., since
September 1997. Mr. Sherrick was previously Senior Vice President, Acquisitions
and Engineering of the Company.
 
     Barry Hunsaker, Jr. has been Senior Vice President and General Counsel
since he joined the Company in May 1996. Prior to joining the Company, Mr.
Hunsaker was a partner in the law firm of Vinson & Elkins L.L.P.
 
     Loren M. Leiker joined the Company in April 1989 and has been Senior Vice
President, Exploration since March 1997. Mr. Leiker was previously Vice
President, Exploration of the Company.
 
     Walter C. Wilson joined the Company in November 1987 and has been Senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 1991.
 
     Ben B. Boyd joined the Company in March 1989 and has been Vice President
and Controller since March 1991.
 

 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
 
OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION PROPERTIES AND RESERVES
 
     Reserve Information. For estimates of the Company's net proved and proved
developed reserves of natural gas and liquids, including crude oil, condensate
and natural gas liquids, see "Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial
Statements."
 
     There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of
proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of
development expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the
producer. The reserve data set forth in Supplemental Information to Consolidated
Financial Statements represent only estimates. Reserve engineering is a
subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas and
liquids, including crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids, that cannot be
measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function
of the amount and quality of available data and of engineering and geological
interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers
normally vary. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production
subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revision of such estimate.
Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities
ultimately recovered. The meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent
upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they were based.
 
     In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties owned by
the Company declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent the Company
acquires additional properties containing proved reserves or conducts successful
exploration and development activities, or both, the proved reserves of the
Company will decline as reserves are produced. Volumes generated from future
activities of the Company are therefore highly dependent upon the level of
success in finding or acquiring additional reserves and the costs incurred in so
doing. The Company's estimates of reserves filed with other federal agencies
agree with the information set forth in Supplemental Information to Consolidated
Financial Statements.
 

 
     Acreage. The following table summarizes the Company's developed and
undeveloped acreage at December 31, 1997. Excluded is acreage in which the
Company's interest is limited to owned royalty, overriding royalty and other
similar interests.
 

 
     Producing Well Summary. The following table reflects the Company's
ownership in gas and oil wells located in Texas, the Gulf of Mexico, Oklahoma,
New Mexico, Utah, Wyoming, and various other states, Canada, Trinidad and India
at December 31, 1997. Gross gas and oil wells include 279 with multiple
completions.
 

 

 
     Drilling and Acquisition Activities. During the years ended December 31,
1997, 1996 and 1995 the Company spent approximately $693 million, $599 million
and $514 million, respectively, for exploratory and development drilling and
acquisition of leases and producing properties. The Company drilled,
participated in the drilling of or acquired wells as set out in the table below
for the periods indicated:
 

 
- ---------------
 
* Includes the acquisition of additional interests in certain wells in which the
  Company previously held an interest.
 
     All of the Company's drilling activities are conducted on a contract basis
with independent drilling contractors. The Company owns no drilling equipment.
 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     The Company and its subsidiaries and related companies are named defendants
in numerous lawsuits and named parties in numerous governmental proceedings
arising in the ordinary course of business. While the outcome of lawsuits or
other proceedings against the Company cannot be predicted with certainty,
management does not expect these matters to have a material adverse effect on
the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 

 
     Enron Oil & Gas India Ltd. ("EOGIL"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company, is a respondent in two public interest lawsuits filed in the Delhi High
Court, India. The first (the "Wadehra Action") was brought by B. L. Wadehra, an
Indian public interest lawyer, against the Union of India, EOGIL, EOGIL co-
participants in the Panna and Mukta fields, Reliance Industries Limited
("Reliance") and Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Limited ("ONGC"), and certain
other respondents. ONGC is the Indian national oil company and is wholly-owned
by the Union of India. The second suit (the "CPIL Action") was brought by the
Centre for Public Interest Litigation and the National Alliance of People's
Movement against the Union of India, the Central Bureau of Investigation, ONGC,
Reliance and EOGIL. Petitioners in both the Wadehra Action and the CPIL Action
allege various improprieties in the award of the Panna and Mukta fields to
EOGIL, Reliance and ONGC, and seek the cancellation of the Production Sharing
Contract for the Panna and Mukta fields. The Union of India is vigorously
disputing these allegations. The Company believes that the public competitive
bidding process for the fields was fair and that the award of these fields to
EOGIL, Reliance and ONGC was proper. Although no assurances can be given, based
on currently available information the Company believes that the claims made by
the petitioners in both actions are without merit, and that the ultimate
resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on its
financial condition or results of operations.
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the
fourth quarter of 1997.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER
MATTERS
 
     The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low
sales prices per share for the common stock of the Company, as reported on the
New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape, and the amount of cash dividends paid
per share.
 

 
     As of March 1, 1998, there were approximately 376 record holders of the
Company's common stock, including individual participants in security position
listings. There are an estimated 21,000 beneficial owners of the Company's
common stock, including shares held in street name.
 
     The Company currently intends to continue to pay quarterly cash dividends
on its outstanding shares of common stock. However, the determination of the
amount of future cash dividends, if any, to be declared and paid will depend
upon, among other things, the financial condition, funds from operations, level
of exploration and development expenditure opportunities and future business
prospects of the Company.
 

 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 

 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Includes benefits of approximately $12 million, $16 million, $22 million,
    $36 million and $65 million in 1997, 1996, 1995, 1994 and 1993,
    respectively, relating to tight gas sand federal income tax credits.
 
(2) Includes a benefit of $15 million primarily associated with the refiling of
    certain Canadian tax returns and the sale of certain international assets
    and subsidiaries.
 
(3) Includes a benefit of $9 million primarily associated with a reassessment of
    deferred tax requirements and the successful resolution on audit of Canadian
    income taxes for certain prior years.
 
(4) Includes a benefit of approximately $14 million associated with the
    successful resolution on audit of federal income taxes for certain prior
    years.
 
(5) Includes a benefit of approximately $8 million related to reduced estimated
    state income taxes and certain franchise taxes, a portion of which is
    treated as income tax under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    ("SFAS") No. 109 - "Accounting for Income Taxes", and a $5 million benefit
 

 
    from the reduction of the Company's deferred federal income tax liability
    resulting from a reevaluation of deferred tax requirements.
 
(6) Includes a benefit of $12 million from the reduction of the Company's
    deferred federal income tax liability resulting from a reevaluation of
    deferred tax requirements partially offset by an approximate $7 million
    predominantly noncash charge primarily to adjust the Company's accumulated
    deferred federal income tax liability for the increase in the corporate
    federal income tax rate from 34% to 35%.
 
(7) In May 1994, the Board of Directors declared a two-for-one split of the
    common stock of the Company to be effected as a nontaxable dividend of one
    share for each share outstanding. Shares were issued on June 15, 1994 to
    shareholders of record as of May 31, 1994. All per share amounts presented
    herein are reflected on a post-split basis.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS
 
     The following review of operations for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1997 should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements of the Company and notes thereto beginning
with page F-1.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
     Net Operating Revenues. Wellhead volume and price statistics for the
specified years were as follows:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Includes 48 MMcf per day in 1997, 1996 and 1995 delivered under the terms of
    a volumetric production payment agreement effective October 1, 1992, as
    amended.
 
(2) Includes an average equivalent wellhead value of $1.73 per Mcf in 1997,
    $1.17 per Mcf in 1996, and $.80 per Mcf in 1995 for the volumes detailed in
    note (1), net of transportation costs.
 

 
     1997 compared to 1996. During 1997, net operating revenues increased $53
million to $784 million. Total wellhead revenues of $828 million increased by
$129 million, or 18%, as compared to 1996.
 
     Average wellhead natural gas prices for 1997 were up approximately 16% from
the comparable period in 1996 increasing net operating revenues by approximately
$82 million. Wellhead natural gas volumes were up 7% from 1996 adding net
operating revenues of approximately $49 million. This is primarily attributable
to a 7% increase in North America wellhead natural gas volumes and commencement
of natural gas production from the Tapti field in India. Wellhead crude oil and
condensate average prices decreased 6%, reducing net operating revenues by
approximately $10 million from 1996. Wellhead crude oil and condensate volumes
increased slightly from the comparable period a year ago and added approximately
$2 million to net operating revenues as a 23% increase in North America wellhead
crude oil and condensate volumes was partially offset by a natural decline in
crude oil production from the Ibis field offshore Trinidad.
 
     Gains on the sales of reserves and related assets totaled $9 million in
1997 as compared to $20 million realized in 1996, reflecting a lower level of
sales activity.
 
     Other marketing activities associated with sales and purchases of natural
gas, natural gas and crude oil price hedging and trading transactions, and
margins related to the volumetric production payment decreased net operating
revenues by $61 million during 1997, compared to a $4 million increase in 1996.
A $51 million revenue reduction related to natural gas commodity price hedging
activities utilizing NYMEX-related commodity market transactions in 1997
partially offset greater wellhead price benefits noted above and compares to a
$13 million revenue increase associated with similar transactions a year ago. A
decrease in margins associated with sales and purchases of natural gas and the
volumetric production payment reduced net revenues by approximately $9 million
as compared to an $18 million addition in 1996, primarily resulting from higher
costs of natural gas delivered in 1997. Additionally, the Company incurred a $5
million revenue reduction on its NYMEX-related crude oil price swap transactions
in 1997 compared to a $13 million revenue reduction in 1996.
 
     1996 compared to 1995. During 1996, net operating revenues increased $82
million to $731 million as compared to 1995.
 
     Average wellhead natural gas prices for 1996 were up approximately 38% from
the comparable period in 1995 increasing net operating revenues by approximately
$150 million. A 12% increase in wellhead natural gas volumes from 1995 added net
operating revenues of approximately $42 million. The increase in North America
wellhead natural gas volumes was primarily the result of eliminating voluntary
curtailments in the United States during 1996 due to significant increases
realized in average wellhead natural gas prices over the prices realized in
1995. Wellhead crude oil and condensate average prices increased 23% adding
approximately $27 million to net operating revenues over 1995. Wellhead crude
oil and condensate volumes increased 3% from the comparable period a year ago
adding approximately $4 million to net operating revenues.
 
     Gains on the sales of reserves and related assets totaled $20 million in
1996 as compared to $63 million realized in 1995, reflecting a lower level of
sales activity.
 
     Other marketing activities associated with sales and purchases of natural
gas, natural gas and crude oil price hedging and trading transactions, and
margins related to the volumetric production payment increased net operating
revenues by only $4 million during 1996, a decrease of approximately $101
million from 1995. This decrease primarily resulted from a lower revenue
increase on natural gas commodity price hedging activities utilizing
NYMEX-related commodity market transactions in 1996 of $13 million compared to a
$65 million revenue increase on similar transactions in 1995. The Company also
incurred a $13 million revenue reduction related to certain trading transactions
in 1996 compared to a $3 million revenue increase in 1995. A decrease in margins
associated with sales and purchases of natural gas and the volumetric production
payment reduced net revenues by approximately $17 million as compared to 1995 as
a result of the higher costs of natural gas delivered. Additionally, the Company
incurred a $13 million revenue reduction on its NYMEX-related crude oil price
swap transactions in 1996 compared to $2 million revenue increase in 1995.
 

 
     Operating Expenses
 
     1997 compared to 1996. During 1997, operating expenses of $591 million were
approximately $69 million higher than the $522 million incurred in 1996.
 
     Lease and well expenses increased $19 million to $96 million primarily due
to expanded operations and increased North America production activities at
higher costs to maximize the volumes delivered at higher product prices.
Exploration expenses of $58 million and dry hole expenses of $17 million
increased $3 million and $4 million, respectively, from 1996 primarily due to
increased exploratory drilling activities in North America. Impairment of
unproved oil and gas properties increased $6 million to $27 million as a result
of increased acquisition of unproved leases in North America. Depreciation,
depletion and amortization ("DD&A") expense increased approximately $27 million
to $278 million in 1997 primarily reflecting an increase in North America
production volumes. Taxes other than income were up by approximately $12 million
from the prior year primarily due to higher state severance taxes associated
with increased wellhead revenues in the United States.
 
     Total operating costs per unit of production, which include lease and well,
DD&A, general and administrative, taxes other than income and interest expense,
increased 9% to $1.37 per thousand cubic feet equivalent ("Mcfe") in 1997 from
$1.26 per Mcfe in 1996. This increase was primarily attributable to increased
lease and well costs industry-wide, higher per unit DD&A and higher interest
expense associated with expanded worldwide operations, partially offset by lower
per unit general and administrative expenses.
 
     1996 compared to 1995. During 1996, operating expenses of $522 million were
approximately $69 million higher than the $453 million incurred in 1995.
 
     Lease and well expenses increased approximately $7 million to $77 million
primarily due to continually expanding operations and increases in production
activity. Exploration expense increased approximately $13 million to $55 million
primarily due to increased exploratory drilling activities in North America.
DD&A expense increased $35 million to $251 million primarily reflecting
increased production volumes and an increase in the average DD&A rate from $.68
per Mcfe in 1995 to $.71 per Mcfe in 1996 due to a change in volume mix by field
and geographic location and the impact of the adoption of SFAS No.
121 - "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to be Disposed Of." Taxes other than income were approximately $16
million higher in 1996 as compared to 1995 primarily due to higher state
severance taxes associated with higher taxable wellhead revenues resulting from
higher United States volumes and average prices and lower applicable exploration
cost deductions in Trinidad in 1996.
 
     The Company's total per unit operating costs increased in 1996 for lease
and well, DD&A, general and administrative, interest expense, and taxes other
than income by $.04 per Mcfe, averaging $1.26 per Mcfe during 1996 compared to
$1.22 per Mcfe during 1995. This increase is primarily attributable to increases
in per unit DD&A expense and taxes other than income partially offset by a
decrease in per unit general and administrative expense.
 
     Other Income (Expense). The net expense for 1997 was primarily comprised of
expense related to a provision for litigation partially offset by interest
income.
 
     Interest Expense. The increase in net interest expense of $15 million from
1996 to 1997 and of $1 million from 1995 to 1996 primarily reflects a higher
level of debt outstanding in each subsequent period. (See Note 4 to Consolidated
Financial Statements).
 
     Income Taxes. Income tax provision decreased over $9 million for 1997 as
compared to 1996 primarily due to lower income before income taxes.
Approximately $15 million in benefits related to the sales of certain
international assets and subsidiaries, the refiling of certain Canadian tax
returns and other miscellaneous benefits were essentially equal to the Canadian
benefit and other items reported in 1996, as discussed below.
 
     Income tax provision increased $9 million for 1996 as compared to 1995
primarily as a result of lower benefits associated with tight gas sands federal
income tax credits utilized in 1996 as compared to 1995. Tax benefits associated
with a reassessment of deferred tax requirements and the successful resolution
on audit of
 

 
Canadian income taxes for certain prior years of $9 million and other
miscellaneous benefits in 1996 were essentially equal to an unrelated $14
million benefit in 1995.
 
CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY
 
     Cash Flow. The primary sources of cash for the Company during the
three-year period ended December 31, 1997 included funds generated from
operations, proceeds from the sales of selected oil and gas reserves and related
assets, proceeds from new borrowings and proceeds from the sales of treasury
stock in conjunction with the exercise of stock options. Primary cash outflows
included funds used in operations, exploration and development expenditures,
common stock repurchases, dividends paid to Company shareholders and the
repayment of debt.
 
     Discretionary cash flow, a frequently used measure of performance for
exploration and production companies, is generally derived by adjusting net
income to eliminate the effects of depreciation, depletion and amortization,
impairment of unproved oil and gas properties, deferred income taxes, gains on
sales of oil and gas reserves and related assets, certain other non-cash
amounts, except for amortization of deferred revenue, and exploration and dry
hole expenses and to include proceeds from sales of reserves and related assets.
The Company generated discretionary cash flow of approximately $545 million in
1997, $543 million in 1996, and $525 million in 1995.
 
     Net operating cash flows of $531 million for 1997 increased approximately
$166 million as compared to 1996 due to higher production related net operating
revenues net of cash operating expenses, lower current income taxes and reduced
working capital requirements. The working capital changes primarily reflected
higher 1996 end of year operating revenues collected in 1997 partially offset by
the higher level of end of year 1996 operating related accounts payable paid in
1997.
 
     Net operating cash flows of $365 million for 1996 increased approximately
$30 million as compared to 1995 primarily due to higher production related net
operating revenues net of cash operating expenses partially offset by higher
current federal income taxes and increased working capital requirements
primarily associated with higher accounts receivable due to higher wellhead
prices and an increase in international activities, net of higher accounts
payable, at year end 1996. In accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 95 -
"Statement of Cash Flows", net proceeds from the sale of selected oil and gas
reserves and related assets are not included in the determination of net
operating cash flows.
 
     Sale of Volumetric Production Payment. In September 1992, the Company sold
a volumetric production payment for $326.8 million to a limited partnership.
(See "Business - Marketing - Other Marketing" and Note 5 to Consolidated
Financial Statements). Under the terms of the production payment agreements, the
Company conveyed a real property interest in approximately 124 Bcfe (136 TBtu)
of certain natural gas and other hydrocarbons to the purchaser. Effective
October 1, 1993, the agreements were amended providing for the extension of the
original term of the volumetric production payment through March 31, 1999 and
including a revised schedule of daily quantities of hydrocarbons to be delivered
which is approximately one-half of the original schedule. The revised schedule
will total approximately 89.1 Bcfe (97.8 TBtu) versus approximately 87.9 Bcfe
(96.4 TBtu) remaining to be delivered under the original agreement. The Company
retains responsibility for its working interest share of the cost of operations.
In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the Company
accounted for the proceeds received in the transaction as deferred revenue which
is being amortized into revenue and income as natural gas and other hydrocarbons
are produced and delivered to the purchaser during the term, as revised, of the
volumetric production payment thereby matching those revenues with the
depreciation of asset values which remained on the balance sheet following the
sale and the operating expenses incurred for which the Company retained
responsibility. The Company expects the above transaction, as amended, to have
minimal impact on future earnings. However, cash made available by the sale of
the volumetric production payment has provided considerable financial
flexibility for the pursuit of investment alternatives.
 

 
     Exploration and Development Expenditures. The table below sets out
components of actual exploration and development expenditures for the years
ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, along with those budgeted for the year
1998.
 

 
     Exploration and development expenditures increased $93 million primarily
due to increased exploration and development activities in the United States and
the acquisition of producing properties in South Texas and in the Blackfoot area
in Canada. Partially offsetting these increases were the reduction of
construction expenditures in India related to the Tapti and Panna/Mukta
production facilities which were completed in 1997.
 
     Exploration and development expenditures increased $89 million in 1996 as
compared to 1995 primarily due to increased development expenditures in the
United States and India and increased exploration expenditures in the United
States. Partially offsetting these increases were the reduction in 1996 of
development expenditures in Trinidad due to the completion of a large
development drilling program in 1995 and reduced property acquisition
expenditures. (See "Business - Exploration and Production" for additional
information detailing the specific geographic locations of the Company's
drilling programs and "Outlook" below for a discussion related to 1998
exploration and development expenditure plans).
 
     Hedging Transactions. With the objective of enhancing the certainty of
future revenues, the Company enters into NYMEX-related commodity price swaps
from time to time. Using NYMEX-related commodity price swaps, the Company
receives a fixed price for the respective commodity hedged and pays a floating
market price, as defined for each transaction, to the counterparty at
settlement. The Company's 1997 NYMEX-related natural gas and crude oil commodity
price swaps closed with "other marketing revenue" reductions of $51 million
pretax and $5 million pretax, respectively. The Company has entered into natural
gas costless collar commodity price swap transactions which have a floor price
and a ceiling price. At December 31, 1997, there were outstanding natural gas
costless collars for 1998 covering approximately 37 TBtu of natural gas at a
weighted average floor price of $2.12 per MMBtu and ceiling price of $2.72 per
MMBtu. At December 31, 1997, there were open crude oil commodity price swaps for
1998 covering approximately 1.3 million barrels of crude oil at a weighted
average price of $18.90 per barrel.
 
     Financing. The Company's long-term debt-to-total-capital ratio was 37% and
27% as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
     The Company has entered into agreements with Enron Corp. pursuant to which
the Company may borrow funds from or invest funds with Enron Corp. at
representative market rates of interest on a revolving basis. Advances from
Enron Corp. of $193 million were outstanding as of December 31, 1997. There were
no advances outstanding as of December 31, 1996. There were no investments with
Enron Corp. as of December 31, 1997 or 1996. These agreements are used primarily
to facilitate efficient cash management.
 
     During 1997, total long-term debt increased $275 million to $741 million as
a result of borrowings related to increased exploration and development
expenditures and repurchase of the Company's common stock. (See Note 4 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements). The estimated fair value of the Company's
long-term debt at December 31, 1997 and 1996 was $744 million and $464 million,
respectively, based upon quoted market
 

 
prices and, where such prices were not available, upon interest rates currently
available to the Company at year end. (See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements).
 
     Outlook. Uncertainty continues to exist as to the direction of future North
America natural gas price trends, and there remains a rather wide divergence in
the opinions held by some in the industry. This divergence in opinion is caused
by various factors including improvements in the technology used in drilling and
completing crude oil and natural gas wells that are tending to mitigate the
impacts of fewer crude oil and natural gas wells being drilled, the deregulation
of the natural gas market under Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Order 636
and subsequent related orders, improvements being realized in the availability
and utilization of natural gas storage capacity, colder weather experienced in
the latter part of 1995 and 1996 than in prior years and warmer than normal
weather experienced in late 1997 and early 1998. However, the continually
increasing recognition of natural gas as a more environmentally friendly source
of energy along with the availability of significant domestically sourced
supplies should result in further increases in demand and a
supporting/strengthening of the overall natural gas market over time. Being
primarily a natural gas producer, the Company is more significantly impacted by
changes in natural gas prices than by changes in crude oil and condensate
prices. (See "Business - Other Matters - Energy Prices"). At December 31, 1997,
based on the portion of the Company's anticipated natural gas volumes for 1998
for which prices have not, in effect, been hedged using NYMEX-related commodity
market transactions and long-term marketing contracts, the Company's net income
and cash flow sensitivity to changing natural gas prices is approximately $18
million for each $.10 per Mcf change in average wellhead natural gas prices.
While the Company is not impacted as significantly by changing crude oil prices
for those volumes not otherwise hedged, its net income and cash flow sensitivity
is approximately $5 million for $1.00 per barrel change in average wellhead
crude oil prices.
 
     The Company plans to continue to focus a substantial portion of its
development and exploration expenditures in its major producing areas in North
America. However, based on the continuing uncertainty associated with North
America natural gas prices and as a result of the recent success realized in
Trinidad and India, the winning in 1996 of a concession in Venezuela, the award
of the modified U(a) block offshore Trinidad and the 1997 signing of a
production sharing contract in China, the Company anticipates expending a
substantial portion of its available funds in the further development of these
opportunities outside North America. In addition, the Company expects to conduct
limited exploratory activity in other areas outside of North America in its
expenditure plans and will continue to evaluate the potential for involvement in
other exploitation type opportunities. (See "Business - Exploration and
Production" for additional information detailing the specific geographic
locations of the related drilling programs). Early-in-year activity will be
managed within an annual expected expenditure level of approximately $700
million for 1998. This early-in-year planning will address the continuing
uncertainty with regard to the future of the North America natural gas price
environment and will be structured to maintain the flexibility necessary under
the Company's continuing strategy of funding exploration, exploitation,
development and acquisition activities primarily from available internally
generated cash flow.
 
     The level of exploration and development expenditures may vary in 1998 and
will vary in future periods depending on energy market conditions and other
related economic factors. Based upon existing economic and market conditions,
the Company believes net operating cash flow and available financing
alternatives in 1998 will be sufficient to fund its net investing cash
requirements for the year. However, the Company has significant flexibility with
respect to its financing alternatives and adjustment of its exploration,
exploitation, development and acquisition expenditure plans if circumstances
warrant. While the Company has certain continuing commitments associated with
expenditure plans related to operations in India, Trinidad, Venezuela and China,
such commitments are not anticipated to be material when considered in relation
to the total financial capacity of the Company.
 
     Other factors representing positive impacts that are more certain continue
to hold good potential for the Company in future periods. While the drilling
qualification period for the tight gas sand federal income tax credit expired as
of December 31, 1992, the Company continued in 1997, and should continue in the
future, to realize significant but declining benefits associated with production
from wells drilled during the qualifying period as it will be eligible for the
federal income tax credit through the year 2002. However, the annual

 
benefit, which was approximately $12 million in 1997 and is estimated to be
approximately $10 million for 1998, is expected to continue to decline in future
periods as production from the qualified wells declines. The drilling
qualification period for a Texas severance tax exemption available on qualifying
high cost natural gas revenues continued through August 1996 in its original
form and in a modified and somewhat reduced form from that point through August
2002. Consequently, new qualifying production will be added prospectively to
that presently qualified. (See "Business - Other Matters - Tight Gas Sand Tax
Credit (Section 29) and Severance Tax Exemption"). Other natural gas marketing
activities are also expected to continue to contribute meaningfully to financial
results.
 
     Other. The cost of environmental compliance has not been material to the
Company.
 
INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
     This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward looking statements within
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although the Company believes that its
expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that
such expectations will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those in the forward looking statements herein
include, but are not limited to, the timing and extent of changes in commodity
prices for crude oil, natural gas and related products and interest rates, the
extent of the Company's success in discovering, developing and producing
reserves and in acquiring oil and gas properties, political developments around
the world and conditions of the capital and equity markets during the periods
covered by the forward looking statements.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
     The information required hereunder is included in this report as set forth
in the "Index to Financial Statements" on page F-1.
 
ITEM 9. DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
     None.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The information required by this Item regarding directors is set forth in
the Proxy Statement under the caption entitled "Election of Directors", and is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
     See list of "Current Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I
located elsewhere herein.
 
     There are no family relationships among the officers listed, and there are
no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which any of them were elected as
officers. Officers are appointed or elected annually by the Board of Directors
at its first meeting following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, each to hold
office until the corresponding meeting of the Board in the next year or until a
successor shall have been elected, appointed or shall have qualified.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     The information required by this Item is set forth in the Proxy Statement
under the caption "Compensation of Directors and Executive Officers", and is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     The information required by this Item is set forth in the Proxy Statement
under the captions "Election of Directors" and "Compensation of Directors and
Executive Officers", and is incorporated herein by reference.
 

 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     The information required by this Item is set forth in the Proxy Statement
under the caption "Certain Transactions", and is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE, EXHIBITS AND
REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     (A)(1) AND (2) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 
     See "Index to Financial Statements" set forth on page F-1.
 
     (A)(3) EXHIBITS
 
     See pages E-1 through E-5 for a listing of the exhibits.
 
     (B) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     The Company filed a Report on Form 8-K on October 27, 1997 reporting the
sale of $100 million principal amount of 6.5% Notes due September 15, 2004
pursuant to an underwritten public offering.
 
     The Company filed a Report on Form 8-K on December 10, 1997 reporting the
sale of $100 million principal amount of 6.5% Notes due December 1, 2007
pursuant to an underwritten public offering.
 

 
                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
 

 
                                       F-1

 
              MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING
 
     The following consolidated financial statements of Enron Oil & Gas Company
and its subsidiaries were prepared by management which is responsible for their
integrity, objectivity and fair presentation. The statements have been prepared
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and, accordingly,
include some amounts that are based on the best estimates and judgments of
management.
 
     Arthur Andersen LLP, independent public accountants, was engaged to audit
the consolidated financial statements of Enron Oil & Gas Company and its
subsidiaries and issue a report thereon. In the conduct of the audit, Arthur
Andersen LLP was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related
data including minutes of all meetings of shareholders, the Board of Directors
and committees of the Board. Management believes that all representations made
to Arthur Andersen LLP during the audit were valid and appropriate. Their audits
of the years presented included developing an overall understanding of the
Company's accounting systems, procedures and internal controls, and conducting
tests and other auditing procedures sufficient to support their opinion on the
financial statements.
 
     The system of internal controls of Enron Oil & Gas Company and its
subsidiaries is designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability
of financial statements and the protection of assets from unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition. This system includes, but is not limited to,
written policies and guidelines including a published code for the conduct of
business affairs, conflicts of interest and compliance with laws regarding
antitrust, antiboycott and foreign corrupt practices policies, the careful
selection and training of qualified personnel, and a documented organizational
structure outlining the separation of responsibilities among management
representatives and staff groups.
 
     The adequacy of financial controls of Enron Oil & Gas Company and its
subsidiaries and the accounting principles employed in financial reporting by
the Company are under the general oversight of the Audit Committee of the Board
of Directors. No member of this committee is an officer or employee of the
Company. The independent public accountants and internal auditors have direct
access to the Audit Committee and meet with the committee from time to time to
discuss accounting, auditing and financial reporting matters. It should be
recognized that there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any
system of internal control, including the possibility of human error and
circumvention or override. Accordingly, even an effective system can provide
only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation of reliable financial
statements and safeguarding of assets. Furthermore, the effectiveness of an
internal control system can change with circumstances.
 
     It is management's opinion that, considering the criteria for effective
internal control over financial reporting and safeguarding of assets which
consists of interrelated components including the control environment, risk
assessment process, control activities, information and communication systems,
and monitoring, the Company maintained an effective system of internal control
as to the reliability of financial statements and the protection of assets
against unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition for the year ended December
31, 1997.
 

 
Houston, Texas
February 23, 1998
 
                                       F-2

 
                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
 
To Enron Oil & Gas Company:
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Enron Oil &
Gas Company (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997
and 1996, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders'
equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 1997. These financial statements and the schedule referred to below are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and the schedule based on our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Enron Oil & Gas Company and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
 
     Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The financial statement schedule listed
in the index to financial statements is presented for purposes of complying with
the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of the basic
financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole.
 
Houston, Texas                                               ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
February 23, 1998
 
                                       F-3

 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       F-4

 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       F-5

 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       F-6

 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       F-7

 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED)
 
1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
     Principles of Consolidation. The consolidated financial statements of Enron
Oil & Gas Company (the "Company"), 55% of the outstanding common stock of which
was owned by Enron Corp. as of December 31, 1997, include the accounts of all
domestic and foreign subsidiaries. All material intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated. Certain reclassifications have been made to
the consolidated financial statements for prior years to conform with the
current presentation.
 
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
     Cash Equivalents. The Company records as cash equivalents all highly liquid
short-term investments with maturities of three months or less.
 
     Oil and Gas Operations. The Company accounts for its natural gas and crude
oil exploration and production activities under the successful efforts method of
accounting.
 
     Oil and gas lease acquisition costs are capitalized when incurred. Unproved
properties with significant acquisition costs are assessed quarterly on a
property-by-property basis, and any impairment in value is recognized.
Amortization of any remaining costs of such leases begins at a point prior to
the end of the lease term depending upon the length of such term. Unproved
properties with acquisition costs that are not individually significant are
aggregated, and the portion of such costs estimated to be nonproductive, based
on historical experience, is amortized over the average holding period. If the
unproved properties are determined to be productive, the appropriate related
costs are transferred to proved oil and gas properties. Lease rentals are
expensed as incurred.
 
     Oil and gas exploration costs, other than the costs of drilling exploratory
wells, are charged to expense as incurred. The costs of drilling exploratory
wells are capitalized pending determination of whether they have discovered
proved commercial reserves. If proved commercial reserves are not discovered,
such drilling costs are expensed. Costs to develop proved reserves, including
the costs of all development wells and related equipment used in the production
of natural gas and crude oil, are capitalized.
 
     Depreciation, depletion and amortization of the cost of proved oil and gas
properties is calculated using the unit-of-production method. Estimated future
dismantlement, restoration and abandonment costs (classified as long-term
liabilities), net of salvage values, are taken into account. Certain other
assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis. In the first quarter of 1996,
the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No.
121 - "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to be Disposed Of", which resulted in a non-cash impairment charge that
was immaterial to and is included in depreciation, depletion and amortization.
 
     Inventories, consisting primarily of tubular goods and well equipment held
for use in the exploration for, and development and production of natural gas
and crude oil reserves, are carried at cost with adjustments made from time to
time to recognize changes in condition value.
 
     Natural gas revenues are recorded on the entitlement method based on the
Company's percentage ownership of current production. Each working interest
owner in a well generally has the right to a specific percentage of production,
although actual production sold may differ from an owner's ownership percentage.
Under entitlement accounting, a receivable is recorded when underproduction
occurs and a payable when overproduction occurs.
 
                                       F-8

 
     Gains and losses associated with the sale in place of natural gas and crude
oil reserves and related assets are classified as net operating revenues in the
consolidated statements of income based on the Company's strategy of continuing
such sales in maximizing the economic value of its assets.
 
     Accounting for Price Risk Management. The Company engages in price risk
management activities from time to time primarily for non-trading and to a
lesser extent for trading purposes. Derivative financial instruments (primarily
price swaps and costless collars) are utilized for non-trading purposes to hedge
the impact of market fluctuations on natural gas and crude oil market prices.
Hedge accounting is utilized in non-trading activities when there is a high
degree of correlation between price movements in the derivative and the item
designated as being hedged. Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments
used for hedging purposes are recognized as revenue in the same period as the
hedged item. Gains and losses on hedging instruments that are closed prior to
maturity are deferred in the consolidated balance sheets. In instances where the
anticipated correlation of price movements does not occur, hedge accounting is
terminated and future changes in the value of the derivative are recognized as
gains or losses using the mark-to-market method of accounting. Derivative and
other financial instruments utilized in connection with trading activities,
primarily price swaps and call options, are accounted for using the
mark-to-market method, under which changes in the market value of outstanding
financial instruments are recognized as gains or losses in the period of change.
The cash flow impact of derivative and other financial instruments used for
non-trading and trading purposes is reflected as cash flows from operating
activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows.
 
     Capitalized Interest Costs. Certain interest costs have been capitalized as
a part of the historical cost of unproved oil and gas properties and in work in
progress for exploratory drilling and related facilities with significant cash
outlays. Interest costs capitalized during each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1997 are set out in the consolidated statements of income.
 
     Income Taxes. The closing on December 13, 1995 of the sale by Enron Corp.
of approximately 31 million outstanding shares of the common stock of the
Company reduced Enron Corp.'s ownership interest in the Company below 80% with
the result that (i) the Company ceased, effective December 14, 1995, to be
included in the consolidated federal income tax return filed by Enron Corp. and
(ii) a tax allocation agreement (the "Base Agreement") previously in effect
between the Company and Enron Corp. was terminated. In addition, effective
December 14, 1995, the Company and Enron Corp. entered into a new tax allocation
agreement (the "1995 Agreement") pursuant to which, among other things, Enron
Corp. agreed (in exchange for the payment of $13 million by the Company) to be
liable for, and indemnify the Company against, all U.S. federal and state income
taxes and certain foreign taxes imposed on the Company for periods prior to the
date Enron Corp. reduced its ownership in the Company to less than 80%. In 1997,
the Company and Enron Corp. agreed to terminate the 1995 Agreement and enter
into a new tax allocation agreement. In the new agreement, Enron Corp. agreed to
refund the $13 million payment made by the Company pursuant to the 1995
Agreement, the Company agreed to release Enron Corp. from the liabilities
assumed related to the $13 million payment and the parties agreed to indemnify
each other in a manner consistent with the Base Agreement. Enron Corp. also
advanced the Company $50 million to fund certain federal income taxes related to
the 1995 taxable year. This advance is to be repaid in annual installments
through January 1, 2001. The Company does not believe that the cessation of
consolidated tax reporting with Enron Corp., the termination of the Base
Agreement concurrent with deconsolidation, the signing of the 1995 Agreement
and/or the newest tax allocation agreement with Enron Corp. have had or will
have in the future a material adverse effect on its financial condition or
results of operations.
 
     Prior to December 14, 1995, the Company was included in the consolidated
federal income tax return filed by Enron Corp. as the common parent for itself
and its subsidiaries and the resulting taxes, including taxes for any state or
other taxing jurisdiction that required or permitted a consolidated, combined,
or unitary tax return to be filed and in which the Company and/or any of its
subsidiaries was included, were apportioned as between the Company and/or any of
its subsidiaries and Enron Corp. based on the terms of the Base Agreement.
 
     The Company accounts for income taxes under the provisions of SFAS No.
109 - "Accounting for Income Taxes". SFAS No. 109 requires the asset and
liability approach for accounting for income taxes.
 
                                       F-9

 
Under this approach, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on
anticipated future tax consequences attributable to differences between
financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their
respective tax bases (See Note 8 "Income Taxes").
 
     Foreign Currency Translation. For subsidiaries whose functional currency is
deemed to be other than the U.S. dollar, asset and liability accounts are
translated at year-end exchange rates and revenue and expenses are translated at
average exchange rates prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments are
included as a separate component of shareholders' equity. Any gains or losses on
transactions or monetary assets or liabilities in currencies other than the
functional currency are included in net income in the current period.
 
     Earnings Per Share. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No.
128 - "Earnings per Share", basic earnings per share is computed on the basis of
the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the periods.
Diluted earnings per share is computed based upon the weighted-average number of
common shares plus the assumed issuance of common shares for all potentially
dilutive securities. The difference between the Average Number of Common Shares
outstanding for basic and diluted earnings per share is due to the assumed
issuance of common shares relating to employee stock options in each period
presented.
 
2. NATURAL GAS AND CRUDE OIL, CONDENSATE AND NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS NET OPERATING
REVENUES
 
     Natural Gas Net Operating Revenues are comprised of the following:
 

 
                                      F-10

 
     Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids Net Operating Revenues are
comprised of the following:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1)  Wellhead Natural Gas Revenues in 1997, 1996 and 1995 include $114,859,
     $119,009 and $80,369 respectively, associated with deliveries by Enron Oil
     & Gas Company to Enron Oil & Gas Marketing, Inc., a wholly-owned
     subsidiary, reflected as a cost in Other Natural Gas Marketing Activities -
     Associated Costs.
 
(2)  Includes $30,573, $20,656 and $14,022 in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively,
     associated with the equivalent wellhead value of volumes delivered under
     the terms of a volumetric production payment agreement effective October 1,
     1992, as amended, net of transportation.
 
(3)  Includes $43,344, $43,463 and $43,344 in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively,
     associated with the amortization of deferred revenues under the terms of a
     volumetric production payment agreement effective October 1, 1992, as
     amended.
 
(4)  Includes $44,137, $37,483 and $27,549 in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively,
     for volumes delivered under a volumetric production payment agreement
     effective October 1, 1992, as amended, including equivalent wellhead value,
     any applicable transportation costs and exchange differentials.
 
(5)  Includes a non-cash revenue increase related to the change in market value
     of natural gas price swap options exercisable by a counterparty during 1997
     and 1998, and of the partially offsetting "buy" price swap positions. This
     revenue increase is partially offset by a revenue reduction related to the
     settlement of 1997 transactions.
 
(6)  Includes a non-cash charge of $12,000 related to the value of natural gas
     price swap options exercisable by a counterparty during 1997, 1998, 1999
     and 2000. The options for 1997 and 1998 remained open at December 31, 1996;
     however, "buy" price swap positions in the same notional quantities and
     maturities are in place. The option agreements for 1999 and 2000 were
     terminated during the fourth quarter of 1996. See Note 13 for a discussion
     of the options.
 
(7)  Includes an $11,255 revenue increase associated with certain NYMEX-related
     commodity market transactions designated for trading purposes partially
     offset by a $2,567 revenue reduction related to call option transactions
     and a $6,000 revenue reduction associated with certain NYMEX-related
     natural gas commodity market transactions that were marked-to-market due to
     loss of correlation between the NYMEX and the wellhead natural gas prices
     that the positions were designated to hedge. (See Note 13 "Price and
     Interest Rate Risk Management").
 
(8)  Represents revenue increase (reduction) associated with commodity price
     swap transactions primarily with Enron Corp. affiliated companies based on
     NYMEX-related commodity prices in effect on dates of execution, less
     customary transaction fees. These transactions serve as price hedges for a
     portion of wellhead sales.
 
     In March 1995, in a series of transactions with Enron Corp. and an
affiliate of Enron Corp., the Company exchanged all of its fuel supply and
purchase contracts and related price swap agreements associated with a Texas
City cogeneration plant (the "Cogen Contracts") for certain natural gas price
swap agreements of equivalent value issued by the affiliate that are designated
as hedges (the "Swap Agreements"). Such Swap Agreements were closed on March 31,
1995. As a result of the transactions, the Company was relieved of all
performance obligations associated with the Cogen Contracts. Such operating
revenues and associated costs through February 28, 1995 were classified as Other
Natural Gas Marketing Activities - Gross Revenues and
 
                                      F-11

 
Associated Costs from Associated Companies. The Company will realize net
operating revenues classified as Other Natural Gas Marketing
Activities - Commodity Price Transaction Gain (Loss), Non-Trading, and receive
corresponding cash payments of approximately $91 million during the period
extending through December 31, 1999, under the terms of the closed Swap
Agreements. The estimated fair value of the Swap Agreements was approximately
$81 million at the date the Swap Agreements were received in exchange for the
Cogen Contracts. The net effect of this series of transactions has resulted in
increases in net operating revenues and cash receipts for the Company during
1995 and 1996 of approximately $13 million and $7 million, respectively, with
offsetting decreases in 1998 and 1999 versus that anticipated under the Cogen
Contracts. The total cash payments receivable under the terms of the Swap
Agreements were approximately $13 million and $33 million at December 31, 1997
and 1996, respectively, and are presented in the accompanying balance sheet as
Accounts Receivable - Associated Companies for the $9 million and $20 million
current portion, respectively, and as Other Assets for the $4 million and $13
million noncurrent portion, respectively. The corresponding total future revenue
of approximately $13 million and $33 million, respectively, is classified as
Deferred Revenue. (See Note 13 "Price and Interest Rate Risk Management").
 
3. OTHER ASSETS
 
     In December 1997, the Company and Enron Corp. entered into an Equity
Participation and Business Opportunity Agreement (the "Business Opportunity
Agreement"). (See Note 7 "Transactions with Enron Corp. and Related
Parties - Business Opportunity Agreement"). Among other things, the agreement
provides for Enron Corp. to grant the Company ten year options to purchase
3,200,000 shares of Enron Corp. common stock at a price of $39.1875 per share
which was the closing price of the stock on the date that the agreement was
approved by the Board of Directors of the Company. The option vesting schedule
provides that 25% vested immediately, 15% vest on the anniversary of the
Business Opportunity Agreement in 1998 and 10% vest each anniversary thereafter
until all of the options are vested. Vesting will be accelerated in the event of
a change of control of the Company. For such purposes, a "change of control"
means that (a) Enron Corp. no longer owns capital stock of the Company
representing at least 35% of the voting power for the election of directors and
(b) a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company consists
of persons who are not officers or directors of Enron Corp. or any affiliate of
Enron Corp. other than the Company. Other Assets at December 31, 1997 includes
$23.3 million or $7.29 per share representing the estimated fair value of the
Enron Corp. stock options at the date of grant. Receipt of the options
represents a capital contribution from Enron Corp. and, accordingly, the fair
value received net of tax effects of $8.2 million has been credited to
Additional Paid In Capital.
 
4. LONG-TERM DEBT
 
     Long-Term Debt at December 31 consisted of the following:
 

 
     The Company has a revolving credit agreement with a group of banks that
provides for aggregate borrowings of up to $300 million and matures on June 27,
2002. Advances under the agreement bear interest,
 
                                      F-12

 
at the option of the Company, based on a base rate, an adjusted CD rate or a
Eurodollar rate. The Company also has a credit agreement with the same group of
banks that provides for aggregate borrowings of up to $100 million and matures
June 25, 1998. At December 31, 1997, there were no advances outstanding under
these agreements.
 
     Commercial Paper outstanding at December 31, 1997 of $42.4 million was
issued under a commercial paper program the proceeds of which are used to fund
current transactions. At December 31, 1996, the Company had an uncommitted
credit facilities balance outstanding of $65.7 million. Advances under these
credit facilities bear interest based on market rates. Commercial paper and
uncommitted credit facilities balances are classified as long-term debt based on
the Company's intent and ability to replace such amounts with other long-term
debt.
 
     The remaining repayment of the 9.10% Notes was made on February 13, 1998.
This amount was replaced with other long-term debt.
 
     The 6.50% Notes due September 15, 2004 were issued through a public
offering in September 1997. These notes have an effective interest rate of
6.65%.
 
     The 6.70% Notes due November 15, 2006 were issued through a public offering
in November 1996. These notes have an effective interest rate of 6.83%.
 
     The 6.50% Notes due December 1, 2007 were issued through a public offering
in December 1997. These notes have an effective interest rate of 6.61%.
 
     The Subsidiary Debt due 1998-2001 bears interest at variable rates based on
the London Interbank Bid or Offered Rates. Subsidiary debt of $31 million is due
in 1998 and is classified as long-term based on the Company's intent and ability
to replace such amount upon maturity with other long-term debt.
 
     Certain of the borrowings described above contain covenants requiring the
maintenance of certain financial ratios and limitations on liens, debt issuance
and dispositions of assets. All subsidiary debt is guaranteed by the Company.
 
     Shelf Registration. The Company may sell from time to time up to an
aggregate of $413 million in debt securities and/or common stock pursuant to an
effective "shelf" registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
 
     Financing Arrangements With Enron Corp. The Company engages in various
transactions with Enron Corp. that are characteristic of a consolidated group
under common control. Accordingly, the Company maintains agreements with Enron
Corp. that provide for the borrowing by the Company of up to $200 million
through December 31, 1998 and investing by the Company of surplus funds of up to
$200 million through December 31, 1998 at market rates from time to time.
Advances from Enron Corp. of $192.5 million were outstanding at December 31,
1997, and such balance was classified as long-term based on the Company's intent
and ability to replace such amount with other long-term debt. There were no
advances outstanding at December 31, 1996. There were no investments with Enron
Corp. at December 31, 1997 or 1996.
 
     Fair Value Of Long-Term Debt. At December 31, 1997 and 1996, the Company
had $741 million and $466 million, respectively, of long-term debt which had
fair values of approximately $744 million and $464 million, respectively. The
fair value of long-term debt is the value the Company would have to pay to
retire the debt, including any premium or discount to the debtholder for the
differential between the stated interest rate and the year-end market rate. The
fair value of long-term debt is based upon quoted market prices and, where such
quotes were not available, upon interest rates available to the Company at
year-end.
 
5. VOLUMETRIC PRODUCTION PAYMENT
 
     In September 1992, the Company sold a volumetric production payment for
$326.8 million to a limited partnership. Under the terms of the production
payment, as amended October 1, 1993, the Company conveyed a real property
interest of certain natural gas and other hydrocarbons to the purchaser. At
December 31, 1997 and 1996 there were approximately 23 trillion British thermal
units ("TBtu") and 41 TBtu, respectively,
 
                                      F-13

 
remaining to be delivered under the agreement. Such quantities are scheduled to
be delivered at the rate of 50 billion British thermal units per day through
March 31, 1999.
 
     The Company accounted for the proceeds received in the transaction as
deferred revenue which is being amortized into revenue and income as natural gas
and other hydrocarbons are produced and delivered during the term of the
volumetric production payment agreement. Annual remaining amortization of
deferred revenue under the volumetric production payment agreement, as amended,
at December 31, 1997 was as follows:
 

 
6. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
     On May 7, 1996, the shareholders of the Company approved a resolution
submitted by the Board of Directors to amend the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of the Company to increase the total number of authorized shares
of the common stock of the Company from 160 million to 320 million shares.
 
     The Board of Directors of the Company approved in December 1992, and
amended in September 1994 and December 1996, the authorization for purchasing
and holding in treasury at any time of up to 1,000,000 shares of common stock of
the Company for the purpose of, but not limited to, meeting obligations
associated with the exercise of stock options granted to qualified employees
pursuant to the Company's stock option plans. In December 1996, the Board of
Directors of the Company approved the selling from time to time, subject to
certain conditions, of put options on the common stock of the Company. The
1,000,000 share limit mentioned above applies to shares held in treasury and
unexpired put options outstanding. In February 1997 as amended in February 1998,
the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the additional purchase of up
to an aggregate maximum of 10 million shares of common stock of the Company from
time to time in the open market to be held in treasury for the purpose of, but
not limited to, fulfilling any obligations arising under the Company's stock
option plans and any other approved transactions or activities for which such
common stock shall be required. At December 31, 1997 and 1996, 4,935,744 shares
and 242,882 shares, respectively, were held in treasury under these
authorizations. (See Note 9 "Commitments and Contingencies - Stock Option
Plans").
 
7. TRANSACTIONS WITH ENRON CORP. AND RELATED PARTIES
 
     Business Opportunity Agreement. In December 1997, Enron Corp. and the
Company entered into the Business Opportunity Agreement which defines certain
obligations that Enron Corp. owes to the Company and relieves Enron Corp. from
certain obligations to the Company that it might otherwise have, including the
obligation to offer certain business opportunities to the Company. Enron Corp.
has advised the Company that, although it believes that it has conducted its
business in a manner that is consistent with its duties as a majority
shareholder of the Company, it was motivated to enter into the Business
Opportunity Agreement because of the difficulty of determining the applicability
of the law relating to duties that Enron Corp. may owe to the Company in
connection with Enron Corp.'s finance and trading business and because of Enron
Corp.'s desire to have more flexibility in pursuing business opportunities
identified by or developed solely by Enron Corp. personnel. The Business
Opportunity Agreement was approved by the Board of Directors of the Company
after it was approved unanimously by a special committee of the Board of
Directors consisting of the Company's independent directors.
 
     The Business Opportunity Agreement provides generally that, so long as such
activities are conducted in compliance with the Business Opportunity Agreement
in all material respects, Enron Corp. may pursue business opportunities
independently of the Company. The Business Opportunity Agreement contains an
acknowledgment by the Company that Enron Corp.'s finance and trading business
may result in the acquisition by Enron Corp. of oil and gas properties or
companies and that in certain cases Enron Corp. or entities in which Enron Corp.
has an interest may acquire such assets pursuant to bidding or auction processes
in which the Company is also a bidder. In the Business Opportunity Agreement,
the Company acknowledges
 
                                      F-14

 
and agrees that such activities may have an impact on the Company or the price
it pays for properties or securities it purchases from others. The Business
Opportunity Agreement contains an acknowledgement and agreement by the Company
that, to the extent that a court might hold that the conduct of such activity is
a breach of a duty to the Company (and without admitting that the conduct of
such activity is such a breach of duty), the Company waives any and all claims
and courses of action that it may have to claim the conduct of such activity is
a breach of duty to the Company. The Business Opportunity Agreement contains
certain restrictions on the conduct of Enron's business. It also provides that,
except with respect to business opportunities pursued jointly by Enron Corp. and
the Company and except as otherwise agreed to between Enron Corp. and the
Company, Enron Corp.'s business will be conducted through the use of its own
personnel and assets and not with the use of any personnel or assets of the
Company.
 
     The Business Opportunity Agreement states that its provisions relate
exclusively to the duties that Enron Corp. owes the Company and that nothing in
the Business Opportunity Agreement affects the fiduciary or other duties owed to
the Company by any individual director or officer of the Company in his or her
capacity as such. In this connection, Enron Corp. has agreed that its
representatives on the Board of Directors of the Company will not, for the
purpose of enabling Enron Corp. to pursue an opportunity in the oil and gas
business, vote in such a manner as to effectively prevent, prohibit or restrict
the Company from pursuing such opportunity.
 
     In consideration for the Company's agreements in the Business Opportunity
Agreement, Enron Corp. provided valuable consideration to the Company, including
options to purchase common stock of Enron Corp. that will give the Company the
opportunity to participate in future appreciation in value of Enron, including
any appreciation in value resulting from activities that the Company has agreed
to permit Enron Corp. and its subsidiaries to pursue. (See Note 3 "Other
Assets"). The Business Opportunity Agreement also included (i) an agreement to
replace the existing services agreement, under which Enron Corp. provides
certain services to the Company, with a new services agreement under which the
Company's maximum payments to Enron Corp. for allocated indirect costs will be
reduced by $2.8 million per year, (ii) an agreement by Enron Corp. relieving the
Company of the obligation to bear the costs of any registration of sales by
Enron Corp. of shares of common stock of the Company, (iii) an agreement by
Enron Corp. to pay the costs of registration of the Company's sales of Enron
Corp. common stock acquired upon exercise of the options granted in the Business
Opportunity Agreement, (iv) an agreement that if Enron Corp. takes any action
that results in the loss by the Company of its status as an "independent
producer" under the Internal Revenue Code, Enron Corp. will pay the Company each
year through 2006 the lesser of (a) $1 million and (b) an amount which, after
payment of applicable taxes, will compensate the Company for the additional
income tax liability resulting from the loss of independent producer status, (v)
and an agreement that if Enron Corp. requests that the Company relocate its
offices, and if the Company agrees to do so, Enron will pay the Company's moving
expenses, including expenses of building out or refurbishing the space in its
new offices and expenses of removing and reinstalling the Company's
telecommunications and information systems facilities. In addition, pursuant to
the Business Opportunity Agreement, Enron Corp. agreed to cause its subsidiary,
Houston Pipe Line Company, to enter into various agreements with the Company
rearranging certain existing contractual arrangements between them and Enron
Corp., and the Company entered into a licensing agreement covering the Enron
Corp. name and mark and recognizing that the EOG and EOGI names and marks belong
to the Company. In the Business Opportunity Agreement, Enron Corp. and the
Company also entered into agreements in principle regarding the manner in which
they will share the burdens and benefits of the integrated projects under joint
development by Enron Corp. and the Company in Qatar, Mozambique and Uzbekistan.
The agreements in principle provide generally that the Company's interests in
these projects will be 20%, 20% and 80%, respectively, of the combined ownership
interest of the Company and Enron Corp.
 
     The Business Opportunity Agreement also contains provisions that give Enron
Corp. the right to maintain its equity interest in the Company at certain
levels. It provides that if the Company issues additional shares of its capital
stock Enron Corp. will have the right to purchase additional shares of capital
stock of the Company as follows: (i) if Enron Corp. owns a majority interest,
Enron Corp. will have the right to purchase sufficient shares to permit it to
retain its majority interest; (ii) if Enron Corp. does not own a majority
interest but accounts for the assets and operations of the Company on a
consolidated basis for financial reporting purposes
 
                                      F-15

 
Enron Corp. will have the right to purchase sufficient shares to permit it to
continue to account for the Company on a consolidated basis; and (iii) if Enron
Corp. accounts for the assets and operations of the Company using the equity
method for financial reporting purposes Enron Corp. will have the right to
purchase sufficient shares to permit it to continue to account for the Company
using the equity method. Any such purchase by Enron Corp. will be for cash at
97% of the average closing price per share over a specified 20 day period
(reflecting a 3% private placement discount).
 
     Natural Gas and Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids Net Operating
Revenues. Wellhead Natural Gas and Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids
Revenues and Other Natural Gas and Other Crude Oil and Condensate Marketing
Activities include revenues from and associated costs paid to various
subsidiaries and affiliates of Enron Corp. pursuant to contracts which, in the
opinion of management, are no less favorable than could be obtained from third
parties. Other Natural Gas and Other Crude Oil and Condensate Marketing
Activities also include certain commodity price swap and NYMEX-related commodity
transactions with Enron Corp. affiliated companies which, in the opinion of
management, are no less favorable than could be obtained from third parties.
(See Note 2 "Natural Gas and Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids Net
Operating Revenues").
 
     General and Administrative Expenses. The Company is charged by Enron Corp.
for all direct costs associated with its operations. Such direct charges,
excluding benefit plan charges (See Note 9 "Commitments and
Contingencies - Employee Benefit Plans"), totaled $16.1 million, $17.0 million
and $16.4 million for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively. Management believes that these charges are reasonable.
 
     Additionally, certain administrative costs not directly charged to any
Enron Corp. operations or business segments are allocated to the entities of the
consolidated group. Allocation percentages are generally determined utilizing
weighted average factors derived from property gross book value, net operating
revenues and payroll costs. Effective January 1, 1997, the Company entered into
an agreement with Enron Corp. with an initial term of ten years through December
2006, which agreement replaced a similar previous agreement, providing for
services substantially identical in nature and quality to those services
previously provided and for allocated indirect costs incurred in rendering such
services up to a maximum of approximately $5.3 million for 1997. Maximum
allocated indirect costs under the previous service agreement were $7.5 million
and $7.0 million for 1996 and 1995, respectively. The limit on cost for the
allocated indirect services provided by Enron Corp. to the Company will increase
in subsequent years for inflation and certain changes in the Company's
allocation bases. Management believes the indirect allocated charges for the
numerous types of support services provided by the corporate staff are
reasonable. Approximately $5.3 million was incurred by the Company for indirect
general and administrative expenses for 1997. Under the previous agreement,
approximately $7.5 million and $6.8 million were charged to the Company for
indirect general and administrative expenses for 1996 and 1995, respectively.
 
     Financing. See Note 4 "Long-Term Debt - Financing Arrangements with Enron
Corp." for a discussion of financing arrangements with Enron Corp.
 
                                      F-16

 
8. INCOME TAXES
 
     The principal components of the Company's net deferred income tax liability
at December 31, 1997 and 1996 were as follows:
 

 
     The components of income before income taxes were as follows:
 

 
     Total income tax provision (benefit) was as follows:
 

 
                                      F-17

 
     The differences between taxes computed at the U.S. federal statutory tax
rate and the Company's effective rate were as follows:
 

 
     The Company's foreign subsidiaries' undistributed earnings of approximately
$166 million at December 31, 1997 are considered to be indefinitely invested
outside the U.S. and, accordingly, no U.S. federal or state income taxes have
been provided thereon. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of
dividends, the Company may be subject to both foreign withholding taxes and U.S.
income taxes, net of allowable foreign tax credits. Determination of any
potential amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liabilities is not
practicable.
 
     The Company has a $55 million India tax net operating loss carryforward at
December 31, 1997. The loss carryforward utilization is limited to future
taxable earnings of Enron Oil & Gas India Ltd. which earnings are expected to
exceed this carryforward amount before the carryforward period expires. The
India carryforward period is eight years, and unutilized net operating loss
carryforward will begin to expire with the fiscal year ending March 31, 2002.
 
     The Company has an alternative minimum tax ("AMT") credit carryforward of
$13 million which can be used to offset regular income taxes payable in future
years. The AMT credit carryforward has an indefinite carryforward period.
 
9. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
     Employee Benefit Plans. Employees of the Company are covered by various
retirement, stock purchase and other benefit plans of Enron Corp. During each of
the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, the Company was charged $5.0
million, $5.0 million and $6.6 million, respectively, for all such benefits,
including pension expense totaling $1.0 million, $1.0 million and $0.8 million,
respectively, by Enron Corp.
 
     As of September 30, 1997, the most recent valuation date, the plan net
assets of the Enron Corp. defined benefit plan in which the employees of the
Company participate exceeded the actuarial present value of projected plan
benefit obligations by approximately $110 million. The assumed discount rate,
rate of return on plan assets and rate of increases in wages used in determining
the actuarial present value of projected plan benefits were 7.25%, 10.5% and
4.0%, respectively.
 
     The Company also has in effect pension and savings plans related to its
Canadian, Trinidadian and Indian subsidiaries. Activity related to these plans
is not material relative to the Company's operations.
 
     The Company provides certain medical, life insurance and dental benefits to
eligible employees and their eligible dependents. Benefits are provided under
the provisions of contributory defined dollar benefit plans of Enron Corp. The
Company accrues the cost of these post-retirement benefits over the service
lives of the employees expected to be eligible to receive such benefits. The
transition obligation is being amortized over an average period of 19 years.
 
     Stock Option Plans. The Company has various stock option plans ("the
Plans") under which employees of the Company and its subsidiaries and
nonemployee members of the Board of Directors have been or may be granted rights
to purchase shares of common stock of the Company at a price not less than the
market price of the stock at the date of grant. Options granted under the Plans
vest over a period of time based on the nature
 
                                      F-18

 
of the grants and as defined in the individual grant agreements. Terms for
options granted under the Plans have not exceeded a maximum term of 10 years.
 
     In January 1996, the Company granted 301,500 shares of common stock with a
market value of $23.50 per share to certain officers and key employees of the
Company under the Plans. Such shares are restricted and vest, subject to
continued employment and certain net income performance goals, on the
anniversary date of grant which could begin as early as 1998, but in any event
no later than January 2002. The fair value of the shares at date of grant has
been recorded in shareholders' equity as unearned compensation and is being
amortized as compensation expense. Related compensation expense for 1997 and
1996 was approximately $1 million per year.
 
     The Company accounts for the Plans under the provisions and related
interpretations of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 ("APB No.
25") - "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees". No compensation expense is
recognized for such options. In accordance with SFAS No. 123 - "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation" issued in 1995, the Company intends to continue to
apply APB No. 25 for purposes of determining net income and to present the pro
forma disclosures required by SFAS No. 123.
 
     The following table sets forth the option transactions under the Plans for
the years ended December 31 (shares in thousands):
 

 
     The fair value of each option grant is estimated using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions used for
grants in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively: (1) dividend yield of 0.6%, 0.5%
and 0.5%, (2) expected volatility of 27%, 31% and 31%, (3) risk-free interest
rate of 6.3%, 5.8% and 7.2%, and (4) expected life of 5.2 years, 5.5 years and
4.1 years.
 
     During 1997, in response to extremely competitive conditions for technical
personnel, the Company cancelled options issued in 1996 to purchase 1,282,000
shares of common stock at an exercise price of $25.38 per share, and reissued
the same number of options with an exercise price of $18.25 per share. The
reissue did not involve any executive officers of the Company.
 
                                      F-19

 
     The following table summarizes certain information for the shares
outstanding at December 31, 1997 (shares in thousands):
 

 
     The Company's pro forma net income and earnings per share of common stock
for 1997 and 1996, had compensation costs been recorded in accordance with SFAS
No. 123, are presented below (in millions except per share data):
 

 
     The effects of applying SFAS No. 123 in this pro forma disclosure should
not be interpreted as being indicative of future effects. SFAS No. 123 does not
apply to awards prior to 1995, and the extent and timing of additional future
awards cannot be predicted.
 
     The Black-Scholes model used by the Company to calculate option values, as
well as other currently accepted option valuation models, were developed to
estimate the fair value of freely tradable, fully transferable options without
vesting and/or trading restrictions, which significantly differ from the
Company's stock option awards. These models also require highly subjective
assumptions, including future stock price volatility and expected time until
exercise, which significantly affect the calculated values. Accordingly,
management does not believe that this model provides a reliable single measure
of the fair value of the Company's stock option awards.
 
     During 1997, 1996 and 1995, the Company purchased or was tendered
4,954,344, 2,383,727 and 762,799 of its common shares, respectively, and
delivered such shares upon the exercise of stock options and awards of
restricted stock, except for shares held in treasury at December 31, 1997, 1996
and 1995. The difference between the cost of the treasury shares and the
exercise price of the options, net of federal income tax benefit of $.5 million,
$6.1 million and $2.2 million for the years 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively,
is reflected as an adjustment to Additional Paid In Capital. In December 1992,
as amended in September 1994 and December 1996, the Company commenced a stock
repurchase program of up to 1,000,000 shares authorized by the Board of
Directors to facilitate the availability of treasury shares of common stock for,
but not limited to, the settlement of employee stock option exercises pursuant
to the Plans. In February 1997 as amended in February 1998, the Board of
Directors authorized the additional purchase of up to 10 million shares for
similar purposes. At December 31, 1997 and 1996, 4,935,744 and 242,882 shares,
respectively, were held in treasury under these authorizations. (See Note 6
"Shareholders' Equity").
 
     Letters Of Credit. At December 31, 1997 and 1996, the Company had letters
of credit outstanding totaling approximately $169 million and $213 million,
respectively.
 
                                      F-20

 
     Contingencies. Enron Oil & Gas India Ltd. ("EOGIL"), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company, is a respondent in two public interest lawsuits filed
in the Delhi High Court, India. The first (the "Wadehra Action") was brought by
B. L. Wadehra, an Indian public interest lawyer, against the Union of India,
EOGIL, EOGIL co-participants in the Panna and Mukta fields, Reliance Industries
Limited ("Reliance") and Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Limited ("ONGC"), and
certain other respondents. ONGC is the Indian national oil company and is
wholly-owned by the Union of India. The second suit (the "CPIL Action") was
brought by the Centre for Public Interest Litigation and the National Alliance
of People's Movement against the Union of India, the Central Bureau of
Investigation, ONGC, Reliance and EOGIL. Petitioners in both the Wadehra Action
and the CPIL Action allege various improprieties in the award of the Panna and
Mukta fields to EOGIL, Reliance and ONGC, and seek the cancellation of the
Production Sharing Contract for the Panna and Mukta fields. The Union of India
is vigorously disputing these allegations. The Company believes that the public
competitive bidding process for the fields was fair and that the award of these
fields to EOGIL, Reliance and ONGC was proper. Although no assurances can be
given, based on currently available information the Company believes that the
claims made by the petitioners in both actions are without merit, and that the
ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on
its financial condition or results of operations. There are various other suits
and claims against the Company that have arisen in the ordinary course of
business. However, management does not believe these suits and claims will
individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial condition or results of operations. The Company has been named as a
potentially responsible party in certain Comprehensive Environmental Response
Compensation and Liability Act proceedings. However, management does not believe
that any potential assessments resulting from such proceedings will individually
or in the aggregate have a materially adverse effect on the financial condition
or results of operations of the Company.
 
10. CASH FLOW INFORMATION
 
     Gains on sales of certain oil and gas reserves and related assets in the
amount of $9.3 million, $20.4 million and $62.8 million for the years ended
December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively, are required by current
accounting guidelines to be removed from net income in connection with
determining net operating cash inflows while the related proceeds are required
to be classified as investing cash flows. The Company believes the proceeds from
the sales of reserves and related assets should be considered in analyzing the
elements of operating cash flows. The current federal income tax impact of these
sales transactions was calculated by the Company to be a benefit of $3.2 million
for 1997 and an expense of $8.5 million and $24.4 million for 1996 and 1995,
respectively, which entered into the overall calculation of current federal
income tax. The Company believes that this federal income tax impact should also
be considered in analyzing the elements of the cash flow statement.
 
     Non-cash investing and financing activities for 1995 include the issuance
by a subsidiary of the Company of redeemable preferred stock with a
liquidation/redemption value of $19 million in exchange for certain oil and gas
properties. An approximate $7 million step-up in property basis was made
relating to deferred tax liabilities associated with the difference between the
tax and book bases of acquired properties as required by SFAS No. 109 for a
nontaxable business combination. The preferred stock was redeemed in November
1995.
 
     Cash paid for interest and income taxes was as follows for the years ended
December 31:
 

 
     Included in 1995 income taxes paid is $13 million paid to Enron Corp. for
the indemnification of any future liability associated with all federal and
state income taxes and certain foreign taxes imposed on the Company for periods
prior to the date Enron Corp. reduced its ownership in the Company to below 80%.
Pursuant to a new tax allocation agreement (See Note 1 "Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies - Income Taxes") such $13 million payment plus interest has
been returned to the Company, and the Company has assumed all obligations with
respect to the liabilities previously indemnified by Enron Corp.
 
                                      F-21

 
11. BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
     The Company's operations are all natural gas and crude oil exploration and
production related. Accordingly, such operations are classified as one business
segment. Financial information by geographic area is presented below for the
years ended December 31, or at December 31:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Not deducted are natural gas associated costs of $121,255, $97,496 and
    $65,973 in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
 
12. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET
 
     Other income (expense), net consisted of the following for the years ended
December 31:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Includes $2,549, $403 and $59 from related parties.
 
13. PRICE AND INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT
 
     Periodically, the Company enters into certain trading and non-trading
activities including NYMEX-related commodity market transactions and other
contracts. The non-trading portions of these activities have been designated to
hedge the impact of market price fluctuations on anticipated commodity delivery
volumes or other contractual commitments.
 
     Trading Activities. Trading activities in 1997 included a revenue increase
of $3.4 million related to change in market value of natural gas price swap
options exercisable by a counterparty in 1997 and 1998 and partially offsetting
"buy" price swap positions.
 
     During 1995, the Company entered into a NYMEX-related natural gas price
swap covering 73 TBtu for the year ended December 31, 1996. This swap contained
an option to extend the price swap covering 73 TBtu
 
                                      F-22

 
for each of the years 1997 and 1998 which was exercisable at one time prior to
December 31, 1996. The 1996 price swap was closed in the first quarter of 1996.
During 1996, this option was restructured into four options each exercisable, in
total, at one time by the counterparty before December 31, 1996, 1997, 1998 and
1999 to purchase 37 TBtu of notional natural gas for each of the years 1997,
1998, 1999 and 2000 at an average fixed price of $1.98, $1.98, $1.93 and $1.93
per million British thermal units ("MMBtu"), respectively. The 1997 and 1998
options were subsequently restructured to be exercisable monthly at a price of
$2.16 and $2.07 per MMBtu, respectively. These options cover notional volumes
averaging 3 TBtu per month during 1997 and 1998. During the fourth quarter of
1996, the 1999 and 2000 options were terminated. In 1996, the Company entered
into "buy" NYMEX-related natural gas price swap positions in the same notional
quantities and maturities as are covered by the 1997 and 1998 options. The
Company recognized a $3.4 million revenue increase and a $12 million revenue
reduction in 1997 and 1996, respectively, related to these trading activities.
 
     In 1995, the Company sold a call option with a notional volume of 50
billion British thermal units ("BBtu") per day at a strike price of $2.10 per
MMBtu for each month in the period January 1996 through December 1996. At
December 31, 1995, the approximate market value of the outstanding call option
was $1.8 million. The Company recognized a $2.6 million revenue reduction in
1995 related to this call option. In the first quarter of 1996, the Company
purchased a call option with a notional volume of 50 BBtu per day at a strike
price of $2.10 per MMBtu for the period February 1996 through December 1996 for
$3.0 million to offset the call option discussed above. The purchase resulted in
a $1.2 million revenue reduction recognized in the first quarter of 1996.
 
     The Company realized an $11.3 million revenue increase in 1995 related to
certain NYMEX-related natural gas commodity price swap transactions with an
Enron Corp. affiliated company that were designated for trading purposes in
December 1994 and closed in the first quarter of 1995.
 
     The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of financial
instruments held for trading purposes at yearend and the average during the
year:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Estimated fair values have been determined by using available market data
    and valuation methodologies. Judgment is necessarily required in
    interpreting market data and the use of different market assumptions or
    estimation methodologies may affect the estimated fair value amounts.
 
     Interest Rate Swap Agreements and Foreign Currency Contracts. At December
31, 1997 and 1996, a subsidiary of the Company and the Company are parties to
offsetting foreign currency and interest rate swap agreements with an aggregate
notional principal amount of $210 million. Such swap agreements are scheduled to
terminate in 2001. At December 31, 1997 and 1996, the composite fair value of
the agreements was not significant based upon termination values obtained from
third parties.
 
     Hedging Transactions. With the objective of enhancing the certainty of
future revenues, the Company enters into NYMEX-related commodity price swaps and
costless collars from time to time. Using NYMEX-related commodity price swaps,
the Company receives a fixed price for the respective commodity hedged and pays
a floating market price, as defined for each transaction, to the counterparty at
settlement.
 
     The NYMEX-related natural gas commodity price swaps are priced based on a
Henry Hub, Louisiana delivery point. The Henry Hub price has historically had a
high degree of correlation with a significant portion of the wellhead price
received by the Company which has made such transactions effective natural gas
price hedges. During December 1995, there was a loss of correlation between the
prices paid under the natural gas commodity price swaps and the wellhead natural
gas prices ultimately received for a portion of the Company's
 
                                      F-23

 
hedged natural gas production. This loss of correlation resulted in the
recognition of a $6 million revenue reduction in 1995.
 
     At December 31, 1997, the Company had outstanding positions covering
notional volumes of approximately 37 TBtu of natural gas for 1998 and
approximately 4 TBtu of natural gas for each of the years 1999 and 2000 and
approximately 1.3 million barrels ("MMBbl") and .7 MMBbl of crude oil and
condensate for the years 1998 and 1999, respectively. The fair value of the
positions was a net revenue increase of $1 million at December 31, 1997. During
the fourth quarter of 1997, the Company closed positions covering notional
volumes of approximately 37 TBtu of natural gas for each of the years 1999 and
2000. At December 31, 1997 the aggregate deferred revenue reduction for the
1998, 1999 and 2000 closed positions was approximately $9 million, $10 million
and $10 million, respectively.
 
     At December 31, 1996, the Company had outstanding positions covering
notional volumes of approximately 10 TBtu of natural gas for 1997 and
approximately 37 TBtu of natural gas for each of the years 1999 and 2000 and
approximately 2.1 MMBbl, 1.7 MMBbl and 1.2 MMBbl of crude oil and condensate for
the years 1997, 1998 and the period 1999 through 2000, respectively. The fair
value of the positions was a negative $27 million at December 31, 1996. The
Company closed substantially all of the NYMEX-related natural gas commodity
price swaps for 1997 by entering into offsetting positions in the fourth quarter
of 1996. At December 31, 1996, the aggregate total of deferred revenue reduction
for 1997 and 1998 closed positions was approximately $74 million.
 
     The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of financial
instruments and related transactions for nontrading activities at December 31,
1997 and 1996:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Estimated fair values have been determined by using available market data
    and valuation methodologies. Judgment is necessarily required in
    interpreting market data and the use of different market assumptions or
    estimation methodologies may affect the estimated fair value amounts.
 
(2) See Note 4 "Long-Term Debt."
 
     Credit Risk. While notional contract amounts are used to express the
magnitude of price and interest rate swap agreements, the amounts potentially
subject to credit risk, in the event of nonperformance by the other parties, are
substantially smaller. The Company does not anticipate nonperformance by the
other parties.
 
14. CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK
 
     Substantially all of the Company's accounts receivable at December 31, 1997
and 1996 result from crude oil and natural gas sales and/or joint interest
billings to affiliate and third party companies in the oil and gas industry.
This concentration of customers and joint interest owners may impact the
Company's overall credit risk, either positively or negatively, in that these
entities may be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions.
In determining whether or not to require collateral from a customer or joint
interest owner, the Company analyzes the entity's net worth, cash flows,
earnings, and credit ratings. Receivables are generally not collateralized.
Historical credit losses incurred on receivables by the Company have been
immaterial.
 
                                      F-24

 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
         SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
       (IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED)
     (UNAUDITED EXCEPT FOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR OIL AND GAS PRODUCING
                                  ACTIVITIES)
 
OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES
 
     The following disclosures are made in accordance with SFAS No.
69 - "Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities":
 
     Oil and Gas Reserves. Users of this information should be aware that the
process of estimating quantities of "proved" and "proved developed" crude oil
and natural gas reserves is very complex, requiring significant subjective
decisions in the evaluation of all available geological, engineering and
economic data for each reservoir. The data for a given reservoir may also change
substantially over time as a result of numerous factors including, but not
limited to, additional development activity, evolving production history, and
continual reassessment of the viability of production under varying economic
conditions. Consequently, material revisions to existing reserve estimates occur
from time to time. Although every reasonable effort is made to ensure that
reserve estimates reported represent the most accurate assessments possible, the
significance of the subjective decisions required and variances in available
data for various reservoirs make these estimates generally less precise than
other estimates presented in connection with financial statement disclosures.
 
     Proved reserves represent estimated quantities of natural gas, crude oil,
condensate, and natural gas liquids that geological and engineering data
demonstrate, with reasonable certainty, to be recoverable in future years from
known reservoirs under economic and operating conditions existing at the time
the estimates were made.
 
     Proved developed reserves are proved reserves expected to be recovered,
through wells and equipment in place and under operating methods being utilized
at the time the estimates were made.
 
     Canadian provincial royalties are determined based on a graduated
percentage scale which varies with prices and production volumes. Canadian
reserves, as presented on a net basis, assume prices and royalty rates in
existence at the time the estimates were made, and the Company's estimate of
future production volumes. Future fluctuations in prices, production rates, or
changes in political or regulatory environments could cause the Company's share
of future production from Canadian reserves to be materially different from that
presented.
 
     Estimates of proved and proved developed reserves at December 31, 1997,
1996 and 1995 were based on studies performed by the engineering staff of the
Company for reserves in the United States, Canada, Trinidad and India. Opinions
by DeGolyer and MacNaughton, independent petroleum consultants, for the years
ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 covering producing areas containing 54%,
64% and 60%, respectively, of proved reserves, excluding deep Paleozoic methane
reserves, of the Company on a net-equivalent-cubic-feet-of-gas basis, indicate
that the estimates of proved reserves prepared by the Company's engineering
staff for the properties reviewed by DeGolyer and MacNaughton, when compared in
total on a net-equivalent-cubic-feet-of-gas basis, do not differ materially from
the estimates prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. The deep Paleozoic methane
reserves were covered by the opinion of DeGolyer and MacNaughton for the year
ended December 31, 1995. Such estimates by DeGolyer and MacNaughton in the
aggregate varied by not more than 5% from those prepared by the engineering
staff of the Company. All reports by DeGolyer and MacNaughton were developed
utilizing geological and engineering data provided by the Company.
 
     The presentation of estimated proved reserves excludes, for each of the
years presented, those quantities attributable to future deliveries required
under a volumetric production payment. In order to calculate such amounts, the
Company has assumed that deliveries under the volumetric production payment are
made as scheduled at expected British thermal unit factors, and that delivery
commitments are satisfied through delivery, as scheduled, of the related
volumes.
 
     The Company has also presented, as additional information, proved reserves
including quantities attributable to future deliveries required under the
volumetric production payment. The Company believes
                                      F-25

 
that this information is informative to readers of its financial statements as
the related oil and gas properties costs and deferred revenue are included in
the Company's balance sheets for each of the years presented. This additional
information is not required to be presented in accordance with SFAS No. 69;
however, the Company believes this additional information is useful in assessing
its reserve and financial position on a comprehensive basis.
 
     No major discovery or other favorable or adverse event subsequent to
December 31, 1997 is believed to have caused a material change in the estimates
of proved or proved developed reserves as of that date.
 
     The following table sets forth the Company's net proved and proved
developed reserves at December 31 for each of the four years in the period ended
December 31, 1997, and the changes in the net proved reserves for each of the
three years in the period then ended as estimated by the engineering staff of
the Company.
 
                NET PROVED AND PROVED DEVELOPED RESERVE SUMMARY
 

 
                                                                          (Table
continued on following page)
 
                                      F-26

 

 
                                             (Table continued on following page)
 
                                      F-27

 

 
- ---------------
(1)  Billion cubic feet.
(2)  Includes 1,180 Bcf of proved undeveloped methane reserves contained, along
     with high concentrations of carbon dioxide and other gases in deep
     Paleozoic formations in the Big Piney area of Wyoming. The Company is
     actively pursuing the consummation of a market or markets from several
     different potential sources to facilitate realizing the value of these
     reserves.
(3)  Thousand barrels.
(4)  Includes crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
(5)  Excludes approximately 71 Bcfe, 54 Bcfe, 38 Bcfe and 21 Bcfe at December
     31, 1994, 1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively, related to a volumetric
     production payment.
 
                                      F-28

 
     Capitalized Costs Relating to Oil and Gas Producing Activities. The
following table sets forth the capitalized costs relating to the Company's
natural gas and crude oil producing activities at December 31, 1997 and 1996:
 

 
     Costs Incurred in Oil and Gas Property Acquisition, Exploration and
Development Activities. The acquisition, exploration and development costs
disclosed in the following tables are in accordance with definitions in SFAS No.
19 - "Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies".
 
     Acquisition costs include costs incurred to purchase, lease, or otherwise
acquire property.
 
     Exploration costs include exploration expenses, additions to exploration
wells including those in progress, and depreciation of support equipment used in
exploration activities.
 
     Development costs include additions to production facilities and equipment,
additions to development wells including those in progress, and depreciation of
support equipment and related facilities used in development activities.
 
     The following tables set forth costs incurred related to the Company's oil
and gas activities for the years ended December 31:
 

 
                                      F-29

 
     Results of Operations for Oil and Gas Producing Activities(1). The
following tables set forth results of operations for oil and gas producing
activities for the years ended December 31:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Excludes net revenues associated with other marketing activities, interest
    charges, general corporate expenses and certain gathering and handling fees
    for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1997. The
    gathering and handling fees and other marketing net revenues are directly
    associated with oil and gas operations with regard to segment reporting as
    defined in SFAS No. 14 - "Financial Reporting for Segments of a Business
    Enterprise", but are not part of Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing
    Activities as defined in SFAS No. 69.
 
                                      F-30

 
     Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved
Oil and Gas Reserves. The following information has been developed utilizing
procedures prescribed by SFAS No. 69 and based on crude oil and natural gas
reserve and production volumes estimated by the engineering staff of the
Company. It may be useful for certain comparison purposes, but should not be
solely relied upon in evaluating the Company or its performance. Further,
information contained in the following table should not be considered as
representative of realistic assessments of future cash flows, nor should the
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows be viewed as
representative of the current value of the Company.
 
     The future cash flows presented below are based on sales prices, cost
rates, and statutory income tax rates in existence as of the date of the
projections. It is expected that material revisions to some estimates of crude
oil and natural gas reserves may occur in the future, development and production
of the reserves may occur in periods other than those assumed, and actual prices
realized and costs incurred may vary significantly from those used.
 
     Management does not rely upon the following information in making
investment and operating decisions. Such decisions are based upon a wide range
of factors, including estimates of probable as well as proved reserves, and
varying price and cost assumptions considered more representative of a range of
possible economic conditions that may be anticipated.
 
     The presentation of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash
flows and changes therein excludes, for each of the years presented, amounts
attributable to future deliveries required under a volumetric production payment
at the equivalent wellhead value. In order to calculate such amounts, the
Company has assumed that deliveries under the volumetric production payment are
made as scheduled and that production costs corresponding to the volumes
delivered are incurred by the Company at average rates for the properties
subject to the production payment.
 
     The Company has also presented, as additional information, the standardized
measure of discounted future net cash flows and changes therein including
amounts attributable to future deliveries required under the volumetric
production payment. The Company believes that this information is informative to
readers of its financial statements because the related oil and gas properties
costs and deferred revenue are shown in the Company's balance sheets for each of
the years presented. This additional information is not required to be presented
in accordance with SFAS No. 69; however, the Company believes this additional
information is useful in assessing its reserve and financial position on a
comprehensive basis.
 
                                      F-31

 
     The following table sets forth the standardized measure of discounted
future net cash flows from projected production of the Company's crude oil and
natural gas reserves at December 31, for the years ended December 31:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Based on year end market prices determined at the point of delivery from the
    producing unit.
 
                                      F-32

 
     Changes in Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows. The
following table sets forth the changes in the standardized measure of discounted
future net cash flows at December 31, for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1997.
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Excludes $60,269, $35,957, $75,081 and $18,102 at December 31, 1994, 1995,
    1996 and 1997 respectively, related to a volumetric production payment.
 
(2) Includes approximately $77,500, $344,300 and $85,700 discounted before
    income taxes, in 1995, 1996 and 1997 respectively, related to the reserves
    in the Big Piney deep Paleozoic formations.
 
                                      F-33

 
UNAUDITED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 

 
                                      F-34

 
                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
         SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1996 AND 1995
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
- ------------------
 
(a)  Included in Other Liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.
 
(b)  Includes reversal of prior year provision in excess of requirement.
 
                                       S-1

 
                                    EXHIBITS
 
     Exhibits not incorporated herein by reference to a prior filing are
designated by an asterisk (*) and are filed herewith; all exhibits not so
designated are incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Form S-1
Registration Statement, Registration No. 33-30678, filed on August 24, 1989
("Form S-1"), or as otherwise indicated.
 

 
                                       E-1

 

 
                                       E-2

 

 
                                       E-3

 

 
                                       E-4

 

 
                                       E-5

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 13th day of
March, 1998.
 
                                                  ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
                                                        (Registrant)
 
                                            By     /s/ WALTER C. WILSON
 
                                             -----------------------------------
                                                     (Walter C. Wilson)
                                              Senior Vice President and Chief
                                                     Financial Officer
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of registrant and in
the capacities with Enron Oil & Gas Company indicated and on the 13th day of
March, 1998.
 


 
                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 


 


 


 


 


