
10-K405
EOG RESOURCES, INC. - DATED 12/3/199




- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                             ---------------------
                                   FORM 10-K
                             ---------------------
[X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

[ ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 1-9743

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



            1200 SMITH STREET, SUITE 300, HOUSTON, TEXAS 77002-7361
              (Address of principal executive offices) (zip code)
                             ---------------------
        REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: 713-651-7000

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:



          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

                                      NONE

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  [X]     No  [ ].

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K  [X].

     Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant, based on the closing sale price in the daily composite list for
transactions on the New York Stock Exchange on February 25, 2000 was
$1,609,731,449. As of March 1, 2000, there were 117,211,873 shares of the
registrant's Common Stock, $.01 par value, outstanding.

     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE. Certain portions of the registrant's
definitive Proxy Statement for the May 9, 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
("Proxy Statement") are incorporated in Part III by reference.

- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                               


                                       (i)


                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

     EOG Resources, Inc. (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation organized in
1985, is engaged, either directly or through a marketing subsidiary with regard
to domestic operations or through various subsidiaries with regard to
international operations, in the exploration for, and the development,
production and marketing of, natural gas and crude oil primarily in major
producing basins in the United States, as well as in Canada and Trinidad and, to
a lesser extent, selected other international areas. The Company's principal
producing areas are further described under "Exploration and Production" below.
At December 31, 1999, the Company's estimated net proved natural gas reserves
were 3,175 billion cubic feet ("Bcf") and estimated net proved crude oil,
condensate and natural gas liquids reserves were 73 million barrels ("MMBbl").
(See "Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial Statements"). At such
date, approximately 54% of the Company's reserves (on a natural gas equivalent
basis) was located in the United States, 16% in Canada and 30% in Trinidad. As
of December 31, 1999, the Company employed approximately 775 persons, including
foreign national employees.

     The Company's business strategy is to maximize the rate of return on
investment of capital by controlling all operating and capital costs. This
strategy enhances the generation of both income and cash flow from each unit of
production and allows for the growth of production on a cost-effective basis by
optimizing the reinvestment of cash flow. The Company continued to focus its
1999 drilling activity toward natural gas deliverability in addition to natural
gas reserve enhancement and to a lesser extent crude oil exploitation. The
Company also continues to focus on the cost-effective utilization of advances in
technology associated with gathering, processing and interpretation of 3-D
seismic data, developing reservoir simulation models and drilling operations
through the use of new and/or improved drill bits, mud motors, mud additives,
formation logging techniques and reservoir fracturing methods. These advanced
technologies are used, as appropriate, throughout the Company to reduce the
risks associated with all aspects of oil and gas reserve exploration,
exploitation and development. The Company implements its strategy by emphasizing
the drilling of internally generated prospects in order to find and develop low
cost reserves. Achieving and maintaining the lowest possible operating cost
structure are also important goals in the implementation of the Company's
strategy.

     On August 16, 1999, the Company and Enron Corp. completed the Share
Exchange Agreement ("Share Exchange") whereby the Company received 62,270,000
shares of the Company's common stock out of 82,270,000 shares owned by Enron
Corp. in exchange for all the stock of the Company's subsidiary, EOGI-India,
Inc. Prior to the Share Exchange, the Company made an indirect capital
contribution of approximately $600 million in cash, plus certain intercompany
receivables, to EOGI-India, Inc. At the time of completion of this transaction,
this subsidiary owned, through subsidiaries, all of the Company's assets and
operations in India and China. The Company recognized a $575 million tax-free
gain on the Share Exchange based on the fair value of the shares received, net
of transaction fees of $14 million. Immediately following the Share Exchange,
the Company retired the 62,270,000 shares of the Company's common stock received
in the transaction. The weighted average basis in the treasury shares retired
was first deducted from and fully eliminated existing additional paid in capital
with the remaining value deducted from retained earnings. On August 30, 1999,
the Company changed its corporate name to "EOG Resources, Inc." from "Enron Oil
& Gas Company" and has since made similar changes to its subsidiaries' names.

     On July 23, 1999, the Company filed a registration statement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission for the public offering of 27,000,000 shares
of the Company's common stock. The public offering was completed on August 16,
1999, and the net proceeds were used to repay short-term borrowings used to fund
a significant portion of the cash capital contribution in connection with the
Share Exchange. As a result of the public offering and the retirement of
62,270,000 shares of the Company's common stock previously mentioned, the number
of shares of the Company's common stock issued was reduced to 124,730,000 from
160,000,000 prior to the Share Exchange. As of December 31, 1999, the Company
had in its treasury



5,625,446 shares of its common stock issued, reducing the number of shares
outstanding to 119,104,554 shares.

     Immediately prior to the closing of the Share Exchange, Enron Corp. owned
82,270,000 shares of the Company's common stock, representing approximately 53.5
percent of all of the shares of the Company's common stock that were
outstanding. As a result of the closing of the Share Exchange, the sale by Enron
Corp. of 8,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock as a selling stockholder
in the public offering referred to above, and the completion on August 17, 1999
and August 20, 1999 of the offering of Enron Corp. notes mandatorily
exchangeable at maturity into up to 11,500,000 shares of the Company's common
stock, Enron Corp's maximum remaining interest in the Company after the
automatic conversion of its notes on July 31, 2002, will be under two percent
(assuming the notes are exchanged for less than the 11,500,000 shares of the
Company's common stock). As a result, beginning with the Share Exchange all
transactions with Enron Corp. and its affiliates have been classified as Trade.

     Effective as of August 16, 1999, the closing date of the Share Exchange,
the members of the board of directors of the Company who were officers or
directors of Enron Corp. resigned their positions as directors of the Company.

     As a result of the change to the Company's portfolio of assets brought
about by the Share Exchange, the Company conducted a re-evaluation of its
overall business. As a result of this re-evaluation, some of the Company's
projects were no longer deemed central to its business. The Company incurred
non-cash charges in connection with the impairment and/or the Company's decision
to dispose of such projects of $89 million after-tax. In the United States
operating segment, a pre-tax charge of $78 million was recorded to depreciation,
depletion and amortization expense for impairment. The carrying values for
assets determined to be impaired were adjusted to estimated fair values based on
projected future discounted net cash flows for such assets. In the Other
operating segment, a pre-tax charge of $36 million was recorded to depreciation,
depletion and amortization expense to fully write-off the Company's basis and a
pre-tax charge of $19 million was recorded to other income (expense) -- other,
net for the estimated exit costs related to the Company's decision to dispose of
certain international operations. Net loss for such operations for 1999
excluding these charges was approximately $3 million. In addition, in the fourth
quarter, depreciation, depletion and amortization expense of $7 million pre-tax
was recorded in the United States operating segment resulting from a reduction
in proved reserves related to the Company's decision to defer the development of
the Big Piney Madison deep Paleozoic formation methane reserves in Wyoming for
the foreseeable future. Starting in 2000, this reserve reduction will increase
depreciation, depletion and amortization by approximately $26 million annually.
At December 31, 1998, these reserves represented approximately $100 million or
5% of the Company's Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows as
adjusted for the sale of the India and China reserves as a result of the Share
Exchange.

     On July 28, 1999, the Company executed a series of new credit agreements
aggregating $1.3 billion (the "Credit Facilities"). At the same time, the
Company cancelled its existing credit facilities totaling $450 million. Of the
$1.3 billion, $500 million was set to expire in 364 days (the "Interim
Facility"), $400 million was structured as a 364-day revolving credit facility
with a one-year term option subsequent to the revolving period and $400 million
was structured as a five-year revolving credit facility. The Interim Facility
was cancelled subsequent to the completion of the public offering referred to
above.

     Unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to the Company
include EOG Resources, Inc., its predecessors and subsidiaries, and any
reference to the ownership of interests or pursuit of operations in any
international areas by the Company recognizes that all such interests are owned
and operations are pursued by subsidiaries of EOG Resources, Inc. Unless the
context otherwise requires, all references herein to Enron Corp. include Enron
Corp., its predecessors and affiliates, other than the Company and its
predecessors and subsidiaries.

     With respect to information on the Company's working interest in wells or
acreage, "net" oil and gas wells or acreage are determined by multiplying
"gross" oil and gas wells or acreage by the Company's working interest in the
wells or acreage. Unless otherwise defined, all references to wells are gross.



BUSINESS SEGMENTS

     The Company's operations are all natural gas and crude oil exploration and
production related.

EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION

  NORTH AMERICA OPERATIONS

     United States. The Company's principal United States producing areas are
the Southwestern Wyoming area, Vernal area of Utah, South Texas area, East Texas
area, Mississippi Salt Basin, Offshore Gulf of Mexico area, Southeastern New
Mexico area, Val Verde Basin and Midland Basin of West Texas, and Mid Continent
area. Properties in these areas comprised approximately 95% of the Company's
United States reserves (on a natural gas equivalent basis) and 97% of the
Company's United States net natural gas deliverability as of December 31, 1999
and substantially all are operated by the Company.

     The Company's other United States natural gas and crude oil producing
properties are located primarily in other areas of Texas, Utah, New Mexico,
Oklahoma, California, and Kansas.

     At December 31, 1999, 85% of the Company's proved United States reserves
(on a natural gas equivalent basis) was natural gas and 15% was crude oil,
condensate and natural gas liquids. A substantial portion of the Company's
United States natural gas reserves is in long-lived fields with well-established
production histories. The Company believes that opportunities exist to increase
production in many of these fields through continued infill and other
development drilling.

     Southwestern Wyoming Area. Big Piney, the Company's largest reserve
accumulation, is located in Sublette and Lincoln Counties of Southwestern
Wyoming. The Company is the holder of the largest productive acreage base in the
Big Piney area, with approximately 265,000 net acres under lease. The Company
operates approximately 824 natural gas and crude oil wells in this area with an
85% average working interest. Deliveries from the Big Piney area net to the
Company averaged 97 million cubic feet ("MMcf") per day of natural gas and 4.2
thousand barrels ("MBbl") per day of crude oil, condensate, and natural gas
liquids in 1999. At December 31, 1999, natural gas deliverability net to the
Company was approximately 95 MMcf per day.

     The principal producing intervals within the Big Piney area are the Almy,
Mesaverde and Frontier formations. The Frontier formation, which occurs at 6,500
to 10,000 feet, contains approximately 60% of the Company's Big Piney proved
developed reserves. The Company drilled 47 wells in the Big Piney area in 1999
and anticipates an active drilling program will continue for several years.

     During 1999, the Company drilled three wells in the Washakie Basin,
Sweetwater County, Wyoming. The Cepo Lewis 21-18 and the Powder Mountain 1-13
initially produced at a combined rate of 12 MMcf per day from the Lewis
formation, and the Cedar Chest 31-5 initially produced 5 MMcf per day from the
Almond formation. The Company owns 20,000 net leasehold acres and 220 square
miles of new 3-D seismic, and anticipates an active drilling program in the
Washakie Basin for several years. Natural gas deliveries net to the Company in
this area averaged approximately 9.1 MMcf per day in 1999, and deliverability at
December 31, 1999 was approximately 15 MMcf per day.

     Vernal Area. In the Vernal area, located primarily in Uintah County, Utah,
the Company operates approximately 334 producing wells and presently controls
approximately 66,000 net acres. In 1999, natural gas deliveries net to the
Company from the Vernal area averaged 26 MMcf per day. Deliverability at
December 31, 1999, was approximately 28 MMcf per day. Production is from the
Green River and Wasatch formations located at depths between 4,500 and 8,000
feet. The Company has an average working interest of approximately 61%. Numerous
drilling opportunities will be available in this area in 2000.

     South Texas Area. The Company's activities in South Texas are focused in
the Lobo/Roleta, Frio and Wilcox producing horizons. The principal areas of
activity are in the Lobo/Roleta trend which occurs primarily in Webb and Zapata
Counties and the Frio trend in Matagorda County. Utilizing newly acquired 3-D
seismic in Webb and Zapata Counties, the Company added two significant field
extensions in the Pok-A-Dot area. Thirteen wells were drilled and completed
during 1999. At December 31, 1999, net deliveries



from these wells were 28 MMcf per day of natural gas. During 1999, Lobo/Roleta
net deliverability averaged approximately 39 MMcf per day of natural gas. In
Matagorda County, seven wells were completed in 1999 with a combined initial
rate of 55 MMcf per day of natural gas and 1 MBbl per day of condensate net to
the Company. During 1999, Frio net deliverability averaged approximately 34 MMcf
per day of natural gas and 1 MBbl per day of condensate.

     The Company operates approximately 429 wells in the South Texas area, and
production is primarily from the Lobo, Roleta and Frio sands at depths ranging
from 5,000 to 16,000 feet. The Company owns approximately 288,000 net leasehold
acres and more than 40,000 net mineral fee acres in this area. Natural gas
deliveries net to the Company averaged approximately 142 MMcf per day in 1999.
At December 31, 1999, natural gas deliverability from this area net to the
Company was approximately 190 MMcf per day. During 1999, the Company drilled 53
wells in the South Texas area, acquired 480 square miles of new 3-D seismic and
leased 35,000 net acres. An active drilling program in this area is anticipated
to continue for several years.

     East Texas Area. The Company's activities in the East Texas area are
primarily in the Carthage field, located in Panola County, the North Milton
field, located in Harris County and the Stowell/Big Hill area, located in
Jefferson and Chambers Counties. Pursuant to a property exchange with OXY USA
Inc. ("OXY") in 1999, the Company acquired working interests in 715 wells
located primarily in Gregg and Panola Counties.

     The Carthage field production is from the Cotton Valley, Travis Peak and
Pettit formations. The Company owns approximately 37,000 net operated acres
under lease with an average 83% working interest in this area. The Company
drilled 17 wells in the Carthage field in 1999 and anticipates an active
drilling program will continue for several years. The Company has continued its
activity in the North Milton field where it now operates 29 wells and holds a
100% working interest in the acreage. The Company anticipates drilling
additional wells during 2000. The Company drilled 4 wells in the Stowell/Big
Hill area in 1999 and expects to continue expansion of the program in 2000.
During 1999, net deliveries from the East Texas area averaged 76 MMcf per day of
natural gas and 2.7 MBbl per day of crude oil, condensate and natural gas
liquids. At December 31, 1999, deliverability from the area was approximately
103 MMcf per day of natural gas with 5.9 MBbl per day of crude oil, condensate
and natural gas liquids both net to the Company.

     Mississippi Salt Basin. The Company's activities in this basin target the
Cretaceous (Rodessa, Sligo, Hosston and Selma Chalk) formation. In Mississippi,
the Company operates 114 producing wells and owns approximately 47,000 net
acres. During 1999, the Company drilled 4 deep Cretaceous and 17 Chalk wells.
The Company plans an expanded program in 2000. Net deliveries from the area
during 1999 averaged 15 MMcf per day of natural gas and 0.6 MBbl per day of
crude oil and condensate. At December 31, 1999, net deliverability from the area
was approximately 15 MMcf per day of natural gas and 1.0 MBbl per day of crude
oil and condensate.

     Offshore Gulf of Mexico Area. Development of the Eugene Island 135
discovery continued with the installation of a second platform and the drilling
of one development well in 1999. The Company anticipates drilling one additional
step-out well in 2000. At December 31, 1999, net deliverability from the block
was approximately 14 MMcf per day of natural gas. During 1999, net production
from the Matagorda Island 623 field, where the Company purchased a 19% working
interest in 1998, averaged approximately 43 MMcf per day of natural gas. The
Company expects to drill two replacement wells in this field during 2000.

     During the year, the Company continued to rationalize its primary term
acreage position through third-party joint ventures. At December 31, 1999, the
Company held an interest in 135 blocks in the Offshore Gulf of Mexico area
totaling approximately 342,000 net acres with 78 primary term leases and 57
leases held by production or being developed. Of these 135 blocks, located
predominantly in federal waters offshore Texas and Louisiana, 85 are operated by
the Company. In 1999, the Company traded its interests in 4 producing blocks in
the Matagorda Island and Garden Banks area, and the member interests in an
indirect wholly owned limited liability company whose assets included interests
in 5 producing blocks in the Matagorda Island area, representing in the
aggregate 28 MMcf per day of natural gas production net to the Company, as part
of a property exchange with OXY. Natural gas deliveries from this area averaged
127 MMcf per day during 1999, inclusive of the production from the properties
traded to OXY, which transaction closed on December 31, 1999.


     During 1999, the Company implemented a shift in its Gulf of Mexico strategy
from exploration drilling to one of acquisition and exploitation in core areas
of the Louisiana and Texas shelf. During 2000, the Company anticipates
participating in 5 to 10 wells in this area.

     Southeastern New Mexico Area. The Company's activities in this area have
been concentrated in Lea and Eddy Counties in New Mexico. Production is
primarily from the Bone Springs, Wolfcamp, Chester, Morrow, and Atoka
formations. Natural gas deliveries for 1999 averaged 35 MMcf per day and
deliveries of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids averaged 2.3 MBbl
per day both net to the Company. At year end 1999, deliverability, net to the
Company, was approximately 42 MMcf per day of natural gas and 2.0 MBbl per day
of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids. The Company holds 93,000 net
acres and has an average working interest of approximately 70%. Significant
drilling activity is planned in 2000 for this area.

     Val Verde Basin. The Company's activities in this area have been
concentrated in Crockett, Terrell and Val Verde Counties in Texas. The Company
holds approximately 51,000 net acres and now operates approximately 325 natural
gas wells in this area in which it owns a 90% average working interest.
Production is from the Canyon sands and Strawn limestone at depths from 5,500 to
12,500 feet. At December 31, 1999, natural gas deliverability net to the Company
was approximately 20 MMcf per day. The Company plans to test several Val Verde
basin prospects in 2000.

     Midland Basin. The Company's activities in this area have been concentrated
in Upton and Reagan Counties in Texas. Production is primarily from the Wolfcamp
and Strawn formations. In 1999, deliveries net to the Company averaged 11 MMcf
per day of natural gas and approximately 2.4 MBbl per day of crude oil,
condensate and natural gas liquids. At December 31, 1999, deliverability net to
the Company was approximately 14 MMcf per day of natural gas and 3.3 MBbl per
day of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids. The Company holds
approximately 40,000 net acres and has an average working interest of
approximately 95%. The Company expects to drill numerous wells in this area
during 2000.

     Mid Continent Area. The Company's activities in the Mid-Continent area are
concentrated in the Oklahoma and Texas panhandles and in the deeper Anadarko
Basin. During 1999, the Company drilled 57 natural gas wells in the Oklahoma
panhandle and 5 natural gas wells in the Texas panhandle. The Company controls
over 400,000 acres in the Oklahoma panhandle including certain exploration
rights on approximately 320,000 acres by virtue of a Farmout Agreement obtained
as a part of the property exchange with OXY closed on December 31, 1999, and
27,000 acres in the Texas panhandle. Production from these areas is primarily
from the Morrow, Toronto, and Council Grove formations. Net deliveries from the
panhandle areas averaged approximately 34 MMcf per day of natural gas during
1999. At December 31, 1999 net deliveries from the panhandle areas were
approximately 42 MMcf per day of natural gas and 0.3 MBbl per day of crude oil
and condensate.

     During 1999, the Company also drilled 39 wells in other areas of the
Anadarko Basin. Deliveries from this area, net to the Company, averaged
approximately 39 MMcf per day of natural gas and 0.3 MBbl per day of crude oil,
condensate and natural gas liquids in 1999. The Company anticipates an active
Mid-Continent drilling program for several years.

     Canada. The Company is engaged in the exploration for and the development,
production and marketing of natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude oil in
Western Canada, principally in the provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan, and
Manitoba. The Company conducts operations from offices in Calgary, Alberta, and
produces natural gas and crude oil from five major areas. The Sandhills area in
southwestern Saskatchewan is the Company's largest single natural gas producing
area in Canada. In 1999, 254 wells were drilled in the area and additional
acreage and wells were acquired in the area resulting in deliverability of
approximately 51 MMcf per day net to the Company at December 31, 1999. The
Blackfoot area in southeastern Alberta is the second largest natural gas
producing area in Canada for the Company. In 1999, 78 new wells were drilled and
numerous recompletions, workovers and facility optimizations were carried out
resulting in deliverability of approximately 36 MMcf per day and 0.8 MBbl per
day of crude oil and condensate net to the Company at December 31, 1999. Total
Canadian natural gas deliverability net to the Company at December 31, 1999 was
approximately 131 MMcf per day, and the Company held approximately 522,000 net
undeveloped acres in Canada. Total Canadian natural gas deliveries net to the
Company for 1999


averaged approximately 115 MMcf per day. The Company expects to maintain an
active drilling program in Western Canada for several years.

  OUTSIDE NORTH AMERICA OPERATIONS

     The Company has producing operations offshore Trinidad and is evaluating
exploration, exploitation and development opportunities in selected other
international areas.

     Trinidad. In November 1992, the Company was awarded a 95% working interest
concession in the South East Coast Consortium ("SECC") Block offshore Trinidad,
encompassing three undeveloped fields, previously held by three government-owned
energy companies. The Kiskadee and Ibis fields have since been developed, and
the Oilbird field is anticipated to be developed within the next several years.
Existing surplus processing and transportation capacity at the Pelican field
facilities owned and operated by Trinidad and Tobago government-owned companies
is being used to process and transport the production. Natural gas is being sold
into the local market under a take-or-pay agreement with the National Gas
Company of Trinidad and Tobago. In 1999, deliveries net to the Company averaged
123 MMcf per day of natural gas, which includes 21 MMcf per day of gas balancing
volumes relating to a field allocation agreement and 2.4 MBbl per day of crude
oil and condensate.

     In 1996, the Company signed a production sharing contract with the
Government of Trinidad and Tobago for the Modified U(a) Block where the Company
holds a 100% working interest. The contract committed the Company to the
acquisition of 3-D seismic data and the drilling of three wells. The first well,
Osprey, was drilled in 1998 and was successful, encountering over 400 feet of
net pay. This is the largest exploration discovery in the Company's history. The
Company has booked 675 Bcfe of proved reserves in this discovery. During the
fourth quarter of 1999, the Company drilled an unsuccessful exploration well,
the Motmot, and in the first quarter of 2000, the Tanager well was determined to
be unsuccessful. These wells fulfilled the drilling obligations on the block. At
December 31, 1999, the Company held approximately 144,000 net undeveloped acres
in Trinidad.

     In January 2000, the Company signed a 15-year natural gas supply contract
for over 60 MMcf per day with the National Gas Company of Trinidad and Tobago.
This natural gas will supply a 1,850 metric ton per day anhydrous ammonia plant
that is to be constructed by Caribbean Nitrogen Company Limited, a Trinidadian
company in which the Company has a 16% interest. Negotiations are currently
underway to obtain financing for the plant.

     Venezuela. The Company was awarded exploration, exploitation and
development rights for a block offshore the eastern state of Sucre, Venezuela in
early 1996. The Company signed agreements with the government of Venezuela and
other participants associated with a concession awarded in the Gulf of Paria
East. The Company holds an initial 90% working interest in the joint venture and
acts as operator. One exploratory well was drilled during 1998 and encountered
hydrocarbons. The Company is presently seeking a party to complete the remaining
commitment under the concession and during 1999 impaired the carrying value to
reflect the Company's estimate of fair value.

     Other International. The Company continues to evaluate other selected
conventional natural gas and crude oil opportunities outside North America
primarily by pursuing exploitation opportunities in countries where indigenous
natural gas and crude oil reserves have been identified.

MARKETING

     Wellhead Marketing. The Company's North America wellhead natural gas
production is currently being sold on the spot market and under long-term
natural gas contracts at market responsive prices. In many instances, the
long-term contract prices closely approximate the prices received for natural
gas being sold on the spot market. Wellhead natural gas volumes from Trinidad
are sold at prices that are based on a fixed price schedule with annual
escalations. Prior to the Share Exchange and under terms of the production
sharing contracts, natural gas volumes in India were sold to a nominee of the
Government of India at a price linked to a basket of world market fuel oil
quotations with floor and ceiling limits.



     Substantially all of the Company's wellhead crude oil and condensate is
sold under various terms and arrangements at market responsive prices.

     Other Marketing. EOG Resources Marketing, Inc. ("EOGM"), a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company, is a marketing company engaging in various marketing
activities. Both the Company and EOGM contract to provide, under short and
long-term agreements, natural gas to various purchasers and then aggregate the
necessary supplies for the sales with purchases from various sources including
third-party producers, marketing companies, pipelines or from the Company's own
production and arrange for any necessary transportation to the points of
delivery. In addition, EOGM has purchased and constructed several small
gathering systems in order to facilitate its entry into the gathering business
on a limited basis. Both the Company and EOGM utilize other short and long-term
hedging and trading mechanisms including sales and purchases utilizing
NYMEX-related commodity market transactions. These marketing activities have
provided an effective balance in managing a portion of the Company's exposure to
commodity price risks for both natural gas and crude oil and condensate wellhead
prices. (See "Other Matters - Risk Management").



WELLHEAD VOLUMES AND PRICES, AND LEASE AND WELL EXPENSES

     The following table sets forth certain information regarding the Company's
wellhead volumes of and average prices for natural gas per thousand cubic feet
("Mcf"), crude oil and condensate, and natural gas liquids per barrel ("Bbl"),
and average lease and well expenses per thousand cubic feet equivalent ("Mcfe" -
natural gas equivalents are determined using the ratio of 6.0 Mcf of natural gas
to 1.0 Bbl of crude oil, condensate or natural gas liquids) delivered during
each of the three years in the period ended December 31:



- - ---------------

(1) Includes 48 MMcf per day in 1998 and 1997 delivered under the terms of a
    volumetric production payment agreement effective October 1, 1992, as
    amended. Delivery obligations were terminated in December 1998.

(2) See "Business -- General" regarding the Share Exchange.

(3) Includes an average equivalent wellhead value of $1.53 per Mcf in 1998 and
    $1.73 per Mcf in 1997 for the volumes described in note (1), net of
    transportation costs.



COMPETITION

     The Company actively competes for reserve acquisitions and
exploration/exploitation leases, licenses and concessions, frequently against
companies with substantially larger financial and other resources. To the extent
the Company's exploration budget is lower than that of certain of its
competitors, the Company may be disadvantaged in effectively competing for
certain reserves, leases, licenses and concessions. Competitive factors include
price, contract terms, and quality of service, including pipeline connection
times and distribution efficiencies. In addition, the Company faces competition
from other producers and suppliers, including competition from other world wide
energy supplies, such as natural gas from Canada.

REGULATION

     United States Regulation of Natural Gas and Crude Oil Production. Natural
gas and crude oil production operations are subject to various types of
regulation, including regulation in the United States by state and federal
agencies.

     United States legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under
constant review for amendment or expansion. Also, numerous departments and
agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue and have
issued rules and regulations which, among other things, require permits for the
drilling of wells, regulate the spacing of wells, prevent the waste of natural
gas and liquid hydrocarbon resources through proration and restrictions on
flaring, require drilling bonds and regulate environmental and safety matters.
The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases its cost of doing
business and, consequently, affects its profitability.

     A substantial portion of the Company's oil and gas leases in the Big Piney
area and in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as some in other areas, are granted by
the federal government and administered by the Bureau of Land Management (the
"BLM") and the Minerals Management Service (the "MMS"), both federal agencies.
Operations conducted by the Company on federal oil and gas leases must comply
with numerous statutory and regulatory restrictions concerning the above and
other matters. Certain operations must be conducted pursuant to appropriate
permits issued by the BLM and the MMS.

     BLM and MMS leases contain relatively standardized terms requiring
compliance with detailed regulations and, in the case of offshore leases, orders
pursuant to the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (which are subject to change
by the MMS). Such offshore operations are subject to numerous regulatory
requirements, including the need for prior MMS approval for exploration,
development, and production plans, stringent engineering and construction
specifications applicable to offshore production facilities, regulations
restricting the flaring or venting of production, and regulations governing the
plugging and abandonment of offshore wells and the removal of all production
facilities. Under certain circumstances, the MMS may require operations on
federal leases to be suspended or terminated. Any such suspension or termination
could adversely affect the Company's interests.

     The MMS has issued a notice of proposed rulemaking in which it proposes to
amend its regulations governing the calculation of royalties and the valuation
of crude oil produced from federal leases. This proposed rule would modify the
valuation procedures for both arm's length and non-arm's length crude oil
transactions to decrease reliance on oil posted prices and assign a value to
crude oil that, in the opinion of the MMS, better reflects its market value,
establish a new MMS form for collecting differential data, and amend the
valuation procedure for the sale of federal royalty oil. The Company cannot
predict what action the MMS will take on this matter, nor can it predict how the
Company will be affected by any change to this regulation.

     The MMS recently issued a final rule to clarify the types of costs that are
deductible transportation costs for purposes of royalty valuation of production
sold off the lease. In particular, the MMS will not allow deduction of costs
associated with marketer fees, cash out and other pipeline imbalance penalties,
or long-term storage fees. The rule is under court review in two suits brought
by oil and gas trade associations. The Company cannot predict what, if any,
effect the new rule will have on its operations.

     Sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids by the Company are
made at unregulated market prices.


     The transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate
commerce are regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (the "NGA") and
the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (the "NGPA"). These statutes are administered
by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the "FERC"). Effective January 1,
1993, the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 deregulated natural gas
prices for all "first sales" of natural gas, which includes all sales by the
Company of its own production. All other sales of natural gas by the Company,
such as those of natural gas purchased from third parties, remain jurisdictional
sales subject to a blanket sales certificate under the NGA, which has flexible
terms and conditions. Consequently, all of the Company's sales of natural gas
currently may be made at market prices, subject to applicable contract
provisions. The Company's jurisdictional sales, however, are subject to the
future possibility of greater federal oversight, including the possibility the
FERC might prospectively impose more restrictive conditions on such sales.

     Since 1985, the FERC has endeavored to enhance competition in natural gas
markets by making natural gas transportation more accessible to natural gas
buyers and sellers on an open and nondiscriminatory basis. These efforts
culminated in Order No. 636 and various rehearing orders ("Order No. 636"),
which mandate a fundamental restructuring of interstate natural gas pipeline
sales and transportation services, including the "unbundling" by interstate
natural gas pipelines of the sales, transportation, storage, and other
components of their service, and to separately state the rates for each
unbundled service. The courts have largely affirmed the significant features of
Order No. 636 and numerous related orders pertaining to the individual
pipelines, although certain appeals remain pending and the FERC continues to
review and modify its open access regulations. Order No. 636 does not directly
regulate the Company's activities, but has an indirect effect because of its
broad scope. Order No. 636 has ended interstate pipelines' traditional role as
wholesalers of natural gas, and substantially increased competition in natural
gas markets. In spite of this uncertainty, Order No. 636 may enhance the
Company's ability to market and transport its natural gas production, although
it may also subject the Company to more restrictive pipeline imbalance
tolerances and greater penalties for violation of such tolerances.

     The Company owns, directly or indirectly, certain natural gas pipelines
that it believes meet the traditional tests the FERC has used to establish a
pipeline's status as a gatherer not subject to FERC jurisdiction under the NGA.
State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety,
environmental, and in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements,
but does not generally entail rate regulation. Natural gas gathering may receive
greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels as the pipeline
restructuring under Order No. 636 is implemented. For example, the Texas
Railroad Commission has approved changes to its regulations governing
transportation and gathering services performed by intrastate pipelines and
gatherers, which prohibit such entities from unduly discriminating in favor of
their affiliates. The Company's gathering operations could be adversely affected
should they be subject in the future to the application of state or federal
regulation of rates and services.

     The Company's natural gas gathering operations also may be or become
subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design,
installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement, and management of
facilities. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are
considered or adopted from time to time. The Company cannot predict what effect,
if any, such legislation might have on its operations, but the industry could be
required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending
on future legislative and regulatory changes.

     The FERC recently began a broad review of its transportation regulations,
including how they operate in conjunction with state proposals for retail gas
marketing restructuring, whether to eliminate cost-of-service rates for
short-term transportation, whether to allocate all short-term capacity on the
basis of competitive auctions, and whether changes to its long-term
transportation policies may also be appropriate to alleviate a market bias
toward short-term contracts. This review culminated in part with the FERC's
issuance of Order No. 637 on February 9, 2000.

     Order No. 637 revises the FERC's current regulatory framework for purposes
of improving the efficiency of the market and providing captive pipeline
customers with the opportunity to reduce their cost of holding long-term
pipeline capacity while continuing to protect against the exercise of market
power. Order No. 637



revises FERC pricing policy by waiving price ceilings for short-term released
capacity for a two year period and permitting pipelines to file for
peak/off-peak and term differentiated rate structures. Order No. 637 does not,
however, require the allocation of all short-term capacity on the basis of
competitive auctions -- as had been proposed by the FERC. Order No. 637 adopts
changes in regulations relating to scheduling procedures, capacity segmentation
and pipeline penalties to improve the competitiveness and efficiency of the
interstate pipeline grid. It also narrows pipeline customers' right of first
refusal to remove economic biases in the current rule, while still protecting
captive customers' ability to resubscribe to long-term capacity. Finally, it
improves the FERC's reporting requirements to provide more transparent pricing
information and permit more effective monitoring of the market.

     While Order No. 637, and any subsequent FERC action will affect the Company
only indirectly, the Order and related inquiries are intended to further enhance
competition in natural gas markets, while maintaining adequate consumer
protections.

     The Company cannot predict the effect that any of the aforementioned orders
or the challenges to such orders will ultimately have on the Company's
operations. Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural
gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress, the FERC and the
courts. The Company cannot predict when or whether any such proposals or
proceedings may become effective. It should also be noted that the natural gas
industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no
assurance that the less regulated approach currently being pursued by the FERC
will continue indefinitely.

     Environmental Regulation. Various federal, state and local laws and
regulations covering the discharge of materials into the environment, or
otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, affect the Company's
operations and costs as a result of their effect on natural gas and crude oil
exploration, development and production operations and could cause the Company
to incur remediation or other corrective action costs in connection with a
release of regulated substances, including crude oil, into the environment.
Compliance with such laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect
on the Company's operations or financial condition. It is not anticipated, based
on current laws and regulations, that the Company will be required in the near
future to expend amounts that are material in relation to its total exploration
and development expenditure program in order to comply with each environmental
law and regulation, but inasmuch as such laws and regulations are frequently
changed, the Company is unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance.

     Canadian Regulation. In Canada, the petroleum industry is subject to
extensive controls and operates under various provincial and federal legislation
and regulations governing land tenure, royalties, taxes, production rates,
operational standards, environmental protection, health and safety, exports and
other matters. The Company operates within this regulatory framework and
continues to monitor and evaluate the impact of the regulatory regime when
determining parameters for engaging in oil and gas activities and investments in
Canada. The price of natural gas and crude oil in Canada has been deregulated
and is determined by market conditions and negotiations between buyers and
sellers in a North American market place. The North American Free Trade
Agreement supports the on-going cross-border commercial transactions of the
natural gas and crude oil business.

     Various matters relating to the transportation and export of natural gas
continue to be subject to regulation by provincial agencies and federally, by
the National Energy Board; however, the North American Free Trade Agreement may
have reduced the risk of altering existing cross-border commercial transactions
through the assurance of fair implementation of regulatory changes, minimal
disruption of contractual arrangements and the prohibition of discriminatory
order restrictions and export taxes.

     Canadian governmental regulations may have a material effect on the
economic parameters for engaging in oil and gas activities in Canada and may
have a material effect on the advisability of investments in Canadian oil and
gas drilling activities. The Company is monitoring political, regulatory and
economic developments in Canada.

     Other International Regulation. The Company's exploration and production
operations outside North America are subject to various types of regulations
imposed by the respective governments of the countries in



which the Company's operations are conducted, and may affect the Company's
operations and costs within that country. The Company currently has operations
offshore Trinidad.

RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND ENRON CORP.

     On August 16, 1999, the Company and Enron Corp. closed the Share Exchange
in which the Company acquired 62,270,000 shares of the Company's common stock
out of 82,270,000 shares then owned by Enron Corp., and in return Enron Corp.
received all of the stock of EOGI-India, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company.
EOGI-India, Inc. owned, through subsidiaries, all of the Company's assets and
operations in India and China, and had received from the Company an indirect
$600 million cash capital contribution, plus certain intercompany receivables,
prior to the exchange. On the closing of the Share Exchange, all of Enron
Corp.'s officers and directors then serving as Company directors resigned from
the Company's board. Following the closing of the Share Exchange, Enron Corp.
sold 8,500,000 shares of Company stock pursuant to a public offering in which
the Company also sold 27,000,000 shares of its common stock. Subsequent to the
closing of the Share Exchange and the common stock offering, Enron Corp. sold
securities that are mandatorily exchangeable at maturity into a minimum of
9,746,250 EOG shares and a maximum of 11,500,000 EOG shares, the latter being an
amount equal to all of Enron Corp.'s remaining shares in the Company. The
maturity date for these securities is July 31, 2002.

     The Company and Enron Corp. have in the past entered into material
transactions and agreements incident to their respective businesses. Such
transactions and agreements have related to, among other things, the purchase
and sale of natural gas and crude oil and hedging and trading activities. Many
of these agreements are still in place, and the Company and Enron Corp. may
enter into similar types of transactions and agreements in the future. The
Company intends that the terms of any future transactions and agreements with
Enron Corp. will be at least as favorable to the Company as could be obtained
from other third parties.

OTHER MATTERS

     Energy Prices. Since the Company is primarily a natural gas company, it is
more significantly impacted by changes in natural gas prices than in the prices
for crude oil, condensate or natural gas liquids. During recent periods,
domestic natural gas has been priced significantly below parity with crude oil
and condensate based on the energy equivalency of, and differences in
transportation and processing costs associated with, the respective products.
This imbalance in parity has been primarily driven by, among other things, a
supply of domestic natural gas volumes in excess of demand requirements. The
Company is unable to predict when this supply imbalance may be resolved due to
the significant impacts of factors such as general economic conditions,
technology developments, weather and other international energy supplies over
which the Company has no control.

     Average North America wellhead natural gas prices have fluctuated, at times
rather dramatically, during the last three years. These fluctuations resulted in
an increase in the average wellhead natural gas price for North America received
by the Company of 15% from 1996 to 1997, a decrease of 15% from 1997 to 1998,
and an increase of 11% from 1998 to 1999. Wellhead natural gas volumes from
Trinidad are sold at prices that are based on a fixed schedule with periodic
escalations. Due to the many uncertainties associated with the world political
environment, the availabilities of other world wide energy supplies and the
relative competitive relationships of the various energy sources in the view of
the consumers, the Company is unable to predict what changes may occur in
natural gas prices in the future.

     Substantially all of the Company's wellhead crude oil and condensate is
sold under various terms and arrangements at market responsive prices. Crude oil
and condensate prices also have fluctuated during the last three years. Due to
the many uncertainties associated with the world political environment, the
availabilities of other world wide energy supplies and the relative competitive
relationships of the various energy sources in the view of the consumers, the
Company is unable to predict what changes may occur in crude oil and condensate
prices in the future.

     Risk Management. The Company engages in price risk management activities
from time to time primarily for non-trading and to a lesser extent for trading
purposes. Derivative financial instruments


(primarily price swaps and costless collars) are utilized for non-trading
purposes to hedge the impact of market fluctuations of natural gas and crude oil
market prices on net income and cash flow.

     At December 31, 1999, the Company had outstanding crude oil commodity price
swap transactions, designated as hedges, covering approximately 0.5 MMBbl of
crude oil and condensate for 2000. The fair value of the positions was a
negative $2 million at December 31, 1999.

     At December 31, 1999, based on the Company's tax position and the portion
of the Company's anticipated natural gas volumes for 2000 for which prices have
not, in effect, been hedged using NYMEX-related commodity market transactions
and long-term marketing contracts, the Company's net income and current
operating cash flow sensitivities to changing natural gas prices are
approximately $18 million (or $.15 per share) and $28 million, respectively, for
each $.10 per Mcf change in average wellhead natural gas prices. The Company is
not impacted as significantly by changing crude oil prices for those volumes not
otherwise hedged. The Company's net income and current operating cash flow
sensitivities are approximately $5 million (or $.04 per share) and $8 million,
respectively, for each $1.00 per barrel change in average wellhead crude oil
prices.

     Tight Gas Sand Tax Credits (Section 29) and Severance Tax Exemption. United
States federal tax law provides a tax credit for production of certain fuels
produced from nonconventional sources (including natural gas produced from tight
formations), subject to a number of limitations. Fuels qualifying for the credit
must be produced from a well drilled or a facility placed in service after
November 5, 1990 and before January 1, 1993, and must be sold before January 1,
2003.

     The credit, which is currently approximately $.52 per million British
thermal units ("MMBtu") of natural gas, is computed by reference to the price of
crude oil, and is phased out as the price of crude oil exceeds $23.50 in 1980
dollars (adjusted for inflation) with complete phaseout if such price exceeds
$29.50 in 1980 dollars (similarly adjusted). Under this formula, the
commencement of phaseout would be triggered if the average price for crude oil
rose above approximately $48 per barrel in current dollars. Significant benefits
from the tax credit have accrued and continue to accrue to the Company since a
portion (and in some cases a substantial portion) of the Company's natural gas
production from new wells drilled after November 5, 1990, and before January 1,
1993, on the Company's leases in several of the Company's significant producing
areas qualify for this tax credit. The Company entered into an arrangement with
a third party whereby certain Section 29 credits were sold by the Company to the
third party, and payments for such credits will be received on an as-generated
basis.

     Natural gas production from wells spudded or completed after May 24, 1989
and before September 1, 1996 in tight formations in Texas qualifies for a
ten-year exemption, ending August 31, 2001, from severance taxes, subject to
certain limitations. In 1995, the drilling qualification period was extended in
a modified and somewhat reduced form from September 1996 through August 2002. In
1999, the drilling qualification period was extended eight years through August
2010. Consequently, new qualifying production will be added prospectively to
that presently qualified.

     Other. All of the Company's natural gas and crude oil activities are
subject to the risks normally incident to the exploration for and development
and production of natural gas and crude oil, including blowouts, cratering and
fires, each of which could result in damage to life and property. Offshore
operations are subject to usual marine perils, including hurricanes and other
adverse weather conditions, and governmental regulations as well as interruption
or termination by governmental authorities based on environmental and other
considerations. In accordance with customary industry practices, insurance is
maintained by the Company against some, but not all, of the risks. Losses and
liabilities arising from such events could reduce revenues and increase costs to
the Company to the extent not covered by insurance.

     The Company's operations outside of North America are subject to certain
risks, including expropriation of assets, risks of increases in taxes and
government royalties, renegotiation of contracts with foreign governments,
political instability, payment delays, limits on allowable levels of production
and currency exchange and repatriation losses, as well as changes in laws,
regulations and policies governing operations of foreign companies generally.



CURRENT EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The current executive officers of the Company and their names and ages are
as follows (all positions are with the Company unless otherwise noted):



     Mark G. Papa was elected Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
in August 1999, President and Chief Executive Officer and Director of the
Company in September 1998, President and Chief Operating Officer in September
1997, President in December 1996 and was President -- North America Operations
from February 1994 to September 1998. From May 1986 through January 1994, Mr.
Papa served as Senior Vice President -- Operations. Mr. Papa joined Belco
Petroleum Corporation, a predecessor of the Company, in 1981.

     Edmund P. Segner, III became President and Chief of Staff and Director of
the Company in August 1999. He became Vice Chairman and Chief of Staff of the
Company in September 1997. Mr. Segner was a director of the Company from January
1997 to October 1997. Mr. Segner joined Enron Corp. in 1988 and was Executive
Vice President and Chief of Staff.

     Loren M. Leiker joined the Company in April 1989 as Senior Vice President,
Exploration. He was elected Executive Vice President, Exploration in May 1998
and Executive Vice President, Exploration and Development in February 2000.

     Gary L. Thomas was elected Executive Vice President, North America
Operations in May 1998. He was previously Senior Vice President and General
Manager of the Company's Midland Division. Mr. Thomas joined a predecessor of
the Company in July 1978.

     Barry Hunsaker, Jr. has been Senior Vice President and General Counsel
since he joined the Company in May 1996. Prior to joining the Company, Mr.
Hunsaker was a partner in the law firm of Vinson & Elkins L.L.P.

     Walter C. Wilson joined the Company in November 1987 and has been Senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 1991.

     Timothy K. Driggers was elected Vice President and Controller of the
Company in October 1999. He was Assistant Controller of Enron Corp. from October
1998 through September 1999. Mr. Driggers held management positions in the
Financial Planning and Reporting Department of the Company from August 1995
through September 1998. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Driggers was a Senior
Audit Manager at Arthur Andersen LLP.



ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION PROPERTIES AND RESERVES

     Reserve Information. For estimates of the Company's net proved and proved
developed reserves of natural gas and liquids, including crude oil, condensate
and natural gas liquids, see "Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial
Statements."

     There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of
proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of
development expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the
producer. The reserve data set forth in Supplemental Information to Consolidated
Financial Statements represent only estimates. Reserve engineering is a
subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas and
liquids, including crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids, that cannot be
measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function
of the amount and quality of available data and of engineering and geological
interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers
normally vary. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production
subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revision of such estimate.
Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities
ultimately recovered. The meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent
upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they were based.

     In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties owned by
the Company declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent the Company
acquires additional properties containing proved reserves or conducts successful
exploration, exploitation and development activities, the proved reserves of the
Company will decline as reserves are produced. Volumes generated from future
activities of the Company are therefore highly dependent upon the level of
success in finding or acquiring additional reserves and the costs incurred in so
doing. The Company's estimates of reserves filed with other federal agencies
agree with the information set forth in Supplemental Information to Consolidated
Financial Statements.



     Acreage. The following table summarizes the Company's developed and
undeveloped acreage at December 31, 1999. Excluded is acreage in which the
Company's interest is limited to owned royalty, overriding royalty and other
similar interests.



     Producing Well Summary. The following table reflects the Company's
ownership in gas and oil wells located in Texas, the Gulf of Mexico, Oklahoma,
New Mexico, Utah, Wyoming, and various other states, Canada and Trinidad at
December 31, 1999. Gross gas and oil wells include 222 with multiple
completions.





     Drilling and Acquisition Activities. During the years ended December 31,
1999, 1998 and 1997 the Company spent approximately $467 million, $779 million
and $701 million, respectively, for exploratory and development drilling and
acquisition of leases and producing properties. The Company drilled,
participated in the drilling of or acquired wells as set out in the table below
for the periods indicated:



- - ---------------

* Includes the acquisition of additional interests in certain wells in which the
  Company previously owned an interest.

     All of the Company's drilling activities are conducted on a contract basis
with independent drilling contractors. The Company owns no drilling equipment.



ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company and its subsidiaries and related companies are named defendants
in numerous lawsuits and named parties in numerous governmental proceedings
arising in the ordinary course of business. While the outcome of lawsuits or
other proceedings against the Company cannot be predicted with certainty,
management does not expect these matters to have a material adverse effect on
the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.

     On July 21, 1999, two stockholders of the Company filed separate lawsuits
purportedly on behalf of the Company against Enron Corp. and those individuals
who were then directors of the Company, alleging that Enron Corp. and those
directors breached their fiduciary duties of good faith and loyalty in approving
the Share Exchange. The lawsuits seek to rescind the transaction or to receive
monetary damages and costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' and
experts' fees. The Company, Enron Corp. and the individual defendants believe
the lawsuits are without merit and intend to vigorously contest them.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the
fourth quarter of 1999.



                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER
        MATTERS

     The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low
sales prices per share for the common stock of the Company, as reported on the
New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape, and the amount of cash dividends paid
per share.



     As of February 15, 2000, there were approximately 410 record holders of the
Company's common stock, including individual participants in security position
listings. There are an estimated 26,600 beneficial owners of the Company's
common stock, including shares held in street name.

     The Company currently intends to continue to pay quarterly cash dividends
on its outstanding shares of common stock. However, the determination of the
amount of future cash dividends, if any, to be declared and paid will depend
upon, among other things, the financial condition, funds from operations, level
of exploration, exploitation and development expenditure opportunities and
future business prospects of the Company.

RECENT SALES OF UNREGISTERED SECURITIES

     On December 10, 1999, the Company sold in a private placement 100,000
shares of Series A Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Senior Preferred Stock, par
value $.01 per share, liquidation preference $1,000 per share (the "Series A
Stock") to Lehman Brothers Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC and Goldman,
Sachs & Co., as initial purchasers, for resale to "qualified institutional
buyers" (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended
(the "Securities Act")) and to a limited number of institutional "accredited
investors" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities
Act), at the aggregate offering price of approximately $98,000,000. The Company
has entered into a registration rights agreement with the initial purchasers for
the benefit of the holders of Series A Stock wherein the Company has agreed (1)
to use its reasonable best efforts to file with the Commission, within 150 days
after the initial issuance of the Series A Stock (which would be May 8, 2000), a
registration statement with respect to an offer to exchange shares of the Series
A Stock for shares of fixed rate cumulative perpetual senior preferred stock of
the Company with substantially identical terms to the Series A Stock (the
"Exchange Stock"), except that the Exchange Stock will not contain terms with
respect to, among other matters, the transfer restrictions under the Securities
Act, or the payment of additional dividends under certain circumstances relating
to the Company's obligations under the registration rights agreement and (2) to
use its reasonable best efforts to cause such registration statement to be
declared effective under the Securities Act within 180 days after the initial
issuance of the Series A Stock (which would be June 7, 2000). Promptly after
such registration



statement has been declared effective, the Company intends to offer the Exchange
Stock in exchange for surrender of the Series A Stock. For each share of Series
A Stock validly tendered to the Company pursuant to the exchange offer and not
validly withdrawn by the holder thereof, the holder of such share of Series A
Stock will receive a share of the Exchange Stock having a liquidation preference
equal to the liquidation preference of the tendered Series A Stock. In the event
that applicable law or interpretations of the staff of the Commission do not
permit the Company to effect the exchange offer, or in certain other
circumstances, the Company has agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to
cause to become effective a shelf registration statement with respect to the
resale of the Series A Stock.

     On December 22, 1999, the Company sold in a private placement 500 shares of
Series C Flexible Money Market Cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per
share, liquidation preference $100,000 per share (the "Series C Stock") to
Lehman Brothers Inc., as initial purchaser, for resale to "qualified
institutional buyers" (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) and to
a limited number of institutional "accredited investors" (as defined in Rule
501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act), at the aggregate offering
price of approximately $49,000,000. The Company has entered into a registration
rights agreement with the initial purchaser for the benefit of the holders of
Series C Stock wherein the Company has agreed (1) to use its reasonable best
efforts to file with the Commission, within 150 days after the initial issuance
of the Series C Stock (which would be May 20, 2000), a registration statement
with respect to an offer to exchange shares of the Series C Stock for shares of
money market cumulative preferred stock of the Company with substantially
identical terms to the Series C Stock (the "Exchange Stock"), except that the
Exchange Stock will not contain terms with respect to, among other matters, the
transfer restrictions under the Securities Act or the payment of additional
dividends under certain circumstances relating to the Company's obligations
under the registration rights agreement and (2) to use its reasonable best
efforts to cause such registration statement to be declared effective under the
Securities Act within 180 days after the initial issuance of the Series C Stock
(which would be June 19, 2000). Promptly after such registration statement has
been declared effective, the Company intends to offer the Exchange Stock in
exchange for surrender of the Series C Stock. For each share of Series C Stock
validly tendered to the Company pursuant to the exchange offer and not validly
withdrawn by the holder thereof, the holder of such share of Series C Stock will
receive a share of the Exchange Stock having a liquidation preference equal to
the liquidation preference of the tendered Series C Stock. In the event that
applicable law or interpretations of the staff of the Commission do not permit
the Company to effect the exchange offer, or in certain other circumstances, the
Company has agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to cause to become
effective a shelf registration statement with respect to the resale of the
Series C Stock.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA





- - ---------------

(1) See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2) See "Item 1. Business -- General" regarding the Share Exchange.

(3) Includes benefits of approximately $8 million, $12 million, $12 million, $16
    million and $22 million in 1999, 1998, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively,
    relating to tight gas sand federal income tax credits.

(4) Includes a benefit of $2 million related to the final audit assessments of
    India taxes for certain prior years, a benefit of $3.8 million related to
    reduced deferred franchise taxes, and $3.5 million related to Venezuela
    deferred tax benefits.

(5) Includes a benefit of $15 million primarily associated with the refiling of
    certain Canadian tax returns and the sale of certain international assets
    and subsidiaries.

(6) Includes a benefit of $9 million primarily associated with a reassessment of
    deferred tax requirements and the successful resolution on audit of Canadian
    income taxes for certain prior years.

(7) Includes a benefit of approximately $14 million associated with the
    successful resolution on audit of federal income taxes for certain prior
    years.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

     The following review of operations for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1999 should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements of the Company and notes thereto beginning
with page F-1.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     Net Operating Revenues. Wellhead volume and price statistics for the
specified years were as follows:



- - ---------------

(1) Includes 48 MMcf per day in 1998 and 1997 delivered under the terms of a
    volumetric production payment agreement effective October 1, 1992, as
    amended. Delivery obligations were terminated in December 1998.

(2) See "Item 1. Business -- General" regarding the Share Exchange.

(3) Includes an average equivalent wellhead value of $1.53 per Mcf in 1998 and
    $1.73 per Mcf in 1997 for the volumes detailed in note (1), net of
    transportation costs.

(4) Includes natural gas, crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.



     1999 compared to 1998. During 1999, net operating revenues increased $31
million to $801 million. Total wellhead revenues of $823 million increased by
$68 million, or 9%, as compared to 1998.

     Average wellhead natural gas prices for 1999 were approximately 9% higher
than the comparable period in 1998 increasing net operating revenues by
approximately $55 million. Average wellhead crude oil and condensate prices were
up by 35% increasing net operating revenues by $37 million. Revenues from the
sale of natural gas liquids increased $3 million primarily due to higher
wellhead prices. Wellhead natural gas volumes were approximately 3% lower than
the comparable period in 1998 decreasing net operating revenues by nearly $21
million. The decrease in volumes is primarily due to the transfer of producing
properties in the Share Exchange and decreased deliveries in Trinidad. (See
"Item 1. Business -- General" for a discussion of the Share Exchange.)
Production in Trinidad decreased 16 MMcf per day due primarily to decreased
nominations and the temporary shut-in of a well in accordance with the terms of
a field allocation agreement. North America wellhead natural gas production was
approximately 1% lower than the comparable period in 1998. Wellhead crude oil
and condensate volumes were 5% lower than in 1998 decreasing net operating
revenues by $6 million. The decrease is primarily attributable to the Share
Exchange and decreased deliveries in Trinidad.

     Gains (losses) on sales of reserves and related assets and other, net
totaled a loss of $1 million during 1999 compared to a net gain of $18 million
in 1998. The difference is due primarily to an $8 million loss in 1999 related
to the anticipated disposition of certain international assets compared to a $27
million gain on sale of certain South Texas properties, partially offset by a
$14 million provision for loss on certain physical natural gas contracts in
1998.

     Other marketing activities associated with sales and purchases of natural
gas, natural gas and crude oil price hedging and trading transactions, and
margins related to the volumetric production payment (in 1998) decreased net
operating revenue by $21 million during 1999, compared to a $4 million reduction
in 1998.

     1998 compared to 1997. During 1998, net operating revenues decreased $14
million to $769 million. Total wellhead revenues of $755 million decreased by
$74 million, or 9%, as compared to 1997.

     Average wellhead natural gas prices for 1998 were approximately 14% lower
than the comparable period in 1997 reducing net operating revenues by
approximately $104 million. Average wellhead crude oil and condensate prices
were down by 34% worldwide decreasing net operating revenues by $60 million.
Revenues from the sale of natural gas liquids decreased $6 million primarily due
to lower wellhead prices. Wellhead natural gas volumes were approximately 9%
higher than the comparable period in 1997 increasing net operating revenues by
nearly $62 million. Natural gas production in India increased 38 MMcf per day
from the Tapti and Panna fields, which did not commence deliveries until late in
the second quarter of 1997 and the first quarter of 1998, respectively.
Production in Trinidad increased 26 MMcf per day due primarily to additional
volumes above the current contract level relating to gas balancing volumes
pursuant to a field allocation agreement. North America wellhead natural gas
production was approximately 2% higher than the comparable period in 1997.
Wellhead crude oil and condensate volumes were 24% higher than in 1997
increasing net operating revenues by $34 million. Production from the Panna and
Mukta fields in India more than doubled as a result of the ongoing development
program and shut-down of crude oil production in the second quarter of 1997 to
allow for the conversion from temporary to permanent production facilities.
North America crude oil and condensate volumes increased 17% due primarily to
higher levels of liquids production in South Texas and offshore.

     Other marketing activities associated with sales and purchases of natural
gas, natural gas and crude oil price hedging and trading transactions, and
margins related to the volumetric production payment decreased net operating
revenue by $4 million during 1998, compared to a $61 million reduction in 1997,
representing an improvement of $57 million.

  Operating Expenses

     1999 compared to 1998. During 1999, operating expenses of $783 million were
approximately $127 million higher than the $656 million incurred in 1998.



     Lease and well expenses decreased $7 million to $92 million primarily due
to the effects of the Share Exchange, fewer workovers, the effects of a warm
winter and a continuing focus on controlling operating costs in all areas of
Company operations. Exploration expenses of $53 million and dry hole expenses of
$12 million decreased $13 million and $11 million, respectively, from 1998
primarily due to implementation of cost provisions of certain new service
agreements in North America. Impairment of unproved oil and gas properties of
$32 million remained essentially flat compared to 1998. Depreciation, depletion
and amortization ("DD&A") expense increased approximately $145 million to $460
million in 1999 primarily due to charges of $15 million pursuant to a change in
the Company's strategy related to certain offshore operations in the second
quarter and an impairment of various North America properties in the fourth
quarter, and non-recurring charges of $114 million related primarily to assets
determined no longer central to the Company's business in the third quarter.
General and administrative ("G&A") expenses were $14 million higher than in 1998
due to non-recurring costs of $5 million related to the potential sale of the
Company, $4 million related to personnel expenses and $9 million related to the
completion of the Share Exchange partially offset by a reduction of $4 million
resulting from the discontinuance of the India and China operations as a result
of the Share Exchange.

     Total operating costs per unit of production, which include lease and well,
DD&A, G&A, taxes other than income and interest expense, increased 34% to $1.87
per thousand cubic feet equivalent ("Mcfe") in 1999 from $1.40 per Mcfe in 1998.
This increase is primarily due to a higher per unit rate of DD&A expense, G&A
expenses and interest expense, partially offset by a lower per unit rate of
lease and well expense. Excluding the aforementioned charges of $15 million and
$114 million in DD&A expense and $14 million in G&A expenses, the per unit
operating costs for the Company were $1.51 per Mcfe. The adjusted per unit
operating costs were $0.11 higher compared to $1.40 per Mcfe for the comparable
period in 1998 primarily due to a higher per unit rate of interest as a result
of higher debt levels and a higher per unit rate of DD&A expense.

     1998 compared to 1997. During 1998, operating expenses of $656 million were
approximately $65 million higher than the $591 million incurred in 1997.

     Lease and well expenses increased $3 million to $99 million primarily due
to commencement of operations in China. Exploration expenses of $66 million and
dry hole expenses of $23 million increased $8 million and $5 million,
respectively, from 1997 primarily due to increased exploratory drilling and
other exploration activities in North America. Impairment of unproved oil and
gas properties increased $5 million to $32 million resulting from a full year of
impairment recorded on unproved leases acquired in 1997 in North America. DD&A
expense increased approximately $37 million to $315 million in 1998 primarily
reflecting a higher per unit rate in North America and increased worldwide
production volumes. G&A expenses were $15 million higher than in 1997 due to
expanded worldwide operations. Taxes other than income were down by
approximately $8 million from the prior year primarily due to lower state
severance taxes associated with decreased wellhead revenues in the United
States.

     Total operating costs per unit of production, which include lease and well,
DD&A, G&A, taxes other than income and interest expense, increased 2% to $1.40
per Mcfe in 1998 from $1.37 per Mcfe in 1997. This increase is primarily due to
a higher per unit rate of interest expense, DD&A expense and G&A expenses,
partially offset by a lower per unit rate of lease and well expense and taxes
other than income.

     Other Income (Expense). The other income of $611 million for 1999 included
a $575 million net gain from the Share Exchange (See Note 7 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements), a $59.6 million gain on the sale of 3.2 million options
owned by the Company to purchase Enron Corp. common stock (See Note 3 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements), and a $19.4 million charge for estimated
exit costs related to the Company's decision to dispose of certain international
assets.

     Interest Expense. The increase in net interest expense of $13 million from
1998 to 1999 and $21 million from 1997 to 1998 primarily reflects a higher level
of debt outstanding due to expanded worldwide operations and common stock
repurchases. (See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).



     Income Taxes. Income tax provision decreased approximately $5 million for
1999 as compared to 1998 and decreased approximately $37 million for 1998 as
compared to 1997 primarily due to lower pre-tax income year to year after
removing the gain on the Share Exchange which is non-taxable.

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

     Cash Flow. The primary sources of cash for the Company during the
three-year period ended December 31, 1999 included funds generated from
operations, proceeds from the sales of other assets, selected oil and gas
reserves and related assets, funds from new borrowings and proceeds from equity
offerings. Primary cash outflows included funds used in operations, exploration
and development expenditures, common stock repurchases, dividends paid to
Company shareholders, the repayment of debt and cash contributed to transferred
subsidiaries in the Share Exchange.

     Net operating cash flows of $442 million in 1999 increased approximately
$39 million as compared to 1998 due to higher net operating revenues resulting
from higher prices net of cash operating expenses and lower current income
taxes. Changes in working capital and other liabilities decreased operating cash
flows by $18 million as compared to 1998 primarily due to changes in accounts
receivable, accrued royalties payable and accrued production taxes caused by
fluctuation of commodity prices at each year end. Net investing cash outflows of
$363 million in 1999 decreased by $396 million as compared to 1998 due primarily
to decreased exploration and development expenditures of $312 million (including
producing property acquisitions) and higher proceeds from sales of other assets
of $83 million partially offset by lower proceeds from sales of reserves and
related assets of $51 million. Changes in Components of Working Capital
Associated with Investing Activities included for all periods changes in
accounts payable related to the accrual of exploration and development
expenditures and changes in inventories which represent materials and equipment
used in drilling and related activities. Cash used in financing activities in
1999 was $60 million as compared to cash provided by financing activities of
$353 million in 1998. Financing activities in 1999 included funds used in the
Share Exchange of $609 million, dividend payments of $17 million, transaction
fees of $19 million associated with the Share Exchange and other financing
transactions, and net repayment of $152 million of long-term debt, partially
offset by net proceeds from equity offerings of $725 million and proceeds from
sales of treasury stock of $15 million.

     Net operating cash flows of $404 million in 1998 decreased approximately
$127 million as compared to 1997 primarily reflecting increased working capital
for operating activities, higher interest expense, decreased operating revenues,
increased cash operating expenses and increased cash taxes. Changes in working
capital and other liabilities decreased operating cash flows by $72 million as
compared to 1997 primarily due to the payment of $25 million of income taxes due
under the 1997 tax agreement with Enron Corp. and changes in accounts
receivable, accrued royalties payable and accrued production taxes caused by
fluctuation of commodity prices at each year end. Net investing cash outflows of
$760 million in 1998 increased by $63 million as compared to 1997 due primarily
to increased exploration and development expenditures of $78 million, partially
offset by higher proceeds from sales of reserves and related assets of $24
million. Changes in Components of Working Capital Associated with Investing
Activities included for all periods changes in accounts payable related to the
accrual of exploration and development expenditures and changes in inventories
which represent materials and equipment used in drilling and related activities.
Cash provided by financing activities in 1998 was $353 million as compared to
$168 million in 1997. Financing activities in 1998 included the net issuance of
$402 million of long-term debt primarily to fund exploration and development
activities, to repurchase shares of the Company's common stock and to pay cash
dividends. Share repurchases in 1998 totaled $26 million as compared to
repurchases of $99 million in 1997. Dividend payments were approximately $19
million in each year.

     Discretionary cash flow, a frequently used measure of performance for
exploration and production companies, is generally derived by adjusting net
income to eliminate the effects of depreciation, depletion and amortization,
impairment of unproved oil and gas properties, deferred income taxes, gains on
sales of oil and gas reserves and related assets, certain other non-cash
amounts, except for amortization of deferred revenue and exploration and dry
hole costs. The Company generated discretionary cash flow of approximately $476
million in 1999, $463 million in 1998, and $508 million in 1997.


     Exploration and Development Expenditures. The table below sets out
components of actual exploration and development expenditures for the years
ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, along with those budgeted for the year
2000.



     Exploration and development expenditures decreased $312 million in 1999 as
compared to 1998 primarily due to a reduced level of service industry costs as
well as reduced spending on the North America, Trinidad and India drilling and
acquisition program. Producing property acquisitions decreased $166 million
primarily in North America. Drilling and facilities expenditures declined by
$101 million in 1999 primarily due to implementation of cost provisions of
certain new service agreements in North America and effects of the Share
Exchange.

     Exploration and development expenditures increased $78 million in 1998 as
compared to 1997 primarily due to the third quarter 1998 acquisition of
producing properties in the Gulf of Mexico for $156 million. Unproved leasehold
acquisitions decreased $41 million primarily in North America. Drilling and
facilities expenditures declined by approximately $25 million in 1998 as
decreased activity in North America and lower expenditures in India were
partially offset by new drilling in Trinidad and Venezuela. While development
activities continued in India, expenditures in 1998 were less than in 1997 due
to 1997 expenditures associated with the installation of permanent production
facilities. (See "Business -- Exploration and Production" for additional
information detailing the specific geographic locations of the Company's
drilling programs and "Outlook" below for a discussion related to 2000
exploration and development expenditure plans).

     Hedging Transactions. The Company's 1999 NYMEX-related natural gas and
crude oil commodity price swaps closed with "other marketing revenue" decreases
of $7 million and $3 million pretax, respectively. At December 31, 1999, there
were open crude oil commodity price swaps for 2000 covering approximately 548
MBbl of crude oil at a weighted average price of $19.23 per barrel. There were
no open natural gas commodity price swaps.

     Financing. The Company's long-term debt-to-total-capital ratio was 47% as
of December 31, 1999 and 1998.

     During 1999, total long-term debt decreased $153 million to $990 million
following the issuance of two series of preferred stock with combined face value
of $150 million and the subsequent use of approximately $147 million of net
proceeds received therefrom to reduce commercial paper and bank debt borrowings.
(See Notes 4 and 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The estimated fair
value of the Company's long-term debt at December 31, 1999 and 1998 was $933
million and $1,141 million, respectively, based upon quoted market prices and,
where such prices were not available, upon interest rates currently available to
the Company at year end. The Company's debt is primarily at fixed interest
rates. At December 31, 1999, a 1% change in interest rates would result in a $46
million change in the estimated fair value of the fixed rate obligations. (See
Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).



     Prior to August 16, 1999, the Company engaged in various transactions with
Enron Corp. that were characteristic of a consolidated group under common
control. Accordingly, the Company maintained reciprocal agreements with Enron
Corp. that provided for the borrowing by the Company of up to $200 million and
investing by the Company of surplus funds of up to $200 million at market-based
interest rates. Advances from Enron Corp. of $200 million were outstanding at
December 31, 1998, and such balances were classified as long-term based on the
Company's intent and ability to ultimately replace such amounts with other long-
term debt. The reciprocal agreements terminated on August 16, 1999 upon the
closing of the Share Exchange. There were no investments with Enron Corp. at
December 31, 1998 or 1999. (See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements).

     Outlook. Uncertainty continues to exist as to the direction of future North
America natural gas and crude oil price trends, and there remains a rather wide
divergence in the opinions held by some in the industry. This divergence in
opinion is caused by various factors including improvements in the technology
used in drilling and completing crude oil and natural gas wells that are tending
to mitigate the impacts of fewer crude oil and natural gas wells being drilled,
improvements being realized in the availability and utilization of natural gas
storage capacity and warmer than normal weather experienced in 1999 and to date
in 2000. However, the continually increasing recognition of natural gas as a
more environmentally friendly source of energy along with the availability of
significant domestically sourced supplies should result in further increases in
demand and a supporting/strengthening of the overall natural gas market over
time. Being primarily a natural gas producer, the Company is more significantly
impacted by changes in natural gas prices than by changes in crude oil and
condensate prices. (See "Business -- Other Matters -- Energy Prices"). At
December 31, 1999, based on the Company's tax position and the portion of the
Company's anticipated natural gas volumes for 2000 for which prices have not, in
effect, been hedged using NYMEX-related commodity market transactions and
long-term marketing contracts, the Company's net income and current operating
cash flow sensitivities to changing natural gas prices are approximately $18
million (or $.15 per share) and $28 million, respectively, for each $.10 per Mcf
change in average wellhead natural gas prices. The Company is not impacted as
significantly by changing crude oil prices for those volumes not otherwise
hedged. The Company's net income and current operating cash flow sensitivities
are approximately $5 million (or $.04 per share) and $8 million, respectively,
for each $1.00 per barrel change in average wellhead crude oil prices.

     The Company plans to continue to focus a substantial portion of its
exploration and development expenditures in its major producing areas in North
America. However, based on the continuing uncertainty associated with North
America natural gas prices and as a result of the overall success realized in
Trinidad, the Company anticipates expending a portion of its available funds in
the further development of opportunities outside North America. In addition, the
Company expects to conduct limited exploratory activity in other areas outside
of North America and will continue to evaluate the potential for involvement in
other exploitation type opportunities. (See "Business -Exploration and
Production" for additional information detailing the specific geographic
locations of the related drilling programs). Budgeted 2000 expenditures are
anticipated to be managed within the range of $500-$525 million, addressing the
continuing uncertainty with regard to the future of the North America natural
gas and crude oil and condensate price environment. Budgeted expenditures for
2000 are structured to maintain the flexibility necessary under the Company's
continuing strategy of funding North America exploration, exploitation,
development and acquisition activities primarily from available internally
generated cash flow.

     The level of exploration and development expenditures may vary in 2000 and
will vary in future periods depending on energy market conditions and other
related economic factors. Based upon existing economic and market conditions,
the Company believes net operating cash flow and available financing
alternatives in 2000 will be sufficient to fund its net investing cash
requirements for the year. However, the Company has significant flexibility with
respect to its financing alternatives and adjustment of its exploration,
exploitation, development and acquisition expenditure plans if circumstances
warrant. While the Company has certain continuing commitments associated with
expenditure plans related to operations in Trinidad, such commitments are not
anticipated to be material when considered in relation to the total financial
capacity of the Company.



     Environmental Regulations. Various federal, state and local laws and
regulations covering the discharge of materials into the environment, or
otherwise relating to protection of the environment, may affect the Company's
operations and costs as a result of their effect on natural gas and crude oil
exploration, exploitation, development and production operations. Compliance
with such laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on the
Company's operations or financial condition. It is not anticipated, based on
current laws and regulations, that the Company will be required in the near
future to expend amounts that are material in relation to its total exploration
and development expenditure program by reason of environmental laws and
regulations. However, inasmuch as such laws and regulations are frequently
changed, the Company is unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENT -- SFAS NO. 133

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133 -- "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" effective for fiscal years
beginning after June 15, 1999. In June 1999, the FASB issued SFAS No. 137, which
delays the effective date of SFAS No. 133 for one year, to fiscal years
beginning after June 15, 2000. SFAS No. 133, as amended by SFAS No. 137, cannot
be applied retroactively and must be applied to (a) derivative instruments and
(b) certain derivative instruments embedded in hybrid contracts that were
issued, acquired or substantively modified after a transition date to be
selected by the Company of either December 31, 1997 or December 31, 1998.

     The statement establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring that
every derivative instrument be recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset
or liability measured at its fair value. The statement requires that changes in
the derivative's fair value be recognized currently in earnings unless specific
hedge accounting criteria are met. Special accounting for qualifying hedges
allows a derivative's gains and losses to offset related results on the hedged
item in the statements of income and requires a company to formally document,
designate and assess the effectiveness of transactions that receive hedge
accounting treatment.

     The Company has not yet quantified the impacts of adopting SFAS No. 133 on
its financial statements and has not determined the timing of adoption. Based on
the Company's current level of derivative and hedging activities, the Company
does not expect the impact of adoption to be material.

YEAR 2000

     The Company did not experience any significant operational difficulties or
incur any significant expenses in connection with the Year 2000 issue. The
Company will continue to monitor all critical systems for any incidents of
delayed complications or disruptions and problems encountered through third
parties with whom the Company deals so that they may be timely addressed.



INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

     This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of
historical facts, including, among others, statements regarding the Company's
future financial position, business strategy, budgets, reserve information,
projected levels of production, exploration and development expenditures,
projected costs and plans and objectives of management for future operations,
are forward-looking statements. The Company typically uses words such as
"expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "strategy," "intend," "plan" and "believe"
or the negative of those terms or other variations of them or by comparable
terminology to identify its forward-looking statements. In particular,
statements, express or implied, concerning future operating results or the
ability to generate income or cash flows are forward-looking statements.
Although the Company believes its expectations reflected in forward-looking
statements are based on reasonable assumptions, no assurance can be given that
these expectations will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in the
forward-looking statements include, among others: timing and extent of changes
in commodity prices for crude oil, natural gas and related products and interest
rates; extent of the Company's success in discovering, developing, marketing and
producing reserves and in acquiring oil and gas properties; political
developments around the world; and financial market conditions.

     In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events
anticipated by the Company's forward-looking statements might not occur. The
Company undertakes no obligations to update or revise its forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     The Company's exposure to interest rate risk and commodity price risk is
discussed in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations -- Capital Resources and Liquidity -- Financing" and
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Capital Resources and Liquidity -- Outlook," respectively. The
Company's exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risks and other market
risks is insignificant.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The information required hereunder is included in this report as set forth
in the "Index to Financial Statements" on page F-1.

ITEM 9. DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.



                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information required by this Item regarding directors is set forth in
the Proxy Statement under the caption entitled "Election of Directors," and is
incorporated herein by reference.

     See list of "Current Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I
located elsewhere herein.

     There are no family relationships among the officers listed, and there are
no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which any of them were elected as
officers. Officers are appointed or elected annually by the Board of Directors
at its first meeting following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, each to hold
office until the corresponding meeting of the Board in the next year or until a
successor shall have been elected, appointed or shall have qualified.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information required by this Item is set forth in the Proxy Statement
under the caption "Compensation of Directors and Executive Officers," and is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information required by this Item is set forth in the Proxy Statement
under the captions "Election of Directors" and "Compensation of Directors and
Executive Officers," and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information required by this Item is set forth in the Proxy Statement
under the caption "Certain Transactions," and is incorporated herein by
reference.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE, EXHIBITS AND
REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

  (A)(1) AND (2) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

     See "Index to Financial Statements" set forth on page F-1.

  (A)(3) EXHIBITS

     See pages E-1 through E-4 for a listing of the exhibits.

  (B) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     The Company filed a Report on Form 8-K on August 31, 1999, to report the
Share Exchange on August 16, 1999, in Item 2 -- Acquisition or Disposition of
Assets, the change of the Company's name on August 30, 1999, in Item 5 -- Other
Events, and pro forma financial information in Item 7 -- Financial Statements,
Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.



                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.



Other financial statement schedules have been omitted because they are
inapplicable or the information required therein is included elsewhere in the
consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

                                       F-1


              MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING

     The following consolidated financial statements of EOG Resources, Inc. and
its subsidiaries were prepared by management, which is responsible for their
integrity, objectivity and fair presentation. The statements have been prepared
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and, accordingly,
include some amounts that are based on the best estimates and judgments of
management.

     Arthur Andersen LLP, independent public accountants, was engaged to audit
the consolidated financial statements of EOG Resources, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and issue a report thereon. In the conduct of the audit, Arthur
Andersen LLP was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related
data including minutes of all meetings of shareholders, the Board of Directors
and committees of the Board. Management believes that all representations made
to Arthur Andersen LLP during the audit were valid and appropriate.

     The system of internal controls of EOG Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries
is designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability of financial
statements and the protection of assets from unauthorized acquisition, use or
disposition. This system includes, but is not limited to, written policies and
guidelines including a published code for the conduct of business affairs,
conflicts of interest and compliance with laws regarding antitrust, antiboycott
and foreign corrupt practices policies, the careful selection and training of
qualified personnel, and a documented organizational structure outlining the
separation of responsibilities among management representatives and staff
groups.

     The adequacy of financial controls of EOG Resources, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and the accounting principles employed in financial reporting by
the Company are under the general oversight of the Audit Committee of the Board
of Directors. No member of this committee is an officer or employee of the
Company. The independent public accountants and internal auditors have direct
access to the Audit Committee and meet with the committee from time to time to
discuss accounting, auditing and financial reporting matters. It should be
recognized that there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any
system of internal control, including the possibility of human error and
circumvention or override. Accordingly, even an effective system can provide
only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation of reliable financial
statements and safeguarding of assets. Furthermore, the effectiveness of an
internal control system can change with circumstances.

     It is management's opinion that, considering the criteria for effective
internal control over financial reporting and safeguarding of assets which
consists of interrelated components including the control environment, risk
assessment process, control activities, information and communication systems,
and monitoring, the Company maintained an effective system of internal control
as to the reliability of financial statements and the protection of assets
against unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition during the year ended
December 31, 1999.



Houston, Texas
March 2, 2000

                                       F-2


                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To EOG Resources, Inc.:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of EOG
Resources, Inc. (formerly Enron Oil & Gas Company, a Delaware corporation) and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related consolidated
statements of income and comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999. These
financial statements and the schedule referred to below are the responsibility
of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements and the schedule based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of EOG Resources, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1999, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States.

     Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The financial statement schedule listed
in the index to financial statements is presented for purposes of complying with
the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of the basic
financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole.

                                            ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Houston, Texas
March 2, 2000

                                       F-3


                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                       F-4


                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

                                     ASSETS



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                       F-5


                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                       F-6


                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                       F-7


                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED)

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     Principles of Consolidation. The consolidated financial statements of EOG
Resources, Inc., formerly Enron Oil & Gas Company (the "Company") include the
accounts of all domestic and foreign subsidiaries. All material intercompany
accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Certain reclassifications have
been made to the consolidated financial statements for prior years to conform
with the current presentation.

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during
the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

     Cash and Cash Equivalents. The Company records as cash equivalents all
highly liquid short-term investments with original maturities of three months or
less. The Company had approximately $23 million of outstanding checks payable
classified as accounts payable at December 31, 1999.

     Oil and Gas Operations. The Company accounts for its natural gas and crude
oil exploration and production activities under the successful efforts method of
accounting.

     Oil and gas lease acquisition costs are capitalized when incurred. Unproved
properties with significant acquisition costs are assessed quarterly on a
property-by-property basis, and any impairment in value is recognized.
Amortization of any remaining costs of such leases begins at a point prior to
the end of the lease term depending upon the length of such term. Unproved
properties with acquisition costs that are not individually significant are
aggregated, and the portion of such costs estimated to be nonproductive, based
on historical experience, is amortized over the average holding period. If the
unproved properties are determined to be productive, the appropriate related
costs are transferred to proved oil and gas properties. Lease rentals are
expensed as incurred.

     Oil and gas exploration costs, other than the costs of drilling exploratory
wells, are charged to expense as incurred. The costs of drilling exploratory
wells are capitalized pending determination of whether they have discovered
proved commercial reserves. If proved commercial reserves are not discovered,
such drilling costs are expensed. Costs to develop proved reserves, including
the costs of all development wells and related equipment used in the production
of natural gas and crude oil, are capitalized.

     Depreciation, depletion and amortization of the cost of proved oil and gas
properties is calculated using the unit-of-production method. Estimated future
dismantlement, restoration and abandonment costs (classified as long-term
liabilities), net of salvage values, are taken into account. Certain other
assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis. Periodically, or when
circumstances indicate that an asset may be impaired, the Company compares
expected undiscounted future cash flows at a producing field level to the
unamortized capitalized cost of the asset. If the future undiscounted cash
flows, based on the Company's estimate of future crude oil and natural gas
prices and operating costs and anticipated production from proved reserves are
lower than the unamortized capitalized cost, the capitalized cost is reduced to
fair value. Fair value is calculated by discounting the future cash flows at an
appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate.

     Inventories, consisting primarily of tubular goods and well equipment held
for use in the exploration for, and development and production of natural gas
and crude oil reserves, are carried at cost with adjustments made from time to
time to recognize changes in value.

     Natural gas revenues are recorded on the entitlement method based on the
Company's percentage ownership of current production. Each working interest
owner in a well generally has the right to a specific percentage of production,
although actual production sold may differ from an owner's ownership percentage.

                                       F-8

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Under entitlement accounting, a receivable is recorded when underproduction
occurs and a payable when overproduction occurs.

     Gains and losses associated with the sale of in place natural gas and crude
oil reserves and related assets are classified as net operating revenues in the
consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income based on the
Company's strategy of continuing such sales in order to maximize the economic
value of its assets.

     Accounting for Price Risk Management. The Company engages in price risk
management activities from time to time primarily for non-trading and to a
lesser extent for trading purposes. Derivative financial instruments (primarily
price swaps and costless collars) are utilized selectively for non-trading
purposes to hedge the impact of market fluctuations on natural gas and crude oil
market prices. Hedge accounting is utilized in non-trading activities when there
is a high degree of correlation between price movements in the derivative and
the item designated as being hedged. Gains and losses on derivative financial
instruments used for hedging purposes are recognized as revenue in the same
period as the hedged item. Gains and losses on hedging instruments that are
closed prior to maturity are deferred in the consolidated balance sheets. In
instances where the anticipated correlation of price movements does not occur,
hedge accounting is terminated and future changes in the value of the derivative
are recognized as gains or losses using the mark-to-market method of accounting.
Derivative and other financial instruments utilized in connection with trading
activities, primarily price swaps and call options, are accounted for using the
mark-to-market method, under which changes in the market value of outstanding
financial instruments are recognized as gains or losses in the period of change.
The cash flow impact of derivative and other financial instruments used for non-
trading and trading purposes is reflected as cash flows from operating
activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows.

     Capitalized Interest Costs. Certain interest costs have been capitalized as
a part of the historical cost of unproved oil and gas properties and in work in
progress for exploratory drilling and related facilities with significant cash
outlays.

     Income Taxes. The Company accounts for income taxes under the provisions of
SFAS No. 109 -- "Accounting for Income Taxes." SFAS No. 109 requires the asset
and liability approach for accounting for income taxes. Under this approach,
deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on anticipated future
tax consequences attributable to differences between financial statement
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases (See
Note 8 "Income Taxes").

     Foreign Currency Translation. For subsidiaries whose functional currency is
deemed to be other than the U.S. dollar, asset and liability accounts are
translated at year-end exchange rates and revenue and expenses are translated at
average exchange rates prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments are
included as a separate component of shareholders' equity. Any gains or losses on
transactions or monetary assets or liabilities in currencies other than the
functional currency are included in net income in the current period.

     Net Income Per Share. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No.
128 -- "Earnings per Share," basic net income per share is computed on the basis
of the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the periods.
Diluted net income per share is computed based upon the weighted-average number
of common shares plus the assumed issuance of common shares for all potentially
dilutive securities. (See Note 10 "Net Income Per Share Available to Common" for
additional information to reconcile the difference between the Average Number of
Common Shares outstanding for basic and diluted net income per share).

                                       F-9

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

2. NATURAL GAS AND CRUDE OIL, CONDENSATE AND NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS NET OPERATING
REVENUES

     Natural gas revenues, trade for 1999, 1998 and 1997 are net of costs of
natural gas purchased for sale related to natural gas marketing activities of
$44.6 million, $44.8 million and $73.6 million, respectively. Natural gas
revenues, associated for 1999, 1998 and 1997 are net of costs of natural gas
purchased for sale related to natural gas marketing activities of $13.5 million,
$51.0 million and $47.7 million, respectively.

     In March 1995, in a series of transactions with Enron Corp. and an
affiliate of Enron Corp., the Company exchanged all of its fuel supply and
purchase contracts and related price swap agreements associated with a Texas
City cogeneration plant (the "Cogen Contracts") for certain natural gas price
swap agreements of equivalent value issued by the affiliate that are designated
as hedges (the "Swap Agreements"). Such Swap Agreements were closed on March 31,
1995. As a result of the transactions, the Company was relieved of all
performance obligations associated with the Cogen Contracts. The Company
realized net operating revenues and received corresponding cash payments of
approximately $91 million during the period extending through December 31, 1999,
under the terms of the closed Swap Agreements. The estimated fair value of the
Swap Agreements was approximately $81 million at the date the Swap Agreements
were received in exchange for the Cogen Contracts. The net effect of this series
of transactions resulted in increases in net operating revenues and cash
receipts for the Company during 1995 and 1996 of approximately $13 million and
$7 million, respectively, with offsetting decreases in 1998 and 1999 versus that
anticipated under the Cogen Contracts.

3. OTHER ASSETS

     In December 1997, the Company and Enron Corp. entered into an Equity
Participation and Business Opportunity Agreement. Among other things, under the
agreement, Enron Corp. granted to the Company options to purchase 3.2 million
shares of Enron Corp. common stock at a price of $39.1875 per share which was
the closing price of the stock on the date that the agreement was approved by
the Board of Directors of the Company. Other Assets at December 31, 1998
includes $23.3 million or $7.29 per share representing the estimated fair value
of the Enron Corp. stock options at the date of grant. Such estimated fair value
was determined using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following
weighted-average assumptions at the date the options were issued: (1) dividend
yield of 2.5%, (2) expected volatility of 17.5%, (3) risk-free interest rate of
5.85%, and (4) expected average life of 4.0 years. Receipt of the options
represented a capital contribution from Enron Corp. and, accordingly, the fair
value received, net of tax effects of $8.2 million, was credited to Additional
Paid In Capital.

     During the first and second quarters of 1999, the Company sold the 3.2
million options to purchase common stock of Enron Corp. In the first quarter of
1999, the Company sold 1.6 million options at an average price of $24.81 ($64.00
Enron Corp. stock price equivalent), realizing net proceeds of $40 million and a
gain of $28 million pre-tax ($18 million after-tax). Early in the second
quarter, the Company sold the remaining 1.6 million options at an average price
of $27.07 ($66.26 Enron Corp. stock price equivalent), realizing net proceeds of
$43 million and a gain of $32 million pre-tax ($21 million after-tax). The gain
on sale of the options is included in other income (expense) - other, net in the
Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. These transactions
were completed prior to Enron Corp. effecting a two-for-one stock split.

                                      F-10

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

4. LONG-TERM DEBT

     Long-Term Debt at December 31 consisted of the following:



     During 1999, the Company entered into two new credit facilities with
domestic and foreign banks which provide for an aggregate of $800 million in
long-term committed credit, with $400 million expiring in 2000 and $400 million
expiring in 2004, and concurrently cancelled the existing $450 million facility.
With respect to the $400 million expiring in 2000, the Company may, at its
option, extend the final maturity date of any advances made under the facility
by one full year from the expiration date of the facility, effectively
qualifying such debt as long-term. Advances under both agreements bear interest,
at the option of the Company, based upon a base rate or a Eurodollar rate. At
December 31, 1999, there were no advances outstanding under either of these
agreements.

     Commercial paper and short-term funding from uncommitted credit facilities
provide financing for various corporate purposes and bear interest based upon
market rates. Commercial paper and uncommitted credit are classified as
long-term debt based on the Company's intent and ability to ultimately replace
such amounts with other long-term debt. (See Note 14 "Price and Interest Rate
Risk Management").

     The 6.00% to 6.70% Notes due 2004 to 2028 were issued through public
offerings and have effective interest rates of 6.14% to 6.83%. The Subsidiary
Debt due 2001 bears interest at variable market-based rates and is guaranteed by
the Company.

     At December 31, 1999, the aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt
outstanding were less than $1.0 million for 2000, $105 million for 2001, none
for 2002 and 2003 and $100 million for 2004.

     See Note 14 "Price and Interest Rate Risk Management."

     Shelf Registration. The Company may sell from time to time up to an
aggregate of approximately $88 million in debt securities and/or common stock
pursuant to an effective "shelf" registration statement filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.

     Financing Arrangements With Enron Corp. Prior to August 16, 1999, the
Company engaged in various transactions with Enron Corp. that were
characteristic of a consolidated group under common control. Accordingly, the
Company maintained reciprocal agreements with Enron Corp. that provided for the
borrowing by the Company of up to $200 million and investing by the Company of
surplus funds of up to $200 million at market-based interest rates. Advances
from Enron Corp. of $200 million were outstanding at December 31, 1998, and such
balances were classified as long-term based on the Company's intent and ability

                                      F-11

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

to ultimately replace such amounts with other long-term debt. The reciprocal
agreements terminated on August 16, 1999 upon the closing of the Share Exchange.
There were no investments with Enron Corp. at December 31, 1998 or 1999. (See
Note 14 "Price and Interest Rate Risk Management").

     Fair Value Of Long-Term Debt. At December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Company
had $990 million and $1,143 million, respectively, of long-term debt which had
fair values of approximately $933 million and $1,141 million, respectively. The
fair value of long-term debt is the value the Company would have to pay to
retire the debt, including any premium or discount to the debtholder for the
differential between the stated interest rate and the year-end market rate. The
fair value of long-term debt is based upon quoted market prices and, where such
quotes were not available, upon interest rates available to the Company at
year-end.

5. VOLUMETRIC PRODUCTION PAYMENT

     In September 1992, the Company sold a volumetric production payment for
$326.8 million to a limited partnership. Under the terms of the production
payment, as amended October 1, 1993, the Company conveyed a real property
interest in certain natural gas and other hydrocarbons to the purchaser.
Deliveries were scheduled at the rate of 50 billion British thermal units per
day through March 31, 1999. The Company accounted for the proceeds received in
the transaction as deferred revenue, which was amortized into revenue and income
as natural gas and other hydrocarbons were produced and delivered during the
term of the volumetric production payment agreement. In December 1998, the
Company settled the remainder of the contract in cash which was not materially
different from the recorded deferred revenue, and delivery obligations were
terminated.

6. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

     The Board of Directors of the Company has approved an authorization for
purchasing and holding in treasury at any time up to 1,000,000 shares of common
stock of the Company for the purpose of, but not limited to, meeting obligations
associated with the exercise of stock options granted to qualified employees
pursuant to the Company's stock option plans. The Board of Directors has also
approved the selling from time to time, subject to certain conditions, of put
options on the common stock of the Company. The 1,000,000 share limit mentioned
above applies to shares held in treasury and unexpired put options outstanding.
In February 1997, as amended in February 1998, the Board of Directors authorized
the additional purchase of up to an aggregate maximum of 10 million shares of
common stock of the Company from time to time in the open market to be held in
treasury for the purpose of, but not limited to, fulfilling any obligations
arising under the Company's stock option plans and any other approved
transactions or activities for which such common stock shall be required. At
December 31, 1999 and 1998, 5,625,446 shares and 6,276,156 shares, respectively,
were held in treasury under these authorizations. In February 2000, the Board of
Directors authorized the purchase of an aggregate maximum of 10 million shares
of common stock of the Company which replaced the remaining authorization from
February 1998. (See Note 9 "Commitments and Contingencies -- Treasury Shares").
The Company has, from time to time, entered into transactions in which it writes
put options on its own common stock. At December 31, 1999, there were no put
options outstanding. At December 31, 1998, there were put options outstanding
for 175,000 shares of common stock.

     On July 23, 1999, the Company filed a registration statement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission for the public offering of 27,000,000 shares
of the Company's common stock. The public offering was completed on August 16,
1999, and the net proceeds were used to repay short-term borrowings used to fund
a significant portion of the cash capital contribution in connection with the
Share Exchange Agreement ("Share Exchange") described in Note 7 "Transactions
with Enron Corp. and Related Parties." As a result of the public offering and
the retirement of the 62,270,000 shares of the Company's common stock received
from Enron Corp. in the Share Exchange transaction, the number of shares of the
Company's common stock issued was reduced to 124,730,000 from 160,000,000 prior
to the Share Exchange.

                                      F-12

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     In December 1999, the Company issued the following two series of preferred
stock:

     Series A. On December 10, 1999 the Company issued 100,000 shares of Fixed
Rate Cumulative Perpetual Senior Preferred Stock, Series A, with a $1,000
Liquidation Preference per share, in a private transaction. Subject to the terms
of a registration rights agreement, the Company is required to register these
shares for public sale within 150 days of the issuance date. Dividends will be
payable on the shares only if declared by the Company's board of directors and
will be cumulative. If declared, dividends will be payable at a rate of $71.95
per share, per year on March 15, June 15, September 15, and December 15 of each
year beginning March 15, 2000. The dividend rate may only be adjusted in the
event that certain amendments are made to the Dividend Received Percentage
within the first 18 months of the issuance date. The Company may redeem all or a
part of the Series A preferred stock at any time beginning on December 15, 2009
at $1,000 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends. The shares may also be
redeemable, in whole but not in part, in the event that certain amendments are
made to the Dividend Received Percentage. The Series A preferred shares are not
convertible into, or exchangeable for, common stock of the Company.

     Series C. On December 22, 1999, the Company issued 500 shares of Flexible
Money Market Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series C, with a liquidation preference
of $100,000 per share, in a private transaction. Subject to the terms of a
registration rights agreement, the Company is required to register these shares
for public sale within 150 days of the issuance date. Dividends will be payable
on the shares only if declared by the Company's board of directors and will be
cumulative. The initial dividend rate on the shares will be 6.84% until December
15, 2004 (the "Initial Period-End Dividend Payment Date"). Through the Initial
Period-End Dividend Payment Date dividends will be payable, if declared, on
March 15, June 15, September 15, and December 15 of each year beginning March
15, 2000. The cash dividend rate for each subsequent dividend period will be
determined pursuant to periodic auctions conducted in accordance with certain
auction procedures. The first auction date will be December 14, 2004. After
December 15, 2004 (unless the Company has elected a "Non-Call Period" for a
subsequent dividend period), the Company may redeem the shares, in whole or in
part, on any dividend payment date at $100,000 per share upon the payment of
accumulated and unpaid dividends. The shares may also be redeemable, in whole
but not in part, in the event that certain amendments are made to the Dividend
Received Percentage. The Series C preferred shares are not convertible into, or
exchangeable for, common stock of the Company.

7. TRANSACTIONS WITH ENRON CORP. AND RELATED PARTIES

     On August 16, 1999, the Company and Enron Corp. completed the Share
Exchange whereby the Company received 62,270,000 shares of the Company's common
stock out of 82,270,000 shares owned by Enron Corp. in exchange for all the
stock of the Company's subsidiary, EOGI-India, Inc. Prior to the Share Exchange,
the Company made an indirect capital contribution of approximately $600 million
in cash, plus certain intercompany receivables, to EOGI-India, Inc. At the time
of completion of this transaction, this subsidiary owned, through subsidiaries,
all of the Company's assets and operations in India and China. The Company
recognized a $575 million tax-free gain on the Share Exchange based on the fair
value of the shares received, net of transaction fees of $14 million.
Immediately following the Share Exchange, the Company retired the 62,270,000
shares of the Company's common stock received in the transaction. The weighted
average basis in the treasury shares retired was first deducted from and fully
eliminated existing additional paid in capital with the remaining value deducted
from retained earnings. This transaction is a tax-free exchange to the Company.
On August 30, 1999, the Company changed its corporate name to "EOG Resources,
Inc." from "Enron Oil & Gas Company" and has since made similar changes to its
subsidiaries' names.

                                      F-13

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Immediately prior to the closing of the Share Exchange, Enron Corp. owned
82,270,000 shares of the Company's common stock, representing approximately 53.5
percent of all of the shares of the Company's common stock that were issued and
outstanding. As a result of the closing of the Share Exchange, the sale by Enron
Corp. of 8,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock as a selling stockholder
in the public offering referred to above, and the completion on August 17, 1999
and August 20, 1999 of the offering of Enron Corp. notes mandatorily
exchangeable at maturity into up to 11,500,000 shares of the Company's common
stock, Enron Corp's maximum remaining interest in the Company after the
automatic conversion of its notes on July 31, 2002, will be under two percent
(assuming the notes are exchanged for less than the 11,500,000 shares of the
Company's common stock). As a result, beginning with the Share Exchange all
transactions with Enron Corp. and its affiliates have been classified as Trade.

     Effective as of August 16, 1999, the closing date of the Share Exchange,
the members of the board of directors of the Company who were officers or
directors of Enron Corp. resigned their positions as directors of the Company.

     Business Opportunity Agreement. In December 1997, Enron Corp. and the
Company entered into the Equity Participation and Business Opportunity Agreement
("Business Opportunity Agreement") which defined certain obligations that Enron
Corp. owed to the Company and relieved Enron Corp. from certain obligations to
the Company that it might otherwise have, including the obligation to offer
certain business opportunities to the Company. The Business Opportunity
Agreement was approved by the Board of Directors of the Company after it was
approved unanimously by a special committee of the Board of Directors consisting
of the Company's independent directors.

     The Business Opportunity Agreement provided generally that, so long as such
activities were conducted in compliance with the Business Opportunity Agreement
in all material respects, Enron Corp. could pursue business opportunities
independently of the Company.

     In consideration for the Company's agreements in the Business Opportunity
Agreement, Enron Corp. provided valuable consideration to the Company, including
options to purchase common stock of Enron Corp., all of which were sold by the
Company during 1999 (see Note 3 "Other Assets").

     Natural Gas and Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids Net Operating
Revenues. Prior to the Share Exchange, Natural Gas and Crude Oil, Condensate and
Natural Gas Liquids Net Operating Revenues included revenues from and associated
costs paid to various subsidiaries and affiliates of Enron Corp. pursuant to
contracts which, in the opinion of management, were no less favorable than could
be obtained from third parties. (See Note 2 "Natural Gas and Crude Oil,
Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids Net Operating Revenues"). Natural Gas and
Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids Net Operating Revenues also
included certain commodity price swap and NYMEX-related commodity transactions
with Enron Corp. affiliated companies, which in the opinion of management, were
no less favorable than could be received from third parties. (See Note 14 "Price
and Interest Rate Risk Management").

     General and Administrative Expenses. Prior to the Share Exchange, the
Company was charged by Enron Corp. for all direct costs associated with its
operations. Such direct charges, excluding benefit plan charges (See Note 9
"Commitments and Contingencies -- Employee Benefit Plans"), totaled $10.6
million, $14.2 million and $16.1 million for the years ended December 31, 1999,
1998 and 1997, respectively. Additionally, certain administrative costs not
directly charged to any Enron Corp. operations or business segments were
allocated to the entities of the consolidated group. Approximately $3.4 million,
$5.1 million and $5.3 million was incurred by the Company for indirect general
and administrative expenses for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Management
believes that these charges were reasonable.

     Financing. See Note 4 "Long-Term Debt -- Financing Arrangements with Enron
Corp." for a discussion of financing arrangements with Enron Corp.

                                      F-14

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

8. INCOME TAXES

     The principal components of the Company's net deferred income tax liability
at December 31, 1999 and 1998 were as follows:



     The components of income (loss) before income taxes were as follows:



     Total income tax provision (benefit) was as follows:



                                      F-15

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The differences between taxes computed at the U.S. federal statutory tax
rate and the Company's effective rate were as follows:



     In 1997, the Company and Enron Corp. agreed to replace an existing tax
allocation agreement with a new tax allocation agreement. In the new agreement,
Enron Corp. agreed to refund a $13 million payment made by the Company pursuant
to the existing agreement, the Company agreed to release Enron Corp. from the
liabilities assumed related to the $13 million payment and the parties agreed to
indemnify each other in a manner consistent with a former agreement. Enron Corp.
also advanced the Company approximately $50 million to fund certain federal
income taxes related to the 1995 taxable year. This advance was scheduled to be
repaid in annual installments through January 1, 2001. Final payment to Enron
was made on August 16, 1999.

     The Company's foreign subsidiaries' undistributed earnings of approximately
$275 million at December 31, 1999 are considered to be indefinitely invested
outside the U.S. and, accordingly, no U.S. federal or state income taxes have
been provided thereon. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of
dividends, the Company may be subject to both foreign withholding taxes and U.S.
income taxes, net of allowable foreign tax credits. Determination of any
potential amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liabilities is not
practicable.

     The Company has an alternative minimum tax ("AMT") credit carryforward of
$22 million which can be used to offset regular income taxes payable in future
years. The AMT credit carryforward has an indefinite carryforward period.

     In 1999, the Company entered into an arrangement with a third party whereby
certain Section 29 credits were sold by the Company to the third party, and
payments for such credits will be received on an as-generated basis. As a result
of this transaction, the Company recorded a deferred tax asset representing a
tax gain on the sale of the Section 29 credit properties, which will reverse as
the operation of such properties are recognized for book purposes.

9. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     Employee Benefit Plans. Employees of the Company were covered by various
retirement, stock purchase and other benefit plans of Enron Corp. through August
1999. During each of the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997, the
Company was charged $4.4 million, $6.4 million and $5.0 million, respectively,
for all such benefits, including pension expense totaling $.9 million, $1.3
million and $1.0 million, respectively, by Enron Corp.

     Since August 1999, the Company has adopted defined contribution pension
plans for most of its employees in the United States. The Company's
contributions to these plans are based on various percentages of compensation,
and in some instances are based upon the amount of the employees' contributions
to the

                                      F-16

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

plan. From August 31, 1999 to December 31, 1999 the cost of these plans amounted
to approximately $1.2 million, a substantial part of which was funded currently.

     The Company also has in effect pension and savings plans related to its
Canadian and Trinidadian subsidiaries. Activity related to these plans is not
material relative to the Company's operations.

  Stock Plans

     Stock Options. The Company has various stock plans ("the Plans") under
which employees of the Company and its subsidiaries and nonemployee members of
the Board of Directors have been or may be granted rights to purchase shares of
common stock of the Company at a price not less than the market price of the
stock at the date of grant. Stock options granted under the Plans vest over a
period of time based on the nature of the grants and as defined in the
individual grant agreements. Terms for stock options granted under the Plans
have not exceeded a maximum term of 10 years.

     The Company accounts for the stock options under the provisions and related
interpretations of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 ("APB No.
25") -- "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees." No compensation expense is
recognized for such options. As allowed by SFAS No. 123 -- "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation" issued in 1995, the Company has continued to apply APB
No. 25 for purposes of determining net income and to present the pro forma
disclosures required by SFAS No. 123.

     The following table sets forth the option transactions under the Plans for
the years ended December 31 (options in thousands):



     The fair value of each option grant is estimated using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions used for
grants in 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively: (1) dividend yield of 0.6%, 0.6%
and 0.6%, (2) expected volatility of 28%, 26%, and 27%, (3) risk-free interest
rate of 5.9%, 5.1%, and 6.3%, and (4) expected life of 6.0 years, 4.9 years and
5.2 years.

     During 1997, in response to extremely competitive conditions for technical
personnel, the Company cancelled options issued in 1996 to purchase 1,282,000
shares of common stock at an exercise price of $25.38 per share, and reissued
the same number of options with an exercise price of $18.25 per share. The
reissue did not involve any executive officers of the Company.

                                      F-17

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following table summarizes certain information for the options
outstanding at December 31, 1999 (options in thousands):



     The Company's pro forma net income and net income per share of common stock
for 1999, 1998 and 1997, had compensation costs been recorded in accordance with
SFAS No. 123, are presented below (in millions except per share data):



     The effects of applying SFAS No. 123 in this pro forma disclosure should
not be interpreted as being indicative of future effects. SFAS No. 123 does not
apply to awards prior to 1995, and the extent and timing of additional future
awards cannot be predicted.

     The Black-Scholes model used by the Company to calculate option values, as
well as other currently accepted option valuation models, were developed to
estimate the fair value of freely tradable, fully transferable options without
vesting and/or trading restrictions, which significantly differ from the
Company's stock option awards. These models also require highly subjective
assumptions, including future stock price volatility and expected time until
exercise, which significantly affect the calculated values. Accordingly,
management does not believe that this model provides a reliable single measure
of the fair value of the Company's stock option awards.

                                      F-18

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Restricted Stock. Under the Plans, participants may be granted restricted
stock without cost to the participant. The shares granted vest to the
participant at various times ranging from one to seven years. Upon vesting, the
shares are released to the participants. The following summarizes shares of
restricted stock granted:



     The fair value of the restricted shares at date of grant has been recorded
in shareholders' equity as unearned compensation and is being amortized as
compensation expense. Related compensation expense for 1999, 1998 and 1997 was
approximately $3.1 million, $1.5 million and $1.0 million, respectively.

     Treasury Shares. During 1999, 1998 and 1997, the Company purchased or was
tendered 130,000, 1,590,200, and 4,954,344 of its common shares, respectively,
and delivered such shares upon the exercise of stock options and awards of
restricted stock, except for shares held in treasury at December 31, 1999, 1998
and 1997. The difference between the cost of the treasury shares and the
exercise price of the options, net of federal income tax benefit of $1.4
million, $.3 million, and $.5 million for the years 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively, is reflected as an adjustment to Additional Paid In Capital
through August 1999 and Retained Earnings thereafter as a result of the share
retirement described in Note 7. In December 1992, as amended in September 1994
and December 1996, the Company commenced a stock repurchase program of up to
1,000,000 shares authorized by the Board of Directors to facilitate the
availability of treasury shares of common stock for, but not limited to, the
settlement of employee stock option exercises pursuant to the Plans. In February
1997 as amended in February 1998, the Board of Directors authorized the
additional purchase of up to 10 million shares for similar purposes. At December
31, 1999 and 1998, 5,625,446 and 6,276,156 shares, respectively, were held in
treasury under these authorizations. In February 2000, the Board of Directors
authorized the purchase of an aggregate maximum of 10 million shares of common
stock of the Company which replaced the remaining authorization from February
1998. (See Note 6 "Shareholders' Equity").

     Letters Of Credit. At December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Company had letters
of credit and guaranties outstanding totaling approximately $118 million and
$127 million, respectively.

     Contingencies. On July 21, 1999, two stockholders of the Company filed
separate lawsuits purportedly on behalf of the Company against Enron Corp. and
those individuals who were then directors of the Company, alleging that Enron
Corp. and those directors breached their fiduciary duties of good faith and
loyalty in approving the Share Exchange. The lawsuits seek to rescind the
transaction or to receive monetary damages and costs and expenses, including
reasonable attorneys' and experts' fees. The Company, Enron Corp. and the
individual defendants believe the lawsuits are without merit and intend to
vigorously contest them. There are various other suits and claims against the
Company that have arisen in the ordinary course of business. However, management
does not believe these suits and claims will individually or in the aggregate
have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of
operations of the Company. The Company has been named as a potentially
responsible party in certain Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation
and Liability Act proceedings. However, management does not believe that any
potential assessments resulting from such proceedings will individually or in
the aggregate have a materially adverse effect on the financial condition or
results of operations of the Company.

                                      F-19

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

10. NET INCOME PER SHARE AVAILABLE TO COMMON

     The difference between the Average Number of Common Shares outstanding for
basic and diluted net income per share of common stock is due to the assumed
issuance of approximately 1,483,132, 709,000, and 784,000 common shares relating
to employee stock options in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

11. CASH FLOW INFORMATION

     On August 16, 1999, the Company and Enron Corp. completed the Share
Exchange whereby the Company received 62,270,000 shares of the Company's common
stock out of 82,270,000 shares owned by Enron Corp. in exchange for all the
stock of the Company's subsidiary, EOGI-India, Inc (see Note 7 "Transactions
with Enron Corp. and Related Parties"). Prior to the Share Exchange, the Company
made an indirect capital contribution of approximately $600 million in cash,
plus certain intercompany receivables, to EOGI-India, Inc. At the time of
completion of this transaction, the Company's net investment in EOGI-India, Inc.
was $870 million.

     On December 31, 1999, the Company completed an exchange agreement with OXY
USA Inc. The acquired properties were assigned the net book value of the
properties transferred of $88 million, resulting in no gain or loss.

     Cash paid for interest and income taxes was as follows for the years ended
December 31:



                                      F-20

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

12. BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

     The Company's operations are all natural gas and crude oil exploration and
production related. The Company adopted SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about
Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information," during the fourth quarter of
1998. SFAS No. 131 establishes standards for reporting information about
operating segments in annual financial statements and requires selected
information about operating segments in interim financial reports. Operating
segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate
financial information is available and evaluated regularly by the chief
operating decision maker, or decision making group, in deciding how to allocate
resources and in assessing performance. The Company's chief operating decision
making group is the Executive Committee, which consists of the Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer and other key officers. This group routinely reviews and
makes operating decisions related to significant issues associated with each of
the Company's major producing areas in the United States and each significant
international location. For segment reporting purposes, the major U.S. producing
areas have been aggregated as one reportable segment due to similarities in
their operations as allowed by SFAS No. 131. Financial information by reportable
segment is presented below for the years ended December 31, or at December 31:



- - ---------------

(1) See Note 7 "Transactions with Enron Corp. and Related Parties."

(2) Other includes China operations. See Note 7 "Transactions with Enron Corp.
    and Related Parties."

(3) Sales activity with a certain purchaser in the United States and Canada
    segments totaled approximately $98,100 of the consolidated Net Operating
    Revenues.

                                      F-21

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

13. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET

     Other income (expense), net consisted of the following for the years ended
December 31:



- - ---------------

(1) Includes $102 in 1998 and $2,549 in 1997 from related parties.

(2) Pertains to provisions for doubtful accounts receivable associated with
    certain international activities.

(3) See Note 3 "Other Assets."

(4) Relates to anticipated costs of abandonment of certain international
    activity.

14. PRICE AND INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT

     Periodically, the Company enters into certain trading and non-trading
activities including NYMEX-related commodity market transactions and other
contracts. The non-trading portions of these activities have been designated to
hedge the impact of market price fluctuations on anticipated commodity delivery
volumes or other contractual commitments.

     Trading Activities. In 1999, no trading transactions were executed. Trading
activities in 1998 included a revenue increase of $1.1 million related to change
in market value of natural gas price swap options exercisable by a counterparty
and partially offsetting "buy" price swap positions.

     During 1995, the Company entered into a NYMEX-related natural gas price
swap covering 73 trillion British thermal units ("TBtu") for the year ended
December 31, 1996. This swap contained an option to extend the price swap
covering 73 TBtu for each of the years 1997 and 1998 which was exercisable at
one time prior to December 31, 1996. The 1996 price swap was closed in the first
quarter of 1996. During 1996, this option was restructured into four options
each exercisable, in total, at one time by the counterparty before December 31,
1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999 to purchase 37 TBtu of notional natural gas for each
of the years 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000 at an average fixed price of $1.98,
$1.98, $1.93 and $1.93 per million British thermal units ("MMBtu"),
respectively. The 1997 and 1998 options were subsequently restructured to be
exercisable monthly at a price of $2.16 and $2.07 per MMBtu, respectively. These
options cover notional volumes averaging 3 TBtu per month during 1997 and 1998.
During the fourth quarter of 1996, the 1999 and 2000 options were terminated. In
1996, the Company entered into "buy" NYMEX-related natural gas price swap
positions in the same notional quantities and maturities as are covered by the
1997 and 1998 options. The Company recognized a $1.1 million and $3.4 million
revenue increase in 1998 and 1997, respectively, related to these trading
activities.

                                      F-22

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of financial
instruments held for trading purposes at year-end and the average during the
year:



- - ---------------

(1) Estimated fair values have been determined by using available market data
    and valuation methodologies. Judgment is necessarily required in
    interpreting market data and the use of different market assumptions or
    estimation methodologies may affect the estimated fair value amounts.

     Interest Rate Swap Agreements and Foreign Currency Contracts. At December
31, 1999 and 1998, a subsidiary of the Company and the Company are parties to
offsetting foreign currency and interest rate swap agreements with an aggregate
notional principal amount of $210 million. Such swap agreements are scheduled to
terminate in 2001. At December 31, 1999 and 1998, the composite fair value of
the agreements was not significant based upon termination values obtained from
third parties. In November 1998, the Company entered into two interest rate swap
agreements having notional values of $100 million each. The agreements were
entered into to hedge the base variable interest rates of the Company's
commercial paper, uncommitted credit facilities and affiliated borrowings. The
Company anticipates having such borrowings outstanding of at least the notional
amounts under the swap agreements during the term of the swap agreements. Under
the agreements, the Company will pay interest based on fixed rates of
approximately 4.96% and 5.01% and receive interest based on the three-month
LIBOR calculated on the notional value of the swap agreements. These agreements
are scheduled to terminate in November 2000. At December 31, 1999, the composite
fair value of these agreements was $2.6 million.

     Hedging Transactions. With the objective of enhancing the certainty of
future revenues, the Company from time to time enters into NYMEX-related
commodity price swaps and costless collars. Using NYMEX-related commodity price
swaps, the Company receives a fixed price for the respective commodity hedged
and pays a floating market price, as defined for each transaction, to the
counterparty at settlement.

     At December 31, 1999, the Company had outstanding positions covering
notional volumes of .5 million barrels ("MMBbl") of crude oil and condensate for
2000. The fair value of these positions was approximately $2 million negative.
At December 31, 1999, the Company had closed positions covering notional volumes
of approximately 4 TBtu of natural gas for each of the years 2000 through 2005.
The Company also had closed positions covering 1.7 MMBbl of crude oil and
condensate for the year 2000. At December 31, 1999, the aggregate deferred
revenue reduction for 2000, 2001 and thereafter was approximately $12 million,
$1 million and $5 million, respectively, and is classified as "Other Assets."

     At December 31, 1998, the Company had outstanding positions covering
notional volumes of .7 MMBbl of crude oil and condensate for 1999. The fair
value of the positions was approximately $4 million. In 1998, the Company closed
positions covering notional volumes of approximately 4 TBtu of natural gas for
each of the years 1999 through 2005. The Company also recorded closed positions
covering 2.2 MMBbl and 1.7 MMBbl of crude oil and condensate for the years 1999
and 2000, respectively. At December 31, 1998, the aggregate deferred revenue
reduction for 1999, 2000 and thereafter was approximately $13 million, $12
million and $6 million, respectively, and is classified as "Other Assets."

                                      F-23

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of financial
instruments and related transactions for non-trading activities at December 31,
1999 and 1998:



- - ---------------

(1) Estimated fair values have been determined by using available market data
    and valuation methodologies. Judgment is necessarily required in
    interpreting market data and the use of different market assumptions or
    estimation methodologies may affect the estimated fair value amounts.

(2) See Note 4 "Long-Term Debt."

     Credit Risk. While notional contract amounts are used to express the
magnitude of price and interest rate swap agreements, the amounts potentially
subject to credit risk, in the event of nonperformance by the other parties, are
substantially smaller. The Company does not anticipate nonperformance by the
other parties.

15. CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

     Substantially all of the Company's accounts receivable at December 31, 1999
and 1998 result from crude oil and natural gas sales and/or joint interest
billings to affiliate and third party companies including foreign state-owned
entities in the oil and gas industry. This concentration of customers and joint
interest owners may impact the Company's overall credit risk, either positively
or negatively, in that these entities may be similarly affected by changes in
economic or other conditions. In determining whether or not to require
collateral from a customer or joint interest owner, the Company analyzes the
entity's net worth, cash flows, earnings, and credit ratings. Receivables are
generally not collateralized. Historical credit losses incurred on receivables
by the Company have been immaterial.

16. ACCOUNTING FOR CERTAIN LONG-LIVED ASSETS

     As a result of the change to the Company's portfolio of assets brought
about by the Share Exchange (see Note 7 "Transactions with Enron Corp. and
Related Parties"), the Company conducted a re-evaluation of its overall
business. As a result of this re-evaluation, some of the Company's projects were
no longer deemed central to its business. The Company recorded non-cash charges
in connection with the impairment and/or the Company's decision to dispose of
such projects of $133 million pre-tax ($89 million after-tax). In addition, the
Company recorded charges of $15 million pre-tax ($10 million after-tax) pursuant
to a change in the Company's strategy related to certain offshore operations in
the second quarter and an impairment of various North America properties in the
fourth quarter to depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. In the
United States operating segment, a pre-tax impairment charge of $85 million was
recorded to depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. The carrying
values for assets determined to be impaired were adjusted to estimated fair
values based on projected future discounted net cash flows for such assets. In
the Other operating segment, a pre-tax charge of $36 million was recorded to
depreciation, depletion and amortization expense to fully write-off the
Company's basis and a pre-tax charge of $19 million was recorded to other income
(expense) -- other, net for the estimated exit costs related to the Company's
decision to dispose of certain international operations. Net loss for the Other
operating segment operations for 1999, excluding these charges, was
approximately $3 million.

                                      F-24

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

17. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENT -- SFAS NO. 133

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133 -- "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" effective for fiscal years
beginning after June 15, 1999. In June 1999, the FASB issued SFAS No. 137, which
delays the effective date of SFAS No. 133 for one year, to fiscal years
beginning after June 15, 2000. SFAS No. 133, as amended by SFAS No. 137, cannot
be applied retroactively and must be applied to (a) derivative instruments and
(b) certain derivative instruments embedded in hybrid contracts that were
issued, acquired or substantively modified after a transition date to be
selected by the Company of either December 31, 1997 or December 31, 1998.

     The statement establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring that
every derivative instrument be recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset
or liability measured at its fair value. The statement requires that changes in
the derivative's fair value be recognized currently in earnings unless specific
hedge accounting criteria are met. Special accounting for qualifying hedges
allows a derivative's gains and losses to offset related results on the hedged
item in the statements of income and requires a company to formally document,
designate and assess the effectiveness of transactions that receive hedge
accounting treatment.

     The Company has not yet quantified the impacts of adopting SFAS No. 133 on
its financial statements and has not determined the timing of adoption. Based on
the Company's current level of derivative and hedging activities, the Company
does not expect the impact of adoption to be material.

18. SUBSEQUENT EVENT

     On February 14, 2000, the Company's Board of Directors declared a dividend
of one preferred share purchase right (a "Right" or "Rights Agreement") for each
outstanding share of common stock, par value $.01 per share. The Board of
Directors has adopted this Rights Agreement to protect stockholders from
coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics. The dividend was distributed to
the stockholders of record on February 24, 2000. Each Right, expiring February
24, 2010, represents a right to buy from the Company one hundredth ( 1/100) of a
share of Series E Junior Participating Preferred Stock ("Preferred Share") for
$90, once the Rights become exercisable. This portion of a Preferred Share will
give the stockholder approximately the same dividend, voting, and liquidation
rights as would one share of common stock. Prior to exercise, the Right does not
give its holder any dividend, voting, or liquidation rights. If issued, each one
hundredth ( 1/100) of a Preferred Share (i) will not be redeemable; (ii) will
entitle holders to quarterly dividend payments of $.01 per share, or an amount
equal to the dividend paid on one share of common stock, whichever is greater;
(iii) will entitle holders upon liquidation either to receive $1 per share or an
amount equal to the amount made on one share of common stock, whichever is
greater; (iv) will have the same voting power as one share of common stock; and
(v) if shares of the Company's common stock are exchanged via merger,
consolidation, or a similar transaction, will entitle holders to a per share
payment equal to the payment made on one share of common stock.

     The Rights will not be exercisable until ten days after the public
announcement that a person or group has become an acquiring person ("Acquiring
Person") by obtaining beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the Company's
common stock, or if earlier, ten business days (or a later date determined by
the Company's Board of Directors before any person or group becomes an Acquiring
Person) after a person or group begins a tender or exchange offer which, if
consummated, would result in that person or group becoming an Acquiring Person.
The Board of Directors may reduce the threshold at which a person or a group
becomes an Acquiring Person from 15% to not less than 10% of the outstanding
common stock.

     If a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person, all holders of Rights
except the Acquiring Person may, for $90, purchase shares of our common stock
with a market value of $180, based on the market price of the common stock prior
to such acquisition. If the Company is later acquired in a merger or similar
transaction after the Rights become exercisable, all holders of Rights except
the Acquiring Person may, for

                                      F-25

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

$90, purchase shares of the acquiring corporation with a market value of $180
based on the market price of the acquiring corporation's stock, prior to such
merger.

     The Company's Board of Directors may redeem the Rights for $.01 per Right
at any time before any person or group becomes an Acquiring Person. If the Board
of Directors redeems any Rights, it must redeem all of the Rights. Once the
Rights are redeemed, the only right of the holders of Rights will be to receive
the redemption price of $.01 per Right. The redemption price will be adjusted if
the Company has a stock split or stock dividends of the Company's common stock.
After a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person, but before an Acquiring
Person owns 50% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock, the Board of
Directors may exchange the Rights for common stock or equivalent security at an
exchange ratio of one share of common stock or an equivalent security for each
such Right, other than Rights held by the Acquiring Person.

                                      F-26


                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

         SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
       (IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED)
     (UNAUDITED EXCEPT FOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR OIL AND GAS PRODUCING
                                  ACTIVITIES)

OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES

     The following disclosures are made in accordance with SFAS No.
69 -- "Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities":

     Oil and Gas Reserves. Users of this information should be aware that the
process of estimating quantities of "proved," "proved developed" and "proved
undeveloped" crude oil and natural gas reserves is very complex, requiring
significant subjective decisions in the evaluation of all available geological,
engineering and economic data for each reservoir. The data for a given reservoir
may also change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors
including, but not limited to, additional development activity, evolving
production history, and continual reassessment of the viability of production
under varying economic conditions. Consequently, material revisions to existing
reserve estimates occur from time to time. Although every reasonable effort is
made to ensure that reserve estimates reported represent the most accurate
assessments possible, the significance of the subjective decisions required and
variances in available data for various reservoirs make these estimates
generally less precise than other estimates presented in connection with
financial statement disclosures.

     Proved reserves represent estimated quantities of natural gas, crude oil,
condensate, and natural gas liquids that geological and engineering data
demonstrate, with reasonable certainty, to be recoverable in future years from
known reservoirs under economic and operating conditions existing at the time
the estimates were made.

     Proved developed reserves are proved reserves expected to be recovered,
through wells and equipment in place and under operating methods being utilized
at the time the estimates were made.

     Proved undeveloped reserves are reserves that are expected to be recovered
from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively
major expenditure is required for recompletion. Reserves on undrilled acreage
are limited to those drilling units offsetting productive units that are
reasonably certain of production when drilled. Proved reserves for other
undrilled units can be claimed only where it can be demonstrated with certainty
that there is continuity of production from the existing productive formation.
Estimates for proved undeveloped reserves are not attributed to any acreage for
which an application of fluid injection or other improved recovery technique is
contemplated, unless such techniques have been proved effective by actual tests
in the area and in the same reservoir.

     Canadian provincial royalties are determined based on a graduated
percentage scale which varies with prices and production volumes. Canadian
reserves, as presented on a net basis, assume prices and royalty rates in
existence at the time the estimates were made, and the Company's estimate of
future production volumes. Future fluctuations in prices, production rates, or
changes in political or regulatory environments could cause the Company's share
of future production from Canadian reserves to be materially different from that
presented.

     As a result of the re-evaluation of the Company's portfolio of assets
following the Share Exchange, on November 12, 1999 senior management proposed to
the Board of Directors ("the Board") of the Company to defer the development of
the Big Piney Madison deep Paleozoic formation methane reserves in Wyoming for
the foreseeable future. The basis for this recommendation was the substantial
capital cost required to develop the project relative to the Company's
anticipated spending budget for the next several years as well as the project's
anticipated rate of return compared to other investment opportunities currently
available to the Company. The Board approved the recommendation. As a result,
the 1.2 trillion cubic feet of methane reserves in the formation, which are
located on acreage owned by the Company and held by production for the
foreseeable future, and which were classified as proved undeveloped reserves at
December 31, 1998, were removed as a revision during 1999. At December 31, 1998,
these reserves represented approximately
                                      F-27

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

                    SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION TO CONSOLIDATED
                      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

$100 million or 5% of the Company's Standardized Measure of Discounted Future
Net Cash Flows as adjusted for the sale of the India and China reserves as a
result of the Share Exchange.

     Estimates of proved and proved developed reserves at December 31, 1999,
1998 and 1997 were based on studies performed by the engineering staff of the
Company for reserves in the United States, Canada, Trinidad, India and China
(see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements regarding operations
transferred under the Share Exchange). Opinions by DeGolyer and MacNaughton
("D&M"), independent petroleum consultants, for the years ended December 31,
1999, 1998 and 1997 covered producing areas containing 52%, 39% and 54%,
respectively, of proved reserves, excluding deep Paleozoic methane reserves in
1998 and 1997, of the Company on a net-equivalent-cubic-feet-of-gas basis. D&M's
opinions indicate that the estimates of proved reserves prepared by the
Company's engineering staff for the properties reviewed by D&M, when compared in
total on a net-equivalent-cubic-feet-of-gas basis, do not differ materially from
the estimates prepared by D&M. The deep Paleozoic methane reserves were covered
by the opinion of D&M for the year ended December 31 1995. Such estimates by D&M
in the aggregate varied by not more than 5% from those prepared by the
engineering staff of the Company. All reports by D&M were developed utilizing
geological and engineering data provided by the Company.

     No major discovery or other favorable or adverse event subsequent to
December 31, 1999 is believed to have caused a material change in the estimates
of proved or proved developed reserves as of that date.

     The following table sets forth the Company's net proved and proved
developed reserves at December 31 for each of the four years in the period ended
December 31, 1999, and the changes in the net proved reserves for each of the
three years in the period then ended as estimated by the engineering staff of
the Company.

                NET PROVED AND PROVED DEVELOPED RESERVE SUMMARY



                                      F-28

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

                    SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION TO CONSOLIDATED
                      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)



                                      F-29

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

                    SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION TO CONSOLIDATED
                      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)



- - ---------------

(1) Billion cubic feet or billion cubic feet equivalent, as applicable.

(2) See Note 7 "Transactions with Enron Corp. and Related Parties."

(3) Other includes proved reserves for China operations only, none of which are
    proved developed. See Note 7 "Transactions with Enron Corp. and Related
    Parties."

(4) Includes 1,180 Bcf of proved undeveloped methane reserves contained, along
    with high concentrations of carbon dioxide and other gases, in deep
    Paleozoic (Madison) formations in the Big Piney area of Wyoming.

(5) Includes removal of the 1,180 Bcf of proved undeveloped methane reserves
    mentioned in (4) as a result of the Company's decision to defer the
    development of the Big Piney Madison deep Paleozoic formation methane
    reserves in Wyoming for the foreseeable future.

(6) Thousand barrels.

(7) Includes crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.

     Capitalized Costs Relating to Oil and Gas Producing Activities. The
following table sets forth the capitalized costs relating to the Company's
natural gas and crude oil producing activities at December 31, 1999 and 1998:



                                      F-30

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

                    SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION TO CONSOLIDATED
                      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Costs Incurred in Oil and Gas Property Acquisition, Exploration and
Development Activities. The acquisition, exploration and development costs
disclosed in the following tables are in accordance with definitions in SFAS No.
19 -- "Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies."

     Acquisition costs include costs incurred to purchase, lease, or otherwise
acquire property.

     Exploration costs include exploration expenses, additions to exploration
wells including those in progress, and depreciation of support equipment used in
exploration activities.

     Development costs include additions to production facilities and equipment,
additions to development wells including those in progress and depreciation of
support equipment and related facilities used in development activities.

     The following tables set forth costs incurred related to the Company's oil
and gas activities for the years ended December 31:



- - ---------------

(1) See Note 7 "Transactions with Enron Corp. and Related Parties."

                                      F-31

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

                    SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION TO CONSOLIDATED
                      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Results of Operations for Oil and Gas Producing Activities(1). The
following tables set forth results of operations for oil and gas producing
activities for the years ended December 31:



- - ---------------

(1) Excludes net revenues associated with other marketing activities, interest
    charges, general corporate expenses and certain gathering and handling fees
    for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999. The
    gathering and handling fees and other marketing net revenues are directly
    associated with oil and gas operations with regard to segment reporting as
    defined in SFAS No. 131 -- "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and
    Related Information," but are not part of Disclosures about Oil and Gas
    Producing Activities as defined in SFAS No. 69.

(2) See Note 7 "Transactions with Enron Corp. and Related Parties."

(3) Other includes China and other international operations. See Note 7
    "Transactions with Enron Corp. and Related Parties."

                                      F-32

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

                    SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION TO CONSOLIDATED
                      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved
Oil and Gas Reserves. The following information has been developed utilizing
procedures prescribed by SFAS No. 69 and based on crude oil and natural gas
reserve and production volumes estimated by the engineering staff of the
Company. It may be useful for certain comparison purposes, but should not be
solely relied upon in evaluating the Company or its performance. Further,
information contained in the following table should not be considered as
representative of realistic assessments of future cash flows, nor should the
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows be viewed as
representative of the current value of the Company.

     The future cash flows presented below are based on sales prices, cost
rates, and statutory income tax rates in existence as of the date of the
projections. It is expected that material revisions to some estimates of crude
oil and natural gas reserves may occur in the future, development and production
of the reserves may occur in periods other than those assumed, and actual prices
realized and costs incurred may vary significantly from those used.

     Management does not rely upon the following information in making
investment and operating decisions. Such decisions are based upon a wide range
of factors, including estimates of probable as well as proved reserves, and
varying price and cost assumptions considered more representative of a range of
possible economic conditions that may be anticipated.

                                      F-33

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

                    SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION TO CONSOLIDATED
                      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following table sets forth the standardized measure of discounted
future net cash flows from projected production of the Company's crude oil and
natural gas reserves for the years ended December 31:



- - ---------------

(1) See Note 7 "Transactions with Enron Corp. and Related Parties."

(2) Other includes the standardized measure for proved reserves for China
    operations only. See Note 7 "Transactions with Enron Corp. and Related
    Parties."

(3) Includes approximately $55,316 and $100,294 in 1997 and 1998, respectively,
    related to the reserves in the Big Piney deep Paleozoic formations, which
    were removed from proved reserves in 1999.

                                      F-34

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

                    SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION TO CONSOLIDATED
                      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Changes in Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows. The
following table sets forth the changes in the standardized measure of discounted
future net cash flows at December 31, for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1999.



- - ---------------

(1) See Note 7 "Transactions with Enron Corp. and Related Parties."

(2) Other includes China operations only. See Note 7 "Transactions with Enron
    Corp. and Related Parties."

(3) Includes approximately $222,228, $55,316 and $100,294, in 1996, 1997 and
    1998, respectively, related to the reserves in the Big Piney deep Paleozoic
    formations.

(4) Includes reduction of approximately $172,057, discounted before income
    taxes, related to the reserves in the Big Piney deep Paleozoic formations.

                                      F-35

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

                    SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION TO CONSOLIDATED
                      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

UNAUDITED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION



                                      F-36


                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                              EOG RESOURCES, INC.

                 VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999, 1998 AND 1997
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



                                       S-1


                                    EXHIBITS

     Exhibits not incorporated herein by reference to a prior filing are
designated by an asterisk (*) and are filed herewith; all exhibits not so
designated are incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Form S-1
Registration Statement, Registration No. 33-30678, filed on August 24, 1989
("Form S-1"), or as otherwise indicated.



                                       E-1




                                       E-2




                                       E-3




                                       E-4


                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 8th day of
March, 2000.

                                            EOG RESOURCES, INC.
                                            (Registrant)

                                            By     /s/ WALTER C. WILSON
                                             -----------------------------------
                                                     (Walter C. Wilson)
                                               Senior Vice President and Chief
                                                      Financial Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of registrant and in
the capacities with EOG Resources, Inc. indicated and on the 8th day of March,
2000.



*By    /s/ PATRICIA L. EDWARDS
    --------------------------------
         (Patricia L. Edwards)
     (Attorney-in-fact for persons
               indicated)


                                 EXHIBIT INDEX












