
10-K405
ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY - DATED 12/31/98



 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D. C. 20549
 
                             ---------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K

                             ---------------------
 
[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998
 
[ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 1-9743
 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 

 
                  1400 SMITH STREET, HOUSTON, TEXAS 77002-7369
              (Address of principal executive offices) (zip code)
 
        REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: 713-853-6161
 
                             ---------------------
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
 
                                      NONE
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ].
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ].
 
     Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant, based on the closing sale price in the daily composite list for
transactions on the New York Stock Exchange on February 26, 1999 was
$1,108,372,096. As of March 1, 1999, there were 153,731,704 shares of the
registrant's Common Stock, $.01 par value, outstanding.
 
     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE. Certain portions of the registrant's
definitive Proxy Statement to be filed by April 30, 1999 ("Proxy Statement") are
incorporated in Part III by reference.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                
                                     PART I
 

 
                                        i

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
     Enron Oil & Gas Company (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation organized
in 1985, is engaged, either directly or through a marketing subsidiary with
regard to domestic operations or through various subsidiaries with regard to
international operations, in the exploration for, and the development,
production and marketing of, natural gas and crude oil primarily in major
producing basins in the United States, as well as in Canada, Trinidad and India
and, to a lesser extent, selected other international areas. The Company's
principal producing areas are further described under "Exploration and
Production" below. At December 31, 1998, the Company's estimated net proved
natural gas reserves were 5,229 billion cubic feet ("Bcf"), including 1,180 Bcf
of proved undeveloped methane reserves in the Big Piney deep Paleozoic
formations, and estimated net proved crude oil, condensate and natural gas
liquids reserves were 105 million barrels ("MMBbl"). (See "Supplemental
Information to Consolidated Financial Statements"). At such date, approximately
53% of the Company's reserves (on a natural gas equivalent basis) was located in
the United States, 9% in Canada, 18% in Trinidad, 18% in India and 2% in China.
As of December 31, 1998, the Company employed approximately 1,190 persons,
including foreign national employees.
 
     The Company's business strategy is to maximize the rate of return on
investment of capital by controlling both operating and capital costs and
enhancing the certainty of future revenues through the selective use of various
marketing mechanisms. This strategy enhances the generation of both income and
cash flow from each unit of production and allows for the growth of production
on a cost-effective basis by optimizing the reinvestment of cash flow. The
Company continued to focus its 1998 drilling activity toward natural gas
deliverability in addition to natural gas reserve enhancement and to a lesser
extent crude oil exploitation. The Company also continues to focus on the
cost-effective utilization of advances in technology associated with gathering,
processing and interpretation of 3-D seismic data, developing reservoir
simulation models and drilling operations through the use of new and/or improved
drill bits, mud motors, mud additives, formation logging techniques and
reservoir fracturing methods. These advanced technologies are used, as
appropriate, throughout the Company to reduce the risks associated with all
aspects of oil and gas reserve exploration, exploitation and development. The
Company implements its strategy by emphasizing the drilling of internally
generated prospects in order to find and develop low cost reserves. Achieving
and maintaining the lowest possible operating cost structure are also important
goals in the implementation of the Company's strategy. Consistent with the
Company's desire to optimize the use of its assets, it also maintains a strategy
of selling selected oil and gas properties that for various reasons may no
longer fit into future operating plans, or which are not assessed to have
sufficient future growth potential and when the economic value to be obtained by
selling the properties and reserves in the ground is evaluated to be greater
than what would be obtained by holding the properties and producing the reserves
over time. As a result, the Company typically receives each year a varying but
substantial level of proceeds related to such sales which proceeds are available
for general corporate use.
 
     As of December 31, 1998, Enron Corp. owned 54% of the outstanding shares of
the common stock of the Company. (See "Relationship Between the Company and
Enron Corp."). In December 1998, Enron Corp. publicly disclosed that it had
received an unsolicited indication of interest from a third party with respect
to exploring a possible transaction pursuant to which the third party would
acquire Enron Corp.'s shares of common stock of the Company, and offer to
acquire the remaining shares of outstanding common stock of the Company. In
response to this indication of interest, the Board of Directors of the Company
has established a special committee consisting of two independent directors who
have retained a financial advisor and legal counsel. Although Enron Corp. has
publicly indicated that it currently intends to actively explore alternative
transactions for its Company common stock along with the unsolicited indication
of interest, there can be no assurance that any such transactions will be
pursued or, if pursued, will be consummated.
 
     Unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to the Company
include Enron Oil & Gas Company, its predecessors and subsidiaries, and any
reference to the ownership of interests or pursuit of
 

 
operations in any international areas by the Company recognizes that all such
interests are owned and operations are pursued by subsidiaries of Enron Oil &
Gas Company. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to
Enron Corp. include Enron Corp., its predecessors and affiliates, other than the
Company and its predecessors and subsidiaries.
 
     With respect to information on the Company's working interest in wells or
acreage, "net" oil and gas wells or acreage are determined by multiplying
"gross" oil and gas wells or acreage by the Company's working interest in the
wells or acreage. Unless otherwise defined, all references to wells are gross.
 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
 
     The Company's operations are all natural gas and crude oil exploration and
production related.
 
EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION
 
  NORTH AMERICA OPERATIONS
 
     United States. The Company's eight principal United States producing areas
are the Big Piney area of Wyoming, South Texas area, East Texas area, Offshore
Gulf of Mexico area, Canyon/Strawn Trend area of West Texas, Sand Tank and
Pitchfork Ranch areas of New Mexico and Vernal area of Utah. Properties in these
areas comprised approximately 81% of the Company's United States reserves (on a
natural gas equivalent basis) and 82% of the Company's United States net natural
gas deliverability as of December 31, 1998 and are substantially all operated by
the Company.
 
     The Company's other United States natural gas and crude oil producing
properties are located primarily in other areas of Texas, Utah, New Mexico,
Oklahoma, California, Mississippi and Kansas.
 
     At December 31, 1998, 93% of the Company's proved United States reserves,
including the reserves in the Big Piney deep Paleozoic formations (on a natural
gas equivalent basis), was natural gas and 7% was crude oil, condensate and
natural gas liquids. A substantial portion of the Company's United States
natural gas reserves is in long-lived fields with well-established production
histories. The Company believes that opportunities exist to increase production
in many of these fields through continued infill and other development drilling.
 
     Big Piney Area. The Company's largest reserve accumulation is located in
the Big Piney area in Sublette and Lincoln counties in southwestern Wyoming. The
Company is the holder of the largest productive acreage base in this area, with
approximately 280,000 net acres under lease directly within field limits. The
Company operates approximately 800 natural gas and crude oil wells in this area
in which it owns an 85% average working interest. Deliveries from the area net
to the Company averaged 118 million cubic feet ("MMcf") per day of natural gas
and 4.0 thousand barrels ("MBbl") per day of crude oil, condensate, and natural
gas liquids in 1998. At December 31, 1998, natural gas deliverability net to the
Company was approximately 110 MMcf per day.
 
     The current principal producing intervals are the Almy, Mesaverde and
Frontier formations. The Frontier formation, which occurs at 6,500 to 10,000
feet, contains approximately 64% of the Company's Big Piney proved developed
reserves. The Company drilled 44 wells in the Big Piney area in 1998 and
anticipates an active drilling program will continue for several years.
 
     The Company has recorded as proved undeveloped reserves 1,180 Bcf of
methane contained, along with high concentrations of carbon dioxide as well as
small amounts of other gaseous substances, in the deep Wyoming Paleozoic
(Madison) formation located under acreage leased by the Company and held by
production in the Big Piney area. In January 1999, the Company acquired certain
adjacent Madison formation producing interests that include the rights to an
agreement covering the processing of natural gas from such adjacent interests
from the Madison formation through an existing plant operated by another company
in the industry.
 

 
     South Texas Area. The Company's activities in South Texas are focused in
the Lobo, Wilcox and Frio producing horizons. The principal areas of activity
are in the Lobo and Wilcox Trends which occur primarily in Webb, Zapata and
Duval counties, as well as the Frio Trend in Matagorda County.
 
     In Matagorda County, two wells were completed in 1998, each with a rate of
40 MMcf per day of natural gas and 2.0 MBbl per day of condensate. The Company
operates approximately 420 wells in the South Texas area, and production is
primarily from the Frio, Wilcox and Lobo sands at depths ranging from 5,000 to
16,000 feet. The Company has approximately 273,000 net leasehold acres and more
than 40,000 net mineral fee acres in this area. Natural gas deliveries net to
the Company averaged approximately 162 MMcf per day in 1998. At December 31,
1998, natural gas deliverability from this area net to the Company was
approximately 182 MMcf per day. The Company drilled 47 wells in the South Texas
area in 1998, acquired 758 square miles of new 3-D seismic and leased 64,500 net
acres. An active drilling program in this area is anticipated to continue for
several years.
 
     East Texas Area. The Company's activities in the East Texas area are
primarily in the Carthage field, located in Panola County, the North Milton
field, located in northern Harris County and the Stowell/Big Hill area, located
in Jefferson and Chambers Counties.
 
     The Carthage field production is primarily from the Cotton Valley, Travis
Peak and Pettit formations. The Company holds approximately 17,900 net acres
under lease with an average 74% working interest in this area. The Company
drilled 29 wells in the Carthage field in 1998 and anticipates an active
drilling program will continue for several years. The Company has continued its
activity in the North Milton field where it now operates 27 wells and holds a
100% working interest in the acreage. The Company expects to drill additional
wells during 1999. The Company drilled 10 wells in the Stowell/Big Hill area in
1998 and expects to continue expansion of the program in 1999. Net deliveries
from the East Texas area averaged 56.4 MMcf per day of natural gas and 2.3 MBbl
per day of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids in 1998. At December
31, 1998, deliverability from the area was approximately 80 MMcf per day of
natural gas with 2.0 MBbl per day of crude oil, condensate and natural gas
liquids both net to the Company.
 
     Offshore Gulf of Mexico Area. During 1998, the Company participated in two
lease sales offering leases in the Gulf of Mexico and acquired approximately
20,700 net acres (6 leases). As a result of the lease sale activity, the Company
acquired two deepwater (greater than 600 feet) tracts to add to the 19 deepwater
tracts held at the end of 1997. During 1998, the Company made a significant
acquisition in the OCS Gulf of Mexico purchasing a 19% working interest in the
Matagorda Island 623 field which increased the Company's natural gas deliveries,
adding 55 MMcf per day net to the Company. Development of the Eugene Island 135
discovery continued with a third development well increasing the Company's net
field production to 17 MMcf per day and 760 barrels of condensate per day. At
December 31, 1998, the Company held an interest in 184 blocks in the Offshore
Gulf of Mexico area totaling approximately 544,000 net acres. Of these 184
blocks, located predominantly in federal waters offshore Texas and Louisiana,
127 are operated by the Company. Natural gas deliveries from this area averaged
116 MMcf per day during 1998 net to the Company with total deliveries at year
end of 152 MMcf per day. A substantial portion of such deliveries was from
interests in the Matagorda Island and Mustang Island areas of offshore Texas
with significant volumes also coming from Eugene Island 135. Deliverability from
the offshore Gulf of Mexico area at December 31, 1998 was approximately 161 MMcf
per day net to the Company sourced principally as noted above. During 1998, the
Company participated in the drilling of 10 wells (3.9 net wells) in the Gulf of
Mexico. In 1999, the Company anticipates participating in the drilling of 5-10
wells.
 
     Canyon/Strawn Trend Area. The Company's activities in this area have been
concentrated in Crockett, Terrell and Val Verde Counties in Texas where the
Company drilled 21 natural gas wells during 1998. The Company holds
approximately 66,000 net acres and now operates approximately 350 natural gas
wells in this area in which it owns a 90% average working interest. Production
is from the Canyon sands and Strawn limestone at depths from 5,500 to 12,500
feet. At December 31, 1998, natural gas deliverability net to the Company was
approximately 35 MMcf per day. The Company plans an aggressive program on
several new prospects in 1999.
 

 
     Sand Tank Area. The Sand Tank area located in Eddy County, New Mexico
produces from the Chester, Morrow, and Atoka formations. Natural gas deliveries
for 1998 averaged 16 MMcf per day and deliveries of crude oil, condensate and
natural gas liquids averaged .3 MBbl per day in 1998 both net to the Company. At
year end 1998, deliverability, net to the Company, was approximately 15 MMcf per
day of natural gas and .2 MBbl per day of crude oil, condensate and natural gas
liquids. The Company holds 14,000 net acres and has an average working interest
of approximately 60%. Several wells are planned in 1999 for this stacked-pay
area.
 
     Pitchfork Ranch Area. The Pitchfork Ranch area located in Lea County, New
Mexico, produces primarily from the Bone Spring, Wolfcamp, Atoka and Morrow
formations. In 1998, deliveries net to the Company averaged 18 MMcf per day of
natural gas and approximately 2.0 MBbl per day of crude oil, condensate and
natural gas liquids. At December 31, 1998, deliverability net to the Company was
approximately 21 MMcf per day of natural gas and 1.8 MBbl per day of crude oil,
condensate and natural gas liquids. The Company holds approximately 34,000 net
acres and is continuing to interpret a 3-D seismic survey shot over this entire
area. The Company expects to maintain a drilling program in this area in 1999.
 
     Vernal Area. In the Vernal area, located primarily in Uintah County, Utah,
the Company operates approximately 305 producing wells and presently controls
approximately 77,000 net acres. In 1998, natural gas deliveries net to the
Company from the Vernal area averaged 21 MMcf per day. Deliverability at
December 31, 1998, was approximately 26 MMcf per day. Production is from the
Green River and Wasatch formations located at depths between 4,500 and 8,000
feet. The Company has an average working interest of approximately 60%. Numerous
drilling opportunities will be available in this area in 1999.
 
     Canada. The Company is engaged in the exploration for and the development,
production and marketing of natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude oil in
Western Canada, principally in the provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan, and
Manitoba. The Company conducts operations from offices in Calgary, Alberta, and
produces natural gas and crude oil from five major areas. The Sandhills area in
southwestern Saskatchewan is the largest single natural gas producing area in
Canada for the Company. In 1998, 150 wells were drilled in the area and
additional acreage and wells were acquired in the area resulting in
deliverability of approximately 44 MMcf per day net to the Company at December
31, 1998. The Blackfoot area in southeastern Alberta is the second largest
natural gas producing area in Canada for the Company. In 1998, 16 new wells were
drilled and numerous recompletions, workovers and facility optimizations were
carried out resulting in deliverability of approximately 30 MMcf per day and 1.2
MBbl per day of crude oil and condensate net to the Company at December 31,
1998. Total Canadian natural gas deliverability net to the Company at December
31, 1998 was approximately 120 MMcf per day, and the Company held approximately
555,000 net undeveloped acres in Canada. Total Canadian natural gas deliveries
net to the Company for 1998 averaged approximately 105 MMcf per day. The Company
expects to maintain an active drilling program in Western Canada for several
years.
 
  OUTSIDE NORTH AMERICA OPERATIONS
 
     The Company has producing operations offshore Trinidad and India, and is
evaluating and conducting exploration, exploitation and development in selected
other international areas.
 
     Trinidad. In November 1992, the Company was awarded a 95% working interest
concession in the South East Coast Consortium ("SECC") Block offshore Trinidad,
encompassing three undeveloped fields, previously held by three government-owned
energy companies. The Kiskadee field has since been developed. The Ibis field is
under development and the Oilbird field is anticipated to be developed over the
next several years. Existing surplus processing and transportation capacity at
the Pelican field facilities owned and operated by Trinidad and Tobago
government-owned companies is being used to process and transport the
production. Natural gas is being sold into the local market under a take-or-pay
agreement with the National Gas Company of Trinidad and Tobago. In 1998,
deliveries net to the Company averaged 139 MMcf per day of natural gas, which
includes 24 MMcf per day of gas balancing volumes relating to a field allocation
agreement, and 3.0 MBbl per day of crude oil and condensate. At December 31,
1998, the Company held approximately 144,000 net undeveloped acres in Trinidad.
 

 
     In 1995, the Company was awarded the right to develop the modified U(a)
block near the SECC Block. A production sharing contract was signed with the
Government of Trinidad and Tobago in 1996. The contract committed the Company to
the acquisition of 3-D seismic data and the drilling of three wells. The first
well was drilled in 1998 and was successful, encountering over 400 feet of net
pay, resulting in the largest exploration discovery in the Company's history.
The Company estimates the gross proved reserves of the discovery to be over 600
billion cubic feet equivalent.
 
     India. In December 1994, the Company signed agreements covering profit
sharing, joint operations and product sales and representing a 30% working
interest in, and was designated operator of, the Tapti, Panna and Mukta Blocks
located offshore Bombay, India. The blocks were previously operated by the
Indian national oil company, Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Limited, which
retained a 40% working interest. The 363,000 acre Tapti Block contains two major
proved natural gas accumulations delineated by 22 expendable exploration wells
that have been plugged. The Company has substantially implemented an initial
development plan for the Tapti Block accumulations and production began during
1997. At December 31, 1998, production, net to the Company, from Tapti was 50
MMcf per day. The 106,000 acre Panna Block and the 192,000 acre Mukta Block are
partially developed with 65 wells capable of producing from six production
platforms located in the Panna and Mukta fields. The Panna field was producing
approximately 7.1 MBbl per day of crude oil net to the Company as of December
31, 1998. Natural gas sales began from the Panna field during the first quarter
of 1998 and as of December 31, 1998, production, net to the Company, was 18 MMcf
per day. The Company intends to continue development of the fields.
 
     Venezuela. The Company was awarded exploration, exploitation and
development rights for a block offshore the eastern state of Sucre, Venezuela in
early 1996. The Company signed agreements with the government of Venezuela and
other participants associated with a concession awarded in the Gulf of Paria
East. The Company holds an initial 90% working interest in the joint venture and
acts as operator. One exploratory well was drilled during 1998 and encountered
hydrocarbons. Additional evaluation work is being done, and another well is
expected to be drilled during 1999.
 
     China. In August 1997, the Company signed a 30-year production sharing
contract with the China National Petroleum Corporation for the appraisal and
potential development of crude oil and natural gas reserves within the
Chuanzhong Block situated in one of China's oldest producing areas in the
central Sichuan Province. The Company holds a 100% working interest in the
fields and is the operator.
 
     The contract provides for a two-year evaluation period during which the
Company will perform three workover/stimulations to improve productivity in
existing wells and will drill three new wells in the proved areas. Further
commitments, if any, would arise from entering into the development period as
specified in the contract. In 1998, the Company drilled and completed one well
and recompleted another well.
 
     Other International. The Company continues to evaluate other selected
conventional natural gas and crude oil opportunities outside North America by
pursuing other exploitation opportunities in countries where indigenous natural
gas and crude oil reserves have been identified, particularly where synergies in
natural gas transportation, processing and power generation can be optimized
with other Enron Corp. affiliated companies. The Company is also participating
in discussions concerning the potential for natural gas development
opportunities in Mozambique as well as other opportunities in Trinidad, India
and other countries. (See "Relationship Between the Company and Enron
Corp. - Business Opportunity Agreement" for a further discussion of the
relationship between the Company and Enron Corp. in the Mozambique project.)
 

 
  MARKETING
 
     Wellhead Marketing. The Company's North America wellhead natural gas
production is currently being sold on the spot market and under long-term
natural gas contracts at market responsive prices. In many instances, the
long-term contract prices closely approximate the prices received for natural
gas being sold on the spot market. Wellhead natural gas volumes from Trinidad
are sold at prices that are based on a fixed price schedule with annual
escalations. Under terms of the production sharing contracts, natural gas
volumes in India are sold to a nominee of the Government of India at a price
linked to a basket of world market fuel oil quotations with floor and ceiling
limits. Approximately 7% of the Company's wellhead natural gas production is
currently being sold to pipeline and marketing subsidiaries of Enron Corp. The
Company believes that the terms of its transactions and agreements with Enron
Corp. are and intends that future such transactions and agreements will be at
least as favorable to the Company as could be obtained from third parties.
 
     Substantially all of the Company's wellhead crude oil and condensate is
sold under various terms and arrangements at market responsive prices.
Approximately 1% of the Company's wellhead crude oil and condensate production
is currently being sold to subsidiaries of Enron Corp.
 
     Other Marketing. Enron Oil & Gas Marketing, Inc. ("EOGM"), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company, is a marketing company engaging in various marketing
activities. Both the Company and EOGM contract to provide, under short and
long-term agreements, natural gas to various purchasers and then aggregate the
necessary supplies for the sales with purchases from various sources including
third-party producers, marketing companies, pipelines or from the Company's own
production and arrange for any necessary transportation to the points of
delivery. In addition, EOGM has purchased and constructed several small
gathering systems in order to facilitate its entry into the gathering business
on a limited basis. Both the Company and EOGM utilize other short and long-term
hedging and trading mechanisms including sales and purchases utilizing
NYMEX-related commodity market transactions. These marketing activities have
provided an effective balance in managing a portion of the Company's exposure to
commodity price risks for both natural gas and crude oil and condensate wellhead
prices. (See "Other Matters - Risk Management").
 
     In September 1992, the Company sold a volumetric production payment for
$326.8 million to a limited partnership. Delivery obligations were terminated in
December 1998. (See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations - Capital Resources and Liquidity - Sale of Volumetric
Production Payment").
 
     In March 1995, in a series of transactions with Enron Corp., the Company
exchanged all of its fuel supply and purchase contracts and related price swap
agreements associated with a Texas City cogeneration plant (the "Cogen
Contracts") for certain natural gas price swap agreements (the "Swap
Agreements") of equivalent value. As a result of the transactions, the Company
was relieved of all performance obligations associated with the Cogen Contracts.
The Company will realize net operating revenues and receive corresponding cash
payments of approximately $91 million during the period extending through
December 31, 1999, under the terms of the Swap Agreements. The estimated fair
value of the Swap Agreements was approximately $81 million at the date the Swap
Agreements were received. The net effect of this series of transactions has
resulted in increases in net operating revenues and cash receipts for the
Company during 1995 and 1996 of approximately $13 million and $7 million,
respectively, with offsetting decreases in 1998 and 1999 versus that anticipated
under the Cogen Contracts.
 

 
WELLHEAD VOLUMES AND PRICES, AND LEASE AND WELL EXPENSES
 
     The following table sets forth certain information regarding the Company's
wellhead volumes of and average prices for natural gas per thousand cubic feet
("Mcf"), crude oil and condensate, and natural gas liquids per barrel ("Bbl"),
and average lease and well expenses per thousand cubic feet equivalent ("Mcfe" -
natural gas equivalents are determined using the ratio of 6.0 Mcf of natural gas
to 1.0 Bbl of crude oil, condensate or natural gas liquids) delivered during
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1998:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Includes 48 MMcf per day in 1998, 1997 and 1996 delivered under the terms of
    a volumetric production payment agreement effective October 1, 1992, as
    amended. Delivery obligations were terminated in December 1998.
 
(2) Includes an average equivalent wellhead value of $1.53 per Mcf in 1998,
    $1.73 per Mcf in 1997, and $1.17 per Mcf in 1996 for the volumes described
    in note (1), net of transportation costs.
 

 
COMPETITION
 
     The Company actively competes for reserve acquisitions and
exploration/exploitation leases, licenses and concessions, frequently against
companies with substantially larger financial and other resources. To the extent
the Company's exploration budget is lower than that of certain of its
competitors, the Company may be disadvantaged in effectively competing for
certain reserves, leases, licenses and concessions. Competitive factors include
price, contract terms, and quality of service, including pipeline connection
times and distribution efficiencies. In addition, the Company faces competition
from other producers and suppliers, including competition from other world wide
energy supplies, such as natural gas from Canada.
 
REGULATION
 
     United States Regulation of Natural Gas and Crude Oil Production. Natural
gas and crude oil production operations are subject to various types of
regulation, including regulation in the United States by state and federal
agencies.
 
     United States legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under
constant review for amendment or expansion. Also, numerous departments and
agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue and have
issued rules and regulations which, among other things, require permits for the
drilling of wells, regulate the spacing of wells, prevent the waste of natural
gas and liquid hydrocarbon resources through proration and restrictions on
flaring, require drilling bonds and regulate environmental and safety matters.
The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases its cost of doing
business and, consequently, affects its profitability.
 
     A substantial portion of the Company's oil and gas leases in the Big Piney
area and in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as some in other areas, are granted by
the federal government and administered by the Bureau of Land Management (the
"BLM") and the Minerals Management Service (the "MMS") federal agencies.
Operations conducted by the Company on federal oil and gas leases must comply
with numerous statutory and regulatory restrictions concerning the above and
other matters. Certain operations must be conducted pursuant to appropriate
permits issued by the BLM and the MMS.
 
     MMS leases contain relatively standardized terms requiring compliance with
detailed MMS regulations and, in the case of offshore leases, orders pursuant to
the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act ("OCSLA") (which are subject to change by
the MMS). Such offshore operations are subject to numerous regulatory
requirements, including the need for prior MMS approval for exploration,
development, and production plans, stringent engineering and construction
specifications applicable to offshore production facilities, regulations
restricting the flaring or venting of production, and regulations governing the
plugging and abandonment of offshore wells and the removal of all production
facilities. Under certain circumstances, the MMS may require operations on
federal leases to be suspended or terminated. Any such suspension or termination
could adversely affect the Company's interests.
 
     The MMS has issued a notice of proposed rulemaking in which it proposes to
amend its regulations governing the calculation of royalties and the valuation
of crude oil produced from federal leases. This proposed rule would modify the
valuation procedures for both arm's length and non-arm's length crude oil
transactions to decrease reliance on oil posted prices and assign a value to
crude oil that, in the opinion of the MMS, better reflects its market value,
establish a new MMS form for collecting differential data, and amend the
valuation procedure for the sale of federal royalty oil. The Company cannot
predict what action the MMS will take on this matter, nor can it predict how the
Company will be affected by any change to this regulation.
 
     The MMS recently issued a final rule to clarify the types of costs that are
deductible transportation costs for purposes of royalty valuation of production
sold off the lease. In particular, the MMS will not allow deduction of costs
associated with marketer fees, cash out and other pipeline imbalance penalties,
or long-term storage fees. The Company cannot predict what, if any, effect the
new rule will have on its operations.
 
     Sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids by the Company are
made at unregulated market prices.
 

 
     The transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate
commerce are regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (the "NGA") and
the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (the "NGPA"). These statutes are administered
by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the "FERC"). Effective January 1,
1993, the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 deregulated natural gas
prices for all "first sales" of natural gas, which includes all sales by the
Company of its own production. All other sales of natural gas by the Company,
such as those of natural gas purchased from third parties, remain jurisdictional
sales subject to a blanket sales certificate under the NGA, which has flexible
terms and conditions. Consequently, all of the Company's sales of natural gas
currently may be made at market prices, subject to applicable contract
provisions. The Company's jurisdictional sales, however, are subject to the
future possibility of greater federal oversight, including the possibility the
FERC might prospectively impose more restrictive conditions on such sales.
 
     Since 1985, the FERC has endeavored to enhance competition in natural gas
markets by making natural gas transportation more accessible to natural gas
buyers and sellers on an open and nondiscriminatory basis. These efforts
culminated in Order No. 636 and various rehearing orders ("Order No. 636"),
which mandate a fundamental restructuring of interstate natural gas pipeline
sales and transportation services, including the "unbundling" by interstate
natural gas pipelines of the sales, transportation, storage, and other
components of their service, and to separately state the rates for each
unbundled service. The courts have largely affirmed the significant features of
Order No. 636 and numerous related orders pertaining to the individual
pipelines, although certain appeals remain pending and the FERC continues to
review and modify its open access regulations. Order No. 636 does not directly
regulate the Company's activities, but has an indirect effect because of its
broad scope. Order No. 636 has ended interstate pipelines' traditional role as
wholesalers of natural gas, and substantially increased competition in natural
gas markets. In spite of this uncertainty, Order No. 636 may enhance the
Company's ability to market and transport its natural gas production, although
it may also subject the Company to more restrictive pipeline imbalance
tolerances and greater penalties for violation of such tolerances.
 
     The Company owns, directly or indirectly, certain natural gas pipelines
that it believes meet the traditional tests the FERC has used to establish a
pipeline's status as a gatherer not subject to FERC jurisdiction under the NGA.
State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety,
environmental, and in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements,
but does not generally entail rate regulation. Natural gas gathering may receive
greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels as the pipeline
restructuring under Order No. 636 is implemented. For example, the Texas
Railroad Commission has approved changes to its regulations governing
transportation and gathering services performed by intrastate pipelines and
gatherers, which prohibit such entities from unduly discriminating in favor of
their affiliates. The Company's gathering operations could be adversely affected
should they be subject in the future to the application of state or federal
regulation of rates and services.
 
     The Company's natural gas gathering operations also may be or become
subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design,
installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement, and management of
facilities. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are
considered or adopted from time to time. The Company cannot predict what effect,
if any, such legislation might have on its operations, but the industry could be
required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased costs depending
on future legislative and regulatory changes.
 
     The FERC has recently begun a broad review of its transportation
regulations, including how they operate in conjunction with state proposals for
retail gas marketing restructuring, whether to eliminate cost-of-service rates
for short-term transportation, whether to allocate all short-term capacity on
the basis of competitive auctions, and whether changes to its long-term
transportation policies may also be appropriate to avail a market bias toward
short-term contracts. While any resulting FERC action would affect the Company
only indirectly, these inquiries are intended to further enhance competition in
natural gas markets, while maintaining adequate consumer protections.
 
     The Company cannot predict the effect that any of the aforementioned orders
or the challenges to such orders will ultimately have on the Company's
operations. Additional proposals and proceedings that might
 

 
affect the natural gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress,
the FERC and the courts. The Company cannot predict when or whether any such
proposals or proceedings may become effective. It should also be noted that the
natural gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore,
there is no assurance that the less regulated approach currently being pursued
by the FERC will continue indefinitely.
 
     Environmental Regulation. Various federal, state and local laws and
regulations covering the discharge of materials into the environment, or
otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, may affect the
Company's operations and costs as a result of their effect on natural gas and
crude oil exploration, development and production operations. Compliance with
such laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on the Company's
operations or financial condition. It is not anticipated, based on current laws
and regulations, that the Company will be required in the near future to expend
amounts that are material in relation to its total exploration and development
expenditure program by reason of environmental laws and regulations, but
inasmuch as such laws and regulations are frequently changed, the Company is
unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance.
 
     Canadian Regulation. In Canada, the petroleum industry is subject to
extensive controls and operates under various provincial and federal legislation
and regulations governing land tenure, royalties, taxes, production rates,
operational standards, environmental protection, health and safety, exports and
other matters. The Company operates within this regulatory framework and
continues to monitor and evaluate the impact of the regulatory regime when
determining parameters for engaging in oil and gas activities and investments in
Canada. The price of natural gas and crude oil in Canada has been deregulated
and is determined by market conditions and negotiations between buyers and
sellers in a North American market place. The North American Free Trade
Agreement supports the on-going cross-border commercial transactions of the
natural gas and crude oil business.
 
     Various matters relating to the transportation and export of natural gas
continue to be subject to regulation by provincial agencies and federally, by
the National Energy Board; however, the North American Free Trade Agreement may
have reduced the risk of altering existing cross-border commercial transactions
through the assurance of fair implementation of regulatory changes, minimal
disruption of contractual arrangements and the prohibition of discriminatory
order restrictions and export taxes.
 
     Canadian governmental regulations may have a material effect on the
economic parameters for engaging in oil and gas activities in Canada and may
have a material effect on the advisability of investments in Canadian oil and
gas drilling activities. The Company is monitoring political, regulatory and
economic developments in Canada.
 
     Other International Regulation. The Company's exploration and production
operations outside North America are subject to various types of regulations
imposed by the respective governments of the countries in which the Company's
operations are conducted, and may affect the Company's operations and costs
within that country. The Company currently has producing operations offshore
Trinidad and India and exploration, exploitation and development activities in
other selected international areas.
 
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND ENRON CORP.
 
     Ownership of Common Stock. Enron Corp. owns a majority of the outstanding
shares of common stock of the Company. Through its ability to elect all of the
directors of the Company, Enron Corp. generally has the ability to control
matters relating to the management and policies of the Company, including
determination with respect to acquisition or disposition of Company assets, the
Company's exploration, development, and operating expenditure plans, future
issuances of common stock or other securities of the Company and dividends
payable on the common stock. (See also "General" relating to the announced
intent by Enron Corp. to explore various potential transactions for its Company
common stock.)
 
     Conflicts of Interest. The nature of the respective businesses of the
Company and Enron Corp. and its other affiliates ("Enron") is such as to give
rise to conflicts of interest between the companies from time to time. Conflicts
may arise, for example, with respect to transactions involving purchases, sales
and transportation of natural gas and other business dealings between the
Company and Enron, potential acquisitions of
 

 
businesses or crude oil and natural gas properties or the payment of dividends
by the Company. In connection with its finance and trading business conducted by
its subsidiaries, Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp. ("ECT") and Enron
International Capital & Trade Corp. ("EICT"), Enron provides or arranges
financing for others, including exploration and production companies, some of
which compete with the Company. Enron may make investments in the debt or equity
of such companies, may make loans secured by crude oil and natural gas
properties or securities of crude oil and natural gas companies, may acquire
production payments or may receive interests in crude oil and natural gas
properties as equity components of lending transactions. As a result of its
finance and trading business, Enron may also acquire crude oil and natural gas
properties or companies upon foreclosure of secured loans or as part of a
borrower's rearrangement of its obligations. Enron also has interests in
entities such as Joint Energy Development Investments Limited Partnership, which
makes debt and equity investments in energy-related businesses, including
exploration and production companies. The acquisition, exploration, development
and production activities of entities in which Enron has interests may directly
or indirectly compete with the Company's business.
 
     Business Opportunity Agreement. In December 1997, Enron Corp. and the
Company entered into an Equity Participation and Business Opportunity Agreement
(the "Business Opportunity Agreement") that defines certain obligations that
Enron owes to the Company and relieves Enron from certain obligations to the
Company that it might otherwise have, including the obligation to offer certain
business opportunities to the Company. Enron has advised the Company that,
although it believes that it has conducted its business in a manner that is
consistent with its duties as a majority shareholder of the Company, it was
motivated to enter into the Business Opportunity Agreement because of the
difficulty of determining the applicability of the law relating to duties that
Enron may owe to the Company in connection with Enron's finance and trading
business and because of Enron's desire to have more flexibility in pursuing
business opportunities identified by or developed solely by Enron personnel. The
Business Opportunity Agreement was approved by the Board of Directors of the
Company after it was approved unanimously by a special committee of the Board of
Directors consisting of the Company's independent directors. The special
committee retained its own legal and financial advisers in connection with its
evaluation of Enron's proposal, and the Business Opportunity Agreement as
executed reflects significant concessions on Enron's part resulting from its
negotiations with members of the special committee.
 
     The Business Opportunity Agreement provides generally that, so long as such
activities are conducted in compliance with the Business Opportunity Agreement
in all material respects, Enron may pursue business opportunities independently
of the Company. The Business Opportunity Agreement contains an acknowledgment by
the Company that Enron's finance and trading business may result in the
acquisition by Enron of oil and gas properties or companies and that in certain
cases Enron or entities in which Enron has an interest may acquire such assets
pursuant to bidding or auction processes in which the Company is also a bidder.
In the Business Opportunity Agreement, the Company acknowledges and agrees that
such activities may have an impact on the Company or the price it pays for
properties or securities it purchases from others, that Enron or entities in
which it has an interest may acquire direct or indirect interests in oil and gas
properties or companies as a result of such activities, may own, operate and
control any such assets in connection therewith, and may acquire additional oil
and gas properties or companies or pursue opportunities related thereto in
connection therewith, in each case without any duty to offer all or any portion
of such assets or opportunities to the Company. The Business Opportunity
Agreement contains an acknowledgment and agreement by the Company that, to the
extent that a court might hold that the conduct of such activity is a breach of
a duty to the Company (and without admitting that the conduct of such activity
is such a breach of duty), the Company waives any and all claims and causes of
action that it may have to claim that the conduct of such activity is a breach
of a duty to the Company.
 
     The Business Opportunity Agreement contains certain restrictions on the
conduct of Enron's business. It also provides that, except with respect to
business opportunities pursued jointly by Enron and the Company and except as
otherwise agreed to between Enron and the Company, Enron's business will be
conducted through the use of its own personnel and assets and not with the use
of any personnel or assets of the Company. Thus, without the consent of the
Company, the finance and trading business conducted by ECT, EICT or other Enron
entities may only involve business opportunities identified by or presented to
ECT
 

 
personnel, EICT personnel or other Enron personnel and developed and pursued
solely through the use of the personnel and assets of ECT, EICT or other Enron
entities. Enron has agreed that, so long as it controls the Company, it will not
pursue any business opportunity a majority of the value of which involves oil
and gas properties if the opportunity is first presented to an officer or
director of Enron who is also an officer or director of the Company at the time
such opportunity is presented, unless Enron first offers such opportunity to the
Company. The Business Opportunity Agreement states that its provisions relate
exclusively to the duties that Enron owes the Company and that nothing in the
Business Opportunity Agreement affects the fiduciary or other duties owed to the
Company by any individual director or officer of the Company in his or her
capacity as such. In this connection, Enron has agreed that its representatives
on the Board of Directors of the Company will not, for the purpose of enabling
Enron to pursue an opportunity in the oil and gas business, vote in such a
manner as to effectively prevent, prohibit or restrict the Company from pursuing
such opportunity.
 
     In consideration for the Company's agreements in the Business Opportunity
Agreement, Enron provided valuable consideration to the Company, including
options to purchase common stock of Enron that will give the Company the
opportunity to participate in future appreciation in value of Enron, including
any appreciation in value resulting from activities that the Company has agreed
to permit Enron and its subsidiaries to pursue. Enron granted the Company ten
year options to purchase 3,200,000 shares of Enron common stock at $39.1875 per
share, the closing price per share on the date that the Company's Board of
Directors approved the Business Opportunity Agreement. The options vest in
accordance with a schedule that provides that 25% vested immediately, 15% vest
on the anniversary of the Business Opportunity Agreement in 1998 and 10% vest
each anniversary thereafter until all of the options are vested. Vesting will be
accelerated in the event of a change of control of the Company. For such
purposes a "change of control" means that (a) Enron no longer owns capital stock
of the Company representing at least 35% of the voting power for the election of
directors and (b) a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the
Company consists of persons who are not officers or directors of Enron or any
affiliate of Enron other than the Company. The Business Opportunity Agreement
also included (i) an agreement to replace the existing services agreement, under
which Enron provides certain services to the Company, with a new services
agreement under which the Company's maximum payments to Enron for allocated
indirect costs will be reduced by $2.8 million per year, (ii) an agreement by
Enron relieving the Company of the obligation to bear the costs of any
registration of sales by Enron of shares of common stock of the Company, (iii)
an agreement by Enron to pay the costs of registration of the Company's sales of
Enron common stock acquired upon exercise of the options granted in the Business
Opportunity Agreement, (iv) an agreement that if Enron takes any action that
results in the loss by the Company of its status as an "independent producer"
under the Internal Revenue Code, Enron will pay the Company each year through
2006 the lesser of (a) $1 million and (b) an amount which, after payment of
applicable taxes, will compensate the Company for the additional income tax
liability resulting from the loss of independent producer status, (v) an
agreement that if Enron requests that the Company relocate its offices, and if
the Company agrees to do so, Enron will pay the Company's moving expenses,
including expenses of building out or refurbishing the space in its new offices
and expenses of removing and reinstalling the Company's telecommunications and
information systems facilities and (vi) an agreement by Enron to reimburse the
Company for the costs and expenses of legal and financial consultants retained
to assist the special committee in connection with the Business Opportunity
Agreement. In addition, pursuant to the Business Opportunity Agreement, Enron
agreed to cause its subsidiary, Houston Pipe Line Company, to enter into various
agreements with the Company rearranging certain existing contractual
arrangements between them, and Enron and the Company entered into a licensing
agreement covering the Enron name and mark and recognizing that the EOG and EOGI
names and marks belong to the Company. In the Business Opportunity Agreement
Enron and the Company also entered into agreements in principle regarding the
manner in which they will share the burdens and benefits of the integrated
projects under joint development by Enron and the Company in Qatar, Mozambique
and Uzbekistan. The agreements in principle provide generally that the Company's
interests in these projects will be 20%, 20% and 80%, respectively, of the
combined ownership interest of the Company and Enron. In December 1998, the
Company sold its interest in the Uzbekistan project and anticipates disposing of
its interest in the Qatar project in early 1999.
 
     The Business Opportunity Agreement also contains provisions that give Enron
the right to maintain its equity interest in the Company at certain levels. It
provides that if the Company issues additional shares of its

 
capital stock Enron will have the right to purchase additional shares of capital
stock of the Company as follows: (i) if Enron owns a majority interest, Enron
will have the right to purchase sufficient shares to permit it to retain its
majority interest; (ii) if Enron does not own a majority interest but accounts
for the assets and operations of the Company on a consolidated basis for
financial reporting purposes Enron will have the right to purchase sufficient
shares to permit it to continue to account for the Company on a consolidated
basis; and (iii) if Enron accounts for the assets and operations of the Company
using the equity method for financial reporting purposes Enron will have the
right to purchase sufficient shares to permit it to continue to account for the
Company using the equity method. Any such purchase by Enron will be for cash at
97% of the average closing price per share over a specified 20 day period
(reflecting a 3% private placement discount).
 
     Contractual Arrangements. As part of the Business Opportunity Agreement,
the Company entered into a Services Agreement (the "Services Agreement") with
Enron Corp. effective January 1, 1997, pursuant to which Enron Corp. provides
various services, such as maintenance of certain employee benefit plans,
provision of certain telecommunications and computer services, lease of certain
office space and the provision of certain purchasing and operating services and
certain other corporate staff and support services. Such services historically
have been supplied to the Company by Enron Corp., and the Services Agreement
provides for the further delivery of such services substantially identical in
nature and quality to those services previously provided. The Company has agreed
to a fixed rate for the rental of office space and to reimburse Enron Corp. for
all other direct costs incurred in rendering services to the Company under the
contract and to pay Enron Corp. for allocated indirect costs incurred in
rendering such services up to a maximum of approximately $5.1 million for 1998
and $5.3 million for 1997. The limit on cost for the allocated indirect services
provided by Enron Corp. to the Company will increase in subsequent years for
inflation and certain changes in the Company's allocation bases. The Services
Agreement is for an initial term of ten years through December 2006 and will
continue thereafter until terminated by either party.
 
     In March 1995, in a series of transactions with Enron Corp., the Company
exchanged all of its fuel supply and purchase contracts and related price swap
agreements associated with a Texas City cogeneration plant (the "Cogen
Contracts") for certain natural gas price swap agreements (the "Swap
Agreements") of equivalent value. As a result of the transactions, the Company
was relieved of all performance obligations associated with the Cogen Contracts.
The Company will realize net operating revenues and receive corresponding cash
payments of approximately $91 million during the period extending through
December 31, 1999 under the terms of the Swap Agreements. The estimated fair
value of the Swap Agreements was approximately $81 million at the date the Swap
Agreements were received. The net effect of this series of transactions has
resulted in increases in net operating revenues and cash receipts for the
Company during 1995 and 1996 of approximately $13 million and $7 million,
respectively, with offsetting decreases in 1998 and 1999 versus that anticipated
under the Cogen Contracts.
 
     The Company and Enron Corp. have in the past entered into material
intercompany transactions and agreements incident to their respective
businesses, and they may be expected to enter into such transactions and
agreements in the future. Such transactions and agreements have related to,
among other things, the purchase and sale of natural gas and crude oil, hedging
and trading activities, the financing of exploration and development efforts by
the Company, and the provision of certain corporate services. (See "Marketing"
and the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto). The Company
believes that its existing transactions and agreements with Enron Corp. have
been at least as favorable to the Company as could be obtained from third
parties, and the Company intends that the terms of any future transactions and
agreements between the Company and Enron Corp. will be at least as favorable to
the Company as could be obtained from third parties.
 
OTHER MATTERS
 
     Energy Prices. Since the Company is primarily a natural gas company, it is
more significantly impacted by changes in natural gas prices than in the prices
for crude oil, condensate or natural gas liquids. During recent periods,
domestic natural gas has been priced significantly below parity with crude oil
and condensate based on the energy equivalency of, and differences in
transportation and processing costs associated with, the respective products
although that relationship improved during 1998. This imbalance in parity has
been

 
primarily driven by, among other things, a supply of domestic natural gas
volumes in excess of demand requirements. The Company is unable to predict when
this supply imbalance may be resolved due to the significant impacts of factors
such as general economic conditions, technology developments, weather and other
international energy supplies over which the Company has no control.
 
     Average North America wellhead natural gas prices have fluctuated, at times
rather dramatically, during the last three years. While these fluctuations
resulted in increases in average North America wellhead natural gas prices
received by the Company of 43% from 1995 to 1996 and 15% from 1996 to 1997, the
average North America wellhead natural gas prices realized by the Company from
1997 to 1998 decreased by 15%. Wellhead natural gas volumes from Trinidad are
sold at prices that are based on a fixed schedule with periodic escalations.
Natural gas deliveries in India commenced in June 1997 and, under the terms of
the production sharing contracts, the price of such deliveries are indexed to a
basket of world market fuel oil quotations structured to include floor and
ceiling limits. Due to the many uncertainties associated with the world
political environment, the availabilities of other world wide energy supplies
and the relative competitive relationships of the various energy sources in the
view of the consumers, the Company is unable to predict what changes may occur
in natural gas prices in the future.
 
     Substantially all of the Company's wellhead crude oil and condensate is
sold under various terms and arrangements at market responsive prices. Crude oil
and condensate prices also have fluctuated during the last three years. Due to
the many uncertainties associated with the world political environment, the
availabilities of other world wide energy supplies and the relative competitive
relationships of the various energy sources in the view of the consumers, the
Company is unable to predict what changes may occur in crude oil and condensate
prices in the future.
 
     Risk Management. The Company engages in price risk management activities
from time to time primarily for non-trading and to a lesser extent for trading
purposes. Derivative financial instruments (primarily price swaps and costless
collars) are utilized for non-trading purposes to hedge the impact of market
fluctuations of natural gas and crude oil market prices on net income and cash
flow.
 
     At December 31, 1998, the Company had outstanding crude oil commodity price
swap transactions, designated as hedges, covering approximately 700 MBbl of
crude oil and condensate for 1999. The fair value of the positions was a net
revenue increase of $4 million at December 31, 1998.
 
     At December 31, 1998, based on the portion of the Company's anticipated
natural gas volumes for 1999 for which prices have not, in effect, been hedged
using NYMEX-related commodity market transactions and long-term marketing
contracts, the Company's net income and cash flow sensitivity to changing
natural gas prices is approximately $18 million for each $.10 per Mcf change in
average wellhead natural gas prices. While the Company is not impacted as
significantly by changing crude oil prices for those volumes not otherwise
hedged, its net income and cash flow sensitivity is approximately $6 million for
$1.00 per barrel change in average wellhead crude oil prices. Natural gas prices
received in India fluctuate between floor and ceiling price limits based on
prices for a basket of petroleum products.
 
     Tight Gas Sand Tax Credits (Section 29) and Severance Tax Exemption. United
States federal tax law provides a tax credit for production of certain fuels
produced from nonconventional sources (including natural gas produced from tight
formations), subject to a number of limitations. Fuels qualifying for the credit
must be produced from a well drilled or a facility placed in service after
November 5, 1990 and before January 1, 1993, and must be sold before January 1,
2003.
 
     The credit, which is currently approximately $.52 per million British
thermal units ("MMBtu") of natural gas, is computed by reference to the price of
crude oil, and is phased out as the price of crude oil exceeds $23.50 in 1980
dollars (adjusted for inflation) with complete phaseout if such price exceeds
$29.50 in 1980 dollars (similarly adjusted). Under this formula, the
commencement of phaseout would be triggered if the average price for crude oil
rose above approximately $48 per barrel in current dollars. Significant benefits
from the tax credit have accrued and continue to accrue to the Company since a
portion (and in some cases a substantial portion) of the Company's natural gas
production from new wells drilled after November 5, 1990,
 

 
and before January 1, 1993, on the Company's leases in several of the Company's
significant producing areas qualify for this tax credit.
 
     Natural gas production from wells spudded or completed after May 24, 1989
and before September 1, 1996 in tight formations in Texas qualifies for a
ten-year exemption, ending August 31, 2001, from severance taxes, subject to
certain limitations. In 1995, the drilling qualification period was extended in
a modified and somewhat reduced form from September 1996 through August 2002.
Consequently, new qualifying production will be added prospectively to that
presently qualified.
 
     Other. All of the Company's natural gas and crude oil activities are
subject to the risks normally incident to the exploration for and development
and production of natural gas and crude oil, including blowouts, cratering and
fires, each of which could result in damage to life and property. Offshore
operations are subject to usual marine perils, including hurricanes and other
adverse weather conditions, and governmental regulations as well as interruption
or termination by governmental authorities based on environmental and other
considerations. In accordance with customary industry practices, insurance is
maintained by the Company against some, but not all, of the risks. Losses and
liabilities arising from such events could reduce revenues and increase costs to
the Company to the extent not covered by insurance.
 
     The Company's operations outside of North America are subject to certain
risks, including expropriation of assets, risks of increases in taxes and
government royalties, renegotiation of contracts with foreign governments,
political instability, payment delays, limits on allowable levels of production
and currency exchange and repatriation losses, as well as changes in laws,
regulations and policies governing operations of foreign companies generally.
 

 
CURRENT EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The current executive officers of the Company and their names and ages are
as follows (all positions are with the Company unless otherwise noted):
 

 
     Forrest E. Hoglund joined the Company as Chairman of the Board and Director
in September 1987. He also served as Chief Executive Officer of the Company
until September 1998 and served as President from May 1990 until December 1996.
Mr. Hoglund is an advisory director of Chase Bank of Texas, National
Association.
 
     Mark G. Papa was elected President and Chief Executive Officer and Director
of the Company in September 1998, President and Chief Operating Officer in
September 1997, President in December 1996 and was President North America
Operations from February 1994 to September 1998. From May 1986 through January
1994, Mr. Papa served as Senior Vice President - Operations. Mr. Papa joined
Belco Petroleum Corporation, a predecessor of the Company, in 1981.
 
     Edmund P. Segner, III became Vice Chairman and Chief of Staff of the
Company in September 1997. Mr. Segner was a director of the Company from January
1997 to October 1997. Mr. Segner joined Enron Corp. in 1988 and was Executive
Vice President and Chief of Staff.
 
     Dennis M. Ulak has been President - International Operations since January
1996 with responsibility for activities outside North America. Mr. Ulak also
serves as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Enron Oil & Gas International,
Inc. Mr. Ulak joined the Company in March 1987 as Senior Counsel and was named
Assistant General Counsel for international operations in February 1989,
Assistant General Counsel in August 1990 and Vice President and General Counsel
in March 1992.
 
     Jeffrey B. Sherrick joined the Company in July 1989 and has been President
and Chief Operating Officer of Enron Oil & Gas International, Inc., since
September 1997. Mr. Sherrick was previously Senior Vice President, Acquisitions
and Engineering of the Company.
 
     Loren M. Leiker joined the Company in April 1989 and has been Executive
Vice President, Exploration since May 1998. Mr. Leiker was previously Senior
Vice President, Exploration of the Company.
 
     Gary L. Thomas was elected Executive Vice President, North American
Operations in May 1998. He was previously Senior Vice President and General
Manager of the Company's Midland Division. Mr. Thomas joined a predecessor of
the Company in July 1978.
 
     Barry Hunsaker, Jr. has been Senior Vice President and General Counsel
since he joined the Company in May 1996. Prior to joining the Company, Mr.
Hunsaker was a partner in the law firm of Vinson & Elkins L.L.P.
 
     Walter C. Wilson joined the Company in November 1987 and has been Senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 1991.
 

 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION PROPERTIES AND RESERVES
 
     Reserve Information. For estimates of the Company's net proved and proved
developed reserves of natural gas and liquids, including crude oil, condensate
and natural gas liquids, see "Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial
Statements".
 
     There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of
proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of
development expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the
producer. The reserve data set forth in Supplemental Information to Consolidated
Financial Statements represent only estimates. Reserve engineering is a
subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas and
liquids, including crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids, that cannot be
measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function
of the amount and quality of available data and of engineering and geological
interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers
normally vary. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production
subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revision of such estimate.
Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities
ultimately recovered. The meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent
upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they were based.
 
     In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties owned by
the Company declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent the Company
acquires additional properties containing proved reserves or conducts successful
exploration, exploitation and development activities, the proved reserves of the
Company will decline as reserves are produced. Volumes generated from future
activities of the Company are therefore highly dependent upon the level of
success in finding or acquiring additional reserves and the costs incurred in so
doing. The Company's estimates of reserves filed with other federal agencies
agree with the information set forth in Supplemental Information to Consolidated
Financial Statements.
 

 
     Acreage. The following table summarizes the Company's developed and
undeveloped acreage at December 31, 1998. Excluded is acreage in which the
Company's interest is limited to owned royalty, overriding royalty and other
similar interests.
 

 
     Producing Well Summary. The following table reflects the Company's
ownership in gas and oil wells located in Texas, the Gulf of Mexico, Oklahoma,
New Mexico, Utah, Wyoming, and various other states, Canada, Trinidad, India and
China at December 31, 1998. Gross gas and oil wells include 255 with multiple
completions.
 

 

 
     Drilling and Acquisition Activities. During the years ended December 31,
1998, 1997 and 1996 the Company spent approximately $769 million, $693 million
and $599 million, respectively, for exploratory and development drilling and
acquisition of leases and producing properties. The Company drilled,
participated in the drilling of or acquired wells as set out in the table below
for the periods indicated:
 

 
- ---------------
 
* Includes the acquisition of additional interests in certain wells in which the
  Company previously acquired an interest.
 
     All of the Company's drilling activities are conducted on a contract basis
with independent drilling contractors. The Company owns no drilling equipment.
 

 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     The Company and its subsidiaries and related companies are named defendants
in numerous lawsuits and named parties in numerous governmental proceedings
arising in the ordinary course of business. While the outcome of lawsuits or
other proceedings against the Company cannot be predicted with certainty,
management does not expect these matters to have a material adverse effect on
the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
     Enron Oil & Gas India Ltd. ("EOGIL"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company, is a respondent in two public interest lawsuits filed in the Delhi High
Court, India. The first (the "Wadehra Action") was brought by B. L. Wadehra, an
Indian public interest lawyer, against the Union of India, EOGIL, EOGIL co-
participants in the Panna and Mukta fields, Reliance Industries Limited
("Reliance") and Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Limited ("ONGC"), and certain
other respondents. ONGC is the Indian national oil company and is wholly-owned
by the Union of India. The second suit (the "CPIL Action") was brought by the
Centre for Public Interest Litigation and the National Alliance of People's
Movement against the Union of India, the Central Bureau of Investigation, ONGC,
Reliance and EOGIL. Petitioners in both the Wadehra Action and the CPIL Action
allege various improprieties in the award of the Panna and Mukta fields to
EOGIL, Reliance and ONGC, and seek the cancellation of the Production Sharing
Contract for the Panna and Mukta fields. The Union of India is vigorously
disputing these allegations. The Company believes that the public competitive
bidding process for the fields was fair and that the award of these fields to
EOGIL, Reliance and ONGC was proper. Following a series of hearings, the Delhi
High Court has entered an order dismissing both lawsuits. The plaintiffs have
filed a special leave petition seeking to appeal this decision to the India
Supreme Court. Although no assurances can be given, based on currently available
information the Company believes that the claims made by the petitioners in both
actions are without merit, and that the ultimate resolution of these matters
will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of
operations.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the
fourth quarter of 1998.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER
MATTERS
 
     The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low
sales prices per share for the common stock of the Company, as reported on the
New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape, and the amount of cash dividends paid
per share.
 

 
     As of March 1, 1999, there were approximately 440 record holders of the
Company's common stock, including individual participants in security position
listings. There are an estimated 22,000 beneficial owners of the Company's
common stock, including shares held in street name.
 
     The Company currently intends to continue to pay quarterly cash dividends
on its outstanding shares of common stock. However, the determination of the
amount of future cash dividends, if any, to be declared and paid will depend
upon, among other things, the financial condition, funds from operations, level
of exploration, exploitation and development expenditure opportunities and
future business prospects of the Company.
 

 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 

 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Includes benefits of approximately $12 million, $12 million, $16 million,
    $22 million and $36 million in 1998, 1997, 1996, 1995 and 1994,
    respectively, relating to tight gas sand federal income tax credits.
 
(2) Includes a benefit of $2 million related to the final audit assessments of
    India taxes for certain prior years, a benefit of $3.8 million related to
    reduced deferred franchise taxes, and $3.5 million related to Venezuela
    deferred tax benefits.
 
(3) Includes a benefit of $15 million primarily associated with the refiling of
    certain Canadian tax returns and the sale of certain international assets
    and subsidiaries.
 
(4) Includes a benefit of $9 million primarily associated with a reassessment of
    deferred tax requirements and the successful resolution on audit of Canadian
    income taxes for certain prior years.
 
(5) Includes a benefit of approximately $14 million associated with the
    successful resolution on audit of federal income taxes for certain prior
    years.
 
(6) Includes a benefit of approximately $8 million related to reduced estimated
    state income taxes and certain franchise taxes, a portion of which is
    treated as income tax under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    ("SFAS") No. 109 - "Accounting for Income Taxes", and a $5 million benefit
    from the reduction of the Company's deferred federal income tax liability
    resulting from a reevaluation of deferred tax requirements.
 

 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS
 
     The following review of operations for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1998 should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements of the Company and notes thereto beginning
with page F-1.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
     Net Operating Revenues. Wellhead volume and price statistics for the
specified years were as follows:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Includes 48 MMcf per day in 1998, 1997 and 1996 delivered under the terms of
    a volumetric production payment agreement effective October 1, 1992, as
    amended. Delivery obligations were terminated in December 1998.
 
(2) Includes an average equivalent wellhead value of $1.53 per Mcf in 1998,
    $1.73 per Mcf in 1997, and $1.17 per Mcf in 1996 for the volumes detailed in
    note (1), net of transportation costs.
 
(3) Includes natural gas and crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
 

 
     1998 compared to 1997. During 1998, net operating revenues decreased $14
million to $769 million. Total wellhead revenues of $755 million decreased by
$74 million, or 9%, as compared to 1997.
 
     Average wellhead natural gas prices for 1998 were approximately 14% lower
than the comparable period in 1997 reducing net operating revenues by
approximately $104 million. Average wellhead crude oil and condensate prices
were down by 34% worldwide decreasing net operating revenues by $60 million.
Revenues from the sale of natural gas liquids decreased $6 million primarily due
to lower wellhead prices. Wellhead natural gas volumes were approximately 9%
higher than the comparable period in 1997 increasing net operating revenues by
nearly $62 million. Natural gas production in India increased 38 MMcf per day
from the Tapti and Panna fields, which did not commence deliveries until late in
the second quarter of 1997 and the first quarter of 1998, respectively.
Production in Trinidad increased 26 MMcf per day due primarily to additional
volumes above the current contract level relating to gas balancing volumes
pursuant to a field allocation agreement. North America wellhead natural gas
production was approximately 2% higher than the comparable period in 1997.
Wellhead crude oil and condensate volumes were 24% higher than in 1997
increasing net operating revenues by $34 million. Production from the Panna and
Mukta fields in India more than doubled as a result of the ongoing development
program and shut-down of crude oil production in the second quarter of 1997 to
allow for the conversion from temporary to permanent production facilities.
North America crude oil and condensate volumes increased 17% due primarily to
higher levels of liquids production in South Texas and offshore.
 
     Other marketing activities associated with sales and purchases of natural
gas, natural gas and crude oil price hedging and trading transactions, and
margins related to the volumetric production payment decreased net operating
revenue by $4 million during 1998, compared to a $61 million reduction in 1997,
representing an improvement of $57 million.
 
     1997 compared to 1996. During 1997, net operating revenues increased $53
million to $784 million. Total wellhead revenues of $828 million increased by
$129 million, or 18%, as compared to 1996.
 
     Average wellhead natural gas prices for 1997 were up approximately 16% from
the comparable period in 1996 increasing net operating revenues by approximately
$82 million. Wellhead natural gas volumes were up 7% from 1996 adding net
operating revenues of approximately $49 million. This is primarily attributable
to a 7% increase in North America wellhead natural gas volumes and commencement
of natural gas production from the Tapti field in India. Wellhead crude oil and
condensate average prices decreased 6%, reducing net operating revenues by
approximately $10 million from 1996. Wellhead crude oil and condensate volumes
increased slightly from the comparable period a year ago and added approximately
$2 million to net operating revenues as a 23% increase in North America wellhead
crude oil and condensate volumes was partially offset by a natural decline in
crude oil production from the Ibis field offshore Trinidad.
 
     Gains on the sales of reserves and related assets totaled $9 million in
1997 as compared to $20 million realized in 1996, reflecting a lower level of
sales activity.
 
     Other marketing activities associated with sales and purchases of natural
gas, natural gas and crude oil price hedging and trading transactions, and
margins related to the volumetric production payment decreased net operating
revenues by $61 million during 1997, compared to a $4 million increase in 1996.
A $51 million revenue reduction related to natural gas commodity price hedging
activities utilizing NYMEX-related commodity market transactions in 1997
partially offset greater wellhead price benefits noted above and compares to a
$13 million revenue increase associated with similar transactions a year ago. A
decrease in margins associated with sales and purchases of natural gas and the
volumetric production payment reduced net revenues by approximately $9 million
as compared to an $18 million addition in 1996, primarily resulting from higher
costs of natural gas delivered in 1997. Additionally, the Company incurred a $5
million revenue reduction on its NYMEX-related crude oil price swap transactions
in 1997 compared to a $13 million revenue reduction in 1996.
 

 
  Operating Expenses
 
     1998 compared to 1997. During 1998, operating expenses of $656 million were
approximately $65 million higher than the $591 million incurred in 1997.
 
     Lease and well expenses increased $3 million to $99 million primarily due
to commencement of operations in China. Exploration expenses of $66 million and
dry hole expenses of $23 million increased $8 million and $5 million,
respectively, from 1997 primarily due to increased exploratory drilling and
other exploration activities in North America. Impairment of unproved oil and
gas properties increased $5 million to $32 million resulting from a full year of
impairment recorded on unproved leases acquired in 1997 in North America.
Depreciation, depletion and amortization ("DD&A") expense increased
approximately $37 million to $315 million in 1998 primarily reflecting a higher
per unit rate in North America and increased worldwide production volumes.
General and administrative expenses were $15 million higher than in 1997 due to
expanded worldwide operations. Taxes other than income were down by
approximately $8 million from the prior year primarily due to lower state
severance taxes associated with decreased wellhead revenues in the United
States.
 
     Total operating costs per unit of production, which include lease and well,
DD&A, general and administrative, taxes other than income and interest expense,
increased 2% to $1.40 per thousand cubic feet equivalent ("Mcfe") in 1998 from
$1.37 per Mcfe in 1997. This increase is primarily due to a higher per unit rate
of interest expense, DD&A expense and general and administrative expenses,
partially offset by a lower per unit rate of lease and well expense and taxes
other than income.
 
     1997 compared to 1996. During 1997, operating expenses of $591 million were
approximately $69 million higher than the $522 million incurred in 1996.
 
     Lease and well expenses increased $19 million to $96 million primarily due
to expanded operations and increased North America production activities at
higher costs to maximize the volumes delivered at higher product prices.
Exploration expenses of $58 million and dry hole expenses of $17 million
increased $3 million and $4 million, respectively, from 1996 primarily due to
increased exploratory drilling activities in North America. Impairment of
unproved oil and gas properties increased $6 million to $27 million as a result
of increased acquisition of unproved leases in North America. DD&A expense
increased approximately $27 million to $278 million in 1997 primarily reflecting
an increase in North America production volumes. Taxes other than income were up
by approximately $12 million from the prior year primarily due to higher state
severance taxes associated with increased wellhead revenues in the United
States.
 
     Total operating costs per unit of production, which include lease and well,
DD&A, general and administrative, taxes other than income and interest expense,
increased 9% to $1.37 per Mcfe in 1997 from $1.26 per Mcfe in 1996. This
increase was primarily attributable to increased lease and well costs industry-
wide, higher per unit DD&A and higher interest expense associated with expanded
worldwide operations, partially offset by lower per unit general and
administrative expenses.
 
     Other Income (Expense). The net expense for 1998 was primarily comprised of
provisions for doubtful accounts receivable associated with certain
international activities and contract settlements partially offset by interest
income.
 
     Interest Expense. The increase in net interest expense of $21 million from
1997 to 1998 and $15 million from 1996 to 1997 primarily reflects a higher level
of debt outstanding due to expanded worldwide operations and common stock
repurchases. (See Note 4 to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
 
     Income Taxes. Income tax provision decreased approximately $37 million for
1998 as compared to 1997 and decreased approximately $9 million for 1997 as
compared to 1996 primarily due to lower pre-tax income year to year.
 
CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY
 
     Cash Flow. The primary sources of cash for the Company during the
three-year period ended December 31, 1998 included funds generated from
operations, proceeds from the sales of selected oil and gas

 
reserves and related assets and proceeds from new borrowings. Primary cash
outflows included funds used in operations, exploration and development
expenditures, common stock repurchases, dividends paid to Company shareholders
and the repayment of debt.
 
     Net operating cash flows of $404 million in 1998 decreased approximately
$127 million as compared to 1997 primarily reflecting increased working capital
for operating activities, higher interest expense, decreased operating revenues,
increased cash operating expenses and increased cash taxes. Changes in working
capital and other liabilities decreased operating cash flows by $72 million as
compared to 1997 primarily due to the payment of $25 million of income taxes due
under the 1997 tax agreement with Enron Corp. and changes in accounts
receivable, accrued royalties payable and accrued production taxes caused by
fluctuation of commodity prices at each year end. Net investing cash outflows of
$760 million in 1998 increased by $63 million as compared to 1997 due primarily
to increased exploration and development expenditures of $78 million, partially
offset by higher proceeds from sales of reserves and related assets of $24
million. Changes in Components of Working Capital Associated with Investing
Activities included for all periods changes in accounts payable related to the
accrual of exploration and development expenditures and changes in inventories
which represent materials and equipment used in drilling and related activities.
Cash provided by financing activities in 1998 was $353 million as compared to
$168 million in 1997. Financing activities in 1998 included the net issuance of
$402 million of long-term debt primarily to fund exploration and development
activities, to repurchase shares of the Company's common stock and to pay cash
dividends. Share repurchases in 1998 totaled $26 million as compared to
repurchases of $99 million in 1997. Dividend payments were approximately $19
million in each year.
 
     Net operating cash flows of $531 million in 1997 increased approximately
$166 million as compared to 1996 due to higher production related net operating
revenues net of cash operating expenses, lower current income taxes and reduced
working capital requirements. The working capital changes primarily reflected
higher 1996 end of year operating revenues collected in 1997 partially offset by
the higher level of end of year 1996 operating-related accounts payable paid in
1997. Net investing cash outflows of $697 million in 1997 increased by
approximately $185 million as compared to 1996 due primarily to increased
exploration and development expenditures of approximately $93 million and
reduced proceeds from sales of reserves and related assets of $26 million. The
investing cash outflows in 1997 included a $22 million increase in working
capital requirements associated with investing activities as compared to a $37
million decrease in 1996 primarily related to the timing of drilling
expenditures. Cash provided by financing activities in 1997 increased $37
million, as compared to 1996, to $168 million. Financing activities in 1997
included the net issuance of $279 million of long-term debt as compared to $179
million issued in 1996. Share repurchases were $99 million in 1997 as compared
to $44 million in 1996, and dividends paid were approximately $19 million in
each year.
 
     Discretionary cash flow, a frequently used measure of performance for
exploration and production companies, is generally derived by adjusting net
income to eliminate the effects of depreciation, depletion and amortization,
impairment of unproved oil and gas properties, deferred income taxes, gains on
sales of oil and gas reserves and related assets, certain other non-cash
amounts, except for amortization of deferred revenue, and exploration and dry
hole costs. The Company generated discretionary cash flow of approximately $463
million in 1998, $508 million in 1997 and $479 million in 1996.
 
     Volumetric Production Payment. In September 1992, the Company sold a
volumetric production payment for $326.8 million to a limited partnership. (See
Note 5 to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Under the terms of the production
payment, as amended October 1, 1993, the Company conveyed a real property
interest of certain natural gas and other hydrocarbons to the purchaser.
Deliveries were scheduled at the rate of 50 billion British thermal units per
day through March 31, 1999. The Company accounted for the proceeds received in
the transaction as deferred revenue, which was amortized into revenue and income
as natural gas and other hydrocarbons were produced and delivered during the
term of the volumetric production payment agreement. In December 1998, the
Company settled the remainder of the contract in cash which was not materially
different from the recorded deferred revenue, and delivery obligations were
terminated.
 

 
     Exploration and Development Expenditures. The table below sets out
components of actual exploration and development expenditures for the years
ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, along with those budgeted for the year
1999.
 

 
     Exploration and development expenditures increased $78 million in 1998 as
compared to 1997 primarily due to the third quarter 1998 acquisition of
producing properties in the Gulf of Mexico for $156 million. Unproved leasehold
acquisitions decreased $41 million primarily in North America. Drilling and
facilities expenditures declined by approximately $25 million in 1998 as
decreased activity in North America and lower expenditures in India were
partially offset by new drilling in Trinidad and Venezuela. While development
activities continued in India, expenditures in 1998 were less than in 1997 due
to 1997 expenditures associated with the installation of permanent production
facilities.
 
     Exploration and development expenditures increased $93 million in 1997 as
compared to 1996 primarily due to increased exploration and development
activities in the United States and the acquisition of producing properties in
South Texas and in the Blackfoot area in Canada. Partially offsetting these
increases were the reduction of construction expenditures in India related to
the Tapti and Panna/Mukta production facilities which were completed in 1997.
(See "Business - Exploration and Production" for additional information
detailing the specific geographic locations of the Company's drilling programs
and "Outlook" below for a discussion related to 1999 exploration and development
expenditure plans).
 
     Hedging Transactions. The Company's 1998 NYMEX-related natural gas and
crude oil commodity price swaps closed with "other marketing revenue" increases
of $1 million pretax and $5 million pretax, respectively. At December 31, 1998,
there were open crude oil commodity price swaps for 1999 covering approximately
700 MBbl of crude oil at a weighted average price of $18.85 per barrel. There
were no outstanding natural gas commodity price swaps.
 
     Financing. The Company's long-term debt-to-total-capital ratio was 47% and
37% as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.
 
     During 1998, total long-term debt increased $402 million to $1,143 million
as a result of borrowings related to increased exploration and development
expenditures and the repurchase of the Company's common stock. (See Note 4 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements). The estimated fair value of the
Company's long-term debt at December 31, 1998 and 1997 was $1,141 million and
$744 million, respectively, based upon quoted market prices and, where such
prices were not available, upon interest rates currently available to the
Company at year end. The Company's debt is primarily at fixed interest rates. At
December 31, 1998, a 1% change in interest rates would result in a $49 million
change in the estimated fair value of the fixed rate obligations. (See Note 14
to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Certain borrowings of the Company
contain covenants requiring the maintenance of certain financial ratios and
limitations on liens, debt issuance and dispositions of assets. These covenants
include a 50% debt-to-total-capital limitation. Should commodity price levels
experienced in late 1998 and early 1999 persist, the resulting reduction in cash
flow available from
 

 
operations may necessitate further action(s) which could include a reduction in
capital expenditure plans, the issuance of preferred stock and/or common equity,
and/or the renegotiation of the debt covenants in order to remain in compliance.
 
     The Company maintains reciprocal agreements with Enron Corp. that provide
for the borrowing by the Company of up to $200 million and investing by the
Company of surplus funds of up to $200 million at market-based interest rates
through December 31, 1999. Advances from Enron Corp. of $200 million and $193
million were outstanding as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. There
were no investments with Enron Corp. as of December 31, 1998 or 1997.
 
     Outlook. Uncertainty continues to exist as to the direction of future North
America natural gas and crude oil price trends, and there remains a rather wide
divergence in the opinions held by some in the industry. This divergence in
opinion is caused by various factors including improvements in the technology
used in drilling and completing crude oil and natural gas wells that are tending
to mitigate the impacts of fewer crude oil and natural gas wells being drilled,
improvements being realized in the availability and utilization of natural gas
storage capacity and warmer than normal weather experienced in 1998. However,
the continually increasing recognition of natural gas as a more environmentally
friendly source of energy along with the availability of significant
domestically sourced supplies should result in further increases in demand and a
supporting/strengthening of the overall natural gas market over time. Being
primarily a natural gas producer, the Company is more significantly impacted by
changes in natural gas prices than by changes in crude oil and condensate
prices. (See "Business - Other Matters - Energy Prices"). At December 31, 1998,
based on the portion of the Company's anticipated natural gas volumes for 1999
for which prices have not, in effect, been hedged using NYMEX-related commodity
market transactions and long-term marketing contracts, the Company's net income
and cash flow sensitivity to changing natural gas prices is approximately $18
million for each $.10 per Mcf change in average wellhead natural gas prices.
While the Company is not impacted as significantly by changing crude oil prices
for those volumes not otherwise hedged, its net income and cash flow sensitivity
is approximately $6 million for $1.00 per barrel change in average wellhead
crude oil prices.
 
     The Company plans to continue to focus a substantial portion of its
development and exploration expenditures in its major producing areas in North
America. However, based on the continuing uncertainty associated with North
America natural gas prices and as a result of the recent success realized in
Trinidad and India and commencement of development activities in China, the
Company anticipates expending a substantial portion of its available funds in
the further development of these opportunities outside North America. In
addition, the Company expects to conduct limited exploratory activity in other
areas outside of North America and will continue to evaluate the potential for
involvement in other exploitation type opportunities. (See
"Business - Exploration and Production" for additional information detailing the
specific geographic locations of the related drilling programs). Budgeted 1999
expenditures are anticipated to be managed within the range of $575-$650
million, addressing the continuing uncertainty with regard to the future of the
North America natural gas and crude oil and condensate price environment.
Budgeted expenditures for 1999 are structured to maintain the flexibility
necessary under the Company's continuing strategy of funding North America
exploration, exploitation, development and acquisition activities primarily from
available internally generated cash flow.
 
     The level of exploration and development expenditures may vary in 1999 and
will vary in future periods depending on energy market conditions and other
related economic factors. Based upon existing economic and market conditions,
the Company believes net operating cash flow and available financing
alternatives in 1999 will be sufficient to fund its net investing cash
requirements for the year. However, the Company has significant flexibility with
respect to its financing alternatives and adjustment of its exploration,
exploitation, development and acquisition expenditure plans if circumstances
warrant. While the Company has certain continuing commitments associated with
expenditure plans related to operations in India, Trinidad, Venezuela and China,
such commitments are not anticipated to be material when considered in relation
to the total financial capacity of the Company.
 
     Other factors representing positive impacts continue to hold good potential
for the Company in future periods. While the drilling qualification period for
the tight gas sand federal income tax credit expired as of
 

 
December 31, 1992, the Company continued in 1998, and should continue in the
future, to realize significant benefits associated with production from wells
drilled during the qualifying period as it will be eligible for the federal
income tax credit through the year 2002. However, the annual benefit, which was
approximately $12 million in 1998 and is estimated to be approximately $8
million for 1999, is expected to continue to decline in future periods as
production from the qualified wells declines. The drilling qualification period
for a Texas severance tax exemption available on qualifying high cost natural
gas revenues continued through August 1996 in its original form and is
continuing in a modified and somewhat reduced form from that point through
August 2002. Consequently, new qualifying production will be added prospectively
to that presently qualified. (See "Business - Other Matters - Tight Gas Sand Tax
Credits (Section 29) and Severance Tax Exemption").
 
     Environmental Regulations. Various federal, state and local laws and
regulations covering the discharge of materials into the environment, or
otherwise relating to protection of the environment, may affect the Company's
operations and costs as a result of their effect on natural gas and crude oil
exploration, exploitation, development and production operations. Compliance
with such laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on the
Company's operations or financial condition. It is not anticipated, based on
current laws and regulations, that the Company will be required in the near
future to expend amounts that are material in relation to its total exploration
and development expenditure program by reason of environmental laws and
regulations. However, inasmuch as such laws and regulations are frequently
changed, the Company is unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance.
 
NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENT - SFAS NO. 133
 
     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS
No. 133 - "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities"
effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999. The statement cannot
be applied retroactively and must be applied to (a) derivative instruments and
(b) certain derivative instruments embedded in hybrid contracts that were
issued, acquired or substantively modified after December 31, 1997.
 
     The statement establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring that
every derivative instrument be recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset
or liability measured at its fair value. The statement requires that changes in
the derivative's fair value be recognized currently in earnings unless specific
hedge accounting criteria are met. Special accounting for qualifying hedges
allows a derivative's gains and losses to offset related results on the hedged
item in the statements of income and requires a company to formally document,
designate and assess the effectiveness of transactions that receive hedge
accounting treatment.
 
     The Company has not yet quantified the impacts of adopting SFAS No. 133 on
its financial statements and has not determined the timing of adoption. Based on
the criteria of SFAS No. 133 and current interpretations thereof, the Company
believes that the options it owns to purchase 3,200,000 Enron Corp. common
shares, at a price of $39.1875 per share that expire in December 2007, qualify
as derivative instruments. Accordingly, SFAS No. 133 would require the changes
in the fair value of the options to be recognized currently in earnings. The
Company cannot predict whether future interpretations currently being considered
by the Emerging Issues Task Force of the FASB or potential amendments of SFAS
No. 133 will result in the options being considered derivative instruments at
the time of its adoption. At December 31, 1997, the carrying value of the
options was approximately $23 million pre-tax, which represented the estimated
fair value at the date of grant. At December 31, 1998, Enron Corp. common shares
closed at $57.06 per share. Based on the Company's current level of other
derivative and hedging activities, the Company does not expect the impact of
adoption of SFAS No. 133 relative to those other activities to be material.
 

 
YEAR 2000
 
     The Year 2000 problem generally results from the use in computer hardware
and software of two digits rather than four digits to define the applicable
year. When computer systems must process dates both before and after January 1,
2000, two-digit year "fields" may create processing ambiguities that can cause
errors and system failures. For example, a date represented by "00" may be
interpreted as referring to the year 1900, instead of 2000.
 
     The effects of the Year 2000 problem can be exacerbated by the
interdependence of computer and telecommunications systems in the United States
and throughout the world. This interdependence can affect the Company and its
suppliers, trading partners, and customers, as well as governments of countries
around the world where the Company does business.
 
  State of Readiness
 
     The Company Board of Directors has been briefed about the Year 2000
problem. The Board has adopted a Year 2000 Project (the "Project") aimed at
preventing the Company's mission-critical functions from being impaired due to
the Year 2000 problem. "Mission-critical" functions are those critical functions
whose loss would cause an immediate stoppage of or significant impairment to
core business processes (a core business process is one of material importance
to the Company business).
 
     Implementation of the Project is directly supervised by a Year 2000
Oversight Committee, made up of four senior executives of the Company and its
affiliates. Each operating division of the Company is implementing procedures
specific to it that are part of the overall Project. The Company also has
engaged certain outside consultants, technicians and other external resources to
aid in formulating and implementing the Project.
 
     The Company is actively implementing the Project, which will be modified as
events warrant. Under the Project, the Company will continue to inventory
mission-critical computer hardware and software systems and embedded
microprocessors (microprocessors with date-related functions, contained in a
wide variety of devices), and software; assess the effects of Year 2000 problems
on the mission-critical functions of the Company; remedy systems, software and
embedded microprocessors in an effort to avoid material disruptions or other
material adverse effects on mission-critical functions, processes and systems;
verify and test the mission-critical systems to which remediation efforts have
been applied; and attempt to mitigate those mission-critical aspects of the Year
2000 problem that are not remediated by January 1, 2000, including the
development of contingency plans to cope with the mission-critical consequences
of Year 2000 problems that have not been identified or remediated by that date.
 
     The Project recognizes that the computer, telecommunications, and other
systems ("Outside Systems") of outside entities ("Outside Entities") have the
potential for major, mission-critical, adverse effects on the conduct of Company
business. The Company does not have control of these Outside Entities or Outside
Systems. (In some cases, Outside Entities are U.S., state and local governmental
organizations, foreign governments or businesses located in foreign countries.)
However, the Project includes an ongoing process of identifying and contacting
Outside Entities whose systems in the Company's judgment have, or may have, a
substantial effect on the Company's ability to continue to conduct the
mission-critical aspects of Company business without disruption from Year 2000
problems. The Project envisions the Company making an attempt to inventory and
assess the extent to which these Outside Systems may not be "Year 2000 ready" or
"Year 2000 compatible". The Company will attempt reasonably to coordinate with
these Outside Entities in an ongoing effort to obtain assurance that the Outside
Systems that are mission-critical will be Year 2000 compatible well before
January 1, 2000. Consequently, the Company will work with Outside Entities in a
reasonable attempt to inventory, assess, analyze, convert (where necessary),
test, and develop contingency plans for connections to these mission-critical
Outside Systems and to ascertain the extent to which they are, or can be made to
be, Year 2000 ready and compatible with the Company's remediation of its own
mission-critical systems.
 

 
     As of March 1999, the Company is at various stages in implementation of the
Project, as shown in the following tables. Any notation of "complete" conveys
the fact only that the initial iteration of this phase has been substantially
completed. All dates are only relevant for the initial iteration of the
applicable stage of the Project.
 
                          YEAR 2000 PROJECT READINESS
 

 
- ---------------
Legend: C = Complete   IP = In Process
 
                  YEAR 2000 PROJECT ESTIMATED COMPLETION DATES
 

 
     It is important to recognize that the processes of inventorying, assessing,
analyzing, converting (where necessary), testing, and developing contingency
plans for mission-critical items in anticipation of the Year 2000 event may be
iterative processes, requiring a repeat of some or all of these processes as the
Company learns more about the Year 2000 problem and its effects on internal
business information systems and on Outside Systems, and about the effects of
embedded microprocessors on systems and business operations. The Company
anticipates that it will continue with these processes through January 1, 2000
and on into the Year 2000 in order to assess and remediate problems that
reasonably can be identified only after the start of the new century.
 
     The Project envisions verification and validation of certain
mission-critical facilities and functions by independent consultants. These
consultants will participate to varying degrees in many or all of the stages,
including the inventory, assessment, and testing phases. Currently, the Company
is utilizing Raytheon Engineers & Constructors, Inc. to assist Company personnel
in the inventory and assessment phases of onshore and offshore and domestic and
international operations.
 
  Costs to Address Year 2000 Issues
 
     The Company has not incurred material historical costs for Year 2000
awareness, inventory, assessment, analysis, conversion, testing, or contingency
planning and anticipates that any future costs for these purposes, including
those for implementing Year 2000 contingency plans, are not likely to be
material.
 
     Although management believes that its estimates are reasonable, there can
be no assurance, for the reasons stated in the "Summary" section below, that the
actual costs of implementing the Project will not differ materially from the
estimated costs or that the Company will not be materially adversely affected by
Year 2000 issues.
 
  Year 2000 Risk Factors
 
     Regulatory requirements. Certain of the Company's operations are regulated
by governmental authorities. The Company expects to satisfy these regulatory
authority requirements for achieving Year 2000 readiness. If the Company's
reasonable expectations in this regard are in error, and if a regulatory
authority
 

 
should order the temporary cessation of operations in one or more of these
areas, the adverse effect on the Company could be material. Outside Entities may
face similar problems that materially adversely affect the Company.
 
     Shortage of Resources. Between now and 2000 it is anticipated that there
will be increased competition for people with technical and managerial skills
necessary to deal with the Year 2000 problem. While the Company is taking
substantial precautions to recruit and retain sufficient people skilled in
dealing with the Year 2000 problem, and has hired consultants who bring
additional skilled people to deal with the Year 2000 problem, the Company could
face shortages of skilled personnel or other resources, such as particular
microprocessors or components containing Year 2000 ready microprocessors, and
these shortages might delay or otherwise impair the Company's ability to assure
that its mission-critical systems are Year 2000 ready. Outside Entities could
face similar problems that materially adversely affect the Company. The Company
believes that the possible impact of the shortage of skilled people and
resources is not, and will not be, unique to the Company.
 
     Potential Shortcomings. The Company estimates that mission-critical
systems, domestic and international, will be Year 2000-ready substantially
before January 1, 2000. However, there is no assurance that the Project will
succeed in accomplishing its purpose, or that unforeseen circumstances will not
arise during implementation of the Project that would materially adversely
affect the Company.
 
     Cascading Effect. The Company is taking reasonable steps to identify,
assess, and, where appropriate, to replace devices that contain embedded
microprocessors. Despite these reasonable efforts, the Company anticipates that
it will not be able to find and remediate all embedded microprocessors in all
systems. Further, it is anticipated that Outside Entities also will not be able
to find and remediate all embedded microprocessors in their systems. Some of the
embedded microprocessors that fail to operate or that produce anomalous results
may create system disruptions or failures. Some of these disruptions or failures
may spread from the systems in which they are located to other systems causing
adverse effects upon the Company's ability to maintain safe operations, to serve
its customers and otherwise to fulfill certain contractual and other legal
obligations. The embedded microprocessor problem is widely recognized as one of
the more difficult aspects of the Year 2000 problem across industries and
throughout the world. The possible adverse impact of the embedded microprocessor
problem is not, and will not be, unique to the Company.
 
     Third parties. The Company cannot assure that suppliers upon which it
depends for essential goods and services will convert and test their
mission-critical systems and processes in a timely manner. Failure or delay by
all or some of these entities, including the U.S. and state or local governments
and foreign governments, could create substantial disruptions having a material
adverse effect on Company business.
 
  Contingency Plans
 
     As part of the Project, the Company is developing contingency plans that
deal with, among others, two primary aspects of the Year 2000 problem: (1) that
the Company, despite its good-faith, reasonable efforts, may not have
satisfactorily remediated all internal, mission-critical systems; and (2) that
Outside Systems may not be Year 2000 ready, despite the Company's good-faith,
reasonable efforts to work with Outside Entities. These contingency plans are
being designed to mitigate the disruptions or other adverse effects resulting
from Year 2000 incompatibilities regarding these mission-critical functions or
systems, and to facilitate the early identification and remediation of
mission-critical Year 2000 problems that first manifest themselves after January
1, 2000.
 
     These contingency plans will contemplate an assessment of all
mission-critical internal information technology systems and internal
operational systems that use computer-based controls. This process will be
pursued continuously into the Year 2000 as circumstances require. Further, the
Company will in that time frame assess any mission-critical disruptions due to
Year 2000-related failures that are external to the Company.
 
     These contingency plans include the creation, as deemed reasonably
appropriate, of teams that will be standing by on the eve of the new millennium,
prepared to respond rapidly and otherwise as necessary to
 

 
mission-critical Year 2000-related problems as soon as they become known. The
composition of teams that are assigned to deal with Year 2000 problems will vary
according to the nature, mission-criticality, and location of the problem.
Because the Company operates internationally, some of its Year 2000 contingency
teams will be located at mission-critical facilities overseas.
 
  Worst Case Scenario
 
     The Securities and Exchange Commission requires that public companies must
forecast the most reasonably likely worst case Year 2000 scenario, assuming that
the Company's Year 2000 plan is not effective. Analysis of the most reasonably
likely worst case Year 2000 scenarios the Company may face leads to
contemplation of the following possibilities which, though considered highly
unlikely, must be included in any consideration of worst cases: widespread
failure of electrical, natural gas, and similar supplies by utilities serving
the Company domestically and internationally; widespread disruption of the
services of communications common carriers domestically and internationally;
similar disruption to means and modes of transportation for the Company and its
employees, contractors, suppliers, and customers; significant disruption to the
Company's ability to gain access to, and continue working in, office buildings
and other facilities; the failure of substantial numbers of mission-critical
hardware and software computer systems, including both internal business systems
and systems (such as those with embedded microprocessors) controlling
operational facilities such as electrical generation, transmission, and
distribution systems and crude oil and natural gas plants and pipelines,
domestically and internationally; and the failure, domestically and
internationally, of Outside Systems, the effects of which would have a
cumulative material adverse impact on the Company's mission-critical systems.
Among other things, the Company could face substantial claims by customers for
loss of revenues due to supply interruptions, inability to fulfill contractual
obligations, inability to account for certain revenues or obligations or to bill
or pay customers accurately and on a timely basis, and increased expenses
associated with litigation, stabilization of operations following
mission-critical failures, and the execution of contingency plans. The Company
could also experience an inability by customers, traders, and others to pay, on
a timely basis or at all, obligations owed to the Company. Under these
circumstances, the adverse effect on the Company, and the diminution of Company
revenues, could be material, although not quantifiable at this time. Further in
this scenario, the cumulative effect of these failures could have a substantial
adverse effect on the economy, domestically and internationally. The adverse
effect on the Company, and the diminution of Company revenues, from a domestic
or global recession or depression also could be material, although not
quantifiable at this time.
 
     The Company will continue to monitor business conditions with the aim of
assessing and quantifying material adverse effects, if any, that result or may
result from the Year 2000 problem.
 
  Summary
 
     The Company has a plan to deal with the Year 2000 challenge and believes
that it will be able to achieve substantial Year 2000 readiness with respect to
the mission critical systems that it controls. From a forward-looking
perspective, the extent and magnitude of the Year 2000 problem as it will affect
the Company, both before and for some period after January 1, 2000, are
difficult to predict or quantify for a number of reasons. Among these are: the
difficulty of locating "embedded" microprocessors that may be in a great variety
of mission-critical hardware used for process or flow control, environmental,
transportation, access, communications, and other systems; the difficulty of
inventorying, assessing, remediating, verifying and testing, Outside Systems
connected, and vital, to the Company's computer, telecommunications, or other
mission-critical systems; the difficulty of locating all mission-critical
software (computer code) that is not Year 2000 compatible; and the
unavailability of certain necessary internal or external resources, including
but not limited to trained hardware and software engineers, technicians, and
other personnel to perform adequate remediation, verification, and testing of
mission-critical Company systems or Outside Systems. Year 2000 costs are
difficult to estimate accurately because of unanticipated vendor delays,
technical difficulties, the impact of tests of Outside Systems, and similar
events. There can be no assurance for example that all Outside Systems with a
mission-critical impact will be adequately remediated so that they are Year 2000
ready by January 1, 2000, or by some earlier date, so as not to create a
material disruption to the Company's business. If, despite reasonable
 

 
efforts under the Year 2000 Project, there are mission-critical Year
2000-related failures that create substantial disruptions to Company business,
the adverse impact on the Company could be material. Additionally, Year 2000
costs are difficult to estimate accurately because of unanticipated vendor
delays, technical difficulties, the impact of tests of Outside Systems and
similar events. Moreover, despite the Company's belief that costs for
implementing the Project will not be material, the estimated costs of
implementing the Project do not take into account the costs, if any, that might
be incurred as a result of Year 2000-related failures that occur despite
implementation of the Project.
 
INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
     This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward looking statements within
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although the Company believes that its
expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that
such expectations will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those in the forward looking statements herein
include, but are not limited to, the timing and extent of changes in commodity
prices for crude oil, natural gas and related products and interest rates; the
extent of the Company's success in discovering, developing, marketing and
producing reserves and in acquiring oil and gas properties; the Company's
success in implementing its Year 2000 Plan, the effectiveness of the Company's
Year 2000 Plan, and the Year 2000 readiness of Outside Entities; political
developments around the world and conditions of the capital and equity markets
during the periods covered by the forward looking statements.
 
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
     The Company's exposure to interest rate risk and commodity price risk is
discussed in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations - Capital Resources and Liquidity - Financing" and
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations - Capital Resources and Liquidity - Outlook", respectively. The
Company's exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risks and other market
risks is insignificant.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
     The information required hereunder is included in this report as set forth
in the "Index to Financial Statements" on page F-1.
 
ITEM 9. DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
     None.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The information required by this Item regarding directors is set forth in
the Proxy Statement under the caption entitled "Election of Directors", and is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
     See list of "Current Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I
located elsewhere herein.
 
     There are no family relationships among the officers listed, and there are
no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which any of them were elected as
officers. Officers are appointed or elected annually by the Board of Directors
at its first meeting following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, each to hold
office until the corresponding meeting of the Board in the next year or until a
successor shall have been elected, appointed or shall have qualified.
 

 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     The information required by this Item is set forth in the Proxy Statement
under the caption "Compensation of Directors and Executive Officers", and is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     The information required by this Item is set forth in the Proxy Statement
under the captions "Election of Directors" and "Compensation of Directors and
Executive Officers", and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     The information required by this Item is set forth in the Proxy Statement
under the caption "Certain Transactions", and is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE, EXHIBITS AND
        REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
  (A)(1) AND (2) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 
     See "Index to Financial Statements" set forth on page F-1.
 
  (A)(3) EXHIBITS
 
     See pages E-1 through E-5 for a listing of the exhibits.
 
  (B) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     The Company filed a Report on Form 8-K on April 17, 1998 reporting the sale
on April 8, 1998 of $150 million principal amount of 6.65% Notes due April 1,
2028 pursuant to an underwritten public offering.
 
     The Company filed a Report on Form 8-K on December 24, 1998 reporting the
sale on December 14, 1998 of $175 million principal amount of 6.00% Notes due
December 15, 2008 pursuant to an underwritten public offering.
 

 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
 
                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 

 
Other financial statement schedules have been omitted because they are
inapplicable or the information required therein is included elsewhere in the
consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.
 
                                       F-1

 
              MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING
 
     The following consolidated financial statements of Enron Oil & Gas Company
and its subsidiaries were prepared by management, which is responsible for their
integrity, objectivity and fair presentation. The statements have been prepared
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and, accordingly,
include some amounts that are based on the best estimates and judgments of
management.
 
     Arthur Andersen LLP, independent public accountants, was engaged to audit
the consolidated financial statements of Enron Oil & Gas Company and its
subsidiaries and issue a report thereon. In the conduct of the audit, Arthur
Andersen LLP was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related
data including minutes of all meetings of shareholders, the Board of Directors
and committees of the Board. Management believes that all representations made
to Arthur Andersen LLP during the audit were valid and appropriate.
 
     The system of internal controls of Enron Oil & Gas Company and its
subsidiaries is designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability
of financial statements and the protection of assets from unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition. This system includes, but is not limited to,
written policies and guidelines including a published code for the conduct of
business affairs, conflicts of interest and compliance with laws regarding
antitrust, antiboycott and foreign corrupt practices policies, the careful
selection and training of qualified personnel, and a documented organizational
structure outlining the separation of responsibilities among management
representatives and staff groups.
 
     The adequacy of financial controls of Enron Oil & Gas Company and its
subsidiaries and the accounting principles employed in financial reporting by
the Company are under the general oversight of the Audit Committee of the Board
of Directors. No member of this committee is an officer or employee of the
Company. The independent public accountants and internal auditors have direct
access to the Audit Committee and meet with the committee from time to time to
discuss accounting, auditing and financial reporting matters. It should be
recognized that there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any
system of internal control, including the possibility of human error and
circumvention or override. Accordingly, even an effective system can provide
only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation of reliable financial
statements and safeguarding of assets. Furthermore, the effectiveness of an
internal control system can change with circumstances.
 
     It is management's opinion that, considering the criteria for effective
internal control over financial reporting and safeguarding of assets which
consists of interrelated components including the control environment, risk
assessment process, control activities, information and communication systems,
and monitoring, the Company maintained an effective system of internal control
as to the reliability of financial statements and the protection of assets
against unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition during the year ended
December 31, 1998.
 

 
Houston, Texas
March 5, 1999
 
                                       F-2

 
                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
 
To Enron Oil & Gas Company:
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Enron Oil &
Gas Company (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998
and 1997, and the related consolidated statements of income and comprehensive
income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1998. These financial statements and the schedule
referred to below are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and the
schedule based on our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Enron Oil & Gas Company and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1998, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
 
     Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The financial statement schedule listed
in the index to financial statements is presented for purposes of complying with
the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of the basic
financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole.
 
                                            ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
 
Houston, Texas
March 5, 1999
 
                                       F-3

 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
 
           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       F-4

 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 
                                     ASSETS
 

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       F-5

 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
 
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       F-6

 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       F-7

 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED)
 
1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
     Principles of Consolidation. The consolidated financial statements of Enron
Oil & Gas Company (the "Company"), 54% of the outstanding common stock of which
was owned by Enron Corp. as of December 31, 1998, include the accounts of all
domestic and foreign subsidiaries. All material intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated. Certain reclassifications have been made to
the consolidated financial statements for prior years to conform with the
current presentation.
 
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
     Cash and Cash Equivalents. The Company records as cash equivalents all
highly liquid short-term investments with original maturities of three months or
less. The Company had approximately $32 million of outstanding checks payable
classified as accounts payable at December 31, 1998.
 
     Oil and Gas Operations. The Company accounts for its natural gas and crude
oil exploration and production activities under the successful efforts method of
accounting.
 
     Oil and gas lease acquisition costs are capitalized when incurred. Unproved
properties with significant acquisition costs are assessed quarterly on a
property-by-property basis, and any impairment in value is recognized.
Amortization of any remaining costs of such leases begins at a point prior to
the end of the lease term depending upon the length of such term. Unproved
properties with acquisition costs that are not individually significant are
aggregated, and the portion of such costs estimated to be nonproductive, based
on historical experience, is amortized over the average holding period. If the
unproved properties are determined to be productive, the appropriate related
costs are transferred to proved oil and gas properties. Lease rentals are
expensed as incurred.
 
     Oil and gas exploration costs, other than the costs of drilling exploratory
wells, are charged to expense as incurred. The costs of drilling exploratory
wells are capitalized pending determination of whether they have discovered
proved commercial reserves. If proved commercial reserves are not discovered,
such drilling costs are expensed. Costs to develop proved reserves, including
the costs of all development wells and related equipment used in the production
of natural gas and crude oil, are capitalized.
 
     Depreciation, depletion and amortization of the cost of proved oil and gas
properties is calculated using the unit-of-production method. Estimated future
dismantlement, restoration and abandonment costs (classified as long-term
liabilities), net of salvage values, are taken into account. Certain other
assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis. In the first quarter of 1996,
the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No.
121 - "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to be Disposed Of". Periodically, or when circumstances indicate that an
asset may be impaired, the Company compares expected undiscounted future cash
flows at a producing field level to the unamortized capitalized cost of the
asset. If the future undiscounted cash flows, based on the Company's estimate of
future crude oil and natural gas prices and operating costs, and anticipated
production from proved and risk-adjusted probable and possible reserves, are
lower than the unamortized capitalized cost, the capitalized cost is reduced to
fair value. Fair value is calculated by discounting the future cash flows at an
appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate. Since the adoption of SFAS No. 121, the
Company has recorded non-cash impairment charges that were immaterial to and
included in depreciation, depletion and amortization expense.
 
                                       F-8

 
     Inventories, consisting primarily of tubular goods and well equipment held
for use in the exploration for, and development and production of natural gas
and crude oil reserves, are carried at cost with adjustments made from time to
time to recognize changes in condition value.
 
     Natural gas revenues are recorded on the entitlement method based on the
Company's percentage ownership of current production. Each working interest
owner in a well generally has the right to a specific percentage of production,
although actual production sold may differ from an owner's ownership percentage.
Under entitlement accounting, a receivable is recorded when underproduction
occurs and a payable when overproduction occurs.
 
     Gains and losses associated with the sale of in place natural gas and crude
oil reserves and related assets are classified as net operating revenues in the
consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income based on the
Company's strategy of continuing such sales in order to maximize the economic
value of its assets.
 
     Accounting for Price Risk Management. The Company engages in price risk
management activities from time to time primarily for non-trading and to a
lesser extent for trading purposes. Derivative financial instruments (primarily
price swaps and costless collars) are utilized for non-trading purposes to hedge
the impact of market fluctuations on natural gas and crude oil market prices.
Hedge accounting is utilized in non-trading activities when there is a high
degree of correlation between price movements in the derivative and the item
designated as being hedged. Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments
used for hedging purposes are recognized as revenue in the same period as the
hedged item. Gains and losses on hedging instruments that are closed prior to
maturity are deferred in the consolidated balance sheets. In instances where the
anticipated correlation of price movements does not occur, hedge accounting is
terminated and future changes in the value of the derivative are recognized as
gains or losses using the mark-to-market method of accounting. Derivative and
other financial instruments utilized in connection with trading activities,
primarily price swaps and call options, are accounted for using the
mark-to-market method, under which changes in the market value of outstanding
financial instruments are recognized as gains or losses in the period of change.
The cash flow impact of derivative and other financial instruments used for
non-trading and trading purposes is reflected as cash flows from operating
activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows.
 
     Capitalized Interest Costs. Certain interest costs have been capitalized as
a part of the historical cost of unproved oil and gas properties and in work in
progress for exploratory drilling and related facilities with significant cash
outlays. Interest costs capitalized during each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1998 are set out in the consolidated statements of income and
comprehensive income.
 
     Income Taxes. The Company accounts for income taxes under the provisions of
SFAS No. 109 - "Accounting for Income Taxes". SFAS No. 109 requires the asset
and liability approach for accounting for income taxes. Under this approach,
deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on anticipated future
tax consequences attributable to differences between financial statement
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases (See
Note 8 "Income Taxes").
 
     Foreign Currency Translation. For subsidiaries whose functional currency is
deemed to be other than the U.S. dollar, asset and liability accounts are
translated at year-end exchange rates and revenue and expenses are translated at
average exchange rates prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments are
included as a separate component of shareholders' equity. Any gains or losses on
transactions or monetary assets or liabilities in currencies other than the
functional currency are included in net income in the current period.
 
     Net Income Per Share. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No.
128 - "Earnings per Share", basic net income per share is computed on the basis
of the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the periods.
Diluted net income per share is computed based upon the weighted-average number
of common shares plus the assumed issuance of common shares for all potentially
dilutive securities. (See Note 10 "Net Income Per Share" for additional
information to reconcile the difference between the Average Number of Common
Shares outstanding for basic and diluted net income per share).
 
                                       F-9

 
2. NATURAL GAS AND CRUDE OIL, CONDENSATE AND NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS NET OPERATING
REVENUES
 
     Natural gas revenues, trade for 1998, 1997 and 1996 are net of costs of
natural gas purchased for sale related to natural gas marketing activities of
$44.8 million, $73.6 million and $72.6 million, respectively. Natural gas
revenues, associated for 1998, 1997 and 1996 are net of costs of natural gas
purchased for sale related to natural gas marketing activities of $51.0 million,
$47.7 million and $24.9 million, respectively.
 
     In March 1995, in a series of transactions with Enron Corp. and an
affiliate of Enron Corp., the Company exchanged all of its fuel supply and
purchase contracts and related price swap agreements associated with a Texas
City cogeneration plant (the "Cogen Contracts") for certain natural gas price
swap agreements of equivalent value issued by the affiliate that are designated
as hedges (the "Swap Agreements"). Such Swap Agreements were closed on March 31,
1995. As a result of the transactions, the Company was relieved of all
performance obligations associated with the Cogen Contracts. The Company will
realize net operating revenues and receive corresponding cash payments of
approximately $91 million during the period extending through December 31, 1999,
under the terms of the closed Swap Agreements. The estimated fair value of the
Swap Agreements was approximately $81 million at the date the Swap Agreements
were received in exchange for the Cogen Contracts. The net effect of this series
of transactions resulted in increases in net operating revenues and cash
receipts for the Company during 1995 and 1996 of approximately $13 million and
$7 million, respectively, with offsetting decreases in 1998 and 1999 versus that
anticipated under the Cogen Contracts. The total cash payments receivable under
the terms of the Swap Agreements were approximately $4 million and $13 million
at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively, and are presented in the
accompanying balance sheet as Accounts Receivable - Associated Companies for the
$4 million and $9 million current portion, respectively, and as Other Assets for
the $4 million noncurrent portion at December 31, 1997. The corresponding total
future revenue of approximately $4 million and $13 million, respectively, is
classified as Deferred Revenue. (See Note 14 "Price and Interest Rate Risk
Management").
 
3. OTHER ASSETS
 
     In December 1997, the Company and Enron Corp. entered into an Equity
Participation and Business Opportunity Agreement (the "Business Opportunity
Agreement"). (See Note 7 "Transactions with Enron Corp. and Related
Parties - Business Opportunity Agreement"). Among other things, under the
agreement, Enron Corp. granted to the Company ten-year options to purchase
3,200,000 shares of Enron Corp. common stock at a price of $39.1875 per share
which was the closing price of the stock on the date that the agreement was
approved by the Board of Directors of the Company. The option vesting schedule
provides that 25% vested immediately, 15% vest on the anniversary of the
Business Opportunity Agreement in 1998 and 10% vest each anniversary thereafter
until all of the options are vested. Vesting will be accelerated in the event of
a change of control of the Company. For such purposes, a "change of control"
means that (a) Enron Corp. no longer owns capital stock of the Company
representing at least 35% of the voting power for the election of directors and
(b) a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company consists
of persons who are not officers or directors of Enron Corp. or any affiliate of
Enron Corp. other than the Company. Other Assets at December 31, 1998 and 1997
includes $23.3 million or $7.29 per share representing the estimated fair value
of the Enron Corp. stock options at the date of grant. Such estimated fair value
was determined using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following
weighted-average assumptions at the date the options were issued: (1) dividend
yield of 2.5%, (2) expected volatility of 17.5%, (3) risk-free interest rate of
5.85%, and (4) expected average life of 4.0 years. Receipt of the options
represented a capital contribution from Enron Corp. and, accordingly, the fair
value received, net of tax effects of $8.2 million, was credited to Additional
Paid In Capital. (See Note 16 "New Accounting Pronouncement - SFAS No. 133").
 
                                      F-10

 
4. LONG-TERM DEBT
 
     Long-Term Debt at December 31 consisted of the following:
 

 
     The Company has three credit facilities with domestic and foreign banks
which provide for an aggregate of $550 million in long-term committed credit,
with $250 million expiring in 1999 and $300 million expiring in 2002. With
respect to the aggregate $250 million from two separate facilities, both of
which expire during 1999, the Company may, at its option, extend the final
maturity date of any advances made under the facilities by one full year from
the expiration date of the applicable facility, effectively qualifying such debt
as long-term. Advances under all three agreements bear interest, at the option
of the Company, based upon a base rate or a Eurodollar rate. At December 31,
1998, there were no advances outstanding under any of these agreements.
 
     Commercial Paper and short-term funding from uncommitted credit facilities
provide financing for various corporate purposes and bear interest based upon
market rates. No advances were outstanding under the uncommitted lines on
December 31, 1998 or 1997. Commercial paper, uncommitted credit and affiliate
facility balances (when present) are classified as long-term debt based on the
Company's intent and ability to ultimately replace such amounts with other
long-term debt. (See Note 14 "Price and Interest Rate Risk Management").
 
     The 6.00% to 6.70% Notes due 2004 to 2028 were issued through public
offerings and have effective interest rates of 6.14% to 6.83%. The Subsidiary
Debt due 2001 bears interest at variable market-based rates and is guaranteed by
the Company.
 
     Certain borrowings of the Company contain covenants requiring the
maintenance of certain financial ratios and limitations on liens, debt issuance
and dispositions of assets. These covenants include a 50% debt-to- total-capital
limitation. Should commodity price levels experienced in late 1998 and early
1999 persist, the resulting reduction in cash flow available from operations may
necessitate further action(s) which could include a reduction in capital
expenditure plans, the issuance of preferred stock and/or common equity, and/or
the renegotiation of the debt covenants in order to remain in compliance.
 
     At December 31, 1998, the aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt
outstanding were less than $1.0 million for each of the years 1999 and 2000,
$105 million for 2001 and none for 2002 and 2003.
 
     Shelf Registration. The Company may sell from time to time up to an
aggregate of approximately $90 million in debt securities and/or common stock
pursuant to an effective "shelf" registration statement filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
     Financing Arrangements With Enron Corp. The Company engages in various
transactions with Enron Corp. that are characteristic of a consolidated group
under common control. Accordingly, the Company maintains reciprocal agreements
with Enron Corp. that provide for the borrowing by the Company of up to
 
                                      F-11

 
$200 million and investing by the Company of surplus funds of up to $200 million
at market-based interest rates through December 31, 1999. Advances from Enron
Corp. of $200 million and $193 million were outstanding at December 31, 1998 and
1997, respectively, and such balances were classified as long-term based on the
Company's intent and ability to ultimately replace such amounts with other
long-term debt. There were no investments with Enron Corp. at December 31, 1998
or 1997. (See Note 14 "Price and Interest Rate Risk Management").
 
     Fair Value Of Long-Term Debt. At December 31, 1998 and 1997, the Company
had $1,143 million and $741 million, respectively, of long-term debt which had
fair values of approximately $1,141 million and $744 million, respectively. The
fair value of long-term debt is the value the Company would have to pay to
retire the debt, including any premium or discount to the debtholder for the
differential between the stated interest rate and the year-end market rate. The
fair value of long-term debt is based upon quoted market prices and, where such
quotes were not available, upon interest rates available to the Company at
year-end.
 
5. VOLUMETRIC PRODUCTION PAYMENT
 
     In September 1992, the Company sold a volumetric production payment for
$326.8 million to a limited partnership. Under the terms of the production
payment, as amended October 1, 1993, the Company conveyed a real property
interest of certain natural gas and other hydrocarbons to the purchaser.
Deliveries were scheduled at the rate of 50 billion British thermal units per
day through March 31, 1999. The Company accounted for the proceeds received in
the transaction as deferred revenue, which was amortized into revenue and income
as natural gas and other hydrocarbons were produced and delivered during the
term of the volumetric production payment agreement. In December 1998, the
Company settled the remainder of the contract in cash which was not materially
different from the recorded deferred revenue, and delivery obligations were
terminated.
 
6. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
     The Board of Directors of the Company has approved an authorization for
purchasing and holding in treasury at any time up to 1,000,000 shares of common
stock of the Company for the purpose of, but not limited to, meeting obligations
associated with the exercise of stock options granted to qualified employees
pursuant to the Company's stock option plans. The Board of Directors has also
approved the selling from time to time, subject to certain conditions, of put
options on the common stock of the Company. The 1,000,000 share limit mentioned
above applies to shares held in treasury and unexpired put options outstanding.
In February 1997, as amended in February 1998, the Board of Directors authorized
the additional purchase of up to an aggregate maximum of 10 million shares of
common stock of the Company from time to time in the open market to be held in
treasury for the purpose of, but not limited to, fulfilling any obligations
arising under the Company's stock option plans and any other approved
transactions or activities for which such common stock shall be required. At
December 31, 1998 and 1997, 6,276,156 shares and 4,935,744 shares, respectively,
were held in treasury under these authorizations. (See Note 9 "Commitments and
Contingencies - Treasury Shares"). The Company has, from time to time, entered
into transactions in which it writes put options on its own common stock. At
December 31, 1998, there were put options outstanding for 175,000 shares of
common stock. Such options have strike prices ranging from $13.13 to $21.13 per
share and are exercisable by the counterparties only on the dates of expiration
ranging from May 1999 to December 1999. Settlement alternatives are at the
option of the Company and include physical share, net share and net cash
settlement. These transactions are accounted for as equity transactions with any
premiums received and cash payments made being recorded to Additional Paid In
Capital in the consolidated balance sheets.
 
7. TRANSACTIONS WITH ENRON CORP. AND RELATED PARTIES
 
     Business Opportunity Agreement. In December 1997, Enron Corp. and the
Company entered into the Business Opportunity Agreement which defines certain
obligations that Enron Corp. owes to the Company and relieves Enron Corp. from
certain obligations to the Company that it might otherwise have, including the
obligation to offer certain business opportunities to the Company. Enron Corp.
has advised the Company that,
                                      F-12

 
although it believes that it has conducted its business in a manner that is
consistent with its duties as a majority shareholder of the Company, it was
motivated to enter into the Business Opportunity Agreement because of the
difficulty of determining the applicability of the law relating to duties that
Enron Corp. may owe to the Company in connection with Enron Corp.'s finance and
trading business and because of Enron Corp.'s desire to have more flexibility in
pursuing business opportunities identified by or developed solely by Enron Corp.
personnel. The Business Opportunity Agreement was approved by the Board of
Directors of the Company after it was approved unanimously by a special
committee of the Board of Directors consisting of the Company's independent
directors.
 
     The Business Opportunity Agreement provides generally that, so long as such
activities are conducted in compliance with the Business Opportunity Agreement
in all material respects, Enron Corp. may pursue business opportunities
independently of the Company. The Business Opportunity Agreement contains an
acknowledgment by the Company that Enron Corp.'s finance and trading business
may result in the acquisition by Enron Corp. of oil and gas properties or
companies and that in certain cases Enron Corp. or entities in which Enron Corp.
has an interest may acquire such assets pursuant to bidding or auction processes
in which the Company is also a bidder. In the Business Opportunity Agreement,
the Company acknowledges and agrees that such activities may have an impact on
the Company or the price it pays for properties or securities it purchases from
others. The Business Opportunity Agreement contains an acknowledgement and
agreement by the Company that, to the extent that a court might hold that the
conduct of such activity is a breach of a duty to the Company (and without
admitting that the conduct of such activity is such a breach of duty), the
Company waives any and all claims and courses of action that it may have to
claim the conduct of such activity is a breach of duty to the Company. The
Business Opportunity Agreement contains certain restrictions on the conduct of
Enron's business. It also provides that, except with respect to business
opportunities pursued jointly by Enron Corp. and the Company and except as
otherwise agreed to between Enron Corp. and the Company, Enron Corp.'s business
will be conducted through the use of its own personnel and assets and not with
the use of any personnel or assets of the Company.
 
     The Business Opportunity Agreement states that its provisions relate
exclusively to the duties that Enron Corp. owes the Company and that nothing in
the Business Opportunity Agreement affects the fiduciary or other duties owed to
the Company by any individual director or officer of the Company in his or her
capacity as such. In this connection, Enron Corp. has agreed that its
representatives on the Board of Directors of the Company will not, for the
purpose of enabling Enron Corp. to pursue an opportunity in the oil and gas
business, vote in such a manner as to effectively prevent, prohibit or restrict
the Company from pursuing such opportunity.
 
     In consideration for the Company's agreements in the Business Opportunity
Agreement, Enron Corp. provided valuable consideration to the Company, including
options to purchase common stock of Enron Corp. that will give the Company the
opportunity to participate in future appreciation in value of Enron, including
any appreciation in value resulting from activities that the Company has agreed
to permit Enron Corp. and its subsidiaries to pursue. (See Note 3 "Other
Assets"). The Business Opportunity Agreement also included (i) an agreement to
replace the existing services agreement, under which Enron Corp. provides
certain services to the Company, with a new services agreement under which the
Company's maximum payments to Enron Corp. for allocated indirect costs will be
reduced by $2.8 million per year, (ii) an agreement by Enron Corp. relieving the
Company of the obligation to bear the costs of any registration of sales by
Enron Corp. of shares of common stock of the Company, (iii) an agreement by
Enron Corp. to pay the costs of registration of the Company's sales of Enron
Corp. common stock acquired upon exercise of the options granted in the Business
Opportunity Agreement, (iv) an agreement that if Enron Corp. takes any action
that results in the loss by the Company of its status as an "independent
producer" under the Internal Revenue Code, Enron Corp. will pay the Company each
year through 2006 the lesser of (a) $1 million and (b) an amount which, after
payment of applicable taxes, will compensate the Company for the additional
income tax liability resulting from the loss of independent producer status, (v)
and an agreement that if Enron Corp. requests that the Company relocate its
offices, and if the Company agrees to do so, Enron will pay the Company's moving
expenses, including expenses of building out or refurbishing the space in its
new offices and expenses of removing and reinstalling the Company's
telecommunications and information systems facilities. In addition,
 
                                      F-13

 
pursuant to the Business Opportunity Agreement, Enron Corp. agreed to cause its
subsidiary, Houston Pipe Line Company, to enter into various agreements with the
Company rearranging certain existing contractual arrangements between them and
Enron Corp., and the Company entered into a licensing agreement covering the
Enron Corp. name and mark and recognizing that the EOG and EOGI names and marks
belong to the Company. In the Business Opportunity Agreement, Enron Corp. and
the Company also entered into agreements in principle regarding the manner in
which they will share the burdens and benefits of the integrated projects under
joint development by Enron Corp. and the Company in Qatar, Mozambique and
Uzbekistan. The agreements in principle provide generally that the Company's
interests in these projects will be 20%, 20% and 80%, respectively, of the
combined ownership interest of the Company and Enron Corp. In December 1998, the
Company sold its interest in the Uzbekistan project and anticipates disposing of
its interest in the Qatar project in early 1999.
 
     The Business Opportunity Agreement also contains provisions that give Enron
Corp. the right to maintain its equity interest in the Company at certain
levels. It provides that if the Company issues additional shares of its capital
stock, Enron Corp. will have the right to purchase additional shares of capital
stock of the Company as follows: (i) if Enron Corp. owns a majority interest,
Enron Corp. will have the right to purchase sufficient shares to permit it to
retain its majority interest; (ii) if Enron Corp. does not own a majority
interest but accounts for the assets and operations of the Company on a
consolidated basis for financial reporting purposes Enron Corp. will have the
right to purchase sufficient shares to permit it to continue to account for the
Company on a consolidated basis; and (iii) if Enron Corp. accounts for the
assets and operations of the Company using the equity method for financial
reporting purposes Enron Corp. will have the right to purchase sufficient shares
to permit it to continue to account for the Company using the equity method. Any
such purchase by Enron Corp. will be for cash at 97% of the average closing
price per share over a specified 20 day period (reflecting a 3% private
placement discount).
 
     Natural Gas and Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids Net Operating
Revenues. Natural Gas and Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids Net
Operating Revenues include revenues from and associated costs paid to various
subsidiaries and affiliates of Enron Corp. pursuant to contracts which, in the
opinion of management, are no less favorable than could be obtained from third
parties. (See Note 2 "Natural Gas and Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas
Liquids Net Operating Revenues"). Natural Gas and Crude Oil, Condensate and
Natural Gas Liquids Net Operating Revenues also include certain commodity price
swap and NYMEX-related commodity transactions with Enron Corp. affiliated
companies, which in the opinion of management, are no less favorable than could
be received from third parties. (See Note 14 "Price and Interest Rate Risk
Management.)
 
     General and Administrative Expenses. The Company is charged by Enron Corp.
for all direct costs associated with its operations. Such direct charges,
excluding benefit plan charges (See Note 9 "Commitments and
Contingencies - Employee Benefit Plans"), totaled $14.2 million, $16.1 million
and $17.0 million for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively. Management believes that these charges are reasonable.
 
     Additionally, certain administrative costs not directly charged to any
Enron Corp. operations or business segments are allocated to the entities of the
consolidated group. Allocation percentages are generally determined utilizing
weighted average factors derived from property gross book value, net operating
revenues and payroll costs. Effective January 1, 1997, the Company entered into
an agreement with Enron Corp. with an initial term of ten years through December
2006, which agreement replaced a similar previous agreement, providing for
services substantially identical in nature and quality to those services
previously provided and for allocated indirect costs incurred in rendering such
services up to a maximum of approximately $5.1 million for 1998 and $5.3 million
for 1997. Maximum allocated indirect costs under the previous service agreement
were $7.5 million for 1996. The limit on cost for the allocated indirect
services provided by Enron Corp. to the Company will increase in subsequent
years for inflation and certain changes in the Company's allocation bases.
Management believes the indirect allocated charges for the numerous types of
support services provided by the corporate staff are reasonable. Approximately
$5.1 million and $5.3 million was incurred by the Company for indirect general
and administrative expenses for 1998 and 1997, respectively. Under the previous
 
                                      F-14

 
agreement, approximately $7.5 million was charged to the Company for indirect
general and administrative expenses for 1996.
 
     Financing. See Note 4 "Long-Term Debt - Financing Arrangements with Enron
Corp." for a discussion of financing arrangements with Enron Corp.
 
     Enron Corp. Ownership. In December 1998, Enron Corp. publicly disclosed
that it had received an unsolicited indication of interest from a third party
with respect to exploring a possible transaction pursuant to which the third
party would acquire Enron Corp.'s shares of common stock of the Company, and
offer to acquire the remaining shares of outstanding common stock of the
Company. In response to this indication of interest, the Board of Directors of
the Company has established a special committee consisting of two independent
directors who have retained a financial advisor and legal counsel. Although
Enron Corp. has publicly indicated that it currently intends to actively explore
alternative transactions for its Company common stock along with the unsolicited
indication of interest, there can be no assurance that any such transactions
will be pursued or, if pursued, will be consummated.
 
8. INCOME TAXES
 
     The principal components of the Company's net deferred income tax liability
at December 31, 1998 and 1997 were as follows:
 

 
     The components of income (loss) before income taxes were as follows:
 

 
                                      F-15

 
     Total income tax provision (benefit) was as follows:
 

 
     The differences between taxes computed at the U.S. federal statutory tax
rate and the Company's effective rate were as follows:
 

 
     In 1997, the Company and Enron Corp. agreed to replace an existing tax
allocation agreement with a new tax allocation agreement. In the new agreement,
Enron Corp. agreed to refund a $13 million payment made by the Company pursuant
to the existing agreement, the Company agreed to release Enron Corp. from the
liabilities assumed related to the $13 million payment and the parties agreed to
indemnify each other in a manner consistent with a former agreement. Enron Corp.
also advanced the Company approximately $50 million to fund certain federal
income taxes related to the 1995 taxable year. This advance is being repaid in
annual installments through January 1, 2001.
 
     The Company's foreign subsidiaries' undistributed earnings of approximately
$243 million at December 31, 1998 are considered to be indefinitely invested
outside the U.S. and, accordingly, no U.S. federal or state income taxes have
been provided thereon. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of
dividends, the Company may be subject to both foreign withholding taxes and U.S.
income taxes, net of allowable foreign tax credits. Determination of any
potential amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liabilities is not
practicable.
 
     The Company has a $93 million India tax net operating loss carryforward at
December 31, 1998. The loss carryforward utilization is limited to future
taxable earnings of Enron Oil & Gas India Ltd. which earnings are expected to
exceed this carryforward amount before the carryforward period expires. The
India carryforward period is eight years, and unutilized net operating loss
carryforward will begin to expire with the fiscal year ending March 31, 2002.
 
     The Company has an alternative minimum tax ("AMT") credit carryforward of
$18 million which can be used to offset regular income taxes payable in future
years. The AMT credit carryforward has an indefinite carryforward period.
 
                                      F-16

 
9. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
     Employee Benefit Plans. Employees of the Company are covered by various
retirement, stock purchase and other benefit plans of Enron Corp. During each of
the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, the Company was charged $6.4
million, $5.0 million and $5.0 million, respectively, for all such benefits,
including pension expense totaling $1.3 million, $1.0 million and $1.0 million,
respectively, by Enron Corp.
 
     As of September 30, 1998, the most recent valuation date of the various
Enron Corp. pension and other postretirement plans in which the employees of the
Company participate, the actuarial present value of projected aggregate plan
benefit obligations exceeded the aggregate plan net assets by approximately $24
million. The assumed discount rate, rate of return on plan assets and rate of
increases in wages used in determining the actuarial present value of projected
plan benefits were 6.75%, 10.5% and 4.0%, respectively.
 
     The Company also has in effect pension and savings plans related to its
Canadian, Trinidadian and Indian subsidiaries. Activity related to these plans
is not material relative to the Company's operations.
 
     The Company provides certain postretirement medical and dental benefits to
eligible employees and their eligible dependents. Benefits are provided under
the provisions of contributory defined dollar benefit plans of Enron Corp. The
Company accrues the cost of these postretirement benefits over the service lives
of the employees expected to be eligible to receive such benefits. The
transition obligation is being amortized over an average period of 19 years.
 
  Stock Plans
 
     Stock Options. The Company has various stock plans ("the Plans") under
which employees of the Company and its subsidiaries and nonemployee members of
the Board of Directors have been or may be granted rights to purchase shares of
common stock of the Company at a price not less than the market price of the
stock at the date of grant. Stock options granted under the Plans vest over a
period of time based on the nature of the grants and as defined in the
individual grant agreements. Terms for stock options granted under the Plans
have not exceeded a maximum term of 10 years.
 
     The Company accounts for the stock options under the provisions and related
interpretations of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 ("APB No.
25") - "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees." No compensation expense is
recognized for such options. In accordance with SFAS No. 123 - "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation" issued in 1995, the Company has continued to apply APB
No. 25 for purposes of determining net income and to present the pro forma
disclosures required by SFAS No. 123.
 
     The following table sets forth the option transactions under the Plans for
the years ended December 31 (options in thousands):
 

 
                                      F-17

 
     The fair value of each option grant is estimated using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions used for
grants in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively: (1) dividend yield of 0.6%, 0.6%
and 0.5%, (2) expected volatility of 26%, 27% and 31%, (3) risk-free interest
rate of 5.1%, 6.3% and 5.8%, and (4) expected life of 4.9 years, 5.2 years and
5.5 years.
 
     During 1997, in response to extremely competitive conditions for technical
personnel, the Company cancelled options issued in 1996 to purchase 1,282,000
shares of common stock at an exercise price of $25.38 per share, and reissued
the same number of options with an exercise price of $18.25 per share. The
reissue did not involve any executive officers of the Company.
 
     The following table summarizes certain information for the options
outstanding at December 31, 1998 (options in thousands):
 

 
     The Company's pro forma net income and net income per share of common stock
for 1998, 1997 and 1996, had compensation costs been recorded in accordance with
SFAS No. 123, are presented below (in millions except per share data):
 

 
     The effects of applying SFAS No. 123 in this pro forma disclosure should
not be interpreted as being indicative of future effects. SFAS No. 123 does not
apply to awards prior to 1995, and the extent and timing of additional future
awards cannot be predicted.
 
     The Black-Scholes model used by the Company to calculate option values, as
well as other currently accepted option valuation models, were developed to
estimate the fair value of freely tradable, fully transferable options without
vesting and/or trading restrictions, which significantly differ from the
Company's stock option awards. These models also require highly subjective
assumptions, including future stock price volatility and expected time until
exercise, which significantly affect the calculated values. Accordingly,
management does not believe that this model provides a reliable single measure
of the fair value of the Company's stock option awards.
 
     Restricted Stock. Under the Plans, participants may be granted restricted
stock without cost to the participant. The shares granted vest to the
participant at various times ranging from one to seven years. Upon
 
                                      F-18

 
vesting, the shares are released to the participants. The following summarizes
shares of restricted stock granted:
 

 
     The fair value of the restricted shares at date of grant has been recorded
in shareholders' equity as unearned compensation and is being amortized as
compensation expense. Related compensation expense for 1998, 1997 and 1996 was
approximately $1.5 million, $1.0 million and $1.4 million, respectively.
 
     Treasury Shares. During 1998, 1997 and 1996, the Company purchased or was
tendered 1,590,200, 4,954,344 and 2,383,727 of its common shares, respectively,
and delivered such shares upon the exercise of stock options and awards of
restricted stock, except for shares held in treasury at December 31, 1998, 1997
and 1996. The difference between the cost of the treasury shares and the
exercise price of the options, net of federal income tax benefit of $.3 million,
$.5 million and $6.1 million for the years 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively, is
reflected as an adjustment to Additional Paid In Capital. In December 1992, as
amended in September 1994 and December 1996, the Company commenced a stock
repurchase program of up to 1,000,000 shares authorized by the Board of
Directors to facilitate the availability of treasury shares of common stock for,
but not limited to, the settlement of employee stock option exercises pursuant
to the Plans. In February 1997 as amended in February 1998, the Board of
Directors authorized the additional purchase of up to 10 million shares for
similar purposes. At December 31, 1998 and 1997, 6,276,156 and 4,935,744 shares,
respectively, were held in treasury under these authorizations. (See Note 6
"Shareholders' Equity").
 
     Letters Of Credit. At December 31, 1998 and 1997, the Company had letters
of credit outstanding totaling approximately $127 million and $169 million,
respectively.
 
     Contingencies. Enron Oil & Gas India Ltd. ("EOGIL"), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company, is a respondent in two public interest lawsuits filed
in the Delhi High Court, India. The first (the "Wadehra Action") was brought by
B. L. Wadehra, an Indian public interest lawyer, against the Union of India,
EOGIL, EOGIL co-participants in the Panna and Mukta fields, Reliance Industries
Limited ("Reliance") and Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Limited ("ONGC"), and
certain other respondents. ONGC is the Indian national oil company and is
wholly-owned by the Union of India. The second suit (the "CPIL Action") was
brought by the Centre for Public Interest Litigation and the National Alliance
of People's Movement against the Union of India, the Central Bureau of
Investigation, ONGC, Reliance and EOGIL. Petitioners in both the Wadehra Action
and the CPIL Action allege various improprieties in the award of the Panna and
Mukta fields to EOGIL, Reliance and ONGC, and seek the cancellation of the
Production Sharing Contract for the Panna and Mukta fields. The Union of India
is vigorously disputing these allegations. The Company believes that the public
competitive bidding process for the fields was fair and that the award of these
fields to EOGIL, Reliance and ONGC was proper. Following a series of hearings,
the Delhi High Court has entered an order dismissing both lawsuits. The
plaintiffs have filed a special leave petition seeking to appeal this decision
to the India Supreme Court. Although no assurances can be given, based on
currently available information the Company believes that the ultimate
resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on its
financial condition or results of operations. There are various other suits and
claims against the Company that have arisen in the ordinary course of business.
However, management does not believe these suits and claims will individually or
in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
condition or results of operations. The Company has been named as a potentially
responsible party in certain Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation
and Liability Act proceedings. However, management does not
 
                                      F-19

 
believe that any potential assessments resulting from such proceedings will
individually or in the aggregate have a materially adverse effect on the
financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
10. NET INCOME PER SHARE
 
     The difference between the Average Number of Common Shares outstanding for
basic and diluted net income per share of common stock is due to the assumed
issuance of approximately 709,000, 784,000 and 1,672,000 common shares relating
to employee stock options in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
11. CASH FLOW INFORMATION
 
     Cash paid for interest and income taxes was as follows for the years ended
December 31:
 

 
12. BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
     The Company's operations are all natural gas and crude oil exploration and
production related. The Company adopted SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about
Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information," during the fourth quarter of
1998. SFAS No. 131 establishes standards for reporting information about
operating segments in annual financial statements and requires selected
information about operating segments in interim financial reports. Operating
segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate
financial information is available and evaluated regularly by the chief
operating decision maker, or decision making group, in deciding how to allocate
resources and in assessing performance. The Company's chief operating decision
making group is the Executive Committee, which consists of the President and
Chief Executive Officer and other key officers. This group routinely reviews and
makes operating decisions related to significant issues associated with each of
the Company's major producing areas in the United States and each significant
international location. For segment reporting purposes, the major U.S. producing
areas have been aggregated as one reportable segment due to similarities in
their operations as allowed by SFAS No. 131. Financial information by reportable
segment is presented below for the years ended December 31, or at December 31:
 

 
                                      F-20

 

 
13. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET
 
     Other income (expense), net consisted of the following for the years ended
December 31:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Includes $102, $2,549 and $403 from related parties.
 
(2) Pertains to provisions for doubtful accounts receivable associated with
    certain international activities.
 
14. PRICE AND INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT
 
     Periodically, the Company enters into certain trading and non-trading
activities including NYMEX-related commodity market transactions and other
contracts. The non-trading portions of these activities have been designated to
hedge the impact of market price fluctuations on anticipated commodity delivery
volumes or other contractual commitments.
 
     Trading Activities. Trading activities in 1998 included a revenue increase
of $1.1 million related to change in market value of natural gas price swap
options exercisable by a counterparty and partially offsetting "buy" price swap
positions.
 
     During 1995, the Company entered into a NYMEX-related natural gas price
swap covering 73 trillion British thermal units ("TBtu") for the year ended
December 31, 1996. This swap contained an option to extend the price swap
covering 73 TBtu for each of the years 1997 and 1998 which was exercisable at
one time prior to December 31, 1996. The 1996 price swap was closed in the first
quarter of 1996. During 1996, this option was restructured into four options
each exercisable, in total, at one time by the counterparty before December 31,
1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999 to purchase 37 TBtu of notional natural gas for each
of the years 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000 at an average fixed price of $1.98,
$1.98, $1.93 and $1.93 per million British thermal units ("MMBtu"),
respectively. The 1997 and 1998 options were subsequently restructured to be
exercisable monthly at a price of $2.16 and $2.07 per MMBtu, respectively. These
options cover notional volumes averaging 3 TBtu per month during 1997 and 1998.
During the fourth quarter of 1996, the 1999 and 2000 options were terminated. In
1996, the Company entered into "buy" NYMEX-related natural gas price swap
positions in the same notional quantities and maturities as are covered by the
1997 and 1998 options. The Company recognized a $1.1 million and $3.4 million
revenue increase in 1998 and 1997, respectively, and a $12 million revenue
reduction in 1996 related to these trading activities.
 
                                      F-21

 
     The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of financial
instruments held for trading purposes at year-end and the average during the
year:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Estimated fair values have been determined by using available market data
    and valuation methodologies. Judgment is necessarily required in
    interpreting market data and the use of different market assumptions or
    estimation methodologies may affect the estimated fair value amounts.
 
     Interest Rate Swap Agreements and Foreign Currency Contracts. At December
31, 1998 and 1997, a subsidiary of the Company and the Company are parties to
offsetting foreign currency and interest rate swap agreements with an aggregate
notional principal amount of $210 million. Such swap agreements are scheduled to
terminate in 2001. At December 31, 1998 and 1997, the composite fair value of
the agreements was not significant based upon termination values obtained from
third parties. In November 1998, the Company entered into two interest rate swap
agreements having notional values of $100 million each. The agreements were
entered into to hedge the base variable interest rates of the Company's
commercial paper, uncommitted credit facilities and affiliate borrowings. The
Company anticipates having such borrowings outstanding of at least the notional
amounts under the swap agreements during the term of the swap agreements. Under
the agreements, the Company will pay interest based on fixed rates of
approximately 4.96% and 5.01% and receive interest based on the three-month
LIBOR calculated on the notional value of the swap agreements. These agreements
are scheduled to terminate in November 2000. At December 31, 1998, the composite
fair value of these agreements was not significant based upon termination values
obtained from third parties.
 
     Hedging Transactions. With the objective of enhancing the certainty of
future revenues, the Company from time to time enters into NYMEX-related
commodity price swaps and costless collars. Using NYMEX-related commodity price
swaps, the Company receives a fixed price for the respective commodity hedged
and pays a floating market price, as defined for each transaction, to the
counterparty at settlement.
 
     At December 31, 1998, the Company had outstanding positions covering
notional volumes of .7 million barrels ("MMBbl") of crude oil and condensate for
1999. The fair value of the positions was a net revenue increase of
approximately $4 million. In 1998, the Company closed positions covering
notional volumes of approximately 4 TBtu of natural gas for each of the years
1999 through 2005. The Company also recorded closed positions covering 2.2 MMBbl
and 1.7 MMBbl of crude oil and condensate for the years 1999 and 2000,
respectively. At December 31, 1998, the aggregate deferred revenue reduction for
1999, 2000 and thereafter was approximately $13 million, $12 million and $6
million, respectively, and is classified as "Other Assets".
 
     At December 31, 1997, the Company had outstanding positions covering
notional volumes of approximately 37 TBtu of natural gas for 1998 and
approximately 4 TBtu of natural gas for each of the years 1999 and 2000 and
approximately 1.3 MMBbl and .7 MMBbl of crude oil and condensate for the years
1998 and 1999, respectively. The fair value of the positions was a net revenue
increase of $1 million at December 31, 1997. During the fourth quarter of 1997,
the Company closed positions covering notional volumes of approximately 37 TBtu
of natural gas for each of the years 1999 and 2000. At December 31, 1997, the
aggregate deferred revenue reduction for the 1998, 1999 and 2000 closed
positions was approximately $9 million, $10 million and $10 million,
respectively.
 
                                      F-22

 
     The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of financial
instruments and related transactions for non-trading activities at December 31,
1998 and 1997:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Estimated fair values have been determined by using available market data
    and valuation methodologies. Judgment is necessarily required in
    interpreting market data and the use of different market assumptions or
    estimation methodologies may affect the estimated fair value amounts.
 
(2) See Note 4 "Long-Term Debt."
 
     Credit Risk. While notional contract amounts are used to express the
magnitude of price and interest rate swap agreements, the amounts potentially
subject to credit risk, in the event of nonperformance by the other parties, are
substantially smaller. The Company does not anticipate nonperformance by the
other parties.
 
15. CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK
 
     Substantially all of the Company's accounts receivable at December 31, 1998
and 1997 result from crude oil and natural gas sales and/or joint interest
billings to affiliate and third party companies including foreign state-owned
entities in the oil and gas industry. This concentration of customers and joint
interest owners may impact the Company's overall credit risk, either positively
or negatively, in that these entities may be similarly affected by changes in
economic or other conditions. In determining whether or not to require
collateral from a customer or joint interest owner, the Company analyzes the
entity's net worth, cash flows, earnings, and credit ratings. Receivables are
generally not collateralized. Historical credit losses incurred on receivables
by the Company have been immaterial.
 
16. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENT - SFAS NO. 133
 
     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS
No. 133 - "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities"
effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999. The statement cannot
be applied retroactively and must be applied to (a) derivative instruments and
(b) certain derivative instruments embedded in hybrid contracts that were
issued, acquired or substantively modified after December 31, 1997.
 
     The statement establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring that
every derivative instrument be recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset
or liability measured at its fair value. The statement requires that changes in
the derivative's fair value be recognized currently in earnings unless specific
hedge accounting criteria are met. Special accounting for qualifying hedges
allows a derivative's gains and losses to offset related results on the hedged
item in the statements of income and requires a company to formally document,
designate and assess the effectiveness of transactions that receive hedge
accounting treatment.
 
                                      F-23

 
     The Company has not yet quantified the impacts of adopting SFAS No. 133 on
its financial statements and has not determined the timing of adoption. Based on
the criteria of SFAS No. 133 and current interpretations thereof, the Company
believes that the options it owns to purchase 3,200,000 Enron Corp. common
shares, at a price of $39.1875 per share that expire in December 2007, qualify
as derivative instruments. Accordingly, SFAS No. 133 would require the changes
in the fair value of the options to be recognized currently in earnings. The
Company cannot predict whether future interpretations currently being considered
by the Emerging Issues Task Force of the FASB or potential amendments of SFAS
No. 133 will result in the options being considered derivative instruments at
the time of its adoption. At December 31, 1997, the carrying value of the
options was approximately $23 million pre-tax, which represented the estimated
fair value at the date of grant. At December 31, 1998, Enron Corp. common shares
closed at $57.06 per share. Based on the Company's current level of other
derivative and hedging activities, the Company does not expect the impact of
adoption of SFAS No. 133 relative to those other activities to be material.
 
                                      F-24

 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
 
         SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
       (IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED)
     (UNAUDITED EXCEPT FOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR OIL AND GAS PRODUCING
                                  ACTIVITIES)
 
OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES
 
     The following disclosures are made in accordance with SFAS No.
69 - "Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities":
 
     Oil and Gas Reserves. Users of this information should be aware that the
process of estimating quantities of "proved", "proved developed" and "proved
undeveloped" crude oil and natural gas reserves is very complex, requiring
significant subjective decisions in the evaluation of all available geological,
engineering and economic data for each reservoir. The data for a given reservoir
may also change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors
including, but not limited to, additional development activity, evolving
production history, and continual reassessment of the viability of production
under varying economic conditions. Consequently, material revisions to existing
reserve estimates occur from time to time. Although every reasonable effort is
made to ensure that reserve estimates reported represent the most accurate
assessments possible, the significance of the subjective decisions required and
variances in available data for various reservoirs make these estimates
generally less precise than other estimates presented in connection with
financial statement disclosures.
 
     Proved reserves represent estimated quantities of natural gas, crude oil,
condensate, and natural gas liquids that geological and engineering data
demonstrate, with reasonable certainty, to be recoverable in future years from
known reservoirs under economic and operating conditions existing at the time
the estimates were made.
 
     Proved developed reserves are proved reserves expected to be recovered,
through wells and equipment in place and under operating methods being utilized
at the time the estimates were made.
 
     Proved undeveloped reserves are reserves that are expected to be recovered
from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively
major expenditure is required for recompletion. Reserves on undrilled acreage
are limited to those drilling units offsetting productive units that are
reasonably certain of production when drilled. Proved reserves for other
undrilled units can be claimed only where it can be demonstrated with certainty
that there is continuity of production from the existing productive formation.
Estimates for proved undeveloped reserves are not attributed to any acreage for
which an application of fluid injection or other improved recovery technique is
contemplated, unless such techniques have been proved effective by actual tests
in the area and in the same reservoir.
 
     Canadian provincial royalties are determined based on a graduated
percentage scale which varies with prices and production volumes. Canadian
reserves, as presented on a net basis, assume prices and royalty rates in
existence at the time the estimates were made, and the Company's estimate of
future production volumes. Future fluctuations in prices, production rates, or
changes in political or regulatory environments could cause the Company's share
of future production from Canadian reserves to be materially different from that
presented.
 
     Estimates of proved and proved developed reserves at December 31, 1998,
1997 and 1996 were based on studies performed by the engineering staff of the
Company for reserves in the United States, Canada, Trinidad, India and China.
Opinions by DeGolyer and MacNaughton ("D&M"), independent petroleum consultants,
for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 covered producing areas
containing 39%, 54% and 64%, respectively, of proved reserves, excluding deep
Paleozoic methane reserves, of the Company on a net-equivalent-cubic-feet-of-gas
basis. D&M's opinions indicate that the estimates of proved reserves prepared by
the Company's engineering staff for the properties reviewed by D&M, when
compared in total on a net-equivalent-cubic-feet-of-gas basis, do not differ
materially from the estimates prepared by D&M. The deep Paleozoic methane
reserves were covered by the opinion of D&M for the year ended December 31,
1995. Such estimates by D&M in the aggregate varied by not more than 5% from
those prepared by the engineering
                                      F-25

 
staff of the Company. The India reserves, which accounted for 23% of the
Company's December 31, 1998 proved reserves, excluding deep Paleozoic reserves,
were not included in the year end review by D&M; however, a review was conducted
as of April 30, 1998. The estimate of the India reserves prepared by D&M varied
by not more than 10% from the estimate prepared by the engineering staff of the
Company. All reports by D&M were developed utilizing geological and engineering
data provided by the Company.
 
     No major discovery or other favorable or adverse event subsequent to
December 31, 1998 is believed to have caused a material change in the estimates
of proved or proved developed reserves as of that date.
 
     The following table sets forth the Company's net proved and proved
developed reserves at December 31 for each of the four years in the period ended
December 31, 1998, and the changes in the net proved reserves for each of the
three years in the period then ended as estimated by the engineering staff of
the Company.
 
                NET PROVED AND PROVED DEVELOPED RESERVE SUMMARY
 

 
                                      F-26

 

 
                                      F-27

 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Billion cubic feet or billion cubic feet equivalent, as applicable.
 
(2) Includes 1,180 Bcf of proved undeveloped methane reserves contained, along
    with high concentrations of carbon dioxide and other gases in deep Paleozoic
    (Madison) formations in the Big Piney area of Wyoming.
 
(3) Thousand barrels.
 
(4) Includes crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
 
     Capitalized Costs Relating to Oil and Gas Producing Activities. The
following table sets forth the capitalized costs relating to the Company's
natural gas and crude oil producing activities at December 31, 1998 and 1997:
 

 
     Costs Incurred in Oil and Gas Property Acquisition, Exploration and
Development Activities. The acquisition, exploration and development costs
disclosed in the following tables are in accordance with definitions in SFAS No.
19 - "Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies".
 
     Acquisition costs include costs incurred to purchase, lease, or otherwise
acquire property.
 
     Exploration costs include exploration expenses, additions to exploration
wells including those in progress, and depreciation of support equipment used in
exploration activities.
 
     Development costs include additions to production facilities and equipment,
additions to development wells including those in progress and depreciation of
support equipment and related facilities used in development activities.
 
                                      F-28

 
     The following tables set forth costs incurred related to the Company's oil
and gas activities for the years ended December 31:
 

 
                                      F-29

 
     Results of Operations for Oil and Gas Producing Activities(1). The
following tables set forth results of operations for oil and gas producing
activities for the years ended December 31:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Excludes net revenues associated with other marketing activities, interest
    charges, general corporate expenses and certain gathering and handling fees
    for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1998. The
    gathering and handling fees and other marketing net revenues are directly
    associated with oil and gas operations with regard to segment reporting as
    defined in SFAS No. 131 - "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and
    Related Information", but are not part of Disclosures about Oil and Gas
    Producing Activities as defined in SFAS No. 69.
 
                                      F-30

 
     Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved
Oil and Gas Reserves. The following information has been developed utilizing
procedures prescribed by SFAS No. 69 and based on crude oil and natural gas
reserve and production volumes estimated by the engineering staff of the
Company. It may be useful for certain comparison purposes, but should not be
solely relied upon in evaluating the Company or its performance. Further,
information contained in the following table should not be considered as
representative of realistic assessments of future cash flows, nor should the
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows be viewed as
representative of the current value of the Company.
 
     The future cash flows presented below are based on sales prices, cost
rates, and statutory income tax rates in existence as of the date of the
projections. It is expected that material revisions to some estimates of crude
oil and natural gas reserves may occur in the future, development and production
of the reserves may occur in periods other than those assumed, and actual prices
realized and costs incurred may vary significantly from those used.
 
     Management does not rely upon the following information in making
investment and operating decisions. Such decisions are based upon a wide range
of factors, including estimates of probable as well as proved reserves, and
varying price and cost assumptions considered more representative of a range of
possible economic conditions that may be anticipated.
 
                                      F-31

 
     The following table sets forth the standardized measure of discounted
future net cash flows from projected production of the Company's crude oil and
natural gas reserves at December 31, for the years ended December 31:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Based on year end market prices determined at the point of delivery from the
    producing unit.
 
(2) Based on natural gas and crude oil prices as of March 1, 1999, the
    standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows for operations in
    the United States would have been lower by approximately 23%. Changes in
    other producing areas and changes in reported reserve quantities were not
    material.
 
                                      F-32

 
     Changes in Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows. The
following table sets forth the changes in the standardized measure of discounted
future net cash flows at December 31, for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1998.
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Includes approximately $77,500, $344,300, $85,700 and $155,400, discounted
    before income taxes, in 1995, 1996, 1997 and 1998, respectively, related to
    the reserves in the Big Piney deep Paleozoic formations.
 
                                      F-33

 
UNAUDITED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 

 
                                      F-34

 
                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
 
          SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998, 1997 AND 1996
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
                                       S-1

 
                                    EXHIBITS
 
     Exhibits not incorporated herein by reference to a prior filing are
designated by an asterisk (*) and are filed herewith; all exhibits not so
designated are incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Form S-1
Registration Statement, Registration No. 33-30678, filed on August 24, 1989
("Form S-1"), or as otherwise indicated.
 

 
                                       E-1

 

 
                                       E-2

 

 
                                       E-3

 

 
                                       E-4

 

 
                                       E-5

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 18th day of
March, 1999.
 
                                                  ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
                                                        (Registrant)
 
                                            By    /s/ WALTER C. WILSON
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                     (Walter C. Wilson)
                                              Senior Vice President and Chief
                                                     Financial Officer
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of registrant and in
the capacities with Enron Oil & Gas Company indicated and on the 18th day of
March, 1999.
 


 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 
     Exhibits not incorporated herein by reference to a prior filing are
designated by an asterisk (*) and are filed herewith; all exhibits not so
designated are incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Form S-1
Registration Statement, Registration No. 33-30678, filed on August 24, 1989
("Form S-1"), or as otherwise indicated.
 


 


 


 


 


