
10-K405
ENRON OIL & GAS FORM 10K PERIOD ENDED 12/31/95



================================================================================

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
 
                             ---------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

                             ---------------------

/X/   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
      FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
 
/ /   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 1-9743
 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
           DELAWARE                                              47-0684736
  (State or other jurisdiction                                (I.R.S. Employer
of incorporation or organization)                            Identification No.)
 
                  1400 SMITH STREET, HOUSTON, TEXAS 77002-7369
              (Address of principal executive offices) (zip code)
 
        REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: 713-853-6161
 
                             ---------------------

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                                      NONE
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.     Yes /X/     No / /.
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.     /X/.
 
     Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant, based on the closing sale price in the daily composite list for
transactions on the New York Stock Exchange on March 1, 1996 was $1,535,085,875.
As of March 1, 1996, there were 159,976,840 shares of the registrant's Common
Stock, $.01 par value, outstanding.
 
     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE. Certain portions of the registrant's
definitive Proxy Statement for the May 7, 1996 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
("Proxy Statement") are incorporated in Part III by reference.

================================================================================

 
                                
                                     PART I
 

 
                                        i

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
     Enron Oil & Gas Company (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation organized
in 1985, is engaged, either directly or through a marketing subsidiary with
regard to domestic operations or through various subsidiaries with regard to
international operations, in the exploration for, and the development,
production and marketing of, natural gas and crude oil primarily in major
producing basins in the United States, as well as in Canada, Trinidad and India
and, to a lesser extent, selected other international areas. The Company's
principal producing areas are further described under "Exploration and
Production" below. At December 31, 1995, the Company's estimated net proved
natural gas reserves were 3,343 billion cubic feet ("Bcf"), including 1,180 Bcf
of proved undeveloped methane reserves in the Big Piney deep Paleozoic
formations and amounts related to a volumetric production payment and estimated
net proved crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids reserves were 50
million barrels ("MMBbl"). (See "Supplemental Information to Consolidated
Financial Statements"). At such date, approximately 78% of the Company's
reserves (on a natural gas equivalent basis) was located in the United States,
10% in Canada, 8% in Trinidad and 4% in India. As of December 31, 1995, the
Company employed approximately 740 persons.
 
     The Company's business strategy is to maximize the rate of return on
investment of capital by controlling both operating and capital costs and
enhancing the certainty of future revenues through the use of various marketing
mechanisms. This strategy enhances the generation of both income and cash flow
from each unit of production and allows for the growth of production on a
cost-effective basis by optimizing the reinvestment of cash flow. The Company
refocused its 1995 drilling activity away from natural gas deliverability and
toward natural gas reserve enhancement and crude oil exploitation in the United
States in response to the decline in United States natural gas prices in recent
periods. The Company is also focusing on the cost-effective utilization of
advances in technology associated with gathering, processing and interpretation
of 3-D seismic data, developing reservoir simulation models and drilling
operations through the use of new and/or improved drill bits, mud motors, mud
additives, formation logging techniques and reservoir fracturing methods. These
advanced technologies are used, as appropriate, throughout the Company to reduce
the risks associated with all aspects of oil and gas reserve exploration,
exploitation and development. The Company implements its strategy by emphasizing
the drilling of internally generated prospects in order to find and develop low
cost reserves. Achieving and maintaining the lowest possible cost structure are
also important goals in the implementation of the Company's strategy. Consistent
with the Company's desire to optimize the use of its assets, it also maintains a
strategy of selling select oil and gas properties that for various reasons may
no longer fit into future operating plans, or which are not assessed to have
sufficient future growth potential and when the economic value to be obtained by
selling the properties and reserves in the ground is evaluated to be greater
than what would be obtained by holding the properties and producing the reserves
over time. As a result, the Company typically receives each year a varying but
substantial level of proceeds related to such sales which proceeds are available
for general corporate use.
 
     The closing on December 13, 1995 of the sale by Enron Corp. of
approximately 31 million outstanding shares of the common stock of the Company
reduced Enron Corp.'s ownership in the Company from 80% to 61%. (See
"Relationship Between the Company and Enron Corp.").
 
     Unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to the Company
include Enron Oil & Gas Company, its predecessors and subsidiaries, and any
reference to the ownership of interest or pursuit of operations in any
international areas by the Company recognizes that all such interests are owned
and operations are pursued by subsidiaries of Enron Oil & Gas Company. Unless
the context otherwise requires, all references herein to Enron Corp. include
Enron Corp., its predecessors and affiliates, other than the Company and its
predecessors and subsidiaries.
 
     With respect to information on the Company's working interest in wells or
acreage, "net" oil and gas wells or acreage are determined by multiplying
"gross" oil and gas wells or acreage by the Company's working interest in the
wells or acreage. Unless otherwise defined, all references to wells are gross.
 

 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
 
     The Company's operations are all natural gas and crude oil exploration and
production related. Accordingly, such operations are classified as one business
segment.
 
EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION
 
  NORTH AMERICAN OPERATIONS
 
     The Company's seven principal United States producing areas are the Big
Piney area, South Texas area, East Texas area, Offshore Gulf of Mexico area,
Canyon Trend area, Pitchfork Ranch area and Vernal area. Properties in these
areas comprised approximately 67% of the Company's United States reserves (on a
natural gas equivalent basis) and 90% of the Company's maximum United States net
natural gas deliverability as of December 31, 1995 and are substantially all
operated by the Company.
 
     The Company's other United States natural gas and crude oil producing
properties are located primarily in other areas of Texas, Utah, New Mexico,
Oklahoma, California and Kansas.
 
     At December 31, 1995, 95% of the Company's proved United States reserves,
including the reserves in the Big Piney deep Paleozoic formations, (on a natural
gas equivalent basis) was natural gas and 5% was crude oil, condensate and
natural gas liquids. A substantial portion of the Company's United States
natural gas reserves is in long-lived fields with well-established production
histories. The Company believes that opportunities exist to increase production
in many of these fields through continued infill and other development drilling.
 
     The Company also has natural gas and crude oil producing properties located
in Western Canada, primarily in the provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan and
Manitoba.
 
     Big Piney Area. The Company's largest reserve accumulation is located in
the Big Piney area in Sublette and Lincoln counties in southwestern Wyoming. The
Company is the holder of the largest productive acreage base in this area, with
approximately 245,000 net acres under lease directly within field limits. The
Company operates approximately 535 natural gas wells in this area in which it
owns an 87% average working interest. Deliveries from the area net to the
Company averaged 90 million cubic feet ("MMcf") per day of natural gas and 2.0
thousand barrels ("MBbl") per day of crude oil, condensate, and natural gas
liquids in 1995. At December 31, 1995, natural gas deliverability net to the
Company was approximately 140 MMcf per day.
 
     The current principal producing intervals are the Frontier and Mesaverde
formations. The Frontier formation, which occurs at 6,500 to 10,000 feet,
contains approximately 54% of the Company's Big Piney proved developed reserves.
The Company drilled 26 wells in the Big Piney area in 1995. Although natural gas
drilling has been curtailed in this area during 1995 in response to market
conditions, numerous drilling opportunities will be available for several years.
 
     In 1995, the Company recorded as proved undeveloped reserves 1,180 Bcf of
methane contained, along with high concentrations of carbon dioxide as well as
small amounts of other gaseous substances, in the deep Wyoming Paleozoic
formation located under acreage leased by the Company and held by production in
the Big Piney area. The Company is actively pursuing the consummation of a
market or markets from several different potential sources to facilitate
realizing the value of these reserves.
 
     South Texas Area. The Company's activities in South Texas are focused in
the Lobo, Wilcox and Frio producing horizons. The principal areas of activity
are in the Lobo and Wilcox Trends which occur primarily in Webb, Zapata and
Starr counties.
 
     The Company operates approximately 320 wells in the South Texas area.
Production is primarily from the Upper Wilcox and Lobo sands at depths ranging
from 5,000 to 13,000 feet. The Company has approximately 197,000 net acres under
lease in this area. Natural gas deliveries net to the Company averaged
approximately 158 MMcf per day in 1995. At December 31, 1995, natural gas
deliverability from this area net to the Company was approximately 155 MMcf per
day which was impacted during 1995 by the sale of selected properties. The
Company drilled 45 wells in the South Texas area in 1995 and participated in a
 

 
sizable 3-D seismic acquisition effort. An active drilling program in this area
is anticipated to continue for several years.
 
     East Texas Area. The Company's activities in the East Texas area are
primarily in the Carthage field, located in Panola County, and the North Milton
field, located in northern Harris County.
 
     The Carthage field is the Company's newest area of concentration. This
field is one of the most prolific fields in East Texas with production primarily
from the Cotton Valley, Travis Peak and Pettit formations. In 1995, properties
were acquired that doubled the Company's acreage position to 17,000 acres. The
Company drilled 36 wells in the East Texas area in 1995 and anticipates an
active drilling program will continue for several years. The Company has an
average 71% working interest in its holdings. The Company has continued its
activity in the North Milton field where it now operates 19 wells and holds a
100% working interest in the acreage. Further drilling is planned for 1996. At
December 31, 1995, deliverability from the East Texas area was approximately 50
MMcf per day of natural gas with almost 1.2 MBbl per day of crude oil,
condensate and natural gas liquids both net to the Company.
 
     Offshore Gulf of Mexico Area. At December 31, 1995, the Company held an
interest in 174 blocks in the Offshore Gulf of Mexico area totaling
approximately 485,000 net acres. Of the 174 blocks, 119 are operated by the
Company. These interests are located predominantly in federal waters offshore
Texas and Louisiana. During 1995, the Company acquired a 50% interest in
essentially all of the Offshore Gulf of Mexico properties previously owned by
Santa Fe Minerals, Inc. complementing the Company's previously owned interests
and adding significantly to the Company's offshore operations. Natural gas
deliveries from this area averaged 124 MMcf per day during 1995 net to the
Company. A substantial portion of such deliveries was from interests in the
Matagorda trend with significant volumes also coming from the Mustang Island
area. Deliverability from this area at December 31, 1995 was 155 MMcf per day
net to the Company sourced principally as noted above. The Company has
maintained an active drilling program in this area during 1995 and anticipates a
similar program to continue for several years.
 
     Canyon Trend Area. The Company's activities in this area have been
concentrated in Crockett, Sutton, Terrell and Val Verde Counties, Texas where
the Company drilled 384 natural gas wells during the period 1992 through 1995.
The Company holds approximately 99,000 net acres and now operates approximately
635 natural gas wells in this area in which it owns a 97% average working
interest. Production is from the Canyon sands and Strawn limestone at depths
from 5,500 to 12,500 feet. In 1995, natural gas deliveries net to the Company
averaged 57 MMcf per day and at December 31, 1995, natural gas deliverability
net to the Company was approximately 50 MMcf per day. The Company has maintained
an active drilling program in the Canyon Trend area during 1995 and expects a
similar program to continue for several years.
 
     Pitchfork Ranch Area. The Pitchfork Ranch area located in Lea County, New
Mexico, produces primarily from the Bone Spring, Atoka and Morrow formations. In
1995, deliveries net to the Company averaged 28 MMcf per day of natural gas and
approximately 2.8 MBbl per day of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
At December 31, 1995, deliverability net to the Company was approximately 25
MMcf per day of natural gas and 2.6 MBbl per day of crude oil, condensate and
natural gas liquids. The Company holds approximately 31,000 net acres and
recently acquired a 3-D seismic survey over this area. The Company expects to
maintain an active drilling program in this area for several years.
 
     Vernal Area. In the Vernal area, located primarily in Uintah County, Utah,
the Company operates approximately 200 producing wells and presently controls
approximately 75,000 net acres. In 1995, natural gas deliveries net to the
Company from the Vernal area averaged 19 MMcf per day which represents
deliverability. Production is from the Green River and Wasatch formations
located at depths between 4,500 and 8,000 feet. The Company has an average
working interest of approximately 60%. Although the drilling of natural gas
wells was deferred in 1995 in the Vernal area in response to market conditions,
numerous drilling opportunities will be available for several years.
 
     Canada. The Company is engaged in the exploration for and the development,
production and marketing of natural gas and crude oil and the operation of
natural gas processing plants in western Canada, principally in the provinces of
Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Manitoba. The Company conducts operations from
offices in
 

 
Calgary. The Company produces natural gas from seven major areas and crude oil
from four major areas. The Sandhills area in Southwestern Saskatchewan is the
largest single producing area where 75 wells were drilled in 1995 resulting in
deliverability net to the Company from the field of approximately 38 MMcf per
day at December 31, 1995. Canadian natural gas deliverability net to the Company
at December 31, 1995 was approximately 95 MMcf per day, and the Company held
approximately 347,000 net undeveloped acres in Canada. The Company expects to
maintain an active drilling program for several years.
 
  OUTSIDE NORTH AMERICA OPERATIONS
 
     The Company has producing operations offshore Trinidad and India and was
recently awarded by the government of Venezuela the rights to pursue
exploration, exploitation and development of reserves in the Gulf of Paria East
Block offshore the eastern state of Soucre and is conducting exploration in
selected other international areas. Properties offshore Trinidad and India
comprised 100% of the Company's proved reserves and production outside of North
America at year end 1995.
 
     Trinidad. In November 1992, the Company was awarded a 95% working interest
concession in the South East Coast Consortium ("SECC") Block offshore Trinidad,
encompassing three undeveloped fields, previously held by three government-owned
energy companies. The Kiskadee field has been developed, the Ibis field is under
development and the Oil Bird field is anticipated to be developed over the next
three to five years. Existing surplus processing and transportation capacity at
the Pelican field facilities owned and operated by Trinidad and Tobago
government-owned companies is being used to process and transport the
production. Natural gas is being sold into the local market under a take-or-pay
agreement with the National Gas Company of Trinidad and Tobago. In 1995,
deliveries net to the Company averaged 107 MMcf per day of natural gas and 5.1
MBbl per day of crude oil and condensate. At December 31, 1995, natural gas
deliverability net to the Company was approximately 170 MMcf per day and the
Company held approximately 71,000 net undeveloped acres in Trinidad.
 
     In 1995, the Company was awarded the right to develop the U(a) block
adjacent to the SECC Block and is presently negotiating the terms of a
production sharing contract with the Government of Trinidad and Tobago.
 
     India. In December 1994, the Company signed agreements covering profit
sharing, joint operations and product sales and representing a 30% working
interest in and was designated operator of the Tapti, Panna and Mukta Blocks
located offshore Bombay, India. The Company is designated operator of all three
areas. The blocks were previously operated by the Indian national oil company,
Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Limited, which retained a 40% working interest.
The 363,000 acre Tapti Block contains two major proved gas accumulations
delineated by 22 expendable exploration wells that have been plugged. The
Company has initiated a development plan for the Tapti Block accumulations. The
106,000 acre Panna Block and the 192,000 acre Mukta Block are partially
developed with 30 wells producing from five producing platforms located in the
Panna and Mukta fields. The fields were producing approximately 3.3 MBbl per day
of crude oil net to the Company as of December 31, 1995; all associated gas was
being flared. The Company intends to continue development of the accumulations
and to expand processing capacity to allow crude oil production at full
deliverability as well as to permit natural gas sales.
 
     Venezuela. The Company was awarded exploration, exploitation and
development rights for a block offshore the eastern state of Soucre, Venezuela
in early 1996. The Company holds an initial 90 percent working interest in the
joint venture. Plans include the completion of a 3-D seismic survey over the
most prospective portions of the block in 1996 and initiation of drilling in
1997, with production targeted for mid-1998. Total reserves are estimated at 100
to 300 million barrels gross.
 
     Other International. The Company continues to evaluate other selected
conventional natural gas and crude oil opportunities outside North America. The
Company is pursuing other exploitation opportunities in countries where
indigenous natural gas and crude oil reserves have been identified, particularly
where synergies in natural gas transportation, processing and power cogeneration
can be optimized with other Enron Corp. affiliated companies. In early 1995, the
Company, an Enron Corp. affiliate and the Qatar General Petroleum Corporation
signed a nonbinding letter of intent concerning the possible development of a
liquefied
 

 
natural gas project for natural gas to be produced from a block within the North
Dome Field. The Company may jointly hold up to a 40% equity interest in the
joint venture and the Company would drill and develop to-be-agreed-upon
reserves. In addition, the Company signed nonbinding letters of intent in early
1995 with Uzbekneftigaz, the national oil and gas company of Uzbekistan as well
as with Gazprom, the Russian natural gas company, to pursue the feasibility of
joint venture development and marketing of previously discovered hydrocarbon
reserves in Uzbekistan.The Company is also participating in discussions
concerning the potential for conventional oil and gas development opportunities
in China, Mozambique, Jordan and Algeria. The Company also holds nonoperating
working interests in two conventional oil and gas exploration prospects in the
U.K. North Sea.
 
     The Company continues evaluation and assessment of its international
opportunity portfolio in the coalbed methane recovery arena, including projects
in South Wales in the U.K., the Lorraine Basin in France, Galilee Basin in
Australia and the San Jiao area and Hedong Basin in China.
 
MARKETING
 
     Wellhead Marketing. The Company's North America wellhead natural gas
production is currently being sold on the spot market and under long-term
natural gas contracts at market responsive prices. In many instances, the
long-term contract prices closely approximate the prices received for natural
gas being sold on the spot market. Wellhead natural gas volumes from Trinidad
are sold at prices that are based on a fixed price schedule with annual
escalations. Under terms of the production sharing contract, natural gas volumes
in India are to be sold to the Gas Authority of India, Ltd. under a take-or-pay
contract at a price linked to a basket of world market fuel oil quotations with
floor and ceiling limits. Approximately 30% of the Company's wellhead natural
gas production is currently being sold to pipeline and marketing subsidiaries of
Enron Corp. The Company believes that the terms of its transactions and
agreements with Enron Corp. and/or its affiliates are and intends that future
such transactions and agreements will be at least as favorable to the Company as
could be obtained from third parties.
 
     Substantially all of the Company's wellhead crude oil and condensate is
sold under various terms and arrangements at market responsive prices.
 
     Other Marketing. Enron Oil & Gas Marketing, Inc. ("EOGM"), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company, is a marketing company engaging in various marketing
activities. Both the Company and EOGM contract to provide, under short and
long-term agreements, natural gas to various purchasers and then aggregate the
necessary supplies for the sales with purchases from various sources including
third-party producers, marketing companies, pipelines or from the Company's own
production. In addition, EOGM has purchased and constructed several small
gathering systems in order to facilitate its entry into the gathering business
on a limited basis. Both the Company and EOGM utilize other short and long-term
hedging and trading mechanisms including sales and purchases utilizing
NYMEX-related commodity market transactions. These marketing activities have
provided an effective balance in managing a portion of the Company's exposure to
commodity price risks for both natural gas and crude oil and condensate wellhead
prices. (See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations - Capital Resources and Liquidity - Hedging
Transactions.")
 
     In September 1992, the Company sold a volumetric production payment for
$326.8 million to a limited partnership. Under the terms of the production
payment agreements, the Company conveyed a real property interest in
approximately 124 billion cubic feet equivalent ("Bcfe") (136 trillion British
thermal units ("TBtu")) of certain natural gas and other hydrocarbons to the
purchaser. Effective October 1, 1993, the agreements were amended providing for
the extension of the original term of the volumetric production payment through
March 31, 1999 and including a revised schedule of daily quantities of
hydrocarbons to be delivered which is approximately one-half of the original
schedule. The revised schedule under the amended agreement totals approximately
89.1 Bcfe (97.8 TBtu) versus approximately 87.9 Bcfe (96.4 TBtu) remaining to be
delivered under the original agreement. Daily quantities of hydrocarbons no
longer required to be delivered under the revised schedule during the period
from October 1, 1993 through June 30, 1996 are
 

 
available for sale by the Company. The Company retains responsibility for its
working interest share of the cost of operations.
 
     In March 1995, in a series of transactions with Enron Corp. and an
affiliate of Enron Corp., the Company exchanged all of its fuel supply and
purchase contracts and related price swap agreements associated with a Texas
City cogeneration plant (the "Cogen Contracts") for certain natural gas price
swap agreements (the "Swap Agreements") of equivalent value. As a result of the
transactions, the Company has been relieved of all performance obligations
associated with the Cogen Contracts. The Company will realize net operating
revenues and receive corresponding cash payments of approximately $91 million
during the period extending through December 31, 1999, under the terms of the
Swap Agreements. The estimated fair value of the Swap Agreements was
approximately $81 million at the date the Swap Agreements were received. The net
effect of this series of transactions has resulted/will result in increases in
net operating revenues and cash receipts for the Company during 1995 and 1996 of
approximately $13 million and $7 million, respectively, with offsetting
decreases in 1998 and 1999 versus that anticipated under the Cogen Contracts.
 

 
WELLHEAD VOLUMES AND PRICES, AND LEASE AND WELL EXPENSES
 
     The following table sets forth certain information regarding the Company's
wellhead volumes of and average prices for natural gas per thousand cubic feet
("Mcf"), crude oil and condensate, and natural gas liquids per barrel ("Bbl"),
and average lease and well expenses per thousand cubic feet equivalent ("Mcfe" -
natural gas equivalents are determined using the ratio of 6.0 Mcf of natural gas
to 1.0 barrel of crude oil and condensate or natural gas liquids) delivered
during each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1995:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1)  Includes 48 MMcf per day in 1995 and 1994, and 81 MMcf per day in 1993
     delivered under the terms of a volumetric production payment agreement
     effective October 1, 1992, as amended.
 
(2)  Includes an average equivalent wellhead value of $.80 per Mcf in 1995, 
     $1.27 per Mcf in 1994 and $1.57 per Mcf in 1993 for the volumes described 
     in note (1), net of transportation costs.
 
(3)  Based on expense estimates for nine days of production for 1994. Expenses
     for 1995 includes certain nonrecurring startup costs.
 

 
OTHER NATURAL GAS MARKETING VOLUMES AND PRICES
 
     The following table sets forth certain information regarding the Company's
volumes of natural gas delivered under other marketing and volumetric production
payment arrangements, and resulting average per unit gross revenue and per unit
amortization of deferred revenues along with associated costs during each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1995. (See "Marketing" for a
discussion of other natural gas marketing arrangements and agreements).
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1)  Includes 48 MMcf per day in 1995 and 1994 and 81 MMcf per day in 1993
     delivered under the terms of volumetric production payment and exchange
     agreements effective October 1, 1992, as amended.
 
(2)  Includes per unit deferred revenue amortization for the volumes detailed in
     note (1) at an equivalent of $2.46 per Mcf ($2.36 per million British
     thermal units ("MMBtu")) in 1995 and 1994 and $2.50 per Mcf ($2.40 per
     MMBtu) in 1993.
 
(3)  Includes an average value of $1.57 per Mcf in 1995, $1.92 per Mcf in 1994
     and $2.20 per Mcf in 1993, for the volumes detailed in note (1) including
     average wellhead value and any transportation costs and exchange
     differentials.
 
(4)  Including transportation and exchange differentials.
 
COMPETITION
 
     The Company actively competes for reserve acquisitions and
exploration/exploitation leases, licenses and concessions, frequently against
companies with substantially larger financial and other resources. To the extent
the Company's exploration budget is lower than that of certain of its
competitors, the Company may be disadvantaged in effectively competing for
certain reserves, leases, licenses and concessions. Competitive factors include
price, contract terms, and quality of service, including pipeline connection
times and distribution efficiencies. In addition, the Company faces competition
from other producers and suppliers, including competition from other world wide
energy supplies, such as natural gas from Canada.
 
REGULATION
 
     Domestic Regulation of Natural Gas and Crude Oil Production. Natural gas
and crude oil production operations are subject to various types of regulation,
including regulation in the United States by state and federal agencies.
 
     Domestic legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant
review for amendment or expansion. Also, numerous departments and agencies, both
federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue and have issued rules and
regulations which, among other things, require permits for the drilling of
wells, regulate the spacing of wells, prevent the waste of natural gas and
liquid hydrocarbon resources through proration and restrictions on flaring,
require drilling bonds and regulate environmental and safety matters. The
regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases its cost of doing
business and, consequently, affects its profitability.
 
     A substantial portion of the Company's oil and gas leases in the Big Piney
area and in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as some in other areas, are granted by
the federal government and administered by the Bureau of Land Management (the
"BLM") and the Minerals Management Service (the "MMS") federal agencies.
Operations conducted by the Company on federal oil and gas leases must comply
with numerous statutory and
 

 
regulatory restrictions concerning the above and other matters. Certain
operations must be conducted pursuant to appropriate permits issued by the BLM
and the MMS.
 
     Sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids by the Company are
made at unregulated market prices.
 
     The transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate
commerce are regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (the "NGA") and
the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (the "NGPA"). These statutes are administered
by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the "FERC"). Effective January 1,
1993, the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 deregulated natural gas
prices for all "first sales" of natural gas, which includes all sales by the
Company of its own production. Consequently, sales of the Company's natural gas
currently may be made at market prices, subject to applicable contract
provisions.
 
     Since 1985, the FERC has endeavored to make natural gas transportation more
accessible to natural gas buyers and sellers on an open and nondiscriminatory
basis. These efforts have significantly altered the marketing and pricing of
natural gas. Commencing in April 1992, the FERC issued Order Nos. 636, 636A and
636B ("Order No. 636"), which mandate a fundamental restructuring of interstate
natural gas pipeline sales and transportation services, including the
"unbundling" by interstate natural gas pipelines of the sales, transportation,
storage, and other components of their previously existing city-gate sales
service, and to separately state the rates for each unbundled service. Under
Order No. 636, unbundled pipeline sales can be made only in the production
areas. The purpose of Order No. 636 is to further enhance competition in the
natural gas industry by assuring the comparability of pipeline sales service and
services offered by a pipelines' competitors. The FERC issued final orders
accepting most pipelines' Order No. 636 compliance filings, and has commenced a
series of one-year reviews of individual pipeline implementations of Order No.
636. Appeals are pending and these orders may be amended or reversed in whole or
in part. Order No. 636 does not directly regulate the Company's activities, but
has had and will have an indirect effect because of its broad scope. With Order
No. 636 and pending ongoing FERC reviews of individual pipeline restructurings,
subject to court review, it is difficult to predict with precision its effects.
In many instances, however, Order No. 636 has substantially reduced or brought
to an end interstate pipelines' traditional roles as wholesalers of natural gas
in favor of providing only storage and transportation services. Order No. 636
has also substantially increased competition in natural gas markets, even though
there remains significant uncertainty with respect to the marketing and
transportation of natural gas. In spite of this uncertainty, Order No. 636 may
enhance the Company's ability to market and transport its natural gas
production, although it may also subject the Company to more restrictive
pipeline imbalance tolerances and greater penalties for violation of such
tolerances.
 
     In July 1994, the FERC eliminated a regulation that had rendered virtually
all sales of natural gas by pipeline affiliates, such as the Company, to be
deregulated first sales. As a result, only sales by the Company of its own
production now qualify for this status. All other sales of natural gas by the
Company, such as those of natural gas purchased from third parties, are now
jurisdictional sales subject to a blanket sales certificate issued by the FERC
under the NGA. The Company does not anticipate this change will have any
significant current adverse effects in light of the flexible terms and
conditions of the existing blanket certificate. Such sales are subject to the
future possibility of greater federal oversight, however, including the
possibility the FERC might prospectively impose more restrictive conditions on
such sales.
 
     The FERC has extended indefinitely its regulations (Order No. 497
regulations) governing relationships between interstate pipelines and their
marketing affiliates, subject to revisions to delete an out-of-date standard and
revise certain reporting and record keeping requirements. Among other matters,
these new rules require pipelines to post on their electronic bulletin boards,
within 24 hours of gas flow, information concerning discounted transportation
provided to marketing affiliates to enable competing marketers to request
comparable discounts. Order No. 497 does not directly regulate the Company's
activities, although a substantial portion of the Company's natural gas
production is sold to or transported by interstate pipeline affiliates which are
subject to the Order. The Company's activities may therefore be indirectly
affected by these regulations.
 

 
     The Company owns, directly or indirectly, certain natural gas pipelines
that it believes meet the traditional tests the FERC has used to establish a
pipeline's status as a gatherer not subject to FERC jurisdiction under the NGA.
State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety,
environmental, and in some circumstances, nondiscriminatory take requirements,
but does not generally entail rate regulation. Natural gas gathering may receive
greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels as the pipeline
restructuring under Order No. 636 is implemented. For example, the State of
Oklahoma in 1995 enacted legislation that essentially requires gatherers to
provide open access, non-discriminatory service. In addition, the FERC has
reiterated that, except in situations in which the gatherer acts in concert with
an interstate pipeline affiliate to frustrate the FERC's transportation
policies, it does not have jurisdiction over natural gas gathering facilities
and services and that such facilities and services are properly regulated by
state authorities. This FERC action may further encourage regulatory scrutiny of
natural gas gathering by state agencies. In addition, the FERC has approved
several transfers by interstate pipelines, including certain of the Company's
pipeline affiliates, of gathering facilities to unregulated independent or
affiliated gathering companies. This could increase competition among gatherers
in the affected areas. Certain of the FERC's orders delineating its new
gathering policy are subject to pending court appeals. The Company's gathering
operations could be adversely affected should they be subject in the future to
the application of state or federal regulation of rates and services.
 
     The FERC has recently announced its intention to reexamine certain of its
transportation-related policies, including the manner in which interstate
pipelines release transportation capacity under Order No. 636, and has announced
new policies concerning the use of alternative, non-cost based methods for
setting rates for interstate natural gas transmission. While any resulting FERC
action would affect the Company only indirectly, these inquiries are intended to
further enhance competition in natural gas markets.
 
     The FERC has also recently initiated a proceeding in which it intends to
evaluate its current regulatory treatment of pipeline facilities constructed in
offshore federal waters. The ultimate outcome of such proceeding cannot be
predicted at this time, but it is possible that it could result in more active
oversight by the FERC of such offshore facilities.
 
     The Company's natural gas gathering operations may be or become subject to
safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation,
testing, construction, operation, replacement, and management of facilities.
Pipeline safety issues have recently become the subject of increasing focus in
various political and administrative arenas at both the state and federal
levels. For example, federal legislation addressing pipeline safety issues was
considered during 1994 and 1995, which, if enacted, would have included a
federal "one-call" notification system and certain new facilities specifications
applicable to certain new construction. Similar "one call" legislation has been
reintroduced in the U.S. Congress. The Company cannot predict what effect, if
any, the adoption of this or other additional pipeline safety legislation might
have on its operations, but does not believe that any adverse effect would be
material.
 
     The Company cannot predict the effect that any of the aforementioned orders
or the challenges to such orders will ultimately have on the Company's
operations. Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural
gas industry are pending before Congress, the FERC and the courts. The Company
cannot predict when or whether any such proposals or proceedings may become
effective. It should also be noted that the natural gas industry historically
has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less
regulated approach currently being pursued by the FERC will continue
indefinitely. Thus, the Company cannot predict the ultimate outcome or
durability of the unbundled regulatory regime mandated by Order No. 636.
 
     Environmental Regulation. Various federal, state and local laws and
regulations covering the discharge of materials into the environment, or
otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, may affect the
Company's operations and costs as a result of their effect on natural gas and
crude oil exploration, development and production operations. It is not
anticipated that the Company will be required in the near future to expend
amounts that are material in relation to its total exploration and development
expenditure program by reason of environmental laws and regulations, but
inasmuch as such laws and regulations are frequently changed, the Company is
unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance.
 

 
     Canadian Regulation. In Canada, the petroleum industry operates under
federal, provincial and municipal legislation and regulations governing land
tenure, royalties, production rates, pricing, environmental protection, exports
and other matters. The price of natural gas and crude oil in Canada has been
deregulated and is now determined by market conditions and negotiations between
buyers and sellers.
 
     Various matters relating to the transportation and export of natural gas
continue to be subject to regulation by both provincial and federal agencies;
however, the North American Free Trade Agreement has reduced the risk of
altering cross-border commercial transactions.
 
     Canadian governmental regulations may have a material effect on the
economic parameters for engaging in oil and gas activities in Canada and may
have a material effect on the advisability of investments in Canadian oil and
gas drilling activities. The Company is monitoring political, regulatory and
economic developments in Canada.
 
     Other International Regulation. The Company's exploration and production
operations outside North America are subject to various types of regulations
imposed by the respective governments of the countries in which the Company's
operations are conducted, and may affect the Company's operations and costs
within that country. The Company currently has producing operations offshore
Trinidad and India and exploration activities in other selected international
areas.
 
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND ENRON CORP.
 
     Ownership of Common Stock. Through its ability to elect all of the
directors of the Company, Enron Corp. has the ability to control all matters
relating to the management of the Company, including any determination with
respect to acquisition or disposition of Company assets, future issuance of
common stock or other securities of the Company and any dividends payable on the
common stock. Enron Corp. also has the ability to control the Company's
exploration, development, acquisition and operating expenditure plans. There is
no agreement between Enron Corp. and the Company that would prevent Enron Corp.
from acquiring additional shares of common stock of the Company.
 
     The closing on December 13, 1995 of the sale by Enron Corp. of
approximately 31 million outstanding shares of the common stock of the Company
reduced Enron Corp.'s ownership interest in the Company from 80% to 61% with the
result that (i) the Company ceased, effective December 14, 1995, to be included
in the consolidated federal income tax return filed by Enron Corp. and (ii) the
tax allocation agreement previously in effect between the Company and Enron
Corp. was terminated. In addition, effective December 14, 1995, the Company and
its subsidiaries and Enron Corp. entered into a new tax allocation agreement
pursuant to which, among other things, Enron Corp. has agreed (in exchange for
the payment of $13.0 million by the Company) to be liable for, and indemnify the
Company against, all U.S. federal and state income taxes and certain foreign
taxes imposed on the Company for periods prior to the date Enron Corp. reduced
its ownership in the Company to less than 80%. The Company does not believe that
the cessation of consolidated tax reporting with Enron Corp., the termination of
the tax allocation agreement concurrent with deconsolidation and the signing of
the new tax allocation agreement with Enron Corp. will have a material adverse
effect on its financial condition or results of operations.
 
     Contractual Arrangements. The Company entered into a Services Agreement
(the "Services Agreement") with Enron Corp. effective January 1, 1994, pursuant
to which Enron Corp. provides various services, such as maintenance of certain
employee benefit plans, provision of telecommunications and computer services,
lease of office space and the provision of purchasing and operating services and
certain other corporate staff and support services. Such services historically
have been supplied to the Company by Enron Corp., and the Services Agreement
provides for the further delivery of such services substantially identical in
nature and quality to those services previously provided. The Company has agreed
to a fixed rate for the rental of office space and to reimburse Enron Corp. for
all other direct costs incurred in rendering services to the Company under the
contract and to pay Enron Corp. for allocated indirect costs incurred in
rendering such services up to a maximum of approximately $7 million in 1995 and
$6.7 million for 1994. The limit on cost for the allocated indirect services
provided by Enron Corp. to the Company will increase in subsequent years for
inflation and certain changes in the Company's allocation bases, but such
increase will not exceed 7.5% per
 

 
year. The Services Agreement is for an initial term of five years through
December 1998 and will continue thereafter until terminated by either party.
 
     In March 1995, in a series of transactions with Enron Corp. and an
affiliate of Enron Corp., the Company exchanged all of its fuel supply and
purchase contracts and related price swap agreements associated with a Texas
City cogeneration plant (the "Cogen Contracts") for certain natural gas price
swap agreements (the "Swap Agreements") of equivalent value. As a result of the
transactions, the Company has been relieved of all performance obligations
associated with the Cogen Contracts. The Company will realize net operating
revenues and receive corresponding cash payments of approximately $91 million
during the period extending through December 31, 1999 under the terms of the
Swap Agreements. The estimated fair value of the Swap Agreements was
approximately $81 million at the date the Swap Agreements were received. The net
effect of this series of transactions has resulted/will result in increases in
net operating revenues and cash receipts for the Company during 1995 and 1996 of
approximately $13 million and $7 million, respectively, with offsetting
decreases in 1998 and 1999 versus that anticipated under the Cogen Contracts.
 
     Prior to December 14, 1995, the Company was included in the consolidated
federal income tax return filed by Enron Corp. as the common parent for itself
and its subsidiaries, excluding any foreign subsidiaries, and the resulting
taxes, including taxes for any state or other taxing jurisdiction that required
or permitted a consolidated, combined, or unitary tax return to be filed and in
which the Company and/or any of its subsidiaries was included, were apportioned
as between the Company and/or any of its subsidiaries and Enron Corp. based on
the terms of the tax allocation agreement in effect prior to December 14, 1995.
 
     Effective December 14, 1995, the Company and its subsidiaries and Enron
Corp. entered into a new tax allocation agreement (See "Ownership of Common
Stock").
 
     Conflicts of Interest. The nature of the respective businesses of the
Company and Enron Corp. and its affiliates is such as to potentially give rise
to conflicts of interest between the two companies. Conflicts could arise, for
example, with respect to transactions involving purchases, sales and
transportation of natural gas and other business dealings between the Company
and Enron Corp. and its affiliates, potential acquisitions of businesses or oil
and gas properties, the issuance of additional shares of voting securities, the
election of directors or the payment of dividends by the Company.
 
     Circumstances may also arise that would cause Enron Corp. to engage in the
exploration for and/or development and production of natural gas and crude oil
in competition with the Company. For example, opportunities might arise which
would require financial resources greater than those available to the Company,
which are located in areas or countries in which the Company does not intend to
operate or which involve properties that the Company would be unwilling to
acquire. Also, Enron Corp. might acquire a competing oil and gas business as
part of a larger acquisition. In addition, as part of Enron Corp.'s strategy of
securing supplies of natural gas or capital, Enron Corp. may from time to time
acquire producing properties or interests in entities owning producing
properties, and thereafter engage in exploration, development and production
activities with respect to such properties or indirectly engage in such
activities through such companies. Enron Corp. subsidiaries provide or arrange
financing, including debt or equity financing, for exploration and production
companies that compete with the Company. In connection with such activities,
Enron Corp. affiliates may make investments in the debt or equity of such
companies. There are currently no such transactions under consideration that
would result in voting control by Enron Corp. or any of its affiliates, other
than the transaction described below. In its financing activities, Enron Corp.
or an entity in which it has an interest may make loans secured by oil and gas
properties or securities of oil and gas companies, may acquire production
payments or may receive interests in oil and gas properties as equity components
of lending transactions. As a result of its lending activities, Enron Corp. may
also acquire oil and gas properties or companies upon foreclosure of secured
loans or as part of a borrower's rearrangement of its obligations. Such
acquisition, exploration, development and production activities may directly or
indirectly compete with the Company's business. There can be no assurances that
Enron Corp. will not engage directly or indirectly through entities other than
the Company, in the natural gas and crude oil exploration, development and
production business in competition with the Company.
 

 
     Joint Energy Development Investments Limited Partnership ("JEDI"), a
limited partnership in which Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp. ("ECT"), a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Enron Corp., owns a 50% general partner interest, has
entered into an agreement to acquire a controlling interest in Coda Energy, Inc.
("Coda"). Coda is engaged in the exploration for, and the development,
production and marketing of, natural gas and crude oil primarily in North Texas
and Oklahoma. Crude oil accounts for approximately 86% of Coda's proved
reserves. At December 31, 1994, Coda reported estimated proved natural gas
reserves of 39,808 MMcf and estimated proved crude oil, condensate and natural
gas liquids reserves of 39,207 MBbls. Enron Corp. anticipates that the
transaction will be consummated in early 1996, subject to Coda stockholder
approval and other conditions. Conflicts may arise between Coda and JEDI, and if
the acquisition of Coda occurs Enron Corp. will be required to resolve such
conflicts in a manner that is consistent with its fiduciary and contractual
duties to other investors in Coda and JEDI and its fiduciary duties to the
Company. ECT has entered into an agreement with JEDI and other investors in Coda
designed to minimize certain conflicts of interest that may arise and providing,
among other things, that the Company has no obligation to offer any business
opportunities to Coda.
 
     The Company and Enron Corp. and its affiliates have in the past entered
into material intercompany transactions and agreements incident to their
respective businesses, and the Company and Enron Corp. and its affiliates may be
expected to enter into material transactions and agreements from time to time in
the future. Such transactions and agreements have related to, among other
things, the purchase and sale of natural gas and crude oil, the financing of
exploration and development efforts by the Company, and the provision of certain
corporate services. (See "Marketing" and the Consolidated Financial Statements
and notes thereto). The Company believes that its existing transactions and
agreements with Enron Corp. and its affiliates have been at least as favorable
to the Company as could be obtained from third parties, and the Company intends
that the terms of any future transactions and agreements between the Company and
Enron Corp. and its affiliates will be at least as favorable to the Company as
could be obtained from third parties.
 
OTHER MATTERS
 
     Energy Prices. Since the Company is primarily a natural gas company, it is
more significantly impacted by changes in natural gas prices than in the prices
for crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids. During recent periods,
domestic natural gas has been priced significantly below parity with crude oil,
condensate and natural gas liquids based on the energy equivalency of, and
differences in transportation and processing costs associated with, the
respective products. This imbalance in parity has been primarily driven by,
among other things, a supply of domestic natural gas volumes in excess of demand
requirements. The Company is unable to predict when this supply imbalance may be
resolved due to the significant impacts of factors such as general economic
conditions, technology developments, weather and other international energy
supplies over which the Company has no control.
 
     Average North America wellhead natural gas prices have fluctuated, at times
rather dramatically, during the last three years. While these fluctuations
resulted in an increase in average wellhead natural gas prices realized by the
Company of 22% from 1992 to 1993, the average North America natural gas price
received by the Company decreased 13% from 1993 to 1994 and 20% from 1994 to
1995. Wellhead natural gas volumes from Trinidad are sold at prices that are
based on a fixed schedule with periodic escalations. While natural gas
deliveries in India are not expected to commence until 1997 under the terms of
the Production Sharing Contract, the price of such deliveries, when initiated,
is to be indexed to a basket of world market fuel oil quotations structured to
include floor and ceiling limits. Due to the many uncertainties associated with
the world political environment, the availabilities of other world wide energy
supplies and the relative competitive relationships of the various energy
sources in the view of the consumers, the Company is unable to predict what
changes may occur in natural gas prices in the future.
 
     Substantially all of the Company's wellhead crude oil and condensate is
sold under various terms and arrangements at market responsive prices. Crude oil
and condensate prices also have fluctuated during the last three years. Due to
the many uncertainties associated with the world political environment, the
availabilities of other world wide energy supplies and the relative competitive
relationships of the various energy sources in the
 

 
view of the consumers, the Company is unable to predict what changes may occur
in crude oil and condensate prices in the future.
 
     To mitigate the risk of market price fluctuations, the Company engages in
certain price risk management activities to hedge commodity prices associated
with a portion of the Company's sales and purchases of natural gas and crude
oil. (See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations").
 
     Tight Gas Sand Tax Credits (Section 29) and Severance Tax Exemption.
Federal United States tax law provides a tax credit for production of certain
fuels produced from nonconventional sources (including natural gas produced from
tight formations), subject to a number of limitations. Fuels qualifying for the
credit must be produced from a well drilled or a facility placed in service
after November 5, 1990 and before January 1, 1993, and must be sold before
January 1, 2003.
 
     The credit, which is currently approximately $.52 per MMBtu of natural gas,
is computed by reference to the price of crude oil, and is phased out as the
price of crude oil exceeds $23.50 in 1980 dollars (adjusted for inflation) with
complete phaseout if such price exceeds $29.50 in 1980 dollars (similarly
adjusted). Under this formula, the commencement of phaseout would be triggered
if the average price for crude oil rose above approximately $45 per barrel in
current dollars. Significant benefits from the tax credit are accruing to the
Company since a portion (and in some cases a substantial portion) of the
Company's natural gas production from new wells drilled after November 5, 1990,
and before January 1, 1993, on the Company's leases in several of the Company's
significant producing areas qualify for this tax credit.
 
     Natural gas production from wells spudded or completed after May 24, 1989
and before September 1, 1996 in tight formations in a certain state qualifies
for a ten-year exemption, ending August 31, 2001, from severance taxes, subject
to certain limitations. In 1995, the drilling qualification period was extended
in a modified and somewhat reduced form from September 1996 through August 2002.
Consequently, new qualifying production will be added prospectively to that
presently qualified.
 
     Other. All of the Company's oil and gas activities are subject to the risks
normally incident to the exploration for and development and production of
natural gas and crude oil, including blowouts, cratering and fires, each of
which could result in damage to life and property. Offshore operations are
subject to usual marine perils, including hurricanes and other adverse weather
conditions, and governmental regulations as well as interruption or termination
by governmental authorities based on environmental and other considerations. In
accordance with customary industry practices, insurance is maintained by the
Company against some, but not all, of the risks. Losses and liabilities arising
from such events could reduce revenues and increase costs to the Company to the
extent not covered by insurance.
 
     The Company's operations outside of North America are subject to certain
risks, including expropriation of assets, risks of increases in taxes and
government royalties, renegotiation of contracts with foreign governments,
political instability, payment delays, limits on allowable levels of production
and current exchange and repatriation losses, as well as changes in laws,
regulations and policies governing operations of foreign companies generally.
 

 
CURRENT EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The current executive officers of the Company and their names and ages are
as follows:
 

 
     Forrest E. Hoglund joined the Company as Chairman of the Board, Chief
Executive Officer and Director in September 1987. Since May 1990, he has also
served as President of the Company. Mr. Hoglund was a director of USX
Corporation from February 1986 until September 1987. He joined Texas Oil & Gas
Corp. ("TXO") in 1977 as president, was named Chief Operating Officer in 1979,
Chief Executive Officer in 1982, and served TXO in those capacities until
September 1987. Mr. Hoglund is also a director of Texas Commerce Bancshares,
Inc.
 
     Joe Michael McKinney has been President - International Operations since
February 1994, a dual position shared with Mr. Ulak effective January 1996, with
responsibilities for exploration, drilling, production and engineering
activities for the Company's ventures outside North America. Mr. McKinney joined
the Company and was named Senior Vice President of Operations for Enron Oil &
Gas International, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, in December
1991. He was elected President and Chief Operating Officer of Enron Oil & Gas
International, Inc. in April 1993, a capacity in which he continues to serve
jointly with Mr. Ulak effective January 1996. Prior to joining the Company, Mr.
McKinney held operations management positions with Union Texas Petroleum
Company, The Superior Oil Company and Exxon Company, USA.
 
     Dennis M. Ulak has been President - International Operations, a dual
position shared with Mr. McKinney, since January 1996 with responsibilities for
exploration, drilling, production and engineering activities for the Company's
ventures outside North America. Mr. Ulak also serves jointly with Mr. McKinney
as President and Chief Operating Officer of Enron Oil & Gas International, Inc.
Mr. Ulak joined the Company in March 1987 as Senior Counsel and was named
Assistant General Counsel for the Company's international operations in February
1989, Assistant General Counsel for the Company in August 1990 and Vice
President and General Counsel for the Company in March 1992. Prior to joining
the Company, Mr. Ulak held various legal positions with Enron Corp. and Northern
Natural Gas Company.
 
     Mark G. Papa has been President - North American Operations since February
1994. From May 1986 through January 1994, Mr. Papa served as Senior Vice
President - Operations. Mr. Papa joined Belco Petroleum Corporation, a
predecessor of the Company, in 1981 as Division Production Coordinator and
served as Senior Vice President - Drilling and Production, BelNorth Petroleum
Corporation from May 1984 until May 1986.
 
     Lewis P. Chandler, Jr. has been Senior Vice President, Law since March
1992. Mr. Chandler joined the Company in December 1973 and has since served in a
number of positions in the Company's legal department. He was appointed Vice
President and General Counsel for BelNorth Petroleum Corp. in June 1983 and was
named Vice President and General Counsel for the Company in January 1987. From
May 1991 until March 1992, he was Senior Vice President and General Counsel for
the Company.
 
     Walter C. Wilson has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
since May 1991. Mr. Wilson joined the Company in November 1987 as Vice President
and Controller and was named Senior
 

 
Vice President - Finance in October 1988. Prior to joining the Company Mr.
Wilson held financial management positions with Exxon Company, USA for 16 years
and The Superior Oil Company for 4 years.
 
     Ben B. Boyd has been Vice President and Controller since March 1991. Mr.
Boyd joined the Company in March 1989 as Director of Accounting and was named
Controller in May 1990. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Boyd held financial
management positions with DeNovo Oil & Gas, Inc., Scurlock Oil Company and
Coopers & Lybrand.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION PROPERTIES AND RESERVES
 
     Reserve Information. For estimates of the Company's net proved and proved
developed reserves of natural gas and liquids, including crude oil, condensate
and natural gas liquids, see "Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial
Statements."
 
     There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of
proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of
development expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the
producer. The reserve data set forth in Supplemental Information to Consolidated
Financial Statements represent only estimates. Reserve engineering is a
subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas and
liquids, including crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids, that cannot be
measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function
of the amount and quality of available data and of engineering and geological
interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers
normally vary. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production
subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revision of such estimate.
Accordingly, reserve estimates are often different from the quantities
ultimately recovered. The meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent
upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they were based.
 
     In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties owned by
the Company declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent the Company
acquires additional properties containing proved reserves or conducts successful
exploration and development activities, or both, the proved reserves of the
Company will decline as reserves are produced. Volumes generated from future
activities of the Company are therefore highly dependent upon the level of
success in acquiring or finding additional reserves and the costs incurred in
doing so.
 
     The Company's estimates of reserves filed with other federal agencies agree
with the information set forth in Supplemental Information to Consolidated
Financial Statements.
 

 
     Acreage. The following table summarizes the Company's developed and
undeveloped acreage at December 31, 1995. Excluded is acreage in which the
Company's interest is limited to owned royalty, overriding royalty and other
similar interests.
 

 
     Producing Well Summary. The following table reflects the Company's
ownership in gas and oil wells located in Texas, the Gulf of Mexico, Oklahoma,
New Mexico, Utah, Wyoming, and various other states, Canada, Trinidad and India
at December 31, 1995. Gross oil and gas wells include 205 with multiple
completions.
 

 

 
     Drilling and Acquisition Activities. During the years ended December 31,
1995, 1994 and 1993 the Company spent approximately $513.8, $493.9 and $430.1
million, respectively, for exploratory and development drilling and acquisition
of leases and producing properties. The Company drilled, participated in the
drilling of or acquired wells as set out in the table below for the periods
indicated:
 

 
- ---------------
 
* Includes the acquisition of additional interests in certain wells in which the
  Company previously held an interest.
 
     All of the Company's drilling activities are conducted on a contract basis
with independent drilling contractors. The Company owns no drilling equipment.
 

 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     The Company and its subsidiaries and related companies are named defendants
in numerous lawsuits and named parties in numerous governmental proceedings
arising in the ordinary course of business. While the outcome of lawsuits or
other proceedings against the Company cannot be predicted with certainty,
management does not expect these matters to have a material adverse effect on
the financial condition or results of operations of the Company. On November 19,
1992, TransAmerican Natural Gas Corporation ("TransAmerican") filed a petition
against the Company alleging breach of contract, tortious interference with
contract, misappropriation of trade secrets and violation of state antitrust
laws. The petition, as amended, sought actual damages of at least $100 million
plus exemplary damages of $300 million. The Company filed counterclaims against
TransAmerican and a third-party claim against its sole shareholder, John R.
Stanley, alleging fraud, negligent misrepresentation and breach of state
antitrust laws. On October 16, 1995, the Company, TransAmerican and Stanley
entered into an agreement which resolved all claims. The settlement terms did
not have a materially adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or
results of operations. The suit was dismissed with prejudice as to all parties
by order entered in November 1995.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the
fourth quarter of 1995.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER
MATTERS
 
     The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low
sale prices per share for the common stock of the Company, as reported on the
New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape, and the amount of cash dividends paid
per share. The 1993 and First and Second Quarter 1994 sales prices and cash
dividends per share have been restated to reflect a two-for-one stock split on
May 31, 1994.
 

 
     As of March 1, 1996, there were approximately 275 record holders of the
Company's common stock, including individual participants in security position
listings. There are an estimated 9,000 beneficial owners of the Company's common
stock, including shares held in street name.
 
     Following the initial public offering and sale of its common stock in
October 1989, the Company paid quarterly dividends of $0.025 per share beginning
with an initial dividend paid in January 1990 with respect to the fourth quarter
of 1989. Beginning in January 1993 with respect to the fourth quarter of 1992,
the Company has paid quarterly dividends of $0.03 per share. The Company
currently intends to continue to pay quarterly cash dividends on its outstanding
shares of common stock. However, the determination of the amount of future cash
dividends, if any, to be declared and paid will depend upon, among other things,
the financial condition, funds from operations, level of exploration and
development expenditure opportunities and future business prospects of the
Company.
 

 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 

 

 
- ---------------
 
(1)  Includes benefits of approximately $22 million, $36 million, $65 million,
     $43 million and $17 million in 1995, 1994, 1993, 1992 and 1991,
     respectively, relating to tight gas sand federal income tax credits and $7
     million in 1991 associated with the utilization of a net operating loss
     carryforward.
 
(2)  Includes a benefit of approximately $14 million associated with the
     successful resolution on audit of federal income taxes for prior years.
 
(3)  Includes a benefit of approximately $8 million related to reduced estimated
     state income taxes and certain franchise taxes, a portion of which is
     treated as income tax under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
     ("SFAS") No. 109 - "Accounting for Income Taxes", and a $5 million benefit
 

 
     from the reduction of the Company's deferred federal income tax liability
     resulting from a reevaluation of deferred tax requirements.
 
(4)  Includes a benefit of $12 million from the reduction of the Company's
     deferred federal income tax liability resulting from a reevaluation of
     deferred tax requirements partially offset by an approximate $7 million
     predominantly noncash charge primarily to adjust the Company's accumulated
     deferred federal income tax liability for the increase in the corporate
     federal income tax rate from 34% to 35%.
 
(5)  In May 1994, the Board of Directors declared a two-for-one split of the
     common stock of the Company to be effected as a nontaxable dividend of one
     share for each share outstanding. Shares were issued on June 15, 1994 to
     shareholders of record as of May 31, 1994. All per share amounts presented
     herein are reflected on a post-split basis.
 
(6)  In August 1992, the Company completed the sale of an additional 8.2 million
     shares of common stock resulting in aggregate net proceeds to the Company
     of approximately $112 million used primarily to repay long-term debt. In
     September 1992, the Company completed the sale of a volumetric production
     payment, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $327 million used to
     repay long-term debt and for other general corporate purposes.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS
 
     The following review of operations for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1995 should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements of the Company and notes thereto beginning
with page F-1.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
     Net Operating Revenues. Wellhead volume and price statistics for the
specified years were as follows:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1)  Includes 48 MMcf per day in 1995 and 1994, and 81 MMcf per day in 1993
     delivered under the terms of volumetric production payment and exchange
     agreements effective October 1, 1992, as amended.
 
(2)  Includes an average equivalent wellhead value of $.80 per Mcf in 1995, 
     $1.27 per Mcf in 1994 and $1.57 per Mcf in 1993 for the volumes detailed 
     in note (1), net of transportation costs.
 

 
     1995 compared to 1994. During 1995, net operating revenues increased $23
million to $649 million as compared to 1994.
 
     Average wellhead natural gas prices for 1995 were down approximately 20%
from 1994 reducing net operating revenues by approximately $89 million. In
addition, a decrease of 1% in wellhead natural gas volumes from 1994 reduced net
operating revenues by approximately $4 million. The Company voluntarily
curtailed its United States wellhead natural gas delivered volumes by an average
of approximately 105 MMcf per day during 1995 compared to approximately 70 MMcf
per day during 1994 due to significantly lower United States wellhead natural
gas prices. In addition, the impact of reduced drilling for U.S. natural gas
deliverability and the sales of oil and gas reserves and related assets (net of
purchases of similar assets) resulted in a reduction of approximately 20 MMcf
per day in U.S. delivered volumes for 1995 as compared to 1994. The Company
refocused its 1995 drilling activity away from natural gas deliverability and
toward natural gas reserve enhancement and crude oil exploitation in the United
States in response to the significant decline in United States wellhead natural
gas prices, in the latter part of 1994 and early 1995, resulting in the drilling
of 189 fewer net natural gas wells and 24 more net oil wells during 1995 as
compared to 1994. Wellhead crude oil and condensate average prices increased 7%
adding approximately $8 million to net operating revenues compared to 1994.
Crude oil and condensate wellhead volumes increased 52% adding approximately $37
million to net operating revenues compared to a year ago primarily reflecting
new production on stream offshore India and higher volumes offshore Trinidad and
in North America.
 
     Gains on sales of reserves and related assets during 1995 increased $9
million to $63 million when compared to 1994 which increase was attributable to
the Company's continuing efforts in optimizing the value of its assets.
 
     Other marketing activities associated with sales and purchases of natural
gas, natural gas price swap transactions, other commodity price hedging of
natural gas and crude oil and condensate prices utilizing NYMEX-related
commodity market transactions and volumetric production payment-related margins
added approximately $105 million to net operating revenues during 1995, an
increase of approximately $55 million from 1994. This increase primarily
resulted from a gain of $65 million on natural gas commodity price hedging
activities utilizing NYMEX-related commodity market transactions in 1995
compared to an $11 million gain during 1994. The average associated costs of
natural gas marketing, price swap and volumetric production payment
transactions, including, where appropriate, average wellhead value,
transportation costs and exchange differentials, decreased $.55 per Mcf. The
average price received for these transactions decreased $.50 per Mcf. Related
other natural gas marketing volumes decreased 19%. The reduction in other
natural gas marketing volumes and prices relates primarily to the exchange of
the fuel contracts noted below, lower wellhead market prices and decreased other
marketing activities. The reduction in other natural gas marketing volumes,
partially offset by the $.05 per Mcf margin increase, resulted in a decrease in
net operating revenues of approximately $2 million compared to 1994. The Company
realized an $11 million gain in 1995 related to certain natural gas commodity
price swap transactions with an Enron Corp. affiliated company that were
designated for trading purposes in late 1994. This gain was partially offset by
a loss of approximately $3 million related to call option transactions and a
loss of $6 million associated with certain NYMEX-related natural gas commodity
market transactions that were marked-to-market due to loss of correlation
between the NYMEX and the wellhead natural gas prices that such transactions
were designated to hedge. (See "Capital Resources and Liquidity - Hedging
Transactions.")
 
     In March 1995, the Company exchanged existing fuel supply and purchase
contracts and related price swap agreements associated with a Texas City
cogeneration plant for certain natural gas price swap agreements of equivalent
value issued by an Enron Corp. affiliated company. As a result of these
transactions, the Company realized a $13 million increase in net operating
revenues in 1995 over the amount realized from the exchanged fuel supply and
purchase contracts in 1994. (See "Relationship Between the Company and Enron
Corp. - Contractual Agreements".)
 

 
     1994 compared to 1993. During 1994, net operating revenues increased to
$626 million, up $45 million as compared to 1993.
 
     Average wellhead natural gas volumes increased approximately 6% compared to
1993 primarily reflecting the effects of development activities in Trinidad and
Canada partially offset by voluntary curtailments of production in the United
States in 1994. The volume reductions in the United States as a result of
voluntary curtailments were more than offset by the new natural gas deliveries
from the Kiskadee field offshore Trinidad and increased deliveries in Canada.
The increase in wellhead natural gas volumes added $28 million to net operating
revenues. Average wellhead natural gas prices were down significantly from 1993
reducing net operating revenues by approximately $83 million. This 16% reduction
in average wellhead natural gas prices reflects the overall decline in the
United States natural gas markets during the last half of 1994 and increased
volumes from Trinidad sold under a long-term contract at a price considerably
below North American spot market prices. A 42% increase in wellhead crude oil
and condensate volumes over 1993 added $22 million to net operating revenues
primarily reflecting development activities in Trinidad and increased production
in the United States. A 5% decrease in wellhead crude oil and condensate average
prices decreased net operating revenues by approximately $3 million.
 
     Gains on sales of selected oil and gas reserves and related assets were $54
million in 1994 as compared to $13 million in 1993. While the quantity of
equivalent reserves sold in 1994 was slightly less than 1993, higher average
proceeds received per equivalent unit in 1994 as compared to 1993 primarily
contributed to the increased gain recognition. In continuing its strategy of
fully utilizing its assets in optimizing profitability, cash flow and return on
investments, the Company expects to continue the sale of similar properties from
time to time.
 
     Other marketing activities associated with sales and purchases of natural
gas, natural gas and crude oil price swap transactions, other commodity price
hedging of natural gas and crude oil prices utilizing NYMEX-related commodity
market transactions, and margins relating to the volumetric production payment
added $50 million to net operating revenues during 1994. This increase of $42
million from the same period in 1993 primarily results from a gain of $11
million on natural gas commodity price hedging activities utilizing
NYMEX-related commodity market transactions in 1994 versus an $18 million loss
during 1993 and increased margins associated with other natural gas marketing
activities. The average associated costs of natural gas marketing, price swap
and volumetric production payment transactions, including, where appropriate,
average wellhead value, transportation costs and exchange differentials,
decreased $.26 per Mcf. The average price received for these transactions
decreased $.19 per Mcf. Related other natural gas marketing volumes increased
10%.
 
     The impact of these other marketing activities, a substantial portion of
which serve as hedges of commodity price risks for a portion of wellhead
deliveries, are more than offset by increases or reductions in revenues
associated with market responsive prices for wellhead deliveries. (See Note 2 to
Consolidated Financial Statements.)
 
     Operating Expenses
 
     1995 as compared to 1994. During 1995, operating expenses of $453 million
were $13 million lower than the $466 million incurred in 1994. Lease and well
expenses increased approximately $9 million to $69 million primarily due to
expanded international operations including the initiation of operations in
India in late December 1994 and certain nonrecurring costs incurred related to
those operations during 1995. Depreciation, depletion and amortization ("DD&A")
expense decreased $26 million to $216 million reflecting a decrease in the
average DD&A rate from $.80 per Mcfe in 1994 to $.68 per Mcfe in 1995. The DD&A
rate decrease is primarily attributable to an overall decrease of $.09 per Mcfe
in certain North America DD&A rates and an increase in the proportion of
production from international operations with lower average DD&A rates than
incurred in North America operations. General and administrative expenses
increased approximately $5 million to $57 million primarily due to expanded
international activities. Taxes other than income were $4 million higher in 1995
compared to 1994 primarily due to higher production related taxes associated
with new production in India in 1995.
 

 
     The Company reduced its total per unit operating costs for lease and well
expense, DD&A, general and administrative expense, interest expense, and taxes
other than income by $.07 per Mcfe, averaging $1.22 per Mcfe during 1995
compared to $1.29 per Mcfe in 1994. This decrease is primarily attributable to
the reduction in the average DD&A rate as noted above partially offset by slight
increases in per unit lease and well, general and administrative expenses, and
taxes other than income which increase reflects primarily lower volumes
associated with the curtailment of natural gas volumes in the U. S. due to the
reduction in wellhead natural gas prices.
 
     1994 as compared to 1993. During 1994, total operating expenses of $466
million were approximately $1 million higher than the $465 million incurred in
1993. Lease and well expenses of $60 million were approximately $1 million
higher than the prior year primarily due to increased expenses related to new
operations offshore Trinidad partially offset by cost reductions in North
America. Exploration expenses of $42 million increased $5 million from the
previous year primarily due to an increased level of exploration activities.
Impairment of unproved oil and gas properties increased $4 million from 1993
primarily due to impairments associated with certain offshore Gulf of Mexico
leases. DD&A expense decreased from $250 million in 1993 to $242 million in 1994
reflecting a $.09 per Mcfe decrease in the average DD&A rate including a $.03
per Mcfe reduction in the North American operations DD&A rate. General and
administrative expenses increased $6 million to $51 million primarily due to
overall higher costs associated with expanded international and domestic
operations. Taxes other than income decreased approximately $7 million from 1993
primarily due to lower taxable United States wellhead volumes and prices and
reductions included in 1994 related to revisions of certain prior year
production taxes. Included in 1994 and 1993 are benefits associated with
reductions in state franchise taxes of $4 million and $3 million, respectively.
The Company continues to benefit from certain state severance tax exemptions
allowed on high cost natural gas volumes.
 
     Total per unit operating costs for lease and well expense, DD&A, general
and administrative expense, interest expense, and taxes other than income
decreased $.14 per Mcfe, averaging $1.29 per Mcfe during 1994 compared to $1.43
per Mcfe for 1993. The decrease was primarily due to per unit reductions in DD&A
and taxes other than income as discussed above.
 
     Other Income. Other income for 1993 includes $4 million in interest income
associated with the investment of funds temporarily surplus to the Company (See
Note 4 to Consolidated Financial Statements) and $4 million associated with
settlements related to the termination of certain long-term natural gas
contracts.
 
     Interest Expense
 
     Net interest expense in 1995 was up $3 million as compared to 1994
reflecting primarily a higher level of debt outstanding during 1995. (See Note
13 to Consolidated Financial Statements).
 
     Net interest expense in 1994 decreased approximately $1 million to $8
million as compared to 1993 primarily due to favorable interest rates on new
financing acquired by a subsidiary of the Company in Trinidad and the retirement
of higher interest rate debt. The estimated fair value of outstanding interest
rate swap agreements at December 31, 1994 was a negative $0.5 million based on
termination values obtained from third parties.
 
     Income Taxes
 
     Income tax provision increased $36 million for 1995 as compared to 1994
primarily resulting from higher income before income taxes, higher foreign
income taxed at rates in excess of the U.S. rate and lower benefits associated
with tight gas sand federal income tax credits utilized in 1995 as compared to
1994 partially offset by a $14 million benefit associated with the successful
resolution on audit of federal income taxes for certain prior years.
 
     Income tax provision in 1994 includes a benefit of approximately $36
million associated with tight gas sand federal income tax credit utilization, a
benefit of approximately $8 million related to reduced estimated state income
taxes and a portion of certain franchise taxes which is treated as income tax
under SFAS
 

 
No. 109, and a $5 million benefit from the reduction of the Company's deferred
federal income tax liability resulting from a reevaluation of deferred tax
requirements.
 
CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY
 
     Cash Flow. The primary sources of cash for the Company during the
three-year period ended December 31, 1995 included funds generated from
operations, proceeds from the sale of selected oil and gas reserves and related
assets and the issuance of new debt. Primary cash outflows included funds used
in operations, exploration and development expenditures, dividends, and the
repayment of debt.
 
     Discretionary cash flow, a frequently used measure of performance for
exploration and production companies, is generally derived by adjusting net
income to eliminate the effects of depreciation, depletion and amortization,
impairment of unproved oil and gas properties, deferred taxes, gains on sales of
oil and gas reserves and related assets, certain other miscellaneous non-cash
amounts, except for amortization of deferred revenue, and exploration and dry
hole expenses. However, based on the continuing practice of the Company of
selling selected oil and gas reserves and related assets in furtherance of its
strategy of fully utilizing its assets in optimizing profitability, cash flow
and return on investments, it believes that net proceeds from these transactions
should also be considered as available discretionary cash flow and, accordingly,
is presenting those values for all periods shown. The Company generated
discretionary cash flow of approximately $525 million in 1995, $514 million in
1994 and $521 million in 1993. The 1995 and 1993 amounts include $11 million and
$50 million, respectively, associated with federal income tax refunds resulting
from the settlement on audit of federal income taxes paid in certain prior
years.
 
     Net operating cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 1995 have been revised to reflect the elimination of the
amortization of deferred revenues related to the sale of a volumetric production
payment during 1992 as net operating cash flows rather than as investing cash
flows as previously reported. Net operating cash flows of $335 million for 1995
decreased approximately $47 million as compared to 1994 primarily reflecting
higher accounts receivable arising from international activities, and the
settlement in December 1995 of January 1996 NYMEX-related natural gas commodity
positions. Net operating cash flows were approximately $383 million in 1994 and
$406 million in 1993. Decreased 1994 net operating cash flows were primarily due
to the receipt of a refund on settlement of an audit of federal income taxes
paid in certain prior years. In accordance with the requirements of SFAS No.
95 - "Statement of Cash Flows", net proceeds from the sale of selected oil and
gas reserves and related assets are not included in the determination of net
operating cash flows.
 
     Sale of Selected Oil and Gas Reserves and Related Assets. During 1995, the
Company received proceeds of $102 million from the sale of selected oil and gas
reserves and related assets compared to $91 million received in 1994. Taxable
gains from the 1995 sales generated federal income taxes of $24 million, leaving
net proceeds of $78 million compared to net proceeds after federal income taxes
in 1994 of $71 million. The 1994 proceeds of $91 million compared to $42 million
received in 1993. While the quantity of equivalent reserves sold in 1994 was
slightly less than 1993, higher average proceeds received per equivalent unit of
reserves sold in 1994 as compared to 1993 resulted in significantly higher 1994
proceeds.
 
     Sale of Volumetric Production Payment. In September 1992, the Company sold
a volumetric production payment for $326.8 million to a limited partnership.
(See "Business - Marketing - Other Marketing" and Note 5 to Consolidated
Financial Statements). Under the terms of the production payment agreements, the
Company conveyed a real property interest in approximately 124 Bcfe (136 TBtu)
of certain natural gas and other hydrocarbons to the purchaser. Effective
October 1, 1993, the agreements were amended providing for the extension of the
original term of the volumetric production payment through March 31, 1999 and
including a revised schedule of daily quantities of hydrocarbons to be delivered
which is approximately one-half of the original schedule. The revised schedule
will total approximately 89.1 Bcfe (97.8 TBtu) versus approximately 87.9 Bcfe
(96.4 TBtu) remaining to be delivered under the original agreement. Daily
quantities of hydrocarbons no longer required to be delivered under the revised
schedule during the period from October 1, 1993 through June 30, 1996 are
available for sale by the Company. The Company retains responsibility for its
working interest share of the cost of operations. In accordance with generally
accepted
 

 
accounting principles, the Company accounted for the proceeds received in the
transaction as deferred revenue which is being amortized into revenue and income
as natural gas and other hydrocarbons are produced and delivered to the
purchaser during the term, as revised, of the volumetric production payment
thereby matching those revenues with the depreciation of asset values which
remained on the balance sheet following the sale and the operating expenses
incurred for which the Company retained responsibility. The Company expects the
above transaction, as amended, to have minimal impact on future earnings.
However, cash made available by the sale of the volumetric production payment
has provided considerable financial flexibility for the pursuit of investment
alternatives.
 
     Exploration and Development Expenditures. The table below sets out
components of actual exploration and development expenditures for the years
ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, along with those budgeted for the year
1996.
 

 
     Exploration and development expenditures increased $18 million in 1995 as
compared to 1994. Differences in components reflect a significant increase in
producing property acquisitions to complement existing United States producing
areas. One such property acquisition was for non-cash consideration of $19
million of redeemable preferred stock of a subsidiary of the Company. (See Note
6 to Consolidated Financial Statements). (See "Business - Exploration and
Production" for additional information detailing the specific geographic
locations of the Company's drilling programs and "Outlook" below for a
discussion related to 1996 exploration and development expenditure plans).
 
     Exploration and development expenditures increased $63 million, or 14%, in
1994 compared to 1993. The increase primarily reflects the acquisitions of
selected properties to complement existing North American producing areas and
the addition of new international activities in India.
 
     Hedging Transactions. With the objective of enhancing the certainty of
future revenues, the Company enters into NYMEX-related commodity price swaps
from time to time. Using NYMEX-related commodity price swaps, the Company
receives a fixed price for the respective commodity hedged and pays a floating
market price, as defined for each transaction, to the counterparty at
settlement. In 1995, prices for approximately 35% of the natural gas delivered
volumes were hedged using NYMEX-related commodity price swaps.
 
     The NYMEX-related natural gas commodity price swaps are priced based on a
Henry Hub, Louisiana delivery point. The Henry Hub price has historically had a
high degree of correlation with the wellhead price received by the Company which
has made such transactions effective natural gas price hedges. During December
1995, there was a loss of correlation between the prices paid under the natural
gas commodity price swaps and the wellhead natural gas prices ultimately
received for a portion of the Company's hedged natural gas production. This loss
of correlation resulted in the recognition of a $6 million pre-tax loss in 1995.
 
     With the preliminary indication of a possible change in the overall natural
gas market environment at year-end 1995 signaling potentially improving industry
conditions, the Company closed substantially all its open NYMEX-related
positions regarding natural gas commodity price swaps to participate in this
potential upside. While the removal of the hedges has resulted in a deferred net
loss of approximately $4 million to be
 

 
recognized during 1996, the Company expects the net reductions to be more than
offset by revenue associated with increases in wellhead natural gas prices
throughout 1996. Included in the $4 million net loss is a $21 million pre-tax
loss related to the first quarter of 1996.
 
     Financing. The Company's long-term debt-to-total-capital ratio was 20% and
15% as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively. The Company has entered into
an agreement with Enron Corp. pursuant to which the Company may borrow funds
from Enron Corp. at a representative market rate of interest on a revolving
basis. During 1995, the average of the daily balances of funds borrowed by the
Company under the agreement was $15 million and the balance at December 31, 1995
was $142 million. During 1994, there were no funds borrowed by the Company under
this agreement. Under a promissory note effective January 1, 1993 at a fixed
interest rate of 7%, the Company may advance funds temporarily surplus to the
Company to Enron Corp. for investment purposes. Daily outstanding balances of
funds advanced to Enron Corp. under the note averaged $154,000 during 1995 and
$69 million during 1994 with no balance outstanding at December 31, 1995 and
1994. There was no balance outstanding at December 31, 1995 and $7 million
outstanding at December 31, 1994, under a commercial paper program initiated in
1990. Proceeds from the commercial paper program were used to fund current
transactions. During 1995, total long-term debt increased $99 million to $289
million as a result of borrowings related to certain international drilling
activities and certain producing property acquisitions. (See Note 4 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements). The estimated fair value of the Company's
long-term debt at December 31, 1995 and 1994 was $294 million and $186 million,
respectively, based upon quoted market prices and, where such prices were not
available, upon interest rates currently available to the Company at year end.
(See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
 
     Outlook. Uncertainty continues to exist as to the direction of future North
America natural gas price trends, and there is a rather wide divergence in the
opinions held by some in the industry. This divergence in opinion is caused by
various factors including improvements in the technology used in drilling and
completing oil and gas wells that are tending to mitigate the impacts of fewer
oil and gas wells being drilled, the deregulation of the natural gas market
under Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Order 636 and subsequent related
orders, improvements being realized in the availability and utilization of
natural gas storage capacity and colder weather experienced in the early portion
of the 1995/1996 winter season than in recent years. However, the continually
increasing recognition of natural gas as a more environmentally friendly source
of energy along with the availability of significant domestically sourced
supplies should result in further increases in demand and a
supporting/strengthening of the overall natural gas market over time. Being
primarily a natural gas producer, the Company is more significantly impacted by
changes in natural gas prices than by changes in crude oil and condensate
prices. (See "Business - Other Matters - Energy Prices"). Based on the portion
of the Company's anticipated natural gas volumes for which prices have not, in
effect, been hedged using NYMEX-related commodity market transactions, long-term
marketing contracts and the sale of a volumetric production payment, the
Company's net income and cash flow sensitivity to changing natural gas prices is
approximately $16 million for each $.10 per Mcf change in average wellhead
natural gas prices.
 
     The Company plans to continue to focus a substantial portion of its
development and exploration expenditures in its major producing areas in North
America. However, based on the continuing uncertainty associated with North
America natural gas prices and the continuing weakness in that market, and as a
result of the recent success realized in Trinidad, the opportunities available
to the Company in conjunction with the late 1994 signing of agreements in India
and the recent winning of a concession in Venezuela, the Company anticipates
expending an increasing portion of its available funds in the further
development of these opportunities outside North America. In addition, the
Company expects to conduct limited exploratory activity in other areas outside
of North America in its expenditure plans and will continue to evaluate the
potential for involvement in other exploitation type opportunities. (See
"Business - Exploration and Production" for additional information detailing the
specific geographic locations of the related drilling programs). Early-in-year
activity will be managed within an annual expected expenditure level of
approximately $500-$550 million for 1996. This early-in-year planning will
address the continuing uncertainty with regard to the future of the North
America natural gas price environment and will be structured to maintain the
flexibility necessary under the Company's continuing strategy of funding
exploration, exploitation, development and acquisition activities primarily from
available internally generated cash flow. The continuation of expenditures
 

 
in other areas outside of North America in the near term is expected to be
primarily for the evaluation of conventional oil and gas exploration and
exploitation opportunities in the U.K. North Sea and China, respectively, and
coalbed methane recovery prospects in Australia and China. Other prospects in
various locations will also attract the expenditure of some funds.
 
     Other factors representing positive impacts that are more certain continue
to hold good potential for the Company in future periods. While the drilling
qualification period for the tight gas sand federal income tax credit expired as
of December 31, 1992, the Company continued in 1995, and should continue in the
future, to realize significant benefits associated with production from wells
drilled during the qualifying period as it will be eligible for the federal
income tax credit through the year 2002. However, all other factors remaining
equal, the annual benefit, which was approximately $22 million in 1995 and is
estimated to be approximately $14 million for 1996, is expected to continue to
decline in future periods as production from the qualified wells declines. The
drilling qualification period for a certain state severance tax exemption
available on qualifying high cost natural gas revenues continues through August
1996 in its current form and in a modified and somewhat reduced form from that
point through August 2002. Consequently, new qualifying production will be added
prospectively to that presently qualified. (See "Business - Other
Matters - Tight Gas Sand Tax Credit (Section 29) and Severance Tax Exemption").
Other natural gas marketing activities are also expected to continue to
contribute meaningfully to financial results. The Company completed a fairly
significant restructure of its other natural gas marketing portfolio during 1992
with the sale of a volumetric production payment of approximately 124 Bcfe (136
TBtu) for $326.8 million that was subsequently revised in 1993 (See
"Business - Marketing - Other Marketing" and Note 5 to Consolidated Financial
Statements) and elimination of most delivery obligations under four long-term
fixed price marketing contracts. The proceeds from the sale of the volumetric
production payment added substantially to the financial flexibility of the
Company supporting future development while the combined effect of all elements
of the restructuring on net income has not been, and is not expected in the
future to be, significant. These factors are expected to contribute
significantly to earnings, cash flow, and the ability of the Company to pursue
the continuation of an active exploration, exploitation, development and
selective acquisition program.
 
     The level of exploration and development expenditures may vary in 1996 and
will vary in future periods depending on energy market conditions and other
related economic factors. Based upon existing economic and market conditions,
the Company believes net operating cash flow and available financing
alternatives in 1996 will be sufficient to fund its net investing cash
requirements for the year. However, the Company has significant flexibility with
respect to its financing alternatives and adjustment of its exploration,
exploitation, development and acquisition expenditure plans if circumstances
warrant. While the Company has certain continuing commitments associated with
expenditure plans related to operations in India and anticipates having such in
Venezuela, they are not anticipated to be material when considered in relation
to the total financial capacity of the Company.
 
     Other. The cost of environmental compliance has not been material to the
Company.
 
     In March 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No.
121 - "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to be Disposed Of" (the "Standard"). The Standard requires, among other
things, that long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles to be held
and used by an entity be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be
recoverable. The Company will adopt the Standard in the first quarter of 1996.
The effect of adoption of the Standard is anticipated to result in a non-cash
impairment charge of less than $5 million pre-tax.
 
     In October 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No.
123 - "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation". SFAS No. 123 encourages
companies to account for stock-based compensation awards based on the fair value
of the awards at the date they are granted. The resulting compensation cost
would be shown as an expense in the statement of income. Companies can choose
not to apply the new accounting method and continue to apply current accounting
requirements; however, disclosure will be required as to what net income and
earnings per share would have been had the new accounting method been followed.
SFAS No. 123 is effective for calendar year 1996.
 

 
INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
     This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward looking statements within
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although the Company believes that its
expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that
its goals will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially from those in the forward looking statements herein include,
but are not limited to, the extent of the Company's success in acquiring oil and
gas properties and in discovering, developing and producing reserves, the timing
and extent of changes in commodity prices for natural gas, crude oil and
condensate and natural gas liquids, political developments in foreign countries
and conditions in the capital markets and equity markets during the periods
covered by the forward looking statements.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
     The information required hereunder is included in this report as set forth
in the "Index to Financial Statements" on page F-1.
 
ITEM 9. DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
     None.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The information required by this Item regarding directors is set forth in
the Proxy Statement under the caption entitled "Election of Directors", and is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
     See list of "Current Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I
located elsewhere herein.
 
     There are no family relationships among the officers listed, and there are
no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which any of them were elected as
officers. Officers are appointed or elected annually by the Board of Directors
at its first meeting following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, each to hold
office until the corresponding meeting of the Board in the next year or until a
successor shall have been elected, appointed or shall have qualified.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     The information required by this Item is set forth in the Proxy Statement
under the caption "Compensation of Directors and Executive Officers", and is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     The information required by this Item is set forth in the Proxy Statement
under the captions "Election of Directors" and "Compensation of Directors and
Executive Officers", and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     The information required by this Item is set forth in the Proxy Statement
under the caption "Certain Transactions", and is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     (A)(1) AND (2) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 
     See "Index to Financial Statements" set forth on page F-1.
 
     (A)(3) EXHIBITS
 
     See pages E-1 through E-7 for a listing of the exhibits.
 
     (B) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company during the last quarter of
     1995.
 

 
                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
 

 
                                       F-1

 
              MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING
 
     The following consolidated financial statements of Enron Oil & Gas Company
and its subsidiaries were prepared by management which is responsible for their
integrity, objectivity and fair presentation. The statements have been prepared
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and, accordingly,
include some amounts that are based on the best estimates and judgments of
management.
 
     Arthur Andersen LLP, independent public accountants, was engaged to audit
the consolidated financial statements of Enron Oil & Gas Company and its
subsidiaries and issue a report thereon. In the conduct of the audit, Arthur
Andersen LLP was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related
data including minutes of all meetings of shareholders, the Board of Directors
and committees of the Board. Management believes that all representations made
to Arthur Andersen LLP during the audit were valid and appropriate. Their audits
of the years presented included developing an overall understanding of the
Company's accounting systems, procedures and internal controls, and conducting
tests and other auditing procedures sufficient to support their opinion on the
financial statements. Arthur Andersen LLP was also engaged to examine and report
on management's assertion about the effectiveness of the system of internal
controls of Enron Oil & Gas Company and its subsidiaries. The reports of Arthur
Andersen LLP appear on the following page.
 
     The system of internal controls of Enron Oil & Gas Company and its
subsidiaries is designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability
of financial statements and the protection of assets from unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition. This system includes, but is not limited to,
written policies and guidelines including a published code for the conduct of
business affairs, conflicts of interest and compliance with laws regarding
antitrust, antiboycott and foreign corrupt practices policies, the careful
selection and training of qualified personnel, and a documented organizational
structure outlining the separation of responsibilities among management
representatives and staff groups.
 
     The adequacy of financial controls of Enron Oil & Gas Company and its
subsidiaries and the accounting principles employed in financial reporting by
the Company are under the general oversight of the Audit Committee of the Board
of Directors. No member of this committee is an officer or employee of the
Company. The independent public accountants have direct access to the Audit
Committee and meet with the committee from time to time to discuss accounting,
auditing and financial reporting matters. It should be recognized that there are
inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of internal control,
including the possibility of human error and circumvention or override.
Accordingly, even an effective system can provide only reasonable assurance with
respect to the preparation of reliable financial statements and safeguarding of
assets. Furthermore, the effectiveness of an internal control system can change
with circumstances.
 
     It is management's opinion that, considering the criteria for effective
internal control over financial reporting and safeguarding of assets which
consists of interrelated components including the control environment, risk
assessment process, control activities, information and communication systems,
and monitoring, the Company maintained an effective system of internal control
as to the reliability of financial statements and the protection of assets
against unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition for the year ended December
31, 1995.
 

 
Houston, Texas
February 16, 1996
 
                                       F-2

 
                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
 
To Enron Oil & Gas Company:
 
     We have examined management's assertion that the system of internal control
of Enron Oil & Gas Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended December 31,
1995 was adequate to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability of
financial statements and the protection of assets against unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition, included in the accompanying report on
Management's Responsibility for Financial Reporting.
 
     Our examination was made in accordance with standards established by the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and, accordingly, included
obtaining an understanding of the system of internal control, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of the system of internal
control and such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our examination provides a reasonable basis for
our opinion.
 
     Because of inherent limitations in any system of internal control, errors
or irregularities may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any
evaluation of the system of internal control to future periods are subject to
the risk that the system of internal control may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.
 
     In our opinion, management's assertion that the system of internal control
of Enron Oil & Gas Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended December 31,
1995 was adequate to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability of
financial statements and the protection of assets against unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition is fairly stated in all material respects, based
upon current standards of control criteria.
 
                                                             ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
Houston, Texas
February 16, 1996
 
                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
 
To Enron Oil & Gas Company:
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Enron Oil &
Gas Company (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995
and 1994, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders'
equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 1995. These financial statements and the schedule referred to below are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and the schedule based on our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Enron Oil & Gas Company and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1995, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
 
     Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The financial statement schedule listed
in the index to financial statements is presented for purposes of complying with
the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of the basic
financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole.
 
                                                             ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
Houston, Texas
February 16, 1996
 
                                       F-3

 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       F-4

 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       F-5

 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       F-6

 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       F-7

 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED)
 
1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
     Principles of Consolidation. The consolidated financial statements of Enron
Oil & Gas Company (the "Company"), 61% of the outstanding common stock of which
is owned by Enron Corp., include the accounts of all domestic and foreign
subsidiaries. All material intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated. Certain reclassifications have been made to the consolidated
financial statements for prior years to conform with the current presentation.
 
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
     Cash Equivalents. The Company records as cash equivalents all highly liquid
short-term investments with maturities of three months or less. (See Note 4
"Long-Term Debt - Financing Arrangements with Enron Corp.")
 
     Oil and Gas Operations. The Company accounts for its natural gas and crude
oil exploration and production activities under the successful efforts method of
accounting.
 
     Oil and gas lease acquisition costs are capitalized when incurred. Unproved
properties with significant acquisition costs are assessed quarterly on a
property-by-property basis, and any impairment in value is recognized.
Amortization of any remaining costs of such leases begins at a point prior to
the end of the lease term depending upon the length of such term. Unproved
properties with acquisition costs that are not individually significant are
aggregated, and the portion of such costs estimated to be nonproductive, based
on historical experience, is amortized over the average holding period. If the
unproved properties are determined to be productive, the appropriate related
costs are transferred to proved oil and gas properties. Lease rentals are
expensed as incurred.
 
     Oil and gas exploration costs, other than the costs of drilling exploratory
wells, are charged to expense as incurred. The costs of drilling exploratory
wells are capitalized pending determination of whether they have discovered
proved commercial reserves. If proved commercial reserves are not discovered,
such drilling costs are expensed. The costs of all development wells and related
equipment used in the production of natural gas and crude oil are capitalized.
 
     Depreciation, depletion and amortization of the cost of proved oil and gas
properties is calculated using the unit-of-production method. Estimated future
dismantlement, restoration and abandonment costs (classified as long-term
liabilities), net of salvage values, are taken into account. Certain other
assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis.
 
     Inventories, consisting primarily of tubular goods and well equipment held
for use in the exploration for, and development and production of natural gas
and crude oil reserves, are carried at cost with adjustments made from time to
time to recognize changes in condition value.
 
     Natural gas revenues are recorded on the entitlement method based on the
Company's percentage ownership of current production. Each working interest
owner in a well generally has the right to a specific percentage of production,
although actual production sold may differ from an owner's ownership percentage.
Under entitlement accounting, a receivable is recorded when underproduction
occurs and a payable when overproduction occurs.
 
     Gains and losses associated with the sale in place of natural gas and crude
oil reserves and related assets are classified as net operating revenues in the
consolidated statements of income based on the Company's strategy of continuing
such sales in maximizing the economic value of its assets.
 
                                       F-8

 
     Accounting for Interest and Price Risk Management. The Company engages in
price and interest rate risk management activities for primarily non-trading
purposes. Such activities consist of transactions to hedge commodity prices
associated with the sales of natural gas and crude oil in order to mitigate the
risk of market price fluctuations and interest rate swap agreements to
effectively convert portions of floating rate debt to a fixed rate basis,
thereby reducing the impact of interest rate changes on future income. Changes
in the market value of commodity price and interest rate swap transactions
entered into as hedges are deferred so that the gain or loss is recognized in
the period in which the revenues or expenses associated with the hedged
transactions are applicable.
 
     In certain situations, the Company has designated portions of and may in
the future designate certain commodity price swap transactions or portions
thereof as for trading purposes. These transactions are accounted for using the
mark-to-market method of accounting. Under this method, unrealized gains or
losses resulting from the impact of price movements are recognized as net gains
or losses in net operating revenues in the consolidated statements of income.
 
     Capitalized Interest Costs. Certain interest costs have been capitalized as
a part of the historical cost of unproved oil and gas properties. Interest costs
capitalized during each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1995
are set out in the consolidated statements of income.
 
     Income Taxes. The closing on December 13, 1995 of the sale by Enron Corp.
of approximately 31 million outstanding shares of the common stock of the
Company reduced Enron Corp.'s ownership interest in the Company from 80% to 61%
with the result that (i) the Company ceased, effective December 14, 1995, to be
included in the consolidated federal income tax return filed by Enron Corp. and
(ii) a tax allocation agreement previously in effect between the Company and
Enron Corp. was terminated. In addition, effective December 14, 1995, the
Company and its subsidiaries and Enron Corp. entered into a new tax agreement
pursuant to which, among other things, Enron Corp. has agreed (in exchange for
the payment of $13.0 million by the Company) to be liable for, and indemnify the
Company against all U.S. federal and state income taxes and certain foreign
taxes imposed on the Company for periods prior to the date Enron Corp. reduced
its ownership in the Company to less than 80%. The Company does not believe that
the cessation of consolidated tax reporting with Enron Corp., the termination of
the tax allocation agreement concurrent with deconsolidation and the signing of
the new tax agreement with Enron Corp. will have a material adverse effect on
its financial condition or results of operations.
 
     Prior to December 14, 1995, the Company was included in the consolidated
federal income tax return filed by Enron Corp. as the common parent for itself
and its subsidiaries and the resulting taxes, including taxes for any state or
other taxing jurisdiction that required or permitted a consolidated, combined,
or unitary tax return to be filed and in which the Company and/or any of its
subsidiaries was included, were apportioned as between the Company and/or any of
its subsidiaries and Enron Corp. based on the terms of the tax allocation
agreement in effect prior to December 14, 1995.
 
     The Company accounts for income taxes under the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 109 - "Accounting for Income Taxes".
SFAS No. 109 requires the asset and liability approach for accounting for income
taxes. Under this approach, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized
based on anticipated future tax consequences attributable to differences between
financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their
respective tax bases (See Note 8 "Income Taxes").
 
     Foreign Currency Translation. For subsidiaries whose functional currency is
deemed to be other than the U.S. dollar, asset and liability accounts are
translated at year-end exchange rates and revenue and expenses are translated at
average exchange rates prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments are
included as a separate component of shareholders' equity.
 
     Earnings Per Share. Earnings per share is computed on the basis of the
average number of common shares outstanding during the periods.
 
                                       F-9

 
2. NATURAL GAS AND CRUDE OIL, CONDENSATE AND NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS NET OPERATING
REVENUES
 
     Natural Gas Net Operating Revenues are comprised of the following:
 

 
     Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids Net Operating Revenues are
comprised of the following:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Wellhead Natural Gas Revenues in 1995, 1994 and 1993 include $80,369,
    $126,783 and $129,504, respectively, associated with deliveries by Enron Oil
    & Gas Company to Enron Oil & Gas Marketing, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary,
    reflected as a cost in Other Natural Gas Marketing Activities - Associated
    Costs.
 
(2) Includes $14,022, $22,434 and $46,358 in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively,
    associated with the equivalent wellhead value of volumes delivered under the
    terms of a volumetric production payment agreement effective October 1,
    1992, as amended, net of transportation.
 
(3) Includes $43,344, $43,345 and $73,867 in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively,
    associated with the amortization of deferred revenues under the terms of
    volumetric production payment and exchange agreements effective October 1,
    1992, as amended.
 
(4) Includes the effect of a price swap agreement with a third party which in
    effect fixed the price of certain purchases through February 1995.
 
                                      F-10

 
(5) Includes $27,549, $33,779 and $65,042 in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively,
    for volumes delivered under volumetric production payment and exchange
    agreements effective October 1, 1992, as amended, including equivalent
    wellhead value, any applicable transportation costs and exchange
    differentials.
 
(6) Includes an $11,255 gain associated with certain NYMEX-related commodity
    market transactions designated for trading purposes partially offset by a
    $2,567 loss related to call option transactions and a $6,000 loss associated
    with certain NYMEX-related natural gas commodity market transactions that
    were marked-to-market due to loss of correlation between the NYMEX and the
    wellhead natural gas prices that the positions were designated to hedge.
    (See Note 13 "Price and Interest Rate Risk Management").
 
(7) Represents gain or loss associated with commodity price swap transactions
    primarily with Enron Corp. affiliated companies based on NYMEX-related
    commodity prices in effect on dates of execution, less customary transaction
    fees. These transactions serve as price hedges for a portion of wellhead
    sales.
 
     In March 1995, in a series of transactions with Enron Corp. and an
affiliate of Enron Corp., the Company exchanged all of its fuel supply and
purchase contracts and related price swap agreements associated with a Texas
City cogeneration plant (the "Cogen Contracts") for certain natural gas price
swap agreements of equivalent value issued by the affiliate that are designated
as hedges (the "Swap Agreements"). Such Swap Agreements were closed on March 31,
1995. As a result of the transactions, the Company has been relieved of all
performance obligations associated with the Cogen Contracts. Such operating
revenues and associated costs through February 28, 1995 were classified as Other
Natural Gas Marketing Activities-Gross Revenues and Associated Costs from
Associated Companies. The Company will realize net operating revenues classified
as Other Natural Gas Marketing Activities-Commodity Price Transaction Gain
(Loss), Non-Trading, and receive corresponding cash payments of approximately
$91 million during the period extending through December 31, 1999, under the
terms of the closed Swap Agreements. The estimated fair value of the Swap
Agreements was approximately $81 million at the date the Swap Agreements were
received in exchange for the Cogen Contracts. The net effect of this series of
transactions has resulted/will result in increases in net operating revenues and
cash receipts for the Company during 1995 and 1996 of approximately $13 million
and $7 million, respectively, with offsetting decreases in 1998 and 1999 versus
those anticipated under the Cogen Contracts. The total cash payments receivable
under the terms of the Swap Agreements, approximately $60 million at December
31, 1995, are presented in the accompanying balance sheet as Accounts
Receivable - Associated Companies for the $25 million current portion and as
Other Assets for the $35 million noncurrent portion. The corresponding total
future revenue of approximately $63 million is classified as Deferred Revenue.
(See Note 13 "Price and Interest Rate Risk Management").
 
3. OTHER ASSETS
 
     Other Assets at December 31, 1994 includes an investment in 349,387 shares
of Enron Corp. common stock purchased for $10 million, at an average of $28.62
per share from Enron Corp. (the fair market value of such shares on the dates of
acquisition). In August 1995, the purchase of an additional 283,946 shares of
Enron Corp. common stock for $9.3 million, at an average of $32.71 per share was
completed, resulting in a total of 633,333 shares at a total cost of $19.3
million. The Enron Corp. common stock was subsequently exchanged in November
1995 for redeemable preferred stock issued in March 1995 by a subsidiary of the
Company. (See Note 6 "Shareholders' Equity").
 
4. LONG-TERM DEBT
 
     Revolving Credit Agreement. The Company is a party to a Revolving Credit
Agreement dated as of March 11, 1994, among the Company and the banks named
therein (the "Credit Agreement"). The Credit Agreement provides for aggregate
borrowings of up to $100 million, with provisions for increases, at the option
of the Company, up to $300 million. Advances under the Credit Agreement bear
interest, at the option of the Company, based on a base rate, an adjusted CD
rate or a Eurodollar rate. Each advance under the Credit Agreement matures on a
date selected by the Company at the time of the advance, but in no event after
 
                                      F-11

 
January 15, 1998. There were no advances outstanding under the Credit Agreement
at December 31, 1995 or 1994.
 
     Financing Arrangements With Enron Corp. The Company engages in various
transactions with Enron Corp. that are characteristic of a consolidated group
under common control. Activities of the Company not internally funded from
operations have been and may be funded from time to time by advances from Enron
Corp. The Company entered into an agreement with Enron Corp., effective October
12, 1989 (as amended effective September 29, 1992) and payable on demand no
later than September 29, 1995, under which the Company could borrow funds from
Enron Corp. at a representative market rate of interest on a revolving basis.
During 1995 and 1994, there were no funds borrowed by the Company under this
agreement. Effective as of September 29, 1995, this agreement was replaced with
another agreement with Enron Corp. providing for borrowings by the Company of up
to $200 million under substantially the same terms as the previous agreement.
Advances under this agreement which amounted to $141.5 million at December 31,
1995 are payable on demand on or before December 31, 1998. Such balance was
classified as long-term based on the Company's intent and ability to replace
such amount with other long-term debt. In January 1996, $105 million was retired
using the proceeds from new long-term financings. (See "Long-Term Debt, Other").
 
     In July 1994, the Company prepaid $25 million of loans payable due in April
1995 with proceeds from a promissory note payable to Enron Corp. which note was
in the same amount and with essentially the same terms as the loan prepaid. The
promissory note was classified as long-term based on the Company's intent and
ability to refinance such note upon maturity with other long-term debt. The
interest rate swap agreement which effectively fixed the interest rate of the
original loan payable at 8.98% through maturity remained in effect for the
promissory note payable to Enron Corp. The note was paid in April 1995.
 
     The Company also entered into an agreement with Enron Corp., effective
October 12, 1989 (as amended effective September 29, 1992), which provides the
Company the option of depositing any excess funds that may be available from
time to time with Enron Corp. with interest at a representative market rate
during the periods the funds were held by Enron Corp. Effective January 1, 1993,
the Company executed a promissory note at a fixed interest rate of 7% with Enron
Corp. providing for the investment of funds temporarily surplus to the Company
from time to time with Enron Corp. Daily outstanding balances of funds advanced
to Enron Corp. under this note averaged $154,000 and $68.8 million during 1995
and 1994, respectively. There were no advances outstanding at December 31, 1995
or 1994 under this agreement. Interest income recorded in 1995 and 1994 under
the terms of this note totaled $11 thousand and $4.7 million, respectively.
Effective as of September 29, 1995, the Company entered into a new credit
agreement which replaces the October 12, 1989 credit agreement, as amended, and
supplements the promissory note entered into on January 1, 1993. Such new
agreement provides the Company the option of depositing any excess funds that
may be available from time to time in excess of those advanced under the January
1, 1993 promissory note with Enron Corp. up to a combined total of $200 million
under substantially the same terms as included in the October 12, 1989
agreement, as amended, and with a maturity date of December 31, 1998.
 
     Long-Term Debt, Other. Long-Term Debt, Other at December 31 consisted of
the following:
 

 
     The Senior Notes bear interest at 9.1% with principal repayments of $30
million due on February 15, 1996 and $20 million due in 1997 and 1998. The $30
million repayment due on February 15, 1996 is classified as long-term based on
the Company's intent and ability to replace such amount upon maturity with other
long-term debt.
 
                                      F-12

 
     The Promissory Notes represent advances to a subsidiary of the Company. Two
advances aggregating $31 million were received in March 1994 under a credit
agreement dated as of March 8, 1994 between the subsidiary and a financial
institution. One of the advances is in the amount of $16 million, bears interest
at a fixed rate of 4.52% and is due in 1998. The other advance is in the amount
of $15 million, bears interest at a floating rate that resets quarterly, is
equal to 84% of the London Interbank Bid Rate and is due in 1998. Both advances
are collateralized with a letter of credit issued by a bank on behalf of the
subsidiary and guaranteed by the Company. The advances were used to partially
repay a promissory note payable to a bank by the subsidiary. In May 1994 and
January 1995, the subsidiary received other advances of $25 million and $15
million, respectively, evidenced by promissory notes, under a credit agreement
dated May 27, 1994 between the subsidiary and a financial institution. The
credit agreement provides for aggregate borrowings of up to $44 million and is
due in 1999. The advances bear interest based on various interest rate options,
as defined in the credit agreement, which ranged from 5.27% to 5.57% during
1995. The advances are guaranteed by the Company and were used to partially
repay temporary advances from the Company to the subsidiary for qualified
development costs.
 
     The Commercial Paper outstanding at December 31, 1994 was issued under a
commercial paper program the proceeds of which are used to fund current
transactions and are classified as long-term based on the Company's intent and
ability to replace such obligation with other long-term debt.
 
     The Loan Payable was retired in April 1995 using the proceeds from other
long-term financings. Interest was at a variable rate based on the London
Interbank Offered Rate which had, in effect, been converted to a fixed interest
rate of 8.92% through maturity using an interest rate swap agreement in
equivalent dollar amounts. The note was classified as long-term based on the
Company's intent and ability to replace such loan upon maturity with other
long-term debt.
 
     Certain of the borrowings described above contain covenants requiring the
maintenance of certain financial ratios and limitations on liens, debt issuance
and dispositions of assets. In 1991, the Company filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission a registration statement providing for the issuance and sale
from time to time of up to $250 million of debt securities to the public. As of
December 31, 1995, no debt securities had been issued under this registration
statement.
 
     Subsequent to year-end, a subsidiary of the Company entered into a Credit
Agreement dated as of January 16, 1996 among the subsidiary and the banks named
therein and received advances under the agreement, evidenced by promissory
notes, aggregating $105 million. Each note matures in January 2001 and bears
interest at a floating rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate for
periods selected by the subsidiary. The notes are guaranteed by the Company, the
proceeds of which were ultimately used to partially repay advances to the
Company by Enron Corp.
 
     Fair Value Of Long-Term Debt. At December 31, 1995 and 1994, the Company
had $289 million and $190 million, respectively, of long-term debt. The
estimated fair value of such debt at December 31, 1995 and 1994 was
approximately $294 million and $186 million, respectively. The fair value of
long-term debt is the value the Company would have to pay to retire the debt,
including any premium or discount to the debtholder for the differential between
the stated interest rate and the year-end market rate. The fair value of
long-term debt is based upon quoted market prices and, where such quotes were
not available, upon interest rates available to the Company at year-end.
 
5. VOLUMETRIC PRODUCTION PAYMENT
 
     In September 1992, the Company sold a volumetric production payment for
$326.8 million to a limited partnership. Under the terms of the production
payment agreements, the Company conveyed a real property interest of
approximately 124 billion cubic feet equivalent ("Bcfe") (136 trillion British
thermal units ("TBtu")) of certain natural gas and other hydrocarbons to the
purchaser. Effective October 1, 1993, the agreements were amended providing for
the extension of the original term of the volumetric production payment through
March 31, 1999 and including a revised schedule of daily quantities of
hydrocarbons to be delivered which is approximately one-half of the original
schedule. The revised schedule will total approximately 89.1 Bcfe (97.8 TBtu)
versus approximately 87.9 Bcfe (96.4 TBtu) remaining to be delivered under
 
                                      F-13

 
the original agreement. Daily quantities of hydrocarbons no longer required to
be delivered under the revised schedule during the period from October 1, 1993
through June 30, 1996 are available for sale by the Company. The Company retains
responsibility for its working interest share of the cost of operations. A
portion of the proceeds of the sale was used to repay a portion of the Company's
long-term debt, with surplus funds advanced to Enron Corp. under a note
agreement which facilitates the deposit of funds temporarily surplus to the
Company. The Company accounted for the proceeds received in the transaction as
deferred revenue which is being amortized into revenue and income as natural gas
and other hydrocarbons are produced and delivered during the term, as revised,
of the volumetric production payment agreement. Annual remaining amortization of
deferred revenue, based on revised scheduled deliveries under the volumetric
production payment agreement, as amended, at December 31, 1995 was as follows:
 

 
6. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
     The Board of Directors of the Company approved in December 1992, as amended
in September 1994, the purchasing and holding in treasury at any time of up to
500,000 shares of common stock of the Company for, but not limited to, meeting
obligations associated with stock option grants to qualified employees pursuant
to the Company's stock option plans. (See Note 9 "Commitments and
Contingencies - Stock Option Plans"). At December 31, 1995 and 1994, 150,045
shares and 9,173 shares, respectively, were held in treasury under this
authorization.
 
     On May 3, 1994, the shareholders of the Company approved and the Board of
Directors subsequently declared a two-for-one split of the common stock of the
Company to be effected as a nontaxable dividend of one share for each share
outstanding. Shares were issued on June 15, 1994 to shareholders of record as of
May 31,1994. At such time, an amendment to the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of the Company to increase the total number of authorized shares
of the common stock of the Company from 80 million to 160 million shares and to
change the par value of common stock from no par to $.01 par per share was filed
with the Secretary of State of Delaware. All share and per share amounts in the
financial statements and supplemental financial information have been restated
to consider the effect of the two-for-one stock split.
 
     In March 1995, a subsidiary of the Company issued to an unrelated third
party 19,000 shares of the subsidiary's non-voting redeemable preferred stock,
with a liquidation/redemption value of $1,000 per share and dividends payable
semi-annually at an annual rate of $70.00 per share, in exchange for certain oil
and gas properties. (See Note 3 "Other Assets").
 
     In February 1996, the Board of Directors authorized submission of a
resolution to shareholders for approval at their annual meeting in May 1996 that
would amend the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company to increase
the total number of authorized shares of the common stock of the Company from
160 million to 320 million shares. Such charter amendment, if adopted, will
become effective when the appropriate Certificate of Amendment to the Company's
Restated Certificate of Incorporation is filed with the Secretary of State of
Delaware.
 
7. TRANSACTIONS WITH ENRON CORP. AND RELATED PARTIES
 
     Natural Gas and Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids Net Operating
Revenues. Wellhead Natural Gas and Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids
Revenues and Other Natural Gas and Other Crude Oil and Condensate Marketing
Activities include revenues from and associated costs paid to various
subsidiaries and affiliates of Enron Corp. pursuant to contracts which, in the
opinion of management, are no less favorable than could be obtained from third
parties. Other Natural Gas and Other Crude Oil and Condensate Marketing
Activities also include certain commodity price swap and NYMEX-related commod-
 
                                      F-14

 
ity transactions with Enron Corp. affiliated companies which, in the opinion of
management, are no less favorable than could be obtained from third parties.
(See Note 2 "Natural Gas and Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids Net
Operating Revenues").
 
     General and Administrative Expenses. The Company is charged by Enron Corp.
for all direct costs associated with its operations. Such direct charges,
excluding benefit plan charges (See Note 9 "Commitments and
Contingencies - Employee Benefit Plans"), totaled $17.2 million, $13.7 million
and $11.5 million for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively. Management believes that these charges are reasonable.
 
     Additionally, certain administrative costs not directly charged to any
Enron Corp. operations or business segments are allocated to the entities of the
consolidated group. Allocation percentages are generally determined utilizing
weighted average factors derived from property gross book value, net operating
revenues and payroll costs. Effective January 1, 1994, the Company entered into
an agreement with Enron Corp. with an initial term of five years through
December 1998, which agreement replaced a similar previous agreement, providing
for services substantially identical in nature and quality to those services
previously provided and for allocated indirect costs incurred in rendering such
services up to a maximum of approximately $7 million in 1995 and $6.7 million
for 1994. The limit on cost for the allocated indirect services provided by
Enron Corp. to the Company will increase in subsequent years for inflation and
certain changes in the Company's allocation bases, but such increase will not
exceed 7.5% per year. Management believes the indirect allocated charges for the
numerous types of support services provided by the corporate staff are
reasonable. Approximately $6.8 million, $6.6 million and $7.9 million were
charged to the Company for indirect general and administrative expenses for the
years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
 
     Financing. See Note 4 "Long-Term Debt - Financing Arrangements with Enron
Corp." for a discussion of financing arrangements with Enron Corp.
 
8. INCOME TAXES
 
     The principal components of the Company's net deferred income tax liability
at December 31, 1995 and 1994 were as follows:
 

 
     The components of income (loss) before income taxes were as follows:
 

 
                                      F-15

 
     Total income tax provision (benefit) was as follows:
 

 
     The differences between taxes computed at the U.S. federal statutory tax
rate and the Company's effective rate were as follows:
 

 
     Current income tax receivable from (payable to) Enron Corp. at December 31,
1995, 1994 and 1993 amounted to $458, $(506) and $(6,892), respectively. The
current taxes payable to the Internal Revenue Service for the short-period of
December 14, 1995 through December 31, 1995 are not material.
 
     The Company's $2.7 million alternative minimum tax credit carryforward was
eliminated when taxes were reallocated between Enron Corp. and the Company after
completion of the 1988-1991 Internal Revenue Service audit. The Company's
foreign subsidiaries' undistributed earnings of approximately $84 million at
December 31, 1995 are considered to be indefinitely invested outside the U.S.
and, accordingly, no U.S. federal or state income taxes have been provided
thereon. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of dividends, the
Company may be subject to both foreign withholding taxes and U.S. income taxes,
net of allowable foreign tax credits. Determination of any potential amount of
unrecognized deferred income tax liabilities is not practicable.
 
9. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
     Employee Benefit Plans. Employees of the Company are covered by various
retirement, stock purchase and other benefit plans of Enron Corp. During each of
the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, the Company was charged $6.6
million, $5.1 million and $4.5 million, respectively, for all such benefits,
including pension expense totaling $0.8 million, $0.3 million and $0.5 million,
respectively, by Enron Corp.
 
     As of September 30, 1995, the most recent valuation date, the plan net
assets of the Enron Corp. defined benefit plan in which the employees of the
Company participate was less than the actuarial present value of projected plan
benefit obligations by approximately $19.3 million. The assumed discount rate,
rate of return on
 
                                      F-16

 
plan assets and rate of increases in wages used in determining the actuarial
present value of projected plan benefits were 7.5%, 10.5% and 4.0%,
respectively.
 
     The Company also has in effect pension and savings plans related to its
Canadian, Trinidadian and Indian subsidiaries. Activity related to these plans
is not material relative to the Company's operations.
 
     The Company provides certain medical, life insurance and dental benefits to
eligible employees who retire under the Enron Corp. Retirement Plan and their
eligible surviving spouses. Benefits are provided under the provisions of a
contributory defined dollar benefit plan. The Company accrues the cost of these
post-retirement benefits over the service lives of the employees expected to be
eligible to receive such benefits. The transition obligation existing at January
1, 1993 is being amortized over an average period of 19 years. The accumulated
post-retirement benefit obligation ("APBO") existing at December 31, 1995
totaled $131.1 million, of which $114.3 million is applicable to current
retirees and current employees eligible to retire. The measurement of the APBO
assumes a 7.5% discount rate and a health care cost trend rate of 11.7% in 1995
decreasing to 5% by the year 2006 and beyond. A 1% increase in the health care
cost trend rate would have the effect of increasing the APBO and the net
periodic expense by approximately $8.8 million and $0.6 million, respectively.
The Company does not currently intend to prefund its obligations under its
post-retirement welfare benefit plans.
 
     Stock Option Plans. The Company has various stock option plans ("the
Plans") under which employees of the Company and its subsidiaries and
non-employee members of the Board of Directors have been or may be granted
rights to purchase shares of common stock of the Company generally at a price
not less than the market price of the stock at the date of grant. Options
granted under the Plans vest over a period of time based on the nature of the
grants and as defined in the individual grant agreements.
 
     The following table sets forth the transactions for the Plans for the years
ended December 31:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1)  Includes 170,985 and 1,920,275 options granted on December 29, 1995 and
     December 30, 1994, respectively, under all employee stock option grants.
 
     At December 31, 1995, 4,716,320 options outstanding were vested. Of the
remaining unvested options, 1,054,292, 895,977, 751,227, 566,752 and 34,197 vest
in the years 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000, respectively.
 
     During 1995, 1994 and 1993, the Company purchased or was tendered 762,799,
1,817,093 and 831,850 of its common shares, respectively, and delivered such
shares upon the exercise of stock options, except for shares held in treasury at
December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993 as set out below. The difference between the
cost of the treasury shares and the exercise price of the options, net of
federal income tax benefit of $2.2 million, $7.2 million and $2.8 million for
the years 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively, is reflected as an adjustment to
Additional Paid In Capital. In October 1993, as amended in September 1994, the
Company commenced a stock repurchase program authorized by the Board of
Directors to facilitate the availability of treasury shares of common stock for,
but not limited to, the settlement of employee stock option exercises pursuant
to the Plans. At December 31, 1995 and 1994, 150,045 and 9,173 shares,
respectively, were held in treasury under this authorization. (See Note 6
"Shareholders' Equity").
 
                                      F-17

 
     In October 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No.
123 - "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation". SFAS No. 123 encourages
companies to account for stock-based compensation awards based on the fair value
of the awards at the date they are granted. The resulting compensation cost
would be shown as an expense in the statement of income. Companies can choose
not to apply the new accounting method and continue to apply current accounting
requirements; however, disclosure will be required as to what net income and
earnings per share would have been had the new accounting method been followed.
SFAS No. 123 is effective for calendar year 1996.
 
     Letters Of Credit. At December 31, 1995 and 1994, the Company had letters
of credit outstanding totaling approximately $32 million issued in connection
with a loan between one of the Company's subsidiaries and a trust.
 
     Contingencies. There are various suits and claims against the Company
having arisen in the ordinary course of business. However, management does not
believe these suits and claims will individually or in the aggregate have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of
operations. On November 19, 1992, TransAmerican Natural Gas Corporation
("TransAmerican") filed a petition against the Company alleging breach of
contract, tortious interference with contract, misappropriation of trade secrets
and violation of state antitrust laws. The petition, as amended, sought actual
damages of at least $100 million plus exemplary damages of $300 million. The
Company filed counterclaims against TransAmerican and a third-party claim
against its sole shareholder, John R. Stanley, alleging fraud, negligent
misrepresentation and breach of state antitrust laws. On October 16, 1995, the
Company, TransAmerican and Stanley entered into an agreement which resolved all
claims. The settlement terms did not have a materially adverse effect on the
Company's financial condition or results of operations. The suit was dismissed
with prejudice as to all parties by order entered in November 1995. The Company
has been named as a potentially responsible party in certain Comprehensive
Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act proceedings. However,
management does not believe that any potential assessments resulting from such
proceedings will individually or in the aggregate have a materially adverse
effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
10. CASH FLOW INFORMATION
 
     Gains on sales of certain oil and gas reserves and related assets in the
amount of $62.8 million, $54.0 million and $13.3 million for the years ended
December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively, are required by current
accounting guidelines to be removed from net income in connection with
determining net operating cash inflows while the related proceeds are required
to be classified as investing cash flows. The Company believes that proceeds
from the sales of reserves and related assets should be considered in analyzing
the elements of operating cash flows. The current federal income tax impact of
these sales transactions was calculated by the Company to be $24.4 million,
$19.8 million and $8.2 million for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and
1993, respectively, which entered into the overall calculation of current
federal income tax. The Company believes that this federal income tax impact
should also be considered in analyzing the elements of the cash flow statement.
 
     The consolidated statements of cash flows for 1994 and 1993 have been
revised to reflect the elimination of the non-cash amortization of deferred
revenue from net operating cash flows rather than investing cash flows as
previously reported.
 
     Non-cash investing and financing activities for 1995 include the issuance
by a subsidiary of the Company of redeemable preferred stock with a
liquidation/redemption value of $19 million in exchange for certain oil and gas
properties (See Note 6 "Shareholders' Equity"). An approximate $7 million
step-up in property basis was made relating to deferred tax liabilities
associated with the difference between the tax and book bases of acquired
properties as required by SFAS No. 109 for a nontaxable business combination.
 
                                      F-18

 
     Cash paid for interest and paid (received) for income taxes was as follows
for the years ended December 31:
 

 
     Included in 1995 income taxes paid is $13 million paid to Enron Corp. for
the indemnification of any future liability associated with all federal and
state income taxes and certain foreign taxes imposed on the Company for periods
prior to the date Enron Corp. reduced its ownership in the Company from 80% to
61%.
 
11. BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
     The Company's operations are all natural gas and crude oil exploration and
production related. Accordingly, such operations are classified as one business
segment. Financial information by geographic area is presented below for the
years ended December 31, or at December 31:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1)  Not deducted are natural gas associated costs of $65,973, $117,486 and
     $119,225 in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
 
12. OTHER INCOME, NET
 
     Other income, net consisted of the following for the years ended 
December 31:
 

 
13. PRICE AND INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT
 
     Periodically, the Company enters into certain trading and non-trading
activities including NYMEX-related commodity market transactions and other
contracts. The non-trading portions of these activities have been designated to
hedge the impact of market price fluctuations on anticipated commodity delivery
volumes or other contractual commitments.
 
                                      F-19

 
     Trading Activities. The Company realized an $11.3 million gain in 1995
related to certain natural gas commodity price swap transactions with an Enron
Corp. affiliated company that were designated for trading purposes in December
1994 and closed in the first quarter of 1995.
 
     In 1995, the Company sold a call option with a notional volume of 50
billion British thermal units ("BBtu") per day at a strike price of $2.10 per
million British thermal units ("MMBtu") for each month in the period January
1996 through December 1996. At December 31, 1995 the approximate market value of
the outstanding call option was $1.8 million. The Company recognized a $2.6
million loss in 1995 related to this call option.
 
     In the first quarter of 1996, the Company purchased a call option with a
notional volume of 50 BBtu per day at a strike price of $2.10 per MMBtu for the
period February 1996 through December 1996 for $3.0 million to offset the call
option discussed above. The purchase resulted in a $1.2 million loss to be
recognized in the first quarter of 1996.
 
     There were no trading gains or losses in 1993 or 1994.
 
     The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of financial
instruments held for trading purposes:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1)  Estimated fair values have been determined by using available market data
     and valuation methodologies. Judgment is necessarily required in
     interpreting market data and the use of different market assumptions or
     estimation methodologies may affect the estimated fair value amounts.
 
     Interest Rate Swap Agreements. At December 31, 1995, there were no interest
rate swap agreements outstanding. At December 31, 1994, the Company had
outstanding interest rate swap agreements with notional principal amounts of $50
million which terminated in April 1995. The interest rate swap agreements were
entered into to hedge certain floating rate obligations and effectively fix the
interest rate on the notional amount of debt at 8.98% and 8.92%. The estimated
fair value of the outstanding swap agreements at December 31, 1994 was a
negative $0.5 million. The fair value of interest rate swap agreements is based
upon termination values obtained from third parties.
 
     Foreign Currency Contracts. The Company enters into foreign currency
contracts from time to time to hedge specific currency exposure from commercial
transactions. At December 31, 1995 and 1994, there were no foreign currency
contracts outstanding. Subsequent to year-end, a subsidiary of the Company and
the Company entered into offsetting foreign currency and interest rate swap
agreements with an aggregate notional principal amount of $210 million. Such
swap agreements are scheduled to terminate in 2001.
 
     Hedging Transactions. With the objective of enhancing the certainty of
future revenues, the Company enters into NYMEX-related commodity price swaps
from time to time. Using NYMEX-related commodity price swaps, the Company
receives a fixed price for the respective commodity hedged and pays a floating
market price, as defined for each transaction, to the counterparty at
settlement.
 
     The NYMEX-related natural gas commodity price swaps are priced based on a
Henry Hub, Louisiana delivery point. The Henry Hub price has historically had a
high degree of correlation with the wellhead price received by the Company which
has made such transactions effective natural gas price hedges. During December
1995, there was a loss of correlation between the prices paid under the natural
gas commodity price swaps and the wellhead natural gas prices ultimately
received for a portion of the Company's hedged natural gas production. This loss
of correlation resulted in the recognition of a $6 million loss in 1995.
 
                                      F-20

 
     At December 31, 1995, the Company had outstanding positions covering
notional volumes of approximately 169 TBtu of natural gas for 1996 and 11 TBtu
of natural gas for each of the years 1997 through 2005 and approximately 3.6
million barrels ("MMBbl"), 2.8 MMBbl, 2.8 MMBbl, 2.2 MMBbl, and .9 MMBbl of
crude oil and condensate for the years 1996 through 2000, respectively. The fair
value of the positions was a positive $16.0 million at December 31, 1995. The
Company closed substantially all of its NYMEX-related natural gas commodity
price swaps by entering into offsetting positions during the first quarter of
1996 resulting in a deferred net pre-tax loss of approximately $4 million that
will be recognized during 1996, including a $21 million loss related to the
first quarter of 1996.
 
     In 1995, the Company also issued options exercisable at one time by the
counterparty on or before December 17, 1996, covering notional volumes of
approximately 73 TBtu of natural gas for each of the years 1997 and 1998. The
fair value of the option was a positive $8.3 million at December 31, 1995. Such
options were embedded in NYMEX-related natural gas commodity price swaps
designated as hedges.
 
     The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of financial
instruments and related transactions for non-trading activities at December 31,
1995 and 1994:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1)  Estimated fair values have been determined by using available market data
     and valuation methodologies. Judgment is necessarily required in
     interpreting market data and the use of different market assumptions or
     estimation methodologies may affect the estimated fair value amounts.
 
(2)  See Note 4 "Long-Term Debt."
 
(3)  The fair value of the Energy Commodity Price Swaps should be considered 
     with the fair value of the Related Fixed Price Sales Contract in 
     determining the overall market risk of these related business transactions.
 
(4)  See Note 2 "Natural Gas and Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids
     Net Operating Revenues".
 
     Credit Risk. While notional contract amounts are used to express the
magnitude of price and interest rate swap agreements, the amounts potentially
subject to credit risk, in the event of nonperformance by the other parties, are
substantially smaller. The Company does not anticipate nonperformance by the
other parties.
 
14. CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK
 
     Substantially all of the Company's accounts receivable at December 31, 1995
and 1994 result from crude oil and natural gas sales and/or joint interest
billings to affiliate and third party companies in the oil and gas industry.
This concentration of customers and joint interest owners may impact the
Company's overall credit risk, either positively or negatively, in that these
entities may be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions.
In determining whether or not to require collateral from a customer or joint
interest owner, the Company analyzes the entity's net worth, cash flows,
earnings, and credit ratings. Receivables are generally not collateralized.
Historical credit losses incurred on receivables by the Company have been
immaterial.
 
                                      F-21

 
15. OTHER
 
     In March 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No.
121 - "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to be Disposed Of" (the "Standard"). The Standard requires, among other
things, that long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles to be held
and used by an entity be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be
recoverable. The Company will adopt the Standard in the first quarter of 1996.
The effect of adoption of the Standard is anticipated to result in a non-cash
impairment charge of less than $5 million pre-tax.
 
                                      F-22

 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
         SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
       (IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED)
     (UNAUDITED EXCEPT FOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR OIL AND GAS PRODUCING
                                  ACTIVITIES)
 
OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES
 
     The following disclosures are made in accordance with SFAS No. 69 - 
"Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities":
 
     Oil and Gas Reserves. Users of this information should be aware that the
process of estimating quantities of "proved" and "proved developed" crude oil
and natural gas reserves is very complex, requiring significant subjective
decisions in the evaluation of all available geological, engineering and
economic data for each reservoir. The data for a given reservoir may also change
substantially over time as a result of numerous factors including, but not
limited to, additional development activity, evolving production history, and
continual reassessment of the viability of production under varying economic
conditions. Consequently, material revisions to existing reserve estimates occur
from time to time. Although every reasonable effort is made to ensure that
reserve estimates reported represent the most accurate assessments possible, the
significance of the subjective decisions required and variances in available
data for various reservoirs make these estimates generally less precise than
other estimates presented in connection with financial statement disclosures.
 
     Proved reserves represent estimated quantities of crude oil, condensate,
natural gas and natural gas liquids that geological and engineering data
demonstrate, with reasonable certainty, to be recoverable in future years from
known reservoirs under economic and operating conditions existing at the time
the estimates were made.
 
     Proved developed reserves are proved reserves expected to be recovered,
through wells and equipment in place and under operating methods being utilized
at the time the estimates were made.
 
     Canadian provincial royalties are determined based on a graduated
percentage scale which varies with prices and production volumes. Canadian
reserves, as presented on a net basis, assume prices and royalty rates in
existence at the time the estimates were made, and the Company's estimate of
future production volumes. Future fluctuations in prices, production rates, or
changes in political or regulatory environments could cause the Company's share
of future production from Canadian reserves to be materially different from that
presented.
 
     Estimates of proved and proved developed reserves at December 31, 1995,
1994 and 1993 were based on studies performed by the engineering staff of the
Company for reserves in the United States, Canada, Trinidad and India. Opinions
by DeGolyer and MacNaughton, independent petroleum consultants, for the years
ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993 covering producing areas containing 73%,
59% and 65%, respectively, of proved reserves of the Company on a
net-equivalent-cubic-feet-of-gas basis, indicate that the estimates of proved
reserves prepared by the Company's engineering staff for the properties reviewed
by DeGolyer and MacNaughton, when compared in total on a
net-equivalent-cubic-feet-of-gas basis, do not differ materially from the
estimates prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. Such estimates by DeGolyer and
MacNaughton in the aggregate varied by not more than 5% from those prepared by
the engineering staff of the Company. All reports by DeGolyer and MacNaughton
were developed utilizing geological and engineering data provided by the
Company.
 
     The presentation of estimated proved reserves has been restated to exclude,
for each of the years presented, those quantities attributable to future
deliveries required under a volumetric production payment. In order to calculate
such amounts, the Company has assumed that deliveries under the volumetric
production payment are made as scheduled at expected British thermal unit
factors, and that delivery commitments are satisfied through delivery, as
scheduled, of the related volumes.
 
     The Company has also presented, as additional information, proved reserves
including quantities attributable to future deliveries required under the
volumetric production payment. The Company believes that this information is
informative to readers of its financial statements as the related oil and gas
properties costs and deferred revenue are included in the Company's balance
sheets for each of the years presented. This additional information is not
required to be presented in accordance with SFAS No. 69; however, the Company
believes this additional information is useful in assessing its reserve and
financial position on a comprehensive basis.
 
     No major discovery or other favorable or adverse event subsequent to
December 31, 1995 is believed to have caused a material change in the estimates
of proved or proved developed reserves as of that date.
 
                                      F-23

 
     The following table sets forth the Company's net proved and proved
developed reserves at December 31 for each of the four years in the period ended
December 31, 1995, and the changes in the net proved reserves for each of the
three years in the period then ended as estimated by the engineering staff of
the Company.
 
                NET PROVED AND PROVED DEVELOPED RESERVE SUMMARY
 

 
                                             (Table continued on following page)
 
                                      F-24

 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Billion cubic feet.
 
(2) Includes 1,180.0 Bcf of proved undeveloped methane reserves contained, along
     with high concentrations of carbon dioxide and other gases in deep Wyoming
     Paleozoic formations in the Big Piney area of Wyoming. The Company is
     actively pursuing the consummation of a market or markets from several
     different potential sources to facilitate realizing the value of these
     reserves.
 
(3) Thousand barrels.
 
(4) Includes crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
 
                                      F-25

 
     Capitalized Costs Relating to Oil and Gas Producing Activities. The
following table sets forth the capitalized costs relating to the Company's
natural gas and crude oil producing activities at December 31, 1995 and 1994:
 

 
     Costs Incurred in Oil and Gas Property Acquisition, Exploration and
Development Activities. The acquisition, exploration and development costs
disclosed in the following tables are in accordance with definitions in SFAS No.
19 - "Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies".
 
     Acquisition costs include costs incurred to purchase, lease, or otherwise
acquire property.
 
     Exploration costs include exploration expenses, additions to exploration
wells in progress, and depreciation of support equipment used in exploration
activities.
 
     Development costs include additions to production facilities and equipment,
additions to development wells in progress and related facilities, and
depreciation of support equipment and related facilities used in development
activities.
 
                                      F-26

     The following tables set forth costs incurred related to the Company's oil
and gas activities for the years ended December 31:
 

 
                                      F-27

 
     Results of Operations for Oil and Gas Producing Activities(1). The
following tables set forth results of operations for oil and gas producing
activities for the years ended December 31:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Excludes net revenues associated with other marketing activities, interest
    charges, general corporate expenses and certain gathering and handling fees
    for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1995. The
    gathering and handling fees and other marketing net revenues are directly
    associated with oil and gas operations with regard to segment reporting as
    defined in SFAS No. 14 - "Financial Reporting for Segments of a Business
    Enterprise", but are not part of Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing
    Activities as defined in SFAS No. 69.
 
                                      F-28

 
     Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved
Oil and Gas Reserves. The following information has been developed utilizing
procedures prescribed by SFAS No. 69 and based on crude oil and natural gas
reserve and production volumes estimated by the engineering staff of the
Company. It may be useful for certain comparison purposes, but should not be
solely relied upon in evaluating the Company or its performance. Further,
information contained in the following table should not be considered as
representative of realistic assessments of future cash flows, nor should the
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows be viewed as
representative of the current value of the Company.
 
     The future cash flows presented below are based on sales prices, cost
rates, and statutory income tax rates in existence as of the date of the
projections. It is expected that material revisions to some estimates of crude
oil and natural gas reserves may occur in the future, development and production
of the reserves may occur in periods other than those assumed, and actual prices
realized and costs incurred may vary significantly from those used.
 
     Management does not rely upon the following information in making
investment and operating decisions. Such decisions are based upon a wide range
of factors, including estimates of probable as well as proved reserves, and
varying price and cost assumptions considered more representative of a range of
possible economic conditions that may be anticipated.
 
     The presentation of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash
flows and changes therein has been restated to exclude, for each of the years
presented, amounts attributable to future deliveries required under a volumetric
production payment at the equivalent wellhead value. In order to calculate such
amounts, the Company has assumed that deliveries under the volumetric production
payment are made as scheduled and that production costs corresponding to the
volumes delivered are incurred by the Company at average rates for the
properties subject to the production payment. This restatement was made
following discussions with the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
     The Company has also presented, as additional information, the standardized
measure of discounted future net cash flows and changes therein including
amounts attributable to future deliveries required under the volumetric
production payment. The Company believes that this information is informative to
readers of its financial statements because the related oil and gas properties
costs and deferred revenue are shown in the Company's balance sheets for each of
the years presented. This additional information is not required to be presented
in accordance with SFAS No. 69; however, the Company believes this additional
information is useful in assessing its reserve and financial position on a
comprehensive basis.
 
                                      F-29

 
     The following table sets forth the standardized measure of discounted
future net cash flows from projected production of the Company's crude oil and
natural gas reserves at December 31, for the years ended December 31:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Based on year end market prices determined at the point of delivery from the
    producing unit.
 
                                      F-30

 
     Changes in Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows. The
following table sets forth the changes in the standardized measure of discounted
future net cash flows at December 31, for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1995.
 

 
                                             (Table continued on following page)
 
                                      F-31

 

 
- ---------------
 
(1)  Includes approximately $77 million related to the reserves in the Big Piney
     deep Paleozoic formations.
 
                                      F-32

 
UNAUDITED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 

 
                                      F-33

 
                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 
                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
          SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995, 1994 AND 1993
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
- ---------------
 
(a) Included in Other Liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.
 
(b) Includes reversal of prior year provision in excess of requirement.
 
                                       S-1

 
                                    EXHIBITS
 
     Exhibits not incorporated herein by reference to a prior filing are
designated by an asterisk (*) and are filed herewith; all exhibits not so
designated are incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Form S-1
Registration Statement, Registration No. 33-30678, filed on August 24, 1989
("Form S-1"), or as otherwise indicated.
 

 
                                       E-1

 

 
                                       E-2

 

 
                                       E-3

 

 
                                       E-4

 

 
                                       E-5

 

 
                                       E-6

 

 
                                       E-7

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 5th day of
March, 1996.
 
                                           ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
                                                  (Registrant)
 
                                            By     /s/  WALTER C. WILSON
                                               ---------------------------------
                                                       (Walter C. Wilson)
                                                 Senior Vice President and Chief
                                                       Financial Officer
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of registrant and in
the capacities with Enron Oil & Gas Company indicated and on the 5th day of
March, 1996.
 

            SIGNATURE                                TITLE
            ---------                                -----                     

   /s/  FORREST E. HOGLUND          Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
- -------------------------------       Executive Officer and Director (Principal 
       (Forrest E. Hoglund)           Executive Officer)
                                                                               
                                
   /s/  WALTER C. WILSON            Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
- -------------------------------       Officer (Principal Financial Officer)  
       (Walter C. Wilson)                                                    
                                
     /s/  BEN B. BOYD               Vice President and Controller (Principal
- -------------------------------       Accounting Officer)
         (Ben B. Boyd)           
                                
        FRED C. ACKMAN*             Director
- ------------------------------- 
       (Fred C. Ackman)       
                                
      RICHARD D. KINDER*            Director
- ------------------------------- 
     (Richard D. Kinder)      
                                
        KENNETH L. LAY*             Director
- ------------------------------- 
       (Kenneth L. Lay)       
                                
     EDWARD RANDALL, III*           Director
- ------------------------------- 
    (Edward Randall, III)     
                                  
*By  /s/  ANGUS H. DAVIS     
   ---------------------------- 
         (Angus H. Davis)       
         (Attorney-in-fact 
       for persons indicated)

 
                              INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

