
10-K405
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K


================================================================================

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549

                               -----------------

                                  FORM 10-K

                               -----------------

/X/      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

         FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994

/ /      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 1-9743

                            ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                 DELAWARE                                   47-0684736
       (State or other jurisdiction                      (I.R.S. Employer
    of incorporation or organization)                  Identification No.)

                 1400 SMITH STREET, HOUSTON, TEXAS    77002-7369
             (Address of principal executive offices) (zip code)

       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: 713-853-6161

                               -----------------

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

   Title of each class                 Name of each exchange on which registered
   -------------------                 -----------------------------------------
Common Stock, $.01 par value                      New York Stock Exchange

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                                     None

    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes /X/   No / /.

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  /X/

    Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant, based on the closing sale price in the daily composite list for
transactions on the New York Stock Exchange on March 2, 1995 was $636,486,102.
As of March 2, 1995, there were 159,940,827 shares of the registrant's Common
Stock, $.01 par value, outstanding.

    DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE. Certain portions of the registrant's
definitive Proxy Statement for the May 2, 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
("Proxy Statement") are incorporated in Part III by reference.

================================================================================

                              
                                    PART I

                                                   PAGE
                                                   ----
Item  1.   Business.............................     1
               General..........................     1
               Business Segments................     1
               Exploration and Production.......     1
               Marketing........................     4
               Wellhead Volumes and Prices, and
                 Lease and Well Expenses........     6
               Other Natural Gas Marketing
                 Volumes and Prices.............     7
               Competition......................     7
               Regulation.......................     7
               Relationship Between the Company
                 and Enron Corp.................    11
               Other Matters....................    13
               Current Executive Officers of the
                 Registrant.....................    14
Item  2.   Properties...........................    15
               Oil and Gas Exploration and
                 Production Properties and
                 Reserves.......................    15
Item  3.   Legal Proceedings....................    18
Item  4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of
           Security Holders.....................    18

                        PART II
Item  5.   Market for the Registrant's Common
             Equity and Related Shareholder
             Matters............................    19
Item  6.   Selected Financial Data..............    20
Item  7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis
             of Financial Condition and Results
             of Operations......................    21
Item  8.   Financial Statements and
           Supplementary Data...................    28
Item  9.   Disagreements on Accounting and
           Financial Disclosure.................    28

                       PART III
Item 10.   Directors and Executive Officers of
           the Registrant.......................    28
Item 11.   Executive Compensation...............    28
Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain
             Beneficial Owners and Management...    28
Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related
           Transactions.........................    28

                        PART IV
Item 14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement
             Schedule, and Reports on Form
             8-K................................    29

                                      i

                                    PART I
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

GENERAL

    Enron Oil & Gas Company (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation, is engaged,
either directly or through a marketing subsidiary with regard to domestic
operations or through various subsidiaries with regard to international
operations, in the exploration for, and the development, production and
marketing of, natural gas and crude oil primarily in major producing basins in
the United States, as well as in Canada, Trinidad and India and to a lesser
extent, selected other international areas. The Company's principal producing
areas are further described under "Exploration and Production" below. At
December 31, 1994, the Company's estimated net proved natural gas reserves were
1,910 billion cubic feet ("Bcf") and estimated net proved crude oil, condensate
and natural gas liquids reserves were 37 million barrels ("MMBbl"). (See
"Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial Statements"). At such date,
approximately 70% of the Company's reserves (on a natural gas equivalent basis)
was located in the United States, 16% in Canada, 11% in Trinidad and 3% in
India. As of December 31, 1994, the Company employed approximately 740 persons.

    The Company pursues its oil and gas exploration and development operations
primarily by the acquisition, through various means including but not limited to
leasing, purchasing and farming-in of acreage that is either undeveloped or
lightly developed, and drilling of internally generated prospects. The Company
also maintains a strategy of selling selected oil and gas properties that for
various reasons may no longer fit into future operational plans or are not
assessed to have sufficient future growth potential, and when the economic value
to be obtained by selling the properties and reserves in the ground is evaluated
to be greater than what would be obtained by holding the properties and
producing the reserves over time. As a result, the Company typically receives
each year a varying but rather substantial level of proceeds related to such
sales which proceeds are available for general corporate use.

    Enron Corp. currently owns 80% of the outstanding common stock of the
Company. (See "Relationship Between the Company and Enron Corp.").

    Unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to the Company
include Enron Oil & Gas Company, its predecessors and subsidiaries, and any
reference to the ownership of interest or pursuit of operations in any
international areas by the Company recognizes that all such interests are owned
and operations are pursued by subsidiaries of Enron Oil & Gas Company. Unless
the context otherwise requires, all references herein to Enron Corp. include
Enron Corp., its predecessors and affiliates, other than the Company and its
subsidiaries.

    With respect to information on the Company's working interest in wells or
acreage, "net" oil and gas wells or acreage are determined by multiplying
"gross" oil and gas wells or acreage by the Company's working interest in the
wells or acreage. Unless otherwise defined, all references to wells are gross.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

    The Company's operations are all natural gas and crude oil exploration and
production related. Accordingly, such operations are classified as one business
segment.

EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION

NORTH AMERICAN OPERATIONS. The Company's six principal domestic producing areas
are the Big Piney area, South Texas area, Matagorda Trend area, Canyon Trend
area, Pitchfork Ranch area and Vernal area. Properties in these areas comprised
approximately 76% of the Company's domestic reserves (on a natural gas
equivalent basis) and 76% of the Company's maximum domestic net natural gas
deliverability as of December 31, 1994 and are substantially all operated by the
Company.

The Company's other domestic natural gas and crude oil producing properties are
located primarily in other areas of Texas, Utah, New Mexico and Oklahoma.

    At December 31, 1994, 93% of the Company's proved domestic reserves (on a
natural gas equivalent basis) was natural gas and 7% was crude oil, condensate
and natural gas liquids. A substantial portion of the Company's domestic natural
gas reserves is in long-lived fields with well-established production histories.
The opportunity exists to increase production in many of these fields through
continued infill and other development drilling.

    The Company also has natural gas and crude oil producing properties located
in Western Canada, primarily in the provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan and
Manitoba.

    BIG PINEY AREA. The Company's largest reserve accumulation is located in the
Big Piney area in Sublette and Lincoln counties in southwestern Wyoming. The
Company is the holder of the largest productive acreage base in this area, with
approximately 219,000 net acres under lease directly within field limits. The
Company operates approximately 650 natural gas wells in this area in which it
owns a 91% average working interest. Deliveries from the area net to the Company
averaged 124 million cubic feet ("MMcf") per day of natural gas and 1.5 thousand
barrels ("MBbl") per day of crude oil, condensate, and natural gas liquids in
1994. At December 31, 1994, maximum natural gas deliverability net to the
Company was approximately 142 MMcf per day.

    The current principal producing intervals are the Frontier and Mesaverde
formations. The Frontier formation, which occurs at 6,500-10,000 feet, contains
approximately 66% of the Company's current Big Piney reserves. The Company
drilled 67 wells in the Big Piney area in 1994 and anticipates an active
drilling program will continue for several years. (See "Other Matters - Tight
Gas Sand Tax Credits (Section 29) and Severance Tax Exemption").

    SOUTH TEXAS AREA. The Company's activities in South Texas are focused in the
Wilcox, Expanded Wilcox, Frio and Lobo producing horizons. The primary area of
activity is in the Lobo Trend which occurs primarily in Webb and Zapata
counties.

    The Company operates approximately 470 wells in the South Texas area.
Production is primarily from the Lobo sand of the Wilcox formation at depths
ranging from 7,000 to 11,000 feet. The Company has approximately 250,000 net
acres under lease in this area. Natural gas deliveries net to the Company
averaged 181 MMcf per day in 1994. At December 31, 1994, maximum natural gas
deliverability net to the Company was approximately 201 MMcf per day. The
Company drilled 56 wells in the South Texas area in 1994 and anticipates an
active drilling program will continue for several years. (See "Other Matters -
Tight Gas Sand Tax Credits (Section 29) and Severance Tax Exemption").

    MATAGORDA TREND AREA. The Company has an interest in several fields in the
Matagorda Trend area, located 20 miles south of Port O'Connor, Texas in federal
waters. The Company has a 78% working interest in Block 638 and a 92% working
interest in Block 620. In Matagorda Blocks 555, 556, 700 and 713, the Company
has an approximate 70%, 50%, 62% and 64% working interest, respectively. In
addition, the Company has an approximate 82% and 50% working interest in Mustang
Island Blocks 758 and 784, respectively. In addition, the Company has extended
its Matagorda Trend holdings into the Mustang Island area as a result of the
purchase in 1994 of 15 OCS Blocks in the Matagorda and Mustang Island areas. The
Company had a new field discovery at Mustang Island 759 in which it owns a 75%
working interest and which is expected to commence deliveries in mid 1995 at a
net rate of approximately 50 MMcf per day. The Company operates all of the
offshore tracts mentioned above. Natural gas deliveries from these areas net to
the Company averaged 65 MMcf per day in 1994. At December 31, 1994, maximum
natural gas deliverability net to the Company from these blocks was
approximately 85 MMcf per day.

    CANYON TREND AREA. The Company's activities in this area have been
concentrated in Crockett, Sutton, Terrell and Val Verde Counties, Texas where
the Company drilled 331 natural gas wells during the period 1992 through 1994.
During 1994, the Company increased its acreage position by


approximately 7,800 net acres to approximately 91,800 net acres and now operates
approximately 500 natural gas wells in this area in which it owns a 97% average
working interest. Production is from the Canyon sands and Strawn limestone at
depths from 5,500 to 11,500 feet. In 1994, natural gas deliveries net to the
Company averaged 65 MMcf per day and at December 31, 1994, maximum natural gas
deliverability net to the Company was approximately 66 MMcf per day. The Company
expects to maintain an active drilling program in the Canyon Trend area during
1995. (See "Other Matters - Tight Gas Sand Tax Credits (Section 29) and
Severance Tax Exemption").

    PITCHFORK RANCH FIELD. The Pitchfork Ranch field located in Lea County, New
Mexico, produces primarily from the Bone Spring, Atoka and Morrow formations. In
1994, deliveries net to the Company averaged 36 MMcf per day of natural gas and
approximately 2 MBbl per day of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
At December 31, 1994, maximum deliverability net to the Company was
approximately 39 MMcf per day of natural gas and 3 MBbl per day of crude oil,
condensate and natural gas liquids. During 1994, the Company increased crude
oil, condensate and natural gas liquids reserves and deliverability through
drilling. Additionally, the Company has increased its acreage position by
approximately 12,300 net acres to approximately 27,900 net acres and expects to
maintain an active drilling program in this field during 1995. (See "Other
Matters - Tight Gas Sand Tax Credits (Section 29) and Severance Tax Exemption").

    VERNAL AREA. In the Vernal area, located primarily in Uintah County, Utah,
the Company operates approximately 195 producing wells and presently controls
approximately 79,000 net acres. In 1994, natural gas deliveries net to the
Company from the Vernal area averaged 24 MMcf per day which is the maximum
deliverability. Production is from the Green River and Wasatch formations
located at depths between 4,500-8,000 feet. The Company has an average working
interest of approximately 60%. The Company drilled 20 wells in the Vernal area
in 1994 and expects to maintain a comparable drilling program during 1995. (See
"Other Matters - Tight Gas Sand Tax Credits (Section 29) and Severance Tax
Exemption").

    CANADA. The Company is engaged in the exploration for and the development
and production of natural gas and crude oil and the operation of natural gas
processing plants in western Canada, principally in the provinces of Alberta,
Saskatchewan, and Manitoba. The Company conducts operations from offices in
Calgary. The Company produces natural gas from seven major areas and crude oil
from three major areas. The Sandhills area in Southern Saskatchewan is the
largest single producing area where an additional 160 wells were drilled in 1994
resulting in deliverability net to the Company from the field of approximately
38 MMcf per day at December 31, 1994. Maximum Canadian natural gas
deliverability net to the Company at December 31, 1994 was approximately 85 MMcf
per day, and the Company held approximately 354,000 net undeveloped acres in
Canada. The Company expects to maintain an active drilling program in Canada
during 1995.

OUTSIDE NORTH AMERICA OPERATIONS. The Company has operations offshore Trinidad
and India and is conducting exploration in selected other international areas.
Properties offshore Trinidad and India comprised 100% of the Company's reserves
and production outside of North America.

    TRINIDAD. In November 1992, the Company was awarded a 95% working interest
concession in the South East Coast Consortium Block offshore Trinidad,
encompassing three undeveloped fields, previously held by three government-owned
energy companies. The Kiskadee field is currently being developed while the
remaining two undeveloped fields are anticipated to be developed over the next
three to five years. Existing surplus processing and transportation capacity at
the Pelican Field facilities owned and operated by Trinidadian companies is
being used to process and transport the production. Natural gas is being sold
into the local market under a take-or-pay agreement with the National Gas
Company of Trinidad and Tobago. At December 31, 1994, maximum natural gas
deliverability net to the Company was approximately 150 MMcf per day and the
Company held approximately 71,000 net undeveloped acres in Trinidad. Natural gas
market takes were increased to approximately 121 MMcf per day and condensate
deliveries were increased to approximately 5 MBbl per day, both net to the
Company, as of January 1, 1995.

    INDIA. In December 1994, the Company signed agreements covering profit
sharing, joint operations and product sales and representing a 30% working
interest in and was designated operator of the Tapti, Panna and Mukta Blocks
located offshore Bombay, India. The blocks were previously operated by the
Indian national oil company, Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Limited, which
retains a 40% working interest. The 363,000 acre Tapti Block contains two major
proved gas accumulations delineated by 22 expendable exploration wells that have
been plugged. The Company plans to commence development of the Tapti Block
accumulations immediately. The 106,000 acre Panna Block and the 192,000 acre
Mukta Block are partially developed with five producing platforms located in the
Panna and Mukta fields. The fields were producing approximately 3 MBbl per day
of crude oil net to the Company as of December 31, 1994; all associated gas was
being flared. The Company intends to continue development of the accumulations
and to expand processing capacity to allow crude oil production at full
deliverability as well as to permit natural gas sales.

    OTHER INTERNATIONAL. The Company continues to pursue other selected
conventional natural gas and crude oil opportunities outside North America.
During 1995, the Company will pursue other exploitation opportunities in
countries where indigenous natural gas reserves have been identified,
particularly where synergies in natural gas transportation, processing and power
cogeneration can be optimized with other Enron Corp. affiliated companies. In
early 1995, the Company and the Qatar General Petroleum Corporation signed a
nonbinding letter of intent concerning the possible development of a liquefied
natural gas project for natural gas to be produced from the North Dome Field.
The Company and Enron Corp. may jointly hold up to a 40 percent working interest
in the joint venture and would drill and develop the agreed upon reserves. In
addition, the Company signed letters of intent in early 1995 with the National
Oil Corporation of Uzbekistan, and Gazprom, the Russian Natural Gas Company, to
pursue the feasibility of joint venture development and marketing of previously
discovered hydrocarbon reserves in Uzbekistan.

    The Company continues evaluation and assessment of its international
opportunity portfolio in the coalbed methane recovery arena, including projects
in South Wales in the U.K., the Lorraine Basin in France, Galilee Basin in
Queensland, Australia and in two basins in China. A similar project in Russia
continues under evaluation.

MARKETING

    WELLHEAD MARKETING. The Company's North America wellhead natural gas
production is currently being sold on the spot market and under long-term
natural gas contracts at market responsive prices. In many instances, the
long-term contract prices closely approximate the prices received for natural
gas being sold on the spot market. Wellhead natural gas volumes from Trinidad
are sold at prices that are based on a fixed price schedule with periodic
escalations. Natural gas volumes in India will be sold to the Gas Authority of
India, Ltd. under a take-or-pay contract at a price linked to a basket of world
market fuel oil quotations with floor and ceiling limits. Approximately 45% of
the Company's wellhead natural gas production is currently being sold to
pipeline and marketing subsidiaries of Enron Corp.

    Substantially all of the Company's wellhead crude oil and condensate is sold
under short-term contracts at market responsive prices.

    OTHER MARKETING. Enron Oil & Gas Marketing, Inc. ("EOGM"), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company, is a marketing company engaging in various marketing
activities. Both the Company and EOGM contract to provide, under short and
long-term agreements, natural gas to various purchasers and then aggregate the
necessary supplies for the sales with purchases from various sources including
third-party producers, marketing companies, pipelines or from the Company's own
production. In addition, EOGM has purchased and constructed several small
gathering systems in order to facilitate its entry into the gathering business
on a limited basis. Both EOGM and the Company utilize other short and long-term
hedging and trading mechanisms including sales and purchases utilizing
NYMEX-related commodity market transactions. These marketing activities have


provided an effective balance in managing the Company's exposure to commodity
price risks in the energy market.

    In September 1992, the Company sold a volumetric production payment for
$326.8 million to a limited partnership of which an Enron Corp. affiliated
company is general partner with a 1% interest. Under the terms of the production
payment agreements, the Company conveyed a real property interest in
approximately 124 billion cubic feet equivalent ("Bcfe") (136 trillion British
thermal units) of its natural gas and other hydrocarbon reserves. Effective
October 1, 1993, the agreements were amended providing for the extension of the
original term of the volumetric production payment through March 31, 1999 and
including a revised schedule of daily quantities of hydrocarbons to be delivered
which is approximately one-half of the original schedule. The revised schedule
will total approximately 89.1 Bcfe (97.8 trillion British thermal units) versus
approximately 87.9 Bcfe (96.4 trillion British thermal units) remaining to be
delivered under the original agreement. Daily quantities of hydrocarbons no
longer required to be delivered under the revised schedule during the period
from October 1, 1993 through June 30, 1996 are available for sale by the
Company. The Company retains responsibility for its working interest share of
the cost of operations. The Company also entered into a separate agreement with
the same limited partnership whereby it has agreed to exchange volumes owned by
the Company in various other areas for equivalent volumes produced by the
Company and owned by the limited partnership under the terms of the volumetric
production payment. The costs incurred, if any, to effect redeliveries pursuant
to such exchange are borne by the Company.

    The Company also has contracted to supply natural gas to a Texas City, Texas
cogeneration facility which is owned by Cogenron Inc. Cogenron Inc. is 50% owned
by Enron Corp. The primary contract provides for the sale of natural gas under a
fixed schedule of prices substantially above current spot market prices. Current
deliveries of approximately 45 MMcf of natural gas per day are being supplied
primarily by purchases at market responsive prices under a long-term agreement
with an Enron Corp. subsidiary. The Company has also entered into a price swap
agreement with a third party that has the effect of converting the prices under
this contract to a fixed schedule of prices. The resulting prices under this
combination of purchase and price swap agreements are substantially below the
fixed schedule of prices in the primary sales contract. The arrangements are
designed, as to the volumes involved, to provide the Company a fixed margin of
profit under its agreement with Cogenron Inc. However, the Company's commitment
to deliver volumes of natural gas in excess of the current delivery levels at
the schedule of predetermined prices discussed above could be disadvantageous to
the Company during any time spot market prices exceed the applicable contract
prices for natural gas.

WELLHEAD VOLUMES AND PRICES, AND LEASE AND WELL EXPENSES

    The following table sets forth certain information regarding the Company's
wellhead volumes of and average prices for natural gas per thousand cubic feet
("Mcf"), crude oil and condensate, and natural gas liquids per barrel ("Bbl"),
and average lease and well expenses per thousand cubic feet equivalent ("Mcfe" -
natural gas equivalents are determined using the ratio of 6.0 Mcf of natural gas
to 1.0 barrel of crude oil and condensate or natural gas liquids) delivered
during each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1994:

                                           YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                       -------------------------------
                                         1994       1993       1992
                                       ---------  ---------  ---------
VOLUMES (PER DAY)
    Natural Gas (MMcf)
        United States(1).............        614        649        534
        Canada.......................         72         58         30
        Trinidad.....................         63          2      -
                                       ---------  ---------  ---------
          Total(1)...................        749        709        564
                                       =========  =========  =========
    Crude Oil and Condensate (MBbl)
        United States................        8.0        6.6        6.3
        Canada.......................        2.0        2.2        2.2
        Trinidad.....................        2.5         .1      -
        India........................         .1      -          -
                                       ---------  ---------  ---------
          Total......................       12.6        8.9        8.5
                                       =========  =========  =========
    Natural Gas Liquids (MBbl)
        United States................         .3         .2         .3
        Canada.......................         .4         .4         .4
                                       ---------  ---------  ---------
          Total......................         .7         .6         .7
                                       =========  =========  =========
AVERAGE PRICES
    Natural Gas ($/Mcf)
        United States(2).............  $    1.71  $    1.97  $    1.61
        Canada.......................       1.42       1.34       1.18
        Trinidad.....................        .93        .89      -
          Composite(2)...............       1.62       1.92       1.58
    Crude Oil and Condensate ($/Bbl)
        United States................  $   16.06  $   16.96  $   18.29
        Canada.......................      14.05      14.63      16.80
        Trinidad.....................      15.50      14.36      -
        India........................      15.70      -          -
          Composite..................      15.62      16.37      17.90
    Natural Gas Liquids ($/Bbl)
        United States................  $   12.45  $   13.85  $   11.56
        Canada.......................       8.45       9.46      10.05
          Composite..................       9.90      11.12      10.69
LEASE AND WELL EXPENSES ($/MCFE)
        United States................  $     .19  $     .18  $     .20
        Canada.......................        .34        .48        .50
        Trinidad.....................        .17       1.46      -
        India........................        .13      -          -
          Composite..................        .20        .21        .22
- ---------
  (1) Includes 48 MMcf per day in 1994, 81 MMcf per day in 1993 and 28 MMcf per
      day in 1992 delivered under the terms of a volumetric production payment
      agreement effective October 1, 1992, as amended.

  (2) Includes an average equivalent wellhead value of $1.27 per Mcf in 1994,
      $1.57 per Mcf in 1993 and $1.70 Mcf in 1992 for the volumes described in
      note (1), net of transportation costs.


OTHER NATURAL GAS MARKETING VOLUMES AND PRICES

    The following table sets forth certain information regarding the Company's
volumes of natural gas delivered under other marketing and volumetric production
payment arrangements, and resulting average per unit gross revenue and per unit
amortization of deferred revenues along with associated costs during each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1994. (See "Marketing" for a
discussion of other natural gas marketing arrangements and agreements).

                                           YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                       -------------------------------
                                         1994       1993       1992
                                       ---------  ---------  ---------
Volumes (MMcf per day)(1)............        324        293        255
Average Gross Revenue ($/Mcf)(2).....  $    2.38  $    2.57  $    2.62
Associated Costs ($/Mcf)(3)(4).......       2.06       2.32       1.99
                                       ---------  ---------  ---------
Margin ($/Mcf).......................  $    0.32  $    0.25  $    0.63
                                       =========  =========  =========
- ---------
  (1) Includes 48 MMcf per day in 1994, 81 MMcf per day in 1993 and 28 MMcf per
      day in 1992 delivered under the terms of volumetric production payment and
      exchange agreements effective October 1, 1992, as amended.

  (2) Includes per unit deferred revenue amortization for the volumes detailed
      in note (1) at an equivalent of $2.46 per Mcf ($2.36 per million British
      thermal units) in 1994, $2.50 per Mcf ($2.40 per million British thermal
      units) in 1993 and $2.51 per Mcf ($2.40 per million British thermal units)
      in 1992.

  (3) Includes an average value of $1.92 per Mcf in 1994, $2.20 per Mcf in 1993
      and $2.37 per Mcf in 1992, including average equivalent wellhead value,
      any applicable transportation costs and exchange differentials, for the
      volumes detailed in note (1).

  (4) Including transportation and exchange differentials.

COMPETITION

    The Company actively competes for reserve acquisitions and exploration
leases, licenses and concessions, frequently against companies with
substantially larger financial and other resources. To the extent the Company's
exploration budget is lower than that of certain of its competitors, the Company
may be disadvantaged in effectively competing for certain reserves, leases,
licenses and concessions. Competitive factors include price, contract terms, and
quality of service, including pipeline connection times and distribution
efficiencies. In addition, the Company faces competition from other producers
and suppliers, including competition from other world wide energy supplies
including Canadian natural gas.

REGULATION

    DOMESTIC REGULATION OF NATURAL GAS AND CRUDE OIL PRODUCTION. Natural gas and
crude oil production operations are subject to various types of regulation,
including regulation in the United States by state and federal agencies.

    Domestic legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant
review for amendment or expansion. Also, numerous departments and agencies, both
federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue and have issued rules and
regulations which, among other things, require permits for the drilling of
wells, regulate the spacing of wells, prevent the waste of natural gas and
liquid hydrocarbon resources through proration and restrictions on flaring,
require drilling bonds and regulate environmental and safety matters. The
regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases its cost of doing
business and, consequently, affects its profitability.

    A substantial portion of the Company's oil and gas leases in the Big Piney
area and in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as some in other areas, are granted by
the federal government and administered by the Bureau of Land Management (the
"BLM") and the Minerals Management Service (the "MMS") federal agencies.
Operations conducted by the Company on federal oil and gas leases must comply


with numerous statutory and regulatory restrictions concerning the above and
other matters. Certain operations must be conducted pursuant to appropriate
permits issued by the BLM and the MMS.

    Sales of crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids by the Company are
made at unregulated market prices.

    The transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce
are regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (the "NGA") and the
Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (the "NGPA"). These statutes are administered by
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the "FERC"). Effective January 1,
1993, the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 deregulated natural gas
prices for all "first sales" of natural gas, which includes all sales by the
Company of its own production. Consequently, sales of the Company's natural gas
currently may be made at market prices, subject to applicable contract
provisions.

    Regulation of natural gas importation is administered primarily by the
Department of Energy's Office of Fossil Energy (the "DOE/FE"), pursuant to the
NGA. The NGA provides that any party seeking to import natural gas must first
seek DOE/FE authorization, which authorization may be granted, modified or
denied in accordance with the public interest. The Energy Policy Act of 1992
amended the NGA's public interest standard with respect to imports from and
exports to certain countries, such as Canada, to deem imports from and exports
to such countries to be in the public interest, and require such import/export
applications to be granted without delay. In addition, the Energy Policy Act
amended the NGPA to treat natural gas imported from Canada as "first sales" of
natural gas under Section 3 of the NGPA, thus allowing such imported natural gas
to be sold for resale without certificate authorization from the FERC.
Additionally, the National Energy Board of Canada has dramatically revised its
natural gas export policies to permit large volumes of Canadian natural gas to
compete with natural gas produced in the U.S. for the U.S. spot market.
Additional natural gas pipeline capacity from Canada to the U.S. has been built
and other such construction proposals are pending approval. While the impact on
the Company of this change is uncertain, it is possible that it will increase
competition in the markets in which the Company sells natural gas. For example,
Canadian natural gas competes directly with natural gas produced from the
Company's Big Piney area for customers located in the Pacific Northwest region
of the United States.

    Since 1985, the FERC has endeavored to make natural gas transportation more
accessible to gas buyers and sellers on an open and non-discriminatory basis.
These efforts have significantly altered the marketing and pricing of natural
gas. Commencing in April 1992, the FERC issued Order Nos. 636, 636-A and 636-B
("Order No. 636"), which mandate a fundamental restructuring of interstate
pipeline sales and transportation services. Order No. 636 requires interstate
natural gas pipelines to "unbundle" or segregate the sales, transportation,
storage, and other components of their existing city-gate sales service, and to
separately state the rates for each unbundled service. Under Order No. 636,
unbundled pipeline sales can be made only in the production areas. Order No. 636
also requires interstate pipelines to assign capacity rights they have on
upstream pipelines to such pipelines' former sales customers and provides for
the recovery by interstate pipelines of costs associated with the transition
from providing bundled sales services to providing unbundled transportation and
storage services. The purpose of Order No. 636 is to further enhance competition
in the natural gas industry by assuring the comparability of pipeline sales
service and services offered by a pipelines' competitors. As of early 1995, the
FERC had issued final orders accepting most pipelines' Order No. 636 compliance
filings and had commenced a series of one-year reviews of individual pipeline
implementations of Order No. 636. Numerous parties have filed petitions for
court review of Order No. 636 as well as orders in individual pipeline
restructuring proceedings. Upon such judicial review, these orders may be
amended or reversed in whole or in part. Order No. 636 does not directly
regulate the Company's activities, but has had and will have an indirect effect
because of its broad scope. With Order No. 636 and pending ongoing FERC reviews
of individual pipeline restructurings, subject to court review, it is difficult
to predict with precision its effects. In many instances, however, Order No. 636
has substantially reduced or brought to an end interstate pipelines' traditional
roles as

wholesalers of natural gas in favor of providing only storage and transportation
services. Order No. 636 has also substantially increased competition in natural
gas markets, even though there remains significant uncertainty with respect to
the marketing and transportation of natural gas. In spite of this uncertainty,
Order No. 636 may enhance the Company's ability to market and transport its
natural gas production, although it may also subject the Company to more
restrictive pipeline imbalance tolerances and greater penalties for violation of
such tolerances.

    In December 1992, the FERC issued Order No. 547, governing the issuance of
blanket marketer sales certificates to all natural gas sellers other than
interstate pipelines. The order eliminates the need for natural gas producers
and marketers to seek specific authorization under Section 7 of the NGA from the
FERC to make sales of natural gas, such as imported natural gas and natural gas
purchased from interstate pipelines. Instead, effective January 7, 1993, these
natural gas sellers, by operation of the order, will be issued blanket
certificates of public convenience and necessity allowing them to make
jurisdictional natural gas sales for resale at negotiated rates without seeking
specific FERC authorization. The FERC intends Order No. 547, in tandem with
Order No. 636, to foster a competitive market for natural gas by giving natural
gas purchasers access to multiple supply sources at market-driven prices. In
July 1994, the FERC eliminated a regulation that had rendered virtually all
sales of natural gas by pipeline affiliates, such as the Company, to be
deregulated first sales. As a result, only sales by the Company of its own
production now qualify for this status. All other sales of gas by the Company,
such as those of gas purchased from third parties, are now jurisdictional sales
subject to the Order No. 547 certificate. The Company does not anticipate this
change will have any significant current adverse effects in light of the
flexible terms and conditions of the existing blanket certificate. Such sales
are subject to the future possibility of greater federal oversight, however,
including the possibility the FERC might prospectively impose more restrictive
conditions on such sales.

    In December 1993, the FERC issued Order No. 497-E, which modified in some
respects the standards of conduct, record keeping and reporting requirements and
other measures that govern relationships between interstate pipelines and their
marketing affiliates. Order No. 497-E narrowed the contemporaneous disclosure
standard of conduct and the reporting requirements, while at the same time
possibly expanding the class of pipeline and marketing affiliate employees to
whom the standards of conduct apply. In 1994, the Commission issued Order Nos.
566, 566-A and 566-B, in which it extended indefinitely its regulations (Order
No. 497 regulations) governing relationships between interstate pipelines and
their marketing affiliates, subject to revisions to delete an out-of-date
standard and revise certain reporting and record keeping requirements. Among
other matters, these new rules require pipelines to post on their electronic
bulletin boards, within 24 hours of gas flow, information concerning discounted
transportation provided to marketing affiliates to enable competing marketers to
request comparable discounts. The rules retain existing standards, as revised by
Order No. 497-E, requiring the contemporaneous disclosure to all shippers of
transportation-related information provided a marketing affiliate, and
prohibiting disclosure of certain information to marketing affiliates. Order No.
497 does not directly regulate the Company's activities, although a substantial
portion of the Company's natural gas production is sold to or transported by
interstate pipeline affiliates which are subject to the Order. The Company's
activities may therefore be indirectly affected by these regulations.

    The Company owns, directly or indirectly, certain natural gas pipelines that
it believes meet the traditional tests the FERC has used to establish a
pipeline's status as a gatherer not subject to FERC jurisdiction under the NGA.
State regulation of gathering facilities generally includes various safety,
environmental, and in some circumstances, non-discriminatory take requirements,
but does not generally entail rate regulation. Natural gas gathering may receive
greater regulatory scrutiny at both the state and federal levels as the pipeline
restructuring under Order No. 636 is implemented. For example, the State of
Oklahoma in 1993 enacted a prohibition against discriminatory gathering rates
and recently announced plans to conduct an inquiry on alleged discriminatory
practices by gatherers and transporters. In certain recent cases, the FERC has
asserted ancillary NGA jurisdiction over gathering activities of interstate
pipelines and their affiliates. In late 1993, the FERC convened a


conference to consider issues relating to gathering services performed by
interstate pipelines or their affiliates. Commencing in May 1994, the FERC
issued a series of orders in individual cases that delineate its gathering
policy as a result of the comments received. Among other matters, the FERC
slightly narrowed its statutory tests for establishing gathering status and
reaffirmed that, except in situations in which the gatherer acts in concert with
an interstate pipeline affiliate to frustrate the FERC's transportation
policies, it does not have jurisdiction over natural gas gathering facilities
and services and that such facilities and services are properly regulated by
state authorities. This FERC action may further encourage regulatory scrutiny of
natural gas gathering by state agencies. In addition, the FERC has approved
several transfers by interstate pipelines, including certain of the Company's
pipeline affiliates, of gathering facilities to unregulated independent or
affiliated gathering companies. This could increase competition among gatherers
in the affected areas. Certain of the FERC's orders delineating its new
gathering policy are subject to pending court appeals. The Company's gathering
operations could be adversely affected should they be subject in the future to
the application of state or federal regulation of rates and services.

    The FERC has recently announced its intention to reexamine certain of its
transportation-related policies, including the appropriate manner for setting
rates for new interstate pipeline construction, the manner in which interstate
pipelines release transportation capacity under Order No. 636, and the use of
market-based rates for interstate gas transmission. While any resulting FERC
action would affect the Company only indirectly, these inquiries are intended to
further enhance competition in natural gas markets.

    The Company's natural gas gathering operations may be or become subject to
safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation,
testing, construction, operation, replacement, and management of facilities.
Pipeline safety issues have recently become the subject of increasing focus in
various political and administrative arenas at both the state and federal
levels. For example, federal legislation addressing pipeline safety issues was
considered last year, which, if enacted, would have included a federal
"one-call" notification system and certain new facilities specifications
applicable to certain new construction. Similar "one call" legislation has been
reintroduced in the U.S. Congress. The Company cannot predict what effect, if
any, the adoption of this or other additional pipeline safety legislation might
have on its operations, but does not believe that any adverse effect would be
material.

    The Company cannot predict the effect that any of the aforementioned orders
or the challenges to such orders will ultimately have on the Company's
operations. Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural
gas industry are pending before Congress, the FERC and the courts. The Company
cannot predict when or whether any such proposals or proceedings may become
effective. It should also be noted that the natural gas industry historically
has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the less
regulated approach currently being pursued by the FERC will continue
indefinitely. Thus, the Company cannot predict the ultimate outcome or
durability of the unbundled regulatory regime mandated by Order No. 636.

    ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION. Various federal, state and local laws and
regulations covering the discharge of materials into the environment, or
otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, may affect the
Company's operations and costs as a result of their effect on natural gas and
crude oil exploration, development and production operations. It is not
anticipated that the Company will be required in the near future to expend
amounts that are material in relation to its total exploration and development
expenditure program by reason of environmental laws and regulations, but
inasmuch as such laws and regulations are frequently changed, the Company is
unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance.

    CANADIAN REGULATION. In Canada, the petroleum industry operates under
Federal, provincial and municipal legislation and regulations governing land
tenure, royalties, production rates, pricing, environmental protection, exports
and other matters. The price of natural gas and crude oil in Canada has been
deregulated and is now determined by market conditions and negotiations between
buyers and sellers.

    Various matters relating to the transportation and export of natural gas
continue to be subject to regulation by both provincial and Federal agencies;
however, the North American Free Trade Agreement has reduced the risk of
altering cross-border commercial transactions.

    Canadian governmental regulations may have a material effect on the economic
parameters for engaging in oil and gas activities in Canada and may have a
material effect on the advisability of investments in Canadian oil and gas
drilling activities. The Company is monitoring political, regulatory and
economic developments in Canada.

    INTERNATIONAL REGULATION. The Company's exploration and production
operations outside North America are subject to various types of regulations
imposed by the respective governments of the countries in which the Company's
operations are conducted, and may affect the Company's operations and costs
within that country. The Company currently has operations offshore Trinidad and
India and exploration activities in other selected international areas.

RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND ENRON CORP.

    OWNERSHIP OF COMMON STOCK.  Enron Corp. owns 80% of the outstanding shares
of common stock of the Company and, through its ability to elect all directors
of the Company, has the ability to control all matters relating to the
management of the Company, including any determination with respect to
acquisition or disposition of Company assets, future issuance of common stock
or other securities of the Company and any dividends payable on the common
stock. Enron Corp. also has the ability to control the Company's exploration,
development, acquisition and operating expenditure plans. If Enron Corp.
should sell a substantial amount of the common stock of the Company that it
owns, such action could adversely affect the prevailing market price for the
common stock and could impair the Company's ability to raise capital through
the sale of its equity securities. In addition, a sale by Enron Corp. of any
common stock owned by Enron Corp. would cause Enron Corp.'s ownership interest
in the Company to fall below 80% with the result that (i) the Company would
cease to be included in the consolidated federal income tax return filed by
Enron Corp. and (ii) the tax allocation agreement between the Company and
Enron Corp. described below would terminate. The Company has granted certain
registration rights to Enron Corp. with respect to the common stock owned by
Enron Corp. (See "Contractual Arrangements" below). There is no agreement
between Enron Corp. and the Company that would prevent Enron Corp. from
acquiring additional shares of common stock of the Company.

    CONTRACTUAL ARRANGEMENTS. The Company entered into a Services Agreement (the
"Services Agreement") with Enron Corp. effective January 1994, pursuant to which
Enron Corp. provides various services, such as maintenance of certain employee
benefit plans, provision of telecommunications and computer services, lease of
office space and the provision of purchasing and operating services and certain
other corporate staff and support services. Such services historically have been
supplied to the Company by Enron Corp., and the Services Agreement provides for
the further delivery of such services substantially identical in nature and
quality to those services previously provided. The Company has agreed to a fixed
rate for the rental of office space and to reimburse Enron Corp. for all other
direct costs incurred in rendering services to the Company under the contract
and to pay Enron Corp. for allocated indirect costs incurred in rendering such
services up to a maximum of $6.7 million for 1994, such cap to be increased in
subsequent years for inflation and certain changes in the Company's allocation
bases with any increase not to exceed 7.5% per year. The Services Agreement is
for an initial term of five years through December 1998 and will continue
thereafter until terminated by either party.

    The Company is included in the consolidated federal income tax return filed
by Enron Corp. as the common parent for itself and its subsidiaries and
affiliated companies, excluding any foreign subsidiaries. Consistent therewith
and pursuant to a Tax Allocation Agreement (the "Tax Agreement") between the
Company, the Company's subsidiaries and Enron Corp., either Enron Corp. will pay
to the Company and each subsidiary an amount equal to the tax benefit realized
in the Enron Corp. consolidated federal income tax return resulting from the
utilization of the Company's or the

subsidiary's net operating losses and/or tax credits, or the Company and each
subsidiary will pay to Enron Corp. an amount equal to the federal income tax
computed on its separate taxable income less the tax benefits associated with
any net operating losses and/or tax credits generated by the Company or the
subsidiary which are utilized in the Enron Corp. consolidated return. Enron
Corp. will pay the Company and each subsidiary for the tax benefits associated
with their net operating losses and tax credits utilized in the Enron Corp.
consolidated return, provided that a tax benefit was realized except as
discussed in the following paragraph, even if such benefits could not have been
used by the Company or the subsidiary on a separately filed tax return.

    The Company has entered into an agreement with Enron Corp. providing for the
Company to be paid for all realizable benefits associated with tight gas sand
federal income tax credits concurrent with tax reporting and settlement for the
periods in which they are generated. (See "Other Matters Tight Gas Sand Tax
Credits (Section 29) and Severance Tax Exemption").

    The Tax Agreement applies to the Company and each of its subsidiaries for
all years in which the Company or any of its subsidiaries are or were included
in the Enron Corp. consolidated return.

    To the extent a state or other taxing jurisdiction requires or permits a
consolidated, combined, or unitary tax return to be filed and such return
includes the Company or any of its subsidiaries, the principles expressed with
respect to consolidated federal income tax allocation shall apply.

    Pursuant to the terms of a Stock Restriction and Registration Agreement with
Enron Corp., the Company has agreed that upon the request of Enron Corp. (or
certain assignees), the Company will register under the Securities Act of 1933
and applicable state securities laws the sale of the Company common stock owned
by Enron Corp. which Enron Corp. has requested to be registered. The Company's
obligation is subject to certain limitations relating to a minimum amount of
common stock required for registration, the timing of registration and other
similar matters. The Company is obligated to pay all expenses incidental to such
registration, excluding underwriters' discounts and commissions and certain
legal fees and expenses.

    CONFLICTS OF INTEREST. The nature of the respective businesses of the
Company and Enron Corp. and its affiliates is such as to potentially give rise
to conflicts of interest between the two companies. Conflicts could arise, for
example, with respect to transactions involving purchases, sales and
transportation of natural gas and other business dealings between the Company
and Enron Corp. and its affiliates, potential acquisitions of businesses or oil
and gas properties, the issuance of additional shares of voting securities, the
election of directors or the payment of dividends by the Company.

    Circumstances may also arise that would cause Enron Corp. to engage in the
exploration for and/or development and production of natural gas and crude oil
in competition with the Company. For example, opportunities might arise which
would require financial resources greater than those available to the Company,
which are located in areas or countries in which the Company does not intend to
operate or which involve properties that the Company would be unwilling to
acquire. Also, Enron Corp. might acquire a competing oil and gas business as
part of a larger acquisition. In addition, as part of Enron Corp.'s strategy of
securing supplies of natural gas or capital, Enron Corp. may from time to time
acquire producing properties or interests in entities owning producing
properties, and thereafter engage in exploration, development and production
activities with respect to such properties or indirectly engage in such
activities through such companies. Enron Corp. may also acquire interests in oil
and gas properties or companies in connection with its financing activities. For
example, in its financing activities Enron Corp. or an entity in which it has an
interest may make loans secured by oil and gas properties or securities of oil
and gas companies, may acquire production payments or may receive interests in
oil and gas properties as equity components of lending tranactions. As a result
of its lending activities, Enron Corp. may also acquire oil and gas properties
or companies upon foreclosure of secured loans or as part of a borrower's
rearrangement of its obligations. Such acquisition, exploration, development and
production activities may directly or indirectly compete with the Company's
business. Thus, there can be no assurances that Enron Corp. will not engage
directly or indirectly through entities other than the Company, in the natural
gas and crude oil exploration, development and production business in
competition with the Company.

    The Company and Enron Corp. and its affiliates have in the past entered into
significant intercompany transactions and agreements incident to their
respective businesses, and the Company and Enron Corp. and its affiliates may be
expected to enter into material transactions and agreements from time to time in
the future. Such transactions and agreements have related to, among other
things, the purchase and sale of natural gas, the financing of exploration and
development efforts by the Company, and the provision of certain corporate
services. (See "Marketing" and the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes
thereto). The Company believes that its existing transactions and agreements
with Enron Corp. and its affiliates have been at least as favorable to the
Company as could be obtained from third parties, and the Company intends that
the terms of any future transactions and agreements between the Company and
Enron Corp. and its affiliates will be at least as favorable to the Company as
could be obtained from third parties.

OTHER MATTERS

    ENERGY PRICES. Since the Company is primarily a natural gas company, it is
more significantly impacted by changes in natural gas prices than in the prices
for crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids. During recent periods,
domestic natural gas has been priced significantly below parity with crude oil,
condensate and natural gas liquids based on the energy equivalency of, and
differences in transportation and processing costs associated with, the
respective products. This imbalance in parity has been primarily driven by,
among other things, a supply of domestic natural gas volumes in excess of demand
requirements. The Company is unable to predict when this supply imbalance may
resolve due to the significant impacts of factors such as general economic
conditions, technology developments, weather and other international energy
supplies over which the Company has no control.

    Average North America wellhead natural gas prices have fluctuated, at times
rather dramatically, during the last three years. While these fluctuations
resulted in increases in average wellhead natural gas prices realized by the
Company of 15% from 1991 to 1992 and 22% from 1992 to 1993, the average North
America natural gas price received by the Company decreased 13% from 1993 to
1994. Wellhead natural gas volumes from Trinidad are sold at prices that are
based on a fixed schedule of periodic escalations. While natural gas deliveries
in India are not expected to commence until 1996, the price of such deliveries,
when initiated, will be indexed to a basket of world market fuel oil quotations
structured to include floor and ceiling limits. Due to the many uncertainties
associated with the world political environment, the availabilities of other
world wide energy supplies and the relative competitive relationships of the
various energy sources in the view of the consumers, the Company is unable to
predict what changes may occur in natural gas prices in the future.

    Substantially all of the Company's wellhead crude oil and condensate is sold
under short-term contracts at market responsive prices. Crude oil and condensate
prices also have fluctuated, at times rather dramatically, during the last three
years. These fluctuations have resulted in an overall decline in average
wellhead crude and condensate prices realized by the Company of 5% from 1991 to
1992, 9% from 1992 to 1993 and 5% from 1993 to 1994. Due to the many
uncertainties associated with the world political environment, the
availabilities of other world wide energy supplies and the relative competitive
relationships of the various energy sources in the view of the consumers, the
Company is unable to predict what changes may occur in crude oil and condensate
prices in the future.

    To mitigate the risk of market price fluctuations, the Company engages in
certain price risk management activities to hedge commodity prices associated
with the sales and purchases of natural gas and crude oil.

    TIGHT GAS SAND TAX CREDITS (SECTION 29) AND SEVERANCE TAX EXEMPTION. Federal
United States tax law provides a tax credit for production of certain fuels
produced from nonconventional sources (including natural gas produced from tight
formations), subject to a number of limitations. Fuels qualifying for the credit
must be produced from a well drilled or a facility placed in service before
January 1, 1993, and must be sold before January 1, 2003.

    The credit, which is currently approximately $.52 per MMBtu of natural gas,
is computed by reference to the price of crude oil, and is phased out as the
price of crude oil exceeds $23.50 in 1980 dollars (adjusted for inflation) with
complete phaseout if such price exceeds $29.50 in 1980 dollars


(similarly adjusted). Under this formula, the commencement of phaseout would be
triggered if the average price for crude oil rose above approximately $44 per
barrel in current dollars. Significant benefits from the tax credit are accruing
to the Company since a portion (and in some cases a substantial portion) of the
Company's natural gas production from new wells drilled after November 5, 1990,
and before January 1, 1993, on the Company's leases in several of the Company's
significant producing areas qualify for this tax credit.

    Certain natural gas production from wells spudded or completed after May 24,
1989 and before September 1, 1996 in tight formations in Texas qualifies for a
ten-year exemption, ending August 31, 2001, from Texas severance taxes, subject
to certain limitations.

    OTHER. All of the Company's oil and gas activities are subject to the risks
normally incident to the exploration for and development and production of
natural gas and crude oil, including blowouts, cratering and fires, each of
which could result in damage to life and property. Offshore operations are
subject to usual marine perils, including hurricanes and other adverse weather
conditions, and governmental regulations as well as interruption or termination
by governmental authorities based on environmental and other considerations. In
accordance with customary industry practices, insurance is maintained by the
Company against some, but not all, of the risks. Losses and liabilities arising
from such events could reduce revenues and increase costs to the Company to the
extent not covered by insurance.

    The Company's operations outside of North America are subject to certain
risks, including expropriation of assets, risks of increases in taxes and
government royalties, renegotiation of contracts with foreign governments,
political instability, payment delays, limits on allowable levels of production
and current exchange and repatriation losses, as well as changes in laws,
regulations and policies governing operations of foreign companies generally.

CURRENT EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The current executive officers of the Company and their names and ages are
as follows:

      NAME                           AGE            POSITION
      ----                           ---            --------
Forrest E. Hoglund.................   61  Chairman of the Board, President and
                                           Chief Executive Officer; Director
Joe Michael McKinney...............   55  President-International Operations
Mark G. Papa.......................   48  President-North American Operations
George E. Uthlaut..................   61  Senior Vice President-Operations
Walter C. Wilson...................   52  Senior Vice President and Chief
                                           Financial Officer
Ben B. Boyd........................   53  Vice President and Controller
Dennis M. Ulak.....................   41  Vice President and General Counsel

    Forrest E. Hoglund joined the Company as Chairman of the Board, Chief
Executive Officer and Director in September 1987. Since May 1990, he has also
served as President of the Company. Mr. Hoglund was a director of USX
Corporation from February 1986 until September 1987. He joined Texas Oil & Gas
Corp. ("TXO") in 1977 as president, was named Chief Operating Officer in 1979,
Chief Executive Officer in 1982, and served TXO in those capacities until
September 1987. Mr. Hoglund is also a director of Texas Commerce Bancshares,
Inc.

    Joe Michael McKinney has been President-International Operations since
February 1994 with responsibilities for all exploration, drilling, production
and engineering activities for the Company's international ventures outside
North America. Mr. McKinney joined Enron Oil & Gas International, Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, in December 1991 as Senior Vice
President of Operations and was elected President and Chief Operating Officer of
Enron Oil & Gas International, Inc. in April 1993, a capacity in which he
continues to serve. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. McKinney held operations
management positions with Union Texas Petroleum Company, The Superior Oil
Company and Exxon Company, USA.

    Mark G. Papa has been President-North American Operations since February
1994. From May 1986 through January 1994, Mr. Papa served as Senior Vice
President-Operations. Mr. Papa joined Belco Petroleum Corporation, a
predecessor of the Company, in 1981 as Division Production Coordinator and
served as Senior Vice President-Drilling and Production, BelNorth Petroleum
Corporation from May 1984 until May 1986.

    George E. Uthlaut has been Senior Vice President-Operations of the Company
since November 1987. Mr. Uthlaut was previously employed by Exxon Corporation
(and affiliates) for 29 years in a number of managerial and technical
positions. His last position was Headquarters Operations Manager, Production
Department, Exxon Company, USA.

    Walter C. Wilson has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
since May 1991. Mr. Wilson joined the Company in November 1987 as Vice President
and Controller and was named Senior Vice President-Finance in October 1988.
Prior to joining the Company Mr. Wilson held financial management positions with
Exxon Company, USA for 16 years and The Superior Oil Company for 4 years.

    Ben B. Boyd has been Vice President and Controller since March 1991. Mr.
Boyd joined the Company in March 1989 as Director of Accounting and was named
Controller in May 1990. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Boyd held financial
management positions with DeNovo Oil & Gas, Inc., Scurlock Oil Company and
Coopers & Lybrand.

    Dennis M. Ulak has been Vice President and General Counsel since March
1992. Mr. Ulak joined the Company in March 1987 as Senior Counsel and was
named Assistant General Counsel in August 1990. Prior to joining the Company,
Mr. Ulak held various legal positions with Enron Corp. and Northern Natural
Gas Company.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION PROPERTIES AND RESERVES

    RESERVE INFORMATION.  For estimates of the Company's net proved and proved
developed reserves of natural gas and liquids, including crude oil, condensate
and natural gas liquids, see "Supplemental Information to Consolidated
Financial Statements."

    There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved
reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development
expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. The
reserve data set forth in Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial
Statements represent only estimates. Reserve engineering is a subjective process
of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas and liquids, including
crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids, that cannot be measured in an
exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the amount
and quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation
and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers normally vary. In
addition, results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of
an estimate may justify revision of such estimate. Accordingly, reserve
estimates are often different from the quantities ultimately recovered. The
meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the
assumptions upon which they were based.

    In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties owned by
the Company declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent the Company
acquires additional properties containing proved reserves or conducts successful
exploration and development activities, or both, the proved reserves of the
Company will decline as reserves are produced. Volumes generated from future
activities of the Company are therefore highly dependent upon the level of
success in acquiring or finding additional reserves and the costs incurred in
doing so.

    The Company's estimates of reserves filed with other federal agencies agree
with the information set forth in Supplemental Information to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

    ACREAGE. The following table summarizes the Company's developed and
undeveloped acreage at December 31, 1994. Excluded is acreage in which the
Company's interest is limited to owned royalty, overriding royalty and other
similar interests.

    PRODUCING WELL SUMMARY. The following table reflects the Company's ownership
in gas wells in 390 fields and oil wells in 87 fields located in Texas, offshore
Texas and Louisiana in the Gulf of Mexico, Oklahoma, New Mexico, Utah, Wyoming,
and various other states, Canada, Trinidad and India at December 31, 1994. Gross
oil and gas wells include 188 with multiple completions.

                                          PRODUCTIVE WELLS
                                        ---------------------
                                        GROSS           NET
                                        ------         ------
Gas..................................    4,501          3,246
Oil..................................      933            564
                                        ------         ------
    Total............................    5,434          3,810
                                        ======         ======


    DRILLING AND ACQUISITION ACTIVITIES. During the years ended December 31,
1994, 1993 and 1992 the Company spent approximately $493.9, $430.1 and $395.7
million, respectively, for exploratory and development drilling and acquisition
of leases and producing properties. The Company drilled, participated in the
drilling of or acquired wells as set out in the table below for the periods
indicated:


    All of the Company's drilling activities are conducted on a contract basis
with independent drilling contractors. The Company owns no drilling equipment.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    The Company and its subsidiaries and related companies are named defendants
in numerous lawsuits and named parties in numerous governmental proceedings
arising in the ordinary course of business. While the outcome of lawsuits or
other proceedings against the Company cannot be predicted with certainty,
management does not expect these matters to have a material adverse effect on
the financial condition or results of operations of the Company. TransAmerican
Natural Gas Corporation ("TransAmerican") has filed a petition against the
Company and Enron Corp. alleging breach of contract, tortious interference with
contract, misappropriation of trade secrets and violation of state antitrust
laws. The petition, as amended, seeks actual damages of $100 million plus
exemplary damages of $300 million. The Company has answered the petition and is
actively defending the matter; in addition, the Company has filed counterclaims
against TransAmerican and a third-party claim against its sole shareholder, John
R. Stanley, alleging fraud, negligent misrepresentation and breach of state
antitrust laws. On April 6, 1994, Enron Corp. was granted summary judgement,
wherein the court ordered that TransAmerican can take nothing on its claims
against Enron Corp. Trial, which was set most recently for September 12, 1994
has been continued, and there is no current setting. Although no assurances can
be given, the Company believes that the claims made by TransAmerican are totally
without merit, that the ultimate resolution of the matter will not have a
materially adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations,
and that such ultimate resolution could result in a recovery to the Company.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the
fourth quarter of 1994.

                                   PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER
         MATTERS

    The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low
sale prices per share for the common stock of the Company, as reported on the
New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape, and the amount of cash dividends paid
per share. The 1992, 1993, and First Quarter and Second Quarter 1994 sales
prices and cash dividends per share have been restated to reflect the
two-for-one stock split declared in May 1994 by the Board of Directors. Shares
were issued on June 15, 1994 to shareholders of record as of May 31, 1994.

                                           PRICE RANGE
                                       --------------------       CASH
                                         HIGH        LOW        DIVIDENDS
                                       ---------  ---------     ---------
    First Quarter....................      10.94       8.31        .025
    Second Quarter...................      13.63      10.25        .025
    Third Quarter....................      17.94      12.69        .025
    Fourth Quarter...................      17.19      13.75        .025
    First Quarter....................      20.31      13.38        .030
    Second Quarter...................      22.50      17.88        .030
    Third Quarter....................      26.81      19.88        .030
    Fourth Quarter...................      27.00      17.06        .030
    First Quarter....................      23.75      19.31        .030
    Second Quarter...................      24.63      22.38        .030
    Third Quarter....................      23.00      18.50        .030
    Fourth Quarter...................      22.75      17.38        .030

    As of March 2, 1995, there were approximately 291 record holders of the
Company's common stock, including individual participants in security position
listings. There are an estimated 5,600 beneficial owners of the Company's common
stock, including shares held in street name.

    Following the initial public offering and sale of its common stock in
October 1989, the Company paid quarterly dividends of $0.025 per share beginning
with an initial dividend paid in January 1990 with respect to the fourth quarter
of 1989. Beginning in January 1993 with respect to the fourth quarter of 1992,
the Company has paid quarterly dividends of $0.03 per share. The Company
currently intends to continue to pay quarterly cash dividends on its outstanding
shares of common stock. However, the determination of the amount of future cash
dividends, if any, to be declared and paid will depend upon, among other things,
the financial condition, funds from operations, level of exploration and
development expenditure opportunities and future business prospects of the
Company.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    The following review of operations for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1994 should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
financial statements of the Company and notes thereto beginning with page F-1.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    NET OPERATING REVENUES.  Volume and price statistics for the specified
years were as follows:

                                           YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                       -------------------------------
                                         1994       1993       1992
                                       ---------  ---------  ---------
Wellhead Volumes
    Natural Gas (MMcf per day)(1)....        749        709        564
    Crude Oil and Condensate (MBbl
      per day).......................       12.6        8.9        8.5
    Natural Gas Liquids (MBbl per
      day)...........................        0.7        0.6        0.7
Wellhead Average Prices
    Natural Gas ($/Mcf)(2)...........  $    1.62  $    1.92  $    1.58
    Crude Oil and Condensate
      ($/Bbl)........................      15.62      16.37      17.90
    Natural Gas Liquids ($/Bbl)......       9.90      11.12      10.69
Other Natural Gas Marketing
    Volumes (MMcf per day)(1)........        324        293        255
    Average Gross Revenue
      ($/Mcf)(3).....................  $    2.38  $    2.57  $    2.62
    Associated Costs
      ($/Mcf) (4)(5).................       2.06       2.32       1.99
                                       ---------  ---------  ---------
    Margin ($/Mcf)...................  $    0.32  $    0.25  $    0.63
                                       =========  =========  =========
- ---------
  (1) Includes 48 MMcf per day in 1994, 81 MMcf per day in 1993 and 28 MMcf per
      day in 1992 delivered under the terms of volumetric production payment and
      exchange agreements effective October 1, 1992, as amended.

  (2) Includes an average equivalent wellhead value of $1.27 per Mcf in 1994,
      $1.57 per Mcf in 1993 and $1.70 per Mcf in 1992 for the volumes detailed
      in note (1), net of transportation costs.

  (3) Includes per unit deferred revenue amortization for the volumes detailed
      in note (1) at an equivalent of $2.46 per Mcf ($2.36 per million British
      thermal units) in 1994, $2.50 per Mcf ($2.40 per million British thermal
      units) in 1993 and $2.51 per Mcf ($2.40 per million British thermal units)
      in 1992.

  (4) Includes an average value of $1.92 per Mcf in 1994, $2.20 per Mcf in 1993
      and $2.37 per Mcf in 1992, including average equivalent wellhead value,
      any applicable transportation costs and exchange differentials, for the
      volumes detailed in note (1).

  (5) Including transportation and exchange differentials.


    During 1994, net operating revenues increased to $626 million, up $45
million as compared to 1993.

    Average wellhead natural gas volumes increased approximately 6% compared to
1993 primarily reflecting the effects of development activities in Trinidad and
Canada partially offset by voluntary curtailments of production in the United
States in 1994. The volume reductions in the United States as a result of
voluntary curtailments were more than offset by the new natural gas deliveries
from the Kiskadee field offshore Trinidad and increased deliveries in Canada.
The increase in wellhead natural gas volumes added $28 million to net operating
revenues. Average wellhead natural gas prices were down significantly from 1993
reducing net operating revenues by approximately $83 million. This 16% reduction
in average wellhead natural gas prices reflects the overall decline in the
United States natural gas markets during the last half of 1994 and increased
volumes from Trinidad sold under a long-term contract at a price considerably
below North American spot market prices. A 42% increase in wellhead crude oil
and condensate volumes over 1993 added $22 million to net operating revenues
primarily reflecting development activities in Trinidad and increased production
in the United States. A 5% decrease in wellhead crude oil and condensate average
prices decreased net operating revenues by approximately $3 million.

    Other marketing activities associated with sales and purchases of natural
gas, natural gas and crude oil price swap transactions, other commodity price
hedging of natural gas and crude oil prices utilizing NYMEX-related commodity
market transactions, and margins relating to the volumetric production payment
added $50 million to net operating revenues during 1994. This increase of $42
million from the same period in 1993 primarily results from a gain of $11
million on natural gas commodity price hedging activities utilizing
NYMEX-related commodity market transactions in 1994 versus an $18 million loss
during 1993 and increased margins associated with other natural gas marketing
activities. The average associated costs of natural gas marketing, price swap
and volumetric production payment transactions, including, where appropriate,
average wellhead value, transportation costs and exchange differentials,
decreased $.26 per Mcf. The average price received for these transactions
decreased $.19 per Mcf. Related other natural gas marketing volumes increased
10%.

    The impact of these other marketing activities, a substantial portion of
which serve as hedges of commodity price risks for a portion of wellhead
deliveries, are more than offset by increases or reductions in revenues
associated with market responsive prices for wellhead deliveries. (See Note 2 to
Consolidated Financial Statements.)

    Gains on sales of selected oil and gas reserves and related assets were $54
million in 1994 as compared to $13 million in 1993. While the quantity of
equivalent reserves sold in 1994 was slightly less than 1993, higher average
proceeds received per equivalent unit in 1994 as compared to 1993 primarily
contributed to the increased gain recognition. In continuing its strategy of
fully utilizing its assets in optimizing profitability, cash flow and return on
investments, the Company expects to continue the sale of similar properties from
time to time.

    During 1993, net operating revenues increased to $581 million, up $122
million as compared to 1992.

    Average wellhead natural gas volumes increased approximately 26% compared to
1992 primarily reflecting the effects of exploration and development activities
relating to tight gas sand formations. Wellhead natural gas delivered volumes
were curtailed less during portions of 1993 than for the comparable periods in
1992 due to the significant increases realized in wellhead natural gas prices in
1993. Average wellhead natural gas prices were up approximately 22% in 1993 over
those received in 1992, adding approximately $87 million to net operating
revenues. Increases in wellhead natural gas volumes in 1993 added $83 million to
net operating revenues compared to 1992. Average wellhead crude oil and
condensate prices in 1993 were down 9% compared to 1992, reducing net operating
revenues by $5 million. Increases in wellhead crude oil and condensate volumes
in 1993 added approximately $2 million to net operating revenues compared to
1992.

    Other marketing activities associated with sales and purchases of natural
gas, natural gas price swap transactions, other commodity price hedging of
natural gas and crude oil and condensate prices utilizing NYMEX-related
commodity market transactions, and margins relating to the volumetric production
payment added $8 million to net operating revenues during 1993. This decrease of
$54 million from 1992 primarily results from shrinking margins associated with
sales under long-term fixed price contracts and amortization of volumetric
production payment deferred revenue due to increases in market responsive
natural gas prices associated with volumes supplying these dispositions and
losses on natural gas commodity price hedging activities utilizing NYMEX-related
commodity market transactions. The average associated costs of natural gas
marketing, price swap and volumetric production payment transactions, including,
where appropriate, average wellhead value, transportation costs and exchange
differentials, increased $.33 per Mcf. Related other natural gas marketing
volumes increased 15%.

    OPERATING EXPENSES. During 1994, total operating expenses of $466 million
were approximately $1 million higher than the $465 million incurred in 1993.
Lease and well expenses of $60 million were approximately $1 million higher than
last year primarily due to increased expenses related to new operations offshore
Trinidad partially offset by cost reductions in North America. Exploration
expenses of $42 million increased $5 million from the previous year primarily
due to an increased level of exploration activities. Impairment of unproved oil
and gas properties increased $4 million from 1993 primarily due to impairments
associated with certain offshore Gulf of Mexico leases. Depreciation, depletion
and amortization ("DD&A") expense decreased from $250 million in 1993 to $242
million in 1994 reflecting a $.09 per Mcfe decrease in the average DD&A rate to
$.80 per Mcfe. The rate decrease is primarily due to increased production from
offshore Trinidad at an average DD&A rate significantly less than the North
American operations DD&A rate and a $.03 per Mcfe reduction in the North
American operations DD&A rate. General and administrative expenses increased $6
million to $51 million primarily due to overall higher costs associated with
expanded international and domestic operations. Taxes other than income
decreased approximately $7 million from 1993 primarily due to lower taxable
United States wellhead volumes and prices and reductions included in 1994
related to revisions of certain prior year production taxes. Included in 1994
and 1993 are benefits associated with reductions in state franchise taxes of $4
million and $3 million, respectively. The Company continues to benefit from
certain state severance tax exemptions allowed on high cost natural gas volumes.

    Total per unit operating costs for lease and well expense, DD&A, general and
administrative expense, interest expense, and taxes other than income decreased
$.14 per Mcfe, averaging $1.29 per Mcfe during 1994 compared to $1.43 per Mcfe
for 1993. The decrease was primarily due to per unit reductions in DD&A and
taxes other than income as discussed above.

    During 1993, total operating expenses of $465 million were $112 million
higher than the $353 million incurred in 1992. Lease and well expenses increased
approximately $10 million primarily due to expanded domestic and international
operations. Exploration expenses increased approximately $4 million primarily
due to increased exploration activities in North America. An unsuccessful Gulf
of Mexico well added nearly $4 million to dry hole expenses and a related $3
million to lease impairments in 1993. Dry hole expenses also reflect the impact
of increased drilling activity outside North America. DD&A expense increased $70
million to $250 million reflecting an increase in production volumes and an
average DD&A rate increase from $.79 per Mcfe in 1992 to $.89 per Mcfe for 1993.
The DD&A rate increase is primarily due, as expected, to factors associated with
the tight gas sands drilling program which costs are being more than offset by
benefits realized in the form of tight gas sand federal income tax credits and
certain state severance tax exemptions. General and administrative expenses
increased almost $9 million to $45 million primarily reflecting cost reductions
included in 1992 related to changes associated with certain employee
compensation plans and overall higher costs in 1993 due to an expansion of
domestic and international operations. Taxes other than income increased $7
million primarily due to increased production volumes and revenues in 1993,
partially offset by continuing benefits associated with certain state severance
tax

exemptions allowed on high cost natural gas volumes and a $3 million reduction
of state franchise taxes resulting from refunds of prior year payments received
in 1993.

    Total per unit operating costs for lease and well expense, DD&A, general and
administrative expense, interest expense, and taxes other than income increased
$.03 per Mcfe, averaging $1.43 per Mcfe during 1993 compared to $1.40 per Mcfe
for 1992. The total increase was associated with DD&A expense which was up $.10
per Mcfe as noted above being partially offset by a reduction of $.07 Mcfe in
all other costs.

    OTHER INCOME. Other income for 1993 includes $4 million in interest income
associated with the investment of funds temporarily surplus to the Company (See
Note 4 to Consolidated Financial Statements) and $4 million associated with
settlements related to the termination of certain long-term
natural gas contracts.

    INTEREST EXPENSE. Net interest expense in 1994 decreased approximately $1
million to $8 million as compared to 1993 primarily due to favorable interest
rates on new financing acquired by a subsidiary of the Company in Trinidad and
the retirement of higher interest rate debt. The estimated fair value of
outstanding interest rate swap agreements at December 31, 1994 was a negative
$0.5 million based on termination values obtained from third parties. (See Note
13 to Consolidated Financial Statements).

    Net interest expense decreased $12 million, or 55%, to $10 million in 1993
as compared to 1992 reflecting the repayment of a substantial portion of the
Company's long-term debt in 1992 with proceeds from the sale of common stock in
August 1992 and the sale of a volumetric production payment in September 1992.
The estimated fair value of outstanding interest rate swap agreements at
December 31, 1993 was a negative $3.3 million based upon termination values
obtained from third parties.

    INCOME TAXES. Income tax provision in 1994 includes a benefit of
approximately $36 million associated with tight gas sand federal income tax
credit utilization, a benefit of approximately $8 million related to reduced
estimated state income taxes and a portion of certain franchise taxes which is
treated as income tax under SFAS No. 109, and a $5 million benefit from the
reduction of the Company's deferred federal income tax liability resulting from
a reevaluation of deferred tax requirements.

    Income tax benefit in 1993 includes a benefit of approximately $65 million
associated with tight gas sand federal income tax credit utilization, an
approximate $7 million predominantly one-time non-cash charge recorded in the
third quarter of 1993 primarily to adjust the Company's accumulated deferred
federal income tax liability for the increase in the corporate federal income
tax rate from 34% to 35% and a $12 million benefit from the reduction of the
Company's deferred federal income tax liability resulting from a reevaluation of
deferred tax requirements.

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

    CASH FLOW. The primary sources of cash for the Company during the three-year
period ended December 31, 1994 included funds generated from operations, the
sale of common stock, the sale of a volumetric production payment, proceeds from
the sale of selected oil and gas reserves and related assets and the issuance of
new debt. Primary cash outflows included funds used in operations, exploration
and development expenditures, dividends, and the repayment of debt.

    Discretionary cash flow, a frequently used measure of performance for
exploration and production companies, is generally derived by adjusting net
income to eliminate the effects of depreciation, depletion and amortization,
impairment of unproved oil and gas properties, deferred taxes, gains on sales of
oil and gas reserves and related assets, certain other miscellaneous non-cash
amounts, except for amortization of deferred revenue, and exploration and dry
hole expenses. However, based on the continuing practice of the Company of
selling selected oil and gas reserves and related assets in furtherance of its
strategy of fully utilizing its assets in optimizing profitability, cash flow
and return on investments, it believes that net proceeds from these transactions
should also be considered as available discretionary cash flow and is so
presenting those values for 1994. Values for prior years have also been
reclassified for consistency. In the case of the Company, the elimination of
revenues

associated with the amortization of deferred revenues created by the sale by the
Company of a volumetric production payment is reflected in investing cash flows.
The Company generated discretionary cash flow of approximately $514 million in
1994, $521 million in 1993 and $346 million in 1992. The 1993 amount includes
$50 million associated with a federal income tax refund resulting from the
settlement of an audit of federal income taxes paid in prior years.

    Net operating cash flows were approximately $426 million in 1994, $480
million in 1993 and $306 million in 1992. Decreased 1994 net operating cash
flows were primarily due to proceeds in 1993 from the receipt of a refund on
settlement of an audit of federal income taxes discussed above. Increased 1993
net operating cash flows were primarily due to increased net operating revenues
and a decrease in provision for current taxes resulting from both increased
tight gas sand federal income tax credit utilization and proceeds from the
receipt of a refund on settlement of an audit of federal income taxes paid in
prior years. In accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 95 - "Statement of
Cash Flows", net proceeds from the sale of selected oil and gas reserves and
related assets are not included in the determination of cash from operations.

    SALE OF SELECTED OIL AND GAS RESERVES AND RELATED ASSETS. During 1994, the
Company received proceeds of $91 million from the sale of selected oil and gas
reserves and related assets compared to $42 million received in 1993. While the
quantity of equivalent reserves sold in 1994 was slightly less than 1993, higher
average proceeds received per equivalent unit of reserves sold in 1994 as
compared to 1993 resulted in significantly higher 1994 proceeds. Taxable gains
resulting from the 1994 sales generated income taxes of $20 million, leaving net
proceeds of $71 million. Taxable gains resulting from the 1993 sales generated
federal income taxes of $8 million, leaving net proceeds of $34 million.

    SALE OF VOLUMETRIC PRODUCTION PAYMENT. In September 1992, the Company sold a
volumetric production payment for $326.8 million to a limited partnership. (See
"Business - Marketing - Other Marketing" and Note 5 to Consolidated Financial
Statements). Under the terms of the production payment agreements, the Company
conveyed a real property interest in approximately 124 Bcfe (136 trillion
British thermal units) of certain natural gas and other hydrocarbons to the
purchaser. Effective October 1, 1993, the agreements were amended providing for
the extension of the original term of the volumetric production payment through
March 31, 1999 and including a revised schedule of daily quantities of
hydrocarbons to be delivered which is approximately one-half of the original
schedule. The revised schedule will total approximately 89.1 Bcfe (97.8 trillion
British thermal units) versus approximately 87.9 Bcfe (96.4 trillion British
thermal units) remaining to be delivered under the original agreement. Daily
quantities of hydrocarbons no longer required to be delivered under the revised
schedule during the period from October 1, 1993 through June 30, 1996 are
available for sale by the Company. The Company retains responsibility for its
working interest share of the cost of operations. In accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, the Company accounted for the proceeds received
in the transaction as deferred revenue which is being amortized into revenue and
income as natural gas and other hydrocarbons are produced and delivered to the
purchaser during the term, as revised, of the volumetric production payment
thereby matching those revenues with the depreciation of asset values which
remained on the balance sheet following the sale and the operating expenses
incurred for which the Company retained responsibility. The Company expects the
above transaction, as amended, to have minimal impact on future earnings.
However, cash made available by the sale of the volumetric production payment
has provided considerable financial flexibility for the pursuit of investment
alternatives.

    EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURES. The table below sets out
components of actual exploration and development expenditures for the years
ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, along with those budgeted for the year
1995.

                                                  ACTUAL
                                      -------------------------------   BUDGETED
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY                    1994       1993       1992        1995
- --------------------                  ---------  ---------  ---------   -------

                                                     (IN MILLIONS)
Capital
    Drilling and Facilities.........  $     342  $     331  $     260    $  345
    Leasehold Acquisitions..........         52         29         23        25
    Producing Property
      Acquisitions..................         34          9         65        15
    Capitalized Interest and Other..         14         14         14        15
                                      ---------  ---------  ---------   -------
        Total.......................        442        383        362       400
Exploration Expenses................         59         55         44        50
                                      ---------  ---------  ---------   -------
Total...............................  $     501  $     438  $     406    $  450
                                      =========  =========  =========   =======

    Exploration and development expenditures increased $63 million, or 14%, in
1994 compared to 1993. The increase primarily reflects the acquisitions of
selected properties to compliment existing North American producing areas and
the addition of new international activities in India. (See "Business -
Exploration and Production" for additional information detailing the specific
geographic locations of the Company's drilling programs and "Outlook" below for
a discussion related to 1995 exploration and development expenditure plans).

    Exploration and development expenditures in 1993 increased to $438 million,
an 8% increase, as compared to the $406 million expended in 1992. The increase
was attributable to increased domestic drilling activity with reduced emphasis
on development drilling expenditures associated with tight gas sand formations.
The Company also implemented its first development program outside of North
America. During 1993, the Company installed a jacket, platform and production
facilities and initiated natural gas production from the Kiskadee field offshore
the southeast coast of Trinidad.

    FINANCING. The Company's long-term debt-to-total-capital ratio was 15% and
14% as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively. The Company has entered into
an agreement with Enron Corp. pursuant to which the Company may borrow funds
from Enron Corp. at a representative market rate of interest on a revolving
basis. During 1994, there were no funds borrowed by the Company under this
agreement. Under a promissory note effective January 1, 1993 at a fixed interest
rate of 7%, the Company may advance funds temporarily surplus to the Company to
Enron Corp. for investment purposes. Daily outstanding balances of funds
advanced to Enron Corp. under the note averaged $69 million during 1994 with no
balance outstanding at December 31, 1994. There was a balance of $7 million
outstanding at December 31, 1994 under a commercial paper program initiated in
1990. Proceeds from the commercial paper program were used to fund current
transactions. During 1994, total long-term debt increased $37 million to $190
million as a result of $23 million of new borrowings related to certain
international drilling activities, a $7 million increase in commercial paper,
and the recording of a $7 million capital lease obligation. (See Note 4 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements). The estimated fair value of the Company's
long-term debt, including current maturities of $2 million and $30 million, at
December 31, 1994 and 1993 was $186 million and $192 million, respectively,
based upon quoted market prices and, where such prices were not available, upon
interest rates currently available to the Company at year end. (See Note 13 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements).

    OUTLOOK. There continues to exist a good deal of uncertainty as to the
direction of future North America natural gas price trends and a rather wide
divergence in the opinions held by some in the industry. However, recent history
would tend to support, and it seems there is emerging among a larger number of
industry representatives somewhat of a consensus, that natural gas prices will
remain below parity with crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids for some
time. This situation is being impacted by improvements in the technology used in
drilling and completing oil and gas

wells that are tending to mitigate the impacts of fewer oil and gas wells being
drilled, the deregulation of the natural gas market under Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission Order 636 and subsequent related orders, and improvements
being realized in the availability and utilization of natural gas storage
capacity. However, the continually increasing recognition of natural gas as a
more environmentally friendly source of energy along with the availability of
significant domestically sourced supplies should result in further increases in
demand and a supporting/strengthening of the overall natural gas market over
time. Being primarily a natural gas producer, the Company is more significantly
impacted by changes in natural gas prices than by changes in crude oil and
condensate prices. (See "Business - Other Matters - Energy Prices"). Based on
the portion of the Company's anticipated natural gas volumes for which prices
have not, in effect, been hedged using NYMEX-related commodity market
transactions, long-term marketing contracts and the sale of a volumetric
production payment, the Company's net income and cash flow sensitivity to
changing natural gas prices is approximately $10 million for each $.10 per Mcf
change in average wellhead natural gas prices. Using various commodity price
hedging mechanisms, the Company has, in effect, locked in prices for an average
of about one-half of its anticipated wellhead natural gas volumes and about
one-third of its anticipated wellhead crude oil and condensate volumes for the
year 1995 and about one-third of its anticipated wellhead natural gas volumes
and about one-sixth of its anticipated wellhead crude oil and condensate volumes
for the year 1996. The percentage of volumes hedged may change during the
remainder of 1995 and will change in future years.

    Other factors representing positive impacts that are more certain continue
to hold good potential for the Company in future periods. While the drilling
qualification period for the tight gas sand federal income tax credit expired as
of December 31, 1992, the Company has continued in 1994, and should continue in
the future, to realize significant benefits associated with production from
wells drilled during the qualifying period as it will be eligible for the
federal income tax credit through the year 2002. However, all other factors
remaining equal, the annual benefit, which was $36 million in 1994 and is
estimated to be approximately $21 million for 1995, is expected to continue to
decline in future periods as production from the qualified wells declines. The
drilling qualification period for a certain state severance tax exemption
available on qualifying high cost natural gas revenues continues through the
latter part of 1996. Consequently, new qualifying production will be added
prospectively to that qualified at year end 1994. (See "Business - Other Matters
- - Tight Gas Sand Tax Credit (Section 29) and Severance Tax Exemption"). Other
natural gas marketing activities are also expected to continue to contribute
meaningfully to financial results. The Company completed a fairly significant
restructure of its other natural gas marketing portfolio during 1992 with the
sale of a volumetric production payment of approximately 124 Bcfe (136 trillion
British thermal units) for $326.8 million that was subsequently revised in 1993
(See "Business - Marketing - Other Marketing" and Note 5 to Consolidated
Financial Statements) and elimination of most delivery obligations under four
long-term fixed price marketing contracts. The proceeds from the sale of the
volumetric production payment added substantially to the financial flexibility
of the Company supporting future development while the combined effect of all
elements of the restructuring on net income has not been, and will not in the
future be, significant. These factors are expected to contribute significantly
to earnings, cash flow, and the ability of the Company to pursue the
continuation of an active exploration, development and selective acquisition
program.

    The Company plans to continue to focus a substantial portion of its
development and certain exploration expenditures in its major producing areas in
North America. However, based on the continuing uncertainty associated with
North America natural gas prices and the current weakness in that market, and as
a result of the recent success realized in Trinidad and opportunities available
to the Company in conjunction with the recent signing of agreements in India,
the Company anticipates expending an increasing portion of its available funds
in the further development of these opportunities. In addition, the Company
expects to include limited but meaningful exploratory exposure in other areas
outside of North America in its expenditure plans. (See "Business - Exploration
and Production" for additional information detailing the specific geographic
locations of the related drilling programs). Early-in-year activity will be
managed within an annual expected expenditure


level of approximately $450 million. This early-in-year planning will address
the continuing uncertainty with regard to the future of the North America
natural gas price environment and will be structured to maintain the flexibility
necessary under the Company strategy of funding exploration, development and
acquisition activities primarily from available internally generated cash flow.
The continuation of expenditures in other areas outside of North America, will
be primarily for additional evaluation of coalbed methane recovery potential in
the U.K., France, Australia, China, Russia and certain other countries.

    The level of exploration and development expenditures may vary in 1995 and
will vary in future periods depending on energy market conditions and other
related economic factors. Based upon existing economic and market conditions,
the Company believes net operating cash flow and available financing
alternatives in 1995 will be sufficient to fund its net investing cash
requirements for the year. However, the Company has significant flexibility with
respect to its financing alternatives and adjustment of its exploration and
development expenditure plans as circumstances warrant. While the Company has
certain continuing commitments associated with expenditure plans related to
operations in India, they are not anticipated to be material when considered in
relation to the total financial capacity of the Company.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    The information required hereunder is included in this report as set forth
in the "Index to Financial Statements" on page F-1.

ITEM 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None.
                                   PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The information required by this Item regarding directors is set forth in
the Proxy Statement under the caption entitled "Election of Directors", and is
incorporated herein by reference.

    See list of "Current Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I located
elsewhere herein.

    There are no family relationships among the officers listed, and there are
no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which any of them were elected as
officers. Officers are appointed or elected annually by the Board of Directors
at its first meeting following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, each to hold
office until the corresponding meeting of the Board in the next year or until a
successor shall have been elected, appointed or shall have qualified.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    The information required by this Item is set forth in the Proxy Statement
under the caption "Compensation of Directors and Executive Officers", and is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    The information required by this Item is set forth in the Proxy Statement
under the captions "Election of Directors" and "Compensation of Directors and
Executive Officers", and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    The information required by this Item is set forth in the Proxy Statement
under the caption "Certain Transactions", and is incorporated herein by
reference.


                                   PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    (a)(1) AND (2)  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

    See "Index to Financial Statements" set forth on page F-1.

    (a)(3)  EXHIBITS

    See pages E-1 through E-5 for a listing of the exhibits.

    (b)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company during the last quarter of
1994.

                        INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                           ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
                                                                          PAGE
                                                                          ----
        Consolidated Financial Statements:

            Management's Responsibility for Financial Reporting....       F-2

            Reports of Independent Public Accountants..............       F-3

            Consolidated Statements of Income for Each of the
              Three Years in the Period Ended December 31, 1994....       F-4

            Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 1994
              and 1993.............................................       F-5

            Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
              for Each of the Three Years in the Period
              Ended December 31, 1994..............................       F-6

            Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for Each of the
              Three Years in the Period Ended December 31, 1994....       F-7

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.............       F-8

        Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial
          Statements...............................................      F-21

        Financial Statement Schedule:

            Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
              and Reserves.........................................       S-1

            Other financial statement schedules have been
            omitted because they are inapplicable or the
            information required therein is included
            elsewhere in the consolidated financial
            statements or notes thereto.

                                     F-1

             MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING

    The following consolidated financial statements of Enron Oil & Gas Company
and its subsidiaries were prepared by management which is responsible for their
integrity, objectivity and fair presentation. The statements have been prepared
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and accordingly
include some amounts that are based on the best estimates and judgements of
management.

    Arthur Andersen LLP, independent public accountants, was engaged to audit
the consolidated financial statements of Enron Oil & Gas Company and its
subsidiaries and issue a report thereon. In the conduct of the audit, Arthur
Andersen LLP was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related
data including minutes of all meetings of shareholders, the Board of Directors
and committees of the Board. Management believes that all representations made
to Arthur Andersen LLP during the audit were valid and appropriate. Their audits
of the years presented included developing an overall understanding of the
Company's accounting systems, procedures and internal controls, and conducting
tests and other auditing procedures sufficient to support their opinion on the
financial statements. Arthur Andersen LLP was also engaged to examine and report
on management's assertion about the effectiveness of the system of internal
controls of Enron Oil & Gas Company and its subsidiaries. The reports of Arthur
Andersen LLP appear on the following page.

    The system of internal controls of Enron Oil & Gas Company and its
subsidiaries is designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability
of financial statements and the protection of assets from unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition. This system includes, but is not limited to,
written policies and guidelines including a published code for the conduct of
business affairs, conflicts of interest and compliance with laws regarding
antitrust, anti-boycott and foreign corrupt practices policies, the careful
selection and training of qualified personnel, and a documented organizational
structure outlining the separation of responsibilities among management
representatives and staff groups.

    The adequacy of financial controls of Enron Oil & Gas Company and its
subsidiaries and the accounting principles employed in financial reporting by
the Company are under the general oversight of the Audit Committee of the Board
of Directors. No member of this committee is an officer or employee of the
Company. The independent public accountants have direct access to the Audit
Committee and meet with the committee from time to time to discuss accounting,
auditing and financial reporting matters.

    It should be recognized that there are inherent limitations to the
effectiveness of any system of internal control, including the possibility of
human error and circumvention or override. Accordingly, even an effective system
can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation of
reliable financial statements and safeguarding of assets. Furthermore, the
effectiveness of an internal control system can change with circumstances.

    It is management's opinion that, considering the criteria for effective
internal control over financial reporting and safeguarding of assets which
consists of interrelated components including the control environment,
risk-assessment process, control activities, information and communication
systems, and monitoring, the Company maintained an effective system of internal
control as to the reliability of financial statements and the protection of
assets against unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition for all periods
presented.

BEN B. BOYD             WALTER C. WILSON                  FORREST E. HOGLUND
Vice President and      Senior Vice President and         Chairman of the Board,
Controller              Chief Financial Officer           President and Chief
                                                          Executive Officer
Houston, Texas
February 17, 1995
                                     F-2

                   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To Enron Oil & Gas Company:

    We have examined management's assertion that the system of internal control
of Enron Oil & Gas Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended December 31,
1994, was adequate to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability of
financial statements and the protection of assets against unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition, included in the accompanying report on
Management's Responsibility for Financial Reporting.

    Our examination was made in accordance with standards established by the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and, accordingly, included
obtaining an understanding of the system of internal control, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of the system of internal
control, and such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our examination provides a reasonable basis for
our opinion.

    Because of inherent limitations in any system of internal control, errors or
irregularities may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any
evaluation of the system of internal control to future periods are subject to
the risk that the system of internal control may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

    In our opinion, management's assertion that the system of internal control
of Enron Oil & Gas Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended December 31,
1994, was adequate to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability of
financial statements and the protection of assets against unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition is fairly stated in all material respects, based
upon the control criteria therein.

                                                           ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
Houston, Texas
February 17, 1995

                   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To Enron Oil & Gas Company:

    We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Enron Oil &
Gas Company (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994
and 1993, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders'
equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 1994. These financial statements and the schedule referred to below are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and the schedule based on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Enron Oil & Gas Company and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1994, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

    Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The financial statement schedule listed
in the index to financial statements is presented for purposes of complying with
the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of the basic
financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole.

                                                           ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
Houston, Texas
February 17, 1995
                                     F-3

                           ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                   (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

                                              YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                       -------------------------------------
                                          1994         1993         1992
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
NET OPERATING REVENUES
   Natural Gas
      Associated Companies...........  $   267,997  $   279,921  $   280,501
      Trade..........................      221,896      225,241      108,487
   Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural
     Gas Liquids
      Associated Companies...........       46,782       38,953       38,775
      Trade..........................       29,556       16,881       20,152
   Gains on Sales of Reserves and
     Related Assets..................       54,014       13,318        6,037
   Other.............................        5,578        6,706        5,074
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
            Total....................      625,823      581,020      459,026
OPERATING EXPENSES
   Lease and Well....................       60,384       59,344       49,406
   Exploration.......................       41,811       36,921       33,278
   Dry Hole..........................       17,197       18,355       10,764
   Impairment of Unproved Oil and Gas
     Properties......................       24,936       20,467       15,136
   Depreciation, Depletion and
     Amortization....................      242,182      249,704      179,839
   General and Administrative........       51,418       45,274       36,648
   Taxes Other Than Income...........       28,254       35,396       28,346
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
            Total....................      466,182      465,461      353,417
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
OPERATING INCOME.....................      159,641      115,559      105,609
OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)...............        2,783        6,635       (3,476)
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST EXPENSE AND
  TAXES..............................      162,424      122,194      102,133
INTEREST EXPENSE
   Incurred
      Affiliate......................          629            -        1,747
      Other..........................       13,984       15,378       24,122
   Capitalized.......................       (6,124)      (5,457)      (3,580)
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
      Net Interest Expense...........        8,489        9,921       22,289
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES...........      153,935      112,273       79,844
INCOME TAX PROVISION (BENEFIT).......        5,937      (25,752)     (17,736)
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
NET INCOME...........................  $   147,998  $   138,025  $    97,580
                                       ===========  ===========  ===========
EARNINGS PER SHARE OF COMMON STOCK...  $       .93  $       .86  $       .63
                                       ===========  ===========  ===========
AVERAGE NUMBER OF COMMON SHARES......      159,845      159,966      154,533
                                       ===========  ===========  ===========

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.
                                     F-4

                           ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
                         CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                (IN THOUSANDS)

                                             AT DECEMBER 31,
                                       ----------------------------
                                           1994           1993
                                       -------------  -------------
                              ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
   Cash and Cash Equivalents.........  $       5,810  $     103,129
   Accounts Receivable
      Associated Companies...........         57,352         59,143
      Trade..........................         68,781         66,109
   Inventories.......................         15,731         14,082
   Other.............................          8,744          6,962
                                       -------------  -------------
         Total.......................        156,418        249,425
OIL AND GAS PROPERTIES (Successful
Efforts Method)......................      3,015,435      2,772,220
   Less: Accumulated Depreciation,
     Depletion and Amortization......      1,330,624      1,226,175
                                       -------------  -------------
         Net Oil and Gas
           Properties................      1,684,811      1,546,045
OTHER ASSETS.........................         20,638         15,692
                                       -------------  -------------
TOTAL ASSETS.........................  $   1,861,867  $   1,811,162
                                       =============  =============

               LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES
   Accounts Payable
      Associated Companies...........  $      13,353  $      13,250
      Trade..........................        117,791        143,542
   Accrued Taxes Payable.............         17,631         17,354
   Dividends Payable.................          4,800          4,795
   Current Maturities of Long-Term
     Debt............................          1,718         30,000
   Other.............................          9,308          8,989
                                       -------------  -------------
         Total.......................        164,601        217,930
LONG-TERM DEBT
   Affiliate.........................         25,000        -
   Other.............................        165,337        153,000
OTHER LIABILITIES....................         10,035          9,477
DEFERRED INCOME TAXES................        269,292        270,154
DEFERRED REVENUE.....................        184,183        227,528
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 (Note 9)
SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
   Common Stock, $.01 Par,
     160,000,000 Shares Authorized
     and Issued at December 31, 1994
     and No Par, 160,000,000 Shares
     Authorized and Issued at
     December 31, 1993...............        201,600        200,800
   Additional Paid In Capital........        403,488        417,531
   Cumulative Foreign Currency
     Translation Adjustment..........        (15,298)        (6,855)
   Retained Earnings.................        453,810        324,995
   Common Stock Held in Treasury,
     9,173 shares at December 31,
     1994 and 160,000 shares at
     December 31, 1993...............           (181)        (3,398)
                                       -------------  -------------
         Total Shareholders'
         Equity......................      1,043,419        933,073
                                       -------------  -------------
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS'
  EQUITY.............................  $   1,861,867  $   1,811,162
                                       =============  =============

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.
                                     F-5

                           ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
               CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                   (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.
                                     F-6

                           ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                (IN THOUSANDS)

                                               YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                        -------------------------------------
                                          1994          1993          1992
                                        ---------     ---------     ---------
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
   Reconciliation of Net Income to
     Net Operating Cash Inflows:
   Net Income........................   $ 147,998     $ 138,025     $  97,580
   Items Not Requiring (Providing)
     Cash
      Depreciation, Depletion and
        Amortization.................     242,182       249,704       179,839
      Impairment of Unproved Oil and
        Gas Properties...............      24,936        20,467        15,136
      Deferred Income Taxes..........       1,788        25,612       (17,917)
      Other, Net.....................      (2,735)        1,768         5,713
   Exploration Expenses..............      41,811        36,921        33,278
   Dry Hole Expenses.................      17,197        18,355        10,764
   Gains On Sales of Reserves and
     Related Assets..................     (54,014)      (13,318)       (6,037)
   Other, Net........................       4,490         1,242        (6,147)
   Changes in Components of Working
     Capital and Other Liabilities
      Accounts Receivable............        (883)      (24,586)      (12,732)
      Inventories....................      (2,163)       (4,548)        3,687
      Accounts Payable...............     (25,648)       26,208        46,327
      Accrued Taxes Payable..........         277         7,443           247
      Other Liabilities..............       1,086           772        (2,886)
      Other, Net.....................      (1,463)      (44,443)       33,784
   Changes in Components of Working
     Capital Associated with
     Investing and Financing
     Activities......................      31,038        40,042       (74,232)
                                        ---------     ---------     ---------
NET OPERATING CASH INFLOWS...........     425,897       479,664       306,404
INVESTING CASH FLOWS
   Additions to Oil and Gas
     Properties......................    (442,078)     (383,064)     (362,403)
   Exploration Expenses..............     (41,811)      (36,921)      (33,278)
   Dry Hole Expenses.................     (17,197)      (18,355)      (10,764)
   Proceeds from Sales of Reserves
     and Related Assets (Note 10)....      90,515        41,815        33,412
   Proceeds from Sale of Volumetric
     Production Payment..............       -            -}           326,775
   Amortization of Deferred
     Revenue.........................     (43,345)      (73,867)      (25,380)
   Changes in Components of Working
     Capital Associated with
     Investing Activities............     (32,120)      (37,256)       74,232
   Other, Net........................      (8,758)       (4,905)       (3,686)
                                        ---------     ---------     ---------
NET INVESTING CASH OUTFLOWS..........    (494,794)     (512,553)       (1,092)
FINANCING CASH FLOWS
   Long-Term Debt
      Affiliate......................      25,000         -          (132,836)
      Other..........................     (25,300)       33,000      (139,556)
   Common Stock Issued...............       -             -           111,861
   Dividends Paid....................     (19,178)      (19,200)      (15,385)
   Treasury Stock Purchased..........     (14,139)      (16,698)       (1,827)
   Proceeds from Sales of Treasury
     Stock...........................       4,113         9,084         1,250
   Other, Net........................       1,082        (2,786)        -
                                        ---------     ---------     ---------
NET FINANCING CASH INFLOWS
  (OUTFLOWS).........................     (28,422)        3,400      (176,493)
                                        ---------     ---------     ---------
INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH
  EQUIVALENTS........................     (97,319)      (29,489)      128,819
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT
  BEGINNING OF YEAR..................     103,129       132,618         3,799
                                        ---------     ---------     ---------
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF
  YEAR...............................   $   5,810     $ 103,129     $ 132,618
                                        =========     =========     =========

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.
                                     F-7

                           ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED)

1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION. The consolidated financial statements of Enron
Oil & Gas Company (the "Company"), 80% of the outstanding common stock of which
is owned by Enron Corp., include the accounts of all domestic and foreign
subsidiaries. All material intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated. Certain reclassifications have been made to consolidated financial
statements for prior years to conform with the current presentation.

    CASH EQUIVALENTS.  The Company records as cash equivalents all highly
liquid short-term investments with maturities of three months or less. (See
Note 4 "Long-Term Debt - Financing Arrangements with Enron Corp.")

    OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS.  The Company accounts for its natural gas and
crude oil exploration and production activities under the successful efforts
method of accounting.

    Oil and gas lease acquisition costs are capitalized when incurred. Unproved
properties with significant acquisition costs are assessed quarterly on a
property-by-property basis and any impairment in value is recognized.
Amortization of any remaining costs of such leases begins at a point prior to
the end of the lease term depending upon the length of such term. Unproved
properties with acquisition costs that are not individually significant are
aggregated, and the portion of such costs estimated to be nonproductive, based
on historical experience, is amortized over the average holding period. If the
unproved properties are determined to be productive, the appropriate related
costs are transferred to proved oil and gas properties. Lease rentals are
expensed as incurred.

    Oil and gas exploration costs, other than the costs of drilling exploratory
wells, are charged to expense as incurred. The costs of drilling exploratory
wells are capitalized pending determination of whether they have discovered
proved commercial reserves. If proved commercial reserves are not discovered,
such drilling costs are expensed. The costs of all development wells and related
equipment used in the production of crude oil and natural gas are capitalized.

    Depreciation, depletion and amortization of the cost of proved oil and gas
properties is calculated using the unit-of-production method. Estimated future
dismantlement, restoration and abandonment costs (classified as long-term
liabilities), net of salvage values, are taken into account. Certain other
assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis.

    Inventories, consisting primarily of tubular goods and well equipment held
for use in the exploration for, and development and production of crude oil and
natural gas reserves, are carried at cost with selected adjustments made from
time to time to recognize changes in condition value.

    Natural gas revenues are recorded to recognize that during the course of
normal production operations joint interest owners will, from time to time, take
more or less than their ultimate share of natural gas volumes from jointly owned
reservoirs. These volumetric imbalances are monitored over the life of the
reservoir to achieve balancing, or minimize imbalances, by the time reserves are
depleted. Final cash settlements are made, generally at the time a property is
depleted, under one of a variety of arrangements generally accepted by the
industry depending on the specific circumstances involved. The Company accrues
revenues associated with undertakes and defers revenues associated with
overtakes to recognize these potential ultimate imbalances.

    Based on the Company's strategy of maximizing the economic value of its
assets through a combination of both developing and producing over time, crude
oil and natural gas reserves and the sale of such reserves in place with related
assets; effective for 1994, gains and losses associated with such sales in place
are being classified as Net Operating Revenues in the consolidated statements of
income.
                                     F-8

    ACCOUNTING FOR INTEREST AND PRICE RISK MANAGEMENT The Company engages in
price and interest rate risk management activities for primarily non-trading
purposes. Such activities consist of transactions to hedge commodity prices
associated with the sales and purchases of natural gas and crude oil in order to
mitigate the risk of market price fluctuations and interest rate swap agreements
to effectively convert portions of floating rate debt to a fixed rate basis,
thereby reducing the impact of interest rate changes on future income. Changes
in the market value of commodity price and interest rate swap transactions
entered into as hedges are deferred so that the gain or loss is recognized in
the period in which the revenues or expenses associated with the hedged
transactions are applicable.

    In certain situations, the Company has designated portions of and may in the
future designate certain commodity price swap transactions or portions thereof
as for trading purposes. These transactions are accounted for using the
mark-to-market method of accounting. Under this method, unrealized gains or
losses resulting from the impact of price movements are recognized as net gains
or losses in Net Operating Revenues in the consolidated statements of income.

    CAPITALIZED INTEREST COSTS. Certain interest costs have been capitalized as
a part of the historical cost of unproved oil and gas properties. Interest costs
capitalized during each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1994
are set out in the consolidated statements of income.

    INCOME TAXES. Taxable income of the Company, excluding that of any foreign
subsidiaries, is included in the consolidated federal income tax return filed by
Enron Corp. Pursuant to a tax allocation agreement between the Company, the
Company's subsidiaries and Enron Corp., either Enron Corp. will pay to the
Company and each subsidiary an amount equal to the tax benefit realized in the
Enron Corp. consolidated federal income tax return resulting from the
utilization of the Company's or the subsidiary's net operating losses and/or tax
credits, or the Company and each subsidiary will pay to Enron Corp. an amount
equal to the federal income tax computed on its separate taxable income less the
tax benefits associated with any net operating losses and/or tax credits
generated by the Company or the subsidiary which are utilized in the Enron Corp.
consolidated return. Enron Corp. will pay the Company and each subsidiary for
the tax benefits associated with their net operating losses and tax credits
utilized in the Enron Corp. consolidated return, provided that a tax benefit was
realized even if such benefits could not have been used by the Company or the
subsidiary on a separately filed tax return.

    The Company has entered into an agreement with Enron Corp. providing for the
Company to be paid for all realizable benefits associated with tight gas sand
federal income tax credits concurrent with tax reporting and settlement for the
periods in which they are generated.

    The tax allocation agreement applies to the Company and each of its
subsidiaries for all years in which the Company or any of its subsidiaries are
or were included in the Enron Corp. consolidated return. Taxes for any foreign
subsidiaries of the Company are calculated on a separate return basis.

    The Company accounts for income taxes under the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 109 - "Accounting for Income Taxes".
SFAS No. 109 requires the asset and liability approach for accounting for income
taxes. Under this approach, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized
based on anticipated future tax consequences attributable to differences between
financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their
respective tax bases (See Note 8 "Income Taxes").

    FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION. For subsidiaries whose functional currency is
deemed to be other than the U.S. dollar, asset and liability accounts are
translated at year-end exchange rates and revenue and expenses are translated at
average exchange rates prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments are
included as a separate component of shareholders' equity.

    EARNINGS PER SHARE.  Earnings per share is computed on the basis of the
average number of common shares outstanding during the periods.

                                     F-9

2.  NATURAL GAS AND CRUDE OIL, CONDENSATE AND NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS NET
    OPERATING REVENUES

    Natural Gas Net Operating Revenues are comprised of the following:

                                          1994         1993         1992
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
Wellhead Natural Gas Revenues
    Associated Companies(1)(2).......  $   279,339  $   340,508  $   223,249
    Trade............................      162,553      156,301      103,288
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
            Total....................  $   441,892  $   496,809  $   326,537
                                       ===========  ===========  ===========
Other Natural Gas Marketing
  Activities
    Gross Revenues from:
        Associated Companies(3)......  $   159,726  $   139,576  $   186,600
        Trade(4).....................      121,965      135,606       57,482
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
            Total....................      281,691      275,182      244,082
    Associated Costs from:
        Associated
        Companies(1)(5)(6)...........      181,756      182,456      133,170
        Trade........................       62,513       66,273       52,283
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
            Total....................      244,269      248,729      185,453
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
            Net......................       37,422       26,453       58,629
    Commodity Price Hedging Gain
      (Loss)(7)......................       10,579      (18,100)       3,822
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
            Total....................  $    48,001  $     8,353  $    62,451
                                       ===========  ===========  ===========

    Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids Net Operating Revenues are
comprised of the following:
                                          1994         1993         1992
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
Wellhead Crude Oil, Condensate and
  Natural Gas Liquids Revenues
    Associated Companies.............  $    44,979  $    38,953  $    38,474
    Trade............................       29,556       16,881       20,152
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
        Total........................  $    74,535  $    55,834  $    58,626
                                       ===========  ===========  ===========
Other Crude Oil and Condensate
  Marketing Activities
    Commodity Price Hedging
      Gain(7)........................  $     1,803  $    -       $       301
                                       ===========  ===========  ===========
- ---------
  (1) Wellhead Natural Gas Revenues in 1994, 1993 and 1992 include $126,783,
      $129,504 and $84,317, respectively, associated with deliveries by Enron
      Oil & Gas Company to Enron Oil & Gas Marketing, Inc., a wholly-owned
      subsidiary, reflected as a cost in Other Natural Gas Marketing Activities
      - Associated Costs.

  (2) Includes $22,434, $46,358 and $17,173 in 1994, 1993 and 1992,
      respectively, associated with the equivalent wellhead value of volumes
      delivered under the terms of a volumetric production payment agreement
      effective October 1, 1992, as amended, net of transportation.

  (3) Includes the effect of a price swap agreement with an Enron Corp.
      affiliated company which in effect fixed the price of certain sales.

  (4) Includes $43,345, $73,867 and $25,380 in 1994, 1993 and 1992,
      respectively, associated with the amortization of deferred revenues under
      the terms of volumetric production payment and exchange agreements
      effective October 1, 1992, as amended.

  (5) Includes the effect of a price swap agreement with a third party which in
      effect fixed the price of certain purchases.

  (6) Includes $33,779, $65,042 and $23,977 in 1994, 1993 and 1992,
      respectively, for volumes delivered under volumetric production payment
      and exchange agreements effective October 1, 1992, as amended, including
      equivalent wellhead value, any applicable transportation costs and
      exchange differentials.

  (7) Represents gain or loss associated with commodity price swap transactions
      primarily with Enron Corp. affiliated companies based on NYMEX-related
      commodity prices in effect on dates of execution, less customary
      transaction fees.
                                     F-10
3.  OTHER ASSETS

    Other Assets at December 31, 1994 includes an investment in 349,387 shares
of Enron Corp. common stock purchased for $10 million, at an average of $28.62
per share from Enron Corp. (the fair market value of such shares on the dates of
acquisition), in connection with an anticipated acquisition of certain oil and
gas properties by a subsidiary of the Company which is scheduled to close in
March 1995. The Enron Corp. common stock will be used in connection with the
future redemption of redeemable preferred stock to be issued by the subsidiary.

4.  LONG-TERM DEBT

    REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT. The Company is a party to a Revolving Credit
Agreement dated as of March 11, 1994, among the Company and the banks named
therein (the "Credit Agreement"). The Credit Agreement provides for aggregate
borrowings of up to $100 million, with provisions for increases, at the option
of the Company, up to $300 million. Advances under the Credit Agreement bear
interest, at the option of the Company, based on a base rate, an adjusted CD
rate or a Eurodollar rate. Each advance under the Credit Agreement matures on a
date selected by the Company at the time of the advance, but in no event after
January 15, 1998. There were no advances outstanding under the Credit Agreement
at December 31, 1994.

    FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS WITH ENRON CORP. The Company engages in various
transactions with Enron Corp. that are characteristic of a consolidated group
under common control. Activities of the Company not internally funded from
operations have been and may be funded from time to time by advances from Enron
Corp. The Company entered into an agreement with Enron Corp., effective October
12, 1989 (as amended effective September 29, 1992), under which the Company may
borrow funds from Enron Corp. at a representative market rate of interest on a
revolving basis. During 1994 and 1993, there were no funds borrowed by the
Company under this agreement. Any loan balance that may be outstanding from time
to time is payable on demand but no later than September 29, 1995, the maturity
date of this agreement. Any balances outstanding would be classified as
long-term based on the Company's intent and ability to refinance such amounts
using available borrowing capacity.

    The Company also entered into an agreement with Enron Corp., effective
October 12, 1989 (as amended effective September 29, 1992), which provides the
Company the option of depositing any excess funds that may be available from
time to time with Enron Corp. with interest at a representative market rate
during the periods the funds were held by Enron Corp. Effective January 1, 1993,
the Company executed a promissory note at a fixed interest rate of 7% with Enron
Corp. providing for the investment of funds temporarily surplus to the Company
from time to time with Enron Corp. Daily outstanding balances of funds advanced
to Enron Corp. under this note averaged $68.8 million and $60.3 million during
1994 and 1993, respectively. There were no advances outstanding at December 31,
1994 and $96.6 million outstanding at December 31, 1993 under this agreement,
which amounts are classified as cash equivalents on the consolidated balance
sheets. Interest income recorded in 1994 and 1993 under the terms of this note
totaled $4.7 million and $4.4 million, respectively.

    In July 1994, the Company prepaid $25 million of loans payable due in April
1995 with proceeds from a promissory note payable to Enron Corp. which note is
in the same amount and with essentially the same terms as the loan prepaid. The
promissory note is classified as long-term based on the Company's intent and
ability to refinance such note upon maturity with other long-term debt. The
interest rate swap agreement which effectively fixed the interest rate of the
original loan payable at 8.98% through maturity remains in effect for the
promissory note payable to Enron Corp.

                                     F-11

    LONG-TERM DEBT, OTHER.  Long-Term Debt, Other at December 31 consisted of
the following:
                                          1994         1993
                                       -----------  -----------
    Loan(s) Payable..................  $    25,000  $    50,000
    Senior Notes.....................       70,000       70,000
    Promissory Notes.................       56,000       33,000
    Commercial Paper.................        6,700       -
    Capitalized Lease Obligation.....        7,637       -
                                       -----------  -----------
                Total................  $   165,337  $   153,000
                                       ===========  ===========

    The Loan Payable is due in 1995 and bears interest at a variable rate based
on the London Interbank Offered Rate which has, in effect, been converted to a
fixed interest rate of 8.92% through maturity using an interest rate swap
agreement in equivalent dollar amounts. The note is classified as long-term
based on the Company's intent and ability to replace such loan upon maturity
with other long-term debt.

    The Senior Notes bear interest at 9.1% with principal repayments of $30
million due in 1996 and $20 million due in 1997 and 1998.

    In March 1994, a subsidiary of the Company received two advances, evidenced
by promissory notes, aggregating $31 million under a credit agreement dated as
of March 8, 1994 between the subsidiary and a financial institution. One of the
advances is in the amount of $16 million, bears interest at a fixed rate of
4.52% and is due in 1998. The other advance is in the amount of $15 million,
bears interest at a floating rate that resets quarterly equal to 84% of the
London Interbank Bid Rate which is 1/8 of 1% less than the London Interbank
Offered Rate and is due in 1998. Both advances are collateralized with a letter
of credit issued by a bank on behalf of the subsidiary and guaranteed by the
Company. The advances were used to partially repay a promissory note payable to
a bank by the subsidiary.

    In May 1994, the subsidiary received a $25 million advance, evidenced by a
promissory note, under a credit agreement dated May 27, 1994 between the
subsidiary and a financial institution. The credit agreement provides for
aggregate borrowings of up to $44 million and is due in 1999. The advances bear
interest based on various interest rate options, as defined in the credit
agreement, which ranged from 4.03% to 5.59% during 1994. The advance is
guaranteed by the Company and was used to partially repay temporary advances
from the Company to the subsidiary for qualified development costs.

    There was a $6.7 million balance outstanding at December 31, 1994, under a
commercial paper program initiated in 1990. The proceeds from the commercial
paper program outstanding from time to time are used to fund current
transactions and are classified as long-term based on the Company's intent and
ability to replace such obligation with other long-term debt. The interest rate
for the obligation at December 31, 1994 was 6.33%.

    Certain of the borrowings described above contain covenants requiring the
maintenance of certain financial ratios and limitations on liens, debt issuance
and dispositions of assets.

    In 1991, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a
registration statement providing for the issuance and sale from time to time of
up to $250 million of debt securities to the public. As of December 31, 1994, no
debt securities had been issued under this registration statement.

    FAIR VALUE OF LONG-TERM DEBT. At December 31, 1994, the Company had $190
million of long-term debt and $2 million of current maturities outstanding. At
December 31, 1993, there was $153 million of long-term debt and $30 million of
current maturities outstanding. The estimated fair value of such debt, including
current maturities, at December 31, 1994 and 1993 was approximately $186 million
and $192 million, respectively. The fair value of long-term debt is the value
the Company would have to pay to retire the debt, including any premium or
discount to the debtholder
                                     F-12

for the differential between the stated interest rate and the year-end market
rate. The fair value of long-term debt is based upon quoted market prices and,
where such quotes were not available, upon interest rates available to the
Company at year-end.

5.  DEFERRED REVENUE

    In September 1992, the Company sold a volumetric production payment for
$326.8 million to a limited partnership of which an Enron Corp. affiliated
company is general partner with a 1% interest. Under the terms of the production
payment agreements, the Company conveyed a real property interest of
approximately 124 billion cubic feet equivalent ("Bcfe") (136 trillion British
thermal units) of natural gas and other hydrocarbons. The natural gas and other
hydrocarbons were originally scheduled to be produced and delivered over a
period of forty-five months which period commenced October 1, 1992. Effective
October 1, 1993, the agreements were amended providing for the extension of the
original term of the volumetric production payment through March 31, 1999 and
including a revised schedule of daily quantities of hydrocarbons to be delivered
which is approximately one-half of the original schedule. The revised schedule
will total approximately 89.1 Bcfe (97.8 trillion British thermal units) versus
approximately 87.9 Bcfe (96.4 trillion British thermal units) remaining to be
delivered under the original agreement. Daily quantities of hydrocarbons no
longer required to be delivered under the revised schedule during the period
from October 1, 1993 through June 30, 1996 are available for sale by the
Company. The Company retains responsibility for its working interest share of
the cost of operations. The Company also entered into a separate agreement with
the same limited partnership whereby it has agreed to exchange volumes owned by
the Company for equivalent volumes produced and owned by the limited
partnership. The costs incurred, if any, to effect redeliveries pursuant to such
exchange are borne by the Company. A portion of the proceeds of the sale was
used to repay a portion of the Company's long-term debt, with surplus funds
advanced to Enron Corp. under a note agreement which facilitates the deposit of
funds temporarily surplus to the Company. The Company accounted for the proceeds
received in the transaction as deferred revenue which is being amortized into
revenue and income as natural gas and other hydrocarbons are produced and
delivered during the term, as revised, of the volumetric production payment
agreement. Annual remaining amortization of deferred revenue, based on revised
scheduled deliveries under the volumetric production payment agreement, as
amended, at December 31, 1994 was as follows:

           1995.................................  $  43,344
           1996.................................     43,463
           1997.................................     43,344
           1998.................................     43,344
           1999.................................     10,688
                                                  ---------
                   Total........................  $ 184,183
                                                  =========
6.  SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

    The Board of Directors of the Company approved in December 1992, as amended
in September 1994, the purchasing and holding in treasury at any time of up to
500,000 shares of common stock of the Company for, but not limited to, meeting
obligations associated with stock option grants to qualified employees pursuant
to the Company's stock option plans. (See Note 9 "Commitments and Contingencies
- - Stock Option Plans"). At December 31, 1994 and 1993, 9,173 shares and 160,000
shares, respectively, were held in treasury under this authorization.

    On May 3, 1994, the shareholders of the Company approved and the Board of
Directors subsequently declared a two-for-one split of the Company's common
stock to be effected as a non-taxable dividend of one share for each share
outstanding. Shares were issued on June 15, 1994 to shareholders of record as of
May 31, 1994. An amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the
Company to increase the total number of authorized shares of the common stock of
the Company from 80 million to 160 million shares and to change the par value of
common stock from
                                     F-13

no par to $.01 par per share was filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware.
All share and per share amounts in the financial statements and supplemental
financial information have been restated to consider the effect of the
two-for-one stock split.

7.  TRANSACTIONS WITH ENRON CORP. AND RELATED PARTIES

    NATURAL GAS AND CRUDE OIL, CONDENSATE AND NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS NET OPERATING
REVENUES. Wellhead Natural Gas and Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids
Revenues and Other Natural Gas and Other Crude Oil and Condensate Marketing
Activities include revenues from and associated costs paid to various
subsidiaries and affiliates of Enron Corp. pursuant to contracts which, in the
opinion of management, are no less favorable than could be obtained from third
parties. Other Natural Gas and Other Crude Oil and Condensate Marketing
Activities also include certain commodity price swap and NYMEX-related commodity
transactions with Enron Corp. affiliated companies which, in the opinion of
management, are no less favorable than could be obtained from third parties.
(See Note 2 "Natural Gas and Crude Oil, Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids Net
Operating Revenues").

    GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES. The Company is charged by Enron Corp.
for all direct costs associated with its operations. Such direct charges,
excluding benefit plan charges (See Note 9 "Commitments and Contingencies -
Employee Benefit Plans"), totaled $13.7 million, $11.5 million and $4.9 million
for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively. Management
believes that these charges are reasonable.

    Additionally, certain administrative costs not directly charged to any Enron
Corp. operations or business segments are allocated to the entities of the
consolidated group. Allocation percentages are generally determined utilizing
weighted average factors derived from property gross book value, net operating
revenues and payroll costs. Effective January 1, 1994, the Company entered into
an agreement with Enron Corp. with an initial term of five years through
December 1998, which agreement replaced a similar previous agreement, providing
for services substantially identical in nature and quality to those services
previously provided and for allocated indirect costs incurred in rendering such
services up to a maximum of $6.7 million for 1994, such cap to be increased in
subsequent years for inflation and certain changes in the Company's allocation
bases with any increase not to exceed 7.5% per year. Management believes the
indirect allocated charges for the numerous types of support services provided
by the corporate staff are reasonable. Approximately $6.6 million, $7.9 million
and $9.5 million were charged to the Company for indirect general and
administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992,
respectively.

    FINANCING. See Note 4 "Long-Term Debt - Financing Arrangements with Enron
Corp." for a discussion of financing arrangements with Enron Corp.

                                     F-14
8.  INCOME TAXES

    The principal components of the Company's net deferred income tax liability
at December 31, 1994 and 1993 were as follows:

                                          1994         1993
                                       -----------  -----------
Deferred Income Tax Assets
  Non-Producing Leasehold Costs......  $     7,685  $     5,234
  Seismic Costs Capitalized for
    Tax..............................        4,683        5,643
  Other..............................        4,194        6,337
                                       -----------  -----------
        Total Deferred Income Tax
        Assets.......................       16,562       17,214
Deferred Income Tax Liabilities
  Oil and Gas Exploration and
    Development Costs Deducted for
    Tax Over Book Depreciation,
    Depletion and Amortization.......      252,599      276,422
  Capitalized Interest...............        5,763        6,866
  Volumetric Production Payment Book
    Revenue Over Income for Tax......       26,777        1,288
  Other..............................          715        2,792
                                       -----------  -----------
        Total Deferred Income Tax
        Liabilities..................      285,854      287,368
                                       -----------  -----------
        Net Deferred Income Tax
        Liability....................  $   269,292  $   270,154
                                       ===========  ===========

    The components of income (loss) before income taxes were as follows:

                                          1994         1993         1992
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
United States........................  $   125,510  $   117,460  $    74,226
Foreign..............................       28,425       (5,187)       5,618
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
        Total........................  $   153,935  $   112,273  $    79,844
                                       ===========  ===========  ===========

    Total income tax provision (benefit) was as follows:

                                          1994         1993         1992
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
Current:
    Federal..........................  $       113  $   (52,555) $      (292)
    State............................        2,745            5            2
    Foreign..........................        1,291        1,186          471
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
        Total........................        4,149      (51,364)         181
Deferred:
    Federal..........................        3,818       20,845      (21,729)
    State............................      (14,414)       4,357        3,119
    Foreign..........................       12,384          410          693
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
        Total........................        1,788       25,612      (17,917)
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
  Income Tax Provision (Benefit).....  $     5,937  $   (25,752) $   (17,736)
                                       ===========  ===========  ===========

                                     F-15

    The differences between taxes computed at the U.S. federal statutory tax
rate and the Company's effective rate were as follows:

                                          1994         1993         1992
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
Statutory Federal Income Tax Rate....        35.00%       35.00%       34.00%
State Income Tax, Net of Federal
  Benefit............................        (4.93)        2.53         2.58
Income Tax Related to Foreign
  Operations.........................         3.44         3.08        (2.07)
Tight Gas Sand Federal Income Tax
  Credits............................       (23.71)      (58.05)      (54.24)
Revision of Prior Years' Tax
  Estimates..........................        (3.25)      (10.73)      -
Amended Return Recoveries............        (2.62)      -             (0.84)
Federal Tax Rate Increase............       -              5.23       -
Other................................        (0.07)      -             (1.64)
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
    Effective Income Tax Rate........         3.86%      (22.94)%      (22.21)%
                                       ===========  ===========  ===========

    Current income tax receivable from (payable to) Enron Corp. at December 31,
1994, 1993 and 1992 amounted to $(506), $(6,892) and $5,619, respectively.

    The Company has an alternative minimum tax ("AMT") credit carryforward of
$2.7 million which can be used to offset regular income taxes payable in future
years. The AMT credit carryforward has an indefinite carryforward period.

    The Company's foreign subsidiaries' undistributed earnings of approximately
$64 million at December 31, 1994 are considered to be indefinitely invested
outside the U.S. and, accordingly, no U.S. federal or state income taxes have
been provided thereon. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of
dividends, the Company may be subject to both foreign withholding taxes and U.S.
income taxes, net of allowable foreign tax credits. Determination of any
potential amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liabilities is not
practicable.

9.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS. Employees of the Company are covered by various
retirement, stock purchase and other benefit plans of Enron Corp. During each of
the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, the Company was charged $5.1
million, $4.5 million and $3.6 million, respectively, for all such benefits,
including pension expense totaling $0.3 million, $0.5 million and $0.5 million,
respectively, by Enron Corp.

    As of September 30, 1994, the most recent valuation date, the plan net
assets of the Enron Corp. defined benefit plan in which the employees of the
Company participate exceeded the actuarial present value of projected plan
benefit obligations by approximately $18.9 million. The assumed discount rate,
rate of return on plan assets and rate of increases in wages used in determining
the actuarial present value of projected plan benefits were 8.0%, 10.5% and
4.0%, respectively.

    The Company also has in effect pension and savings plans related to its
Canadian and Trinidadian subsidiaries. Activity related to these plans is not
significant to the Company's operations.

    The Company provides certain medical, life insurance and dental benefits to
eligible employees who retire under the Enron Corp. Retirement Plan and their
eligible surviving spouses. Benefits are provided under the provisions of a
contributory defined dollar benefit plan. The Company accrues the cost of these
postretirement benefits over the service lives of the employees expected to be
eligible to receive such benefits. The transition obligation existing at January
1, 1993 is being amortized over an average period of 19 years. The accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation ("APBO") existing at December 31, 1994 totaled
$106.7 million, of which $91.0 million is applicable to current retirees and
current employees eligible to retire. The measurement of the APBO assumes an 8%
discount rate and a health care cost trend rate of 12.3% in 1994 decreasing to
5% by the year 2006 and beyond. A 1% increase in the health care cost trend rate
would have the effect of increasing the APBO and the

                                     F-16

net periodic expense by approximately $7.9 million and $0.8 million,
respectively. The Company does not currently intend to prefund its obligations
under its postretirement welfare benefit plans.

    STOCK OPTION PLANS. The Company has various stock option plans ("the Plans")
under which employees of the Company and its subsidiaries and non-employee
members of the Board of Directors have been or may be granted rights to purchase
shares of common stock of the Company generally at a price not less than the
market price of the stock at the date of grant. Options granted under the Plans
vest over a period of time based on the nature of the grants and as defined in
the individual grant agreements.

    The following table sets forth the transactions for the Plans for the years
ended December 31:

                                               NUMBER OF STOCK OPTIONS
                                      -----------------------------------------
                                          1994           1993          1992
                                      -------------  ------------  ------------
Outstanding at January 1............      4,124,800     3,908,050       -
    Granted.........................      5,128,095(1)    920,600     4,048,050
    Exercised.......................     (1,967,920)     (671,850)     (127,500)
    Forfeited.......................        (70,420)      (32,000)      (12,500)
                                      -------------  ------------  ------------
Outstanding at December 31 (Grant
  Prices of $9.25-$23.81 per
  Share)............................      7,214,555     4,124,800     3,908,050
                                      =============  ============  ============
Available for Grant at December 31..      3,218,175     1,075,850     1,964,450
                                      =============  ============  ============
- ---------
  (1) Includes 1,920,275 options granted on December 30, 1994 under an all
      employee stock option grant.

    At December 31, 1994, 1,826,880 options outstanding were vested. Of the
remaining unvested options, 2,802,530, 892,780, 727,030, 581,280 and 384,055
vest in the years 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively.

    During 1994, 1993 and 1992, the Company purchased or was tendered 1,817,093,
831,850 and 127,500 of its common shares, respectively, and delivered such
shares upon the exercise of stock options, except for shares held in treasury at
December 31, 1994 and 1993 as set out below. The difference between the cost of
the treasury shares and the exercise price of the options, net of federal income
tax benefit of $7.2 million and $2.8 million for the years 1994 and 1993,
respectively, is reflected as an adjustment to Additional Paid In Capital. In
October 1993, as amended in September 1994, the Company commenced a stock
repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors to facilitate the
availability of treasury shares of common stock for, but not limited to, the
settlement of employee stock option exercises pursuant to the Plans. At December
31, 1994 and 1993, 9,173 and 160,000 shares, respectively, were held in treasury
under this authorization.
(See Note 6 "Shareholders' Equity").

    LETTERS OF CREDIT. At December 31, 1994 and 1993, the Company had letters of
credit outstanding totaling approximately $32.2 and $46.2 million, respectively.
The letters of credit outstanding at December 31, 1994 and December 31, 1993
include $31.9 million issued in connection with a loan between one of the
Company's subsidiaries and a trust and $33 million issued in connection with a
promissory note between the subsidiary and a bank, respectively.

    CONTINGENCIES. There are various suits and claims against the Company having
arisen in the ordinary course of business. However, management does not believe
these suits and claims will individually or in the aggregate have a material
adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
TransAmerican Natural Gas Corporation ("TransAmerican") has filed a petition
against the Company and Enron Corp. alleging breach of contract, tortious
interference with contract, misappropriation of trade secrets and violation of
state antitrust laws. The petition, as amended, seeks actual damages of $100
million plus exemplary damages of $300 million. The Company has answered the
petition and is actively defending the matter; in addition, the Company has
filed counterclaims against TransAmerican and a third-party claim against its
sole shareholder,
                                     F-17

John R. Stanley, alleging fraud, negligent misrepresentation and breach of state
antitrust laws. On April 6, 1994, Enron Corp. was granted summary judgment
wherein the court ordered that TransAmerican can take nothing on its claims
against Enron Corp. Trial, which was set most recently for September 12, 1994
has been continued and there is no current setting. Although no assurances can
be given, the Company believes that the claims made by TransAmerican are totally
without merit, that the ultimate resolution of the matter will not have a
materially adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations,
and that such ultimate resolution could result in a recovery to the Company. The
Company has been named as a potentially responsible party in certain
Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act proceedings.
However, management does not believe that any potential assessments resulting
from such proceedings will individually or in the aggregate have a materially
adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the
Company.

10.  CASH FLOW INFORMATION

    Gains on sales of certain oil and gas reserves and related assets in the
amount of $54.0 million, $13.3 million and $6.0 million for the years ended
December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively, are required by current
accounting guidelines to be removed from Net Income in connection with
determining Net Operating Cash Inflows while the related proceeds are required
to be classified as investing cash inflows. The Company believes that proceeds
from the sales of reserves and related assets should be considered in analyzing
the elements of operating cash inflows. The current federal income tax impact of
these sales transactions was calculated by the Company to be $19.8 million, $8.2
million and $8.2 million for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992,
respectively, which entered into the overall calculation of current federal
income tax. The Company believes that this federal income tax impact should also
be considered in analyzing the elements of the cash flow statement.

    Cash paid for interest and paid (received) for income taxes was as follows
for the years ended December 31:
                                          1994        1993        1992
                                       ----------  ----------  ----------
Interest (net of amount
  capitalized).......................  $   10,436  $   10,517  $   21,576
Income taxes.........................       1,352     (65,543)      7,365

11.  BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

    The Company's operations are all natural gas and crude oil exploration and
production related. Accordingly, such operations are classified as one business
segment. Financial information by geographic area is presented below for the
years ended December 31, or at December 31:

                                     F-18
12.  OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

    Other income (expense) consisted of the following for the years ended
December 31:
                                          1994         1993         1992
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
Interest Income......................  $     4,990  $     5,789  $     1,555
Reserve Accruals.....................       (3,143)      (2,520)      (2,194)
Contract Settlements.................       -             4,248       -
Other, Net...........................          936         (882)      (2,837)
                                       -----------  -----------  -----------
        Total........................  $     2,783  $     6,635  $    (3,476)
                                       ===========  ===========  ===========

13.  PRICE AND INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT

    Periodically, the Company enters into certain trading and non-trading
activities including NYMEX-related commodity market transactions and other
contracts. The non-trading portions of these activities have been designated to
hedge the impact of market price fluctuations on anticipated commodity delivery
volumes or other contractual commitments. Gains and losses relating to trading
transactions were not material to the accompanying consolidated financial
statements. All trading positions were closed subsequent to year-end.

    INTEREST RATE SWAP AGREEMENTS. In early 1992, the Company entered into
interest rate swap agreements to hedge certain floating interest rate exposure
in 1992 and 1993. This floating rate exposure arises from debt with interest
payments subject to floating interest rates. (See Note 4 "Long-Term Debt"). The
notional value of these interest rate swap agreements was $75 million. Effective
January 1, 1993, Enron Corp. assumed the Company's remaining obligations under
these swap agreements.

    At December 31, 1994, the Company had outstanding interest rate swap
agreements with notional principal amounts of $50 million which terminate in
April 1995. The interest rate swap agreements were entered into to hedge certain
floating rate obligations and effectively fix the interest rate on the notional
amount of debt at 8.98% and 8.92%. The estimated fair value of the outstanding
swap agreements at December 31, 1994 was a negative $0.5 million. The fair value
of interest rate swap agreements is based upon termination values obtained from
third parties.

    FOREIGN CURRENCY CONTRACTS. The Company enters into foreign currency
contracts from time to time to hedge specific currency exposure from commercial
transactions. At December 31, 1994, there were no foreign currency contracts
outstanding.

    ENERGY COMMODITY PRICE SWAPS. The Company entered into certain commodity
price swap agreements to, in effect, hedge the market risk caused by
fluctuations in the cost of natural gas. The agreements call for the Company to
make payments to (or receive payments from) counterparties based upon the
differential between a fixed and a variable price for natural gas volumes
specified by the contracts. Such natural gas price swap agreements run for
periods of up to ten years expiring in 1999. The Company is the fixed price
payor on a notional quantity of 66 trillion British thermal units ("TBtu") of
natural gas with a fair value of negative $103.7 million at December 31, 1994.
The agreements were entered into to, in effect, fix the price of certain
purchases which are used to supply a fixed price sales contract. Inclusive of
the effect of the price swap, the differential between the escalating fixed
purchase price and the escalating fixed sales price results in profit margins
ranging from $1.15 per million British thermal unit ("MMBtu") to $1.44 per MMBtu
on approximately 66 TBtu to be purchased and delivered for sale over the
remaining term of the contracts.

    From time to time, the Company enters into primarily NYMEX-related commodity
market transactions with affiliates of Enron Corp. to, in effect, mitigate the
risk of market price fluctuations on future deliveries of certain portions of
its natural gas and crude oil and condensate. At December 31, 1994, the Company
had outstanding positions covering notional volumes of approximately 50 TBtu and
51 TBtu of natural gas for the years 1995 and 1996, respectively and
approximately 2.5 million barrels ("MMBbl") of crude oil for the year 1995, 1.3
MMBbl of crude oil for the year 1996 and 1.1 MMBbl of crude oil for each of the
years 1997 through 1999. The fair value of the positions was $30.7 million at
December 31, 1994.
                                     F-19

    The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of financial
instruments and related transactions for non-trading activities at December 31,
1994:

                                        CARRYING      ESTIMATED
                                         AMOUNT     FAIR VALUE(1)
                                        --------    -------------
                                              (IN MILLIONS)
Long-Term Debt(2)....................   $ 190.3        $ 185.7
Interest Rate Swap Agreements(2).....      -              (0.5)
Foreign Currency Contracts...........      -            -
Energy Commodity Price Swaps(3)......      -            (103.7)
Related Fixed Price Sales
  Contract(3)........................      -             170.8
NYMEX-Related Commodity Market
  Positions..........................      -              30.7
- ---------
  (1) Estimated fair values have been determined by using available market data
      and valuation methodologies. Judgment is necessarily required in
      interpreting market data and the use of different market assumptions or
      estimation methodologies may affect the estimated fair value amounts.

  (2) See Note 4 "Long-Term Debt."

  (3) The fair value of the Energy Commodity Price Swaps should be considered
      with the fair value of the Related Fixed Price Sales Contract in
      determining the overall market risk of these related business
      transactions.

    CREDIT RISK. While notional contract amounts are used to express the
magnitude of price and interest rate swap agreements, the amounts potentially
subject to credit risk, in the event of nonperformance by the other parties, are
substantially smaller. The Company does not anticipate nonperformance by the
other parties.

14.  CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

    Substantially all of the Company's accounts receivable at December 31, 1994
result from crude oil and natural gas sales and/or joint interest billings to
affiliate and third party companies in the oil and gas industry. This
concentration of customers and joint interest owners may impact the Company's
overall credit risk, either positively or negatively, in that these entities may
be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions. In determining
whether or not to require collateral from a customer or joint interest owner,
the Company analyzes the entity's net worth, cash flows, earnings, and credit
ratings. Receivables are generally not collateralized. Historical credit losses
incurred on receivables by the Company have been immaterial.

                                     F-20

                           ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
        SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
      (IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED)
         (UNAUDITED EXCEPT FOR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR OIL AND GAS
                            PRODUCING ACTIVITIES)

OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES

    The following disclosures are made in accordance with SFAS No. 69 -
"Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities":

    OIL AND GAS RESERVES. Users of this information should be aware that the
process of estimating quantities of "proved" and "proved developed" crude oil
and natural gas reserves is very complex, requiring significant subjective
decisions in the evaluation of all available geological, engineering and
economic data for each reservoir. The data for a given reservoir may also change
substantially over time as a result of numerous factors including, but not
limited to, additional development activity, evolving production history, and
continual reassessment of the viability of production under varying economic
conditions. Consequently, material revisions to existing reserve estimates occur
from time to time. Although every reasonable effort is made to ensure that
reserve estimates reported represent the most accurate assessments possible, the
significance of the subjective decisions required and variances in available
data for various reservoirs make these estimates generally less precise than
other estimates presented in connection with financial statement disclosures.

    Proved reserves represent estimated quantities of crude oil, condensate,
natural gas and natural gas liquids that geological and engineering data
demonstrate, with reasonable certainty, to be recoverable in future years from
known reservoirs under economic and operating conditions existing at the time
the estimates were made.

    Proved developed reserves are proved reserves expected to be recovered,
through wells and equipment in place and under operating methods being utilized
at the time the estimates were made.

    Canadian provincial royalties are determined based on a graduated percentage
scale which varies with prices and production volumes. Canadian reserves, as
presented on a net basis, assume prices and royalty rates in existence at the
time the estimates were made, and the Company's estimate of future production
volumes. Future fluctuations in prices, production rates, or changes in
political or regulatory environments could cause the Company's share of future
production from Canadian reserves to be materially different from that
presented.

    Estimates of proved and proved developed reserves at December 31, 1994, 1993
and 1992 were based on studies performed by the Company's engineering staff for
reserves in the United States, Canada, Trinidad and India. Opinions by DeGolyer
and MacNaughton, independent petroleum consultants, for the years ended December
31, 1994, 1993 and 1992 covering producing areas containing 59%, 65% and 69%,
respectively, of proved reserves of the Company on a
net-equivalent-cubic-feet-of-gas basis, indicate that the estimates of proved
reserves prepared by the Company's engineering staff for the properties reviewed
by DeGolyer and MacNaughton, when compared in total on a
net-equivalent-cubic-feet-of-gas basis, do not differ materially from the
estimates prepared by DeGolyer and MacNaughton. Such estimates by DeGolyer and
MacNaughton in the aggregate varied by not more than 5% from those prepared by
the Company's engineering staff. All reports by DeGolyer and MacNaughton were
developed utilizing geological and engineering data provided by the Company.

    No major discovery or other favorable or adverse event subsequent to
December 31, 1994 is believed to have caused a material change in the estimates
of proved or proved developed reserves as of that date.

                                     F-21

    The following table sets forth the Company's net proved and proved developed
reserves at December 31 for each of the four years in the period ended December
31, 1994, and the changes in the net proved reserves for each of the three years
in the period then ended as estimated by the Company's engineering staff.

               NET PROVED AND PROVED DEVELOPED RESERVE SUMMARY

    CAPITALIZED COSTS RELATING TO OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES. The
following table sets forth the capitalized costs relating to the Company's
natural gas and crude oil producing activities at December 31, 1994 and 1993:

                                            1994            1993
                                       --------------  --------------
Proved properties....................  $    2,889,242  $    2,675,419
Unproved properties..................         126,193          96,801
                                       --------------  --------------
    Total............................       3,015,435       2,772,220
Accumulated depreciation, depletion
  and amortization...................      (1,330,624)     (1,226,175)
                                       --------------  --------------
Net capitalized costs................  $    1,684,811  $    1,546,045
                                       ==============  ==============

    COSTS INCURRED IN OIL AND GAS PROPERTY ACQUISITION, EXPLORATION AND
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES.  The acquisition, exploration and development costs
disclosed in the following tables are in accordance with definitions in SFAS
No. 19 - "Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing
Companies".

    Acquisition costs include costs incurred to purchase, lease, or otherwise
acquire property.

    Exploration costs include exploration expenses, additions to exploration
wells in progress, and depreciation of support equipment used in exploration
activities.

    Development costs include additions to production facilities and equipment,
additions to development wells in progress and related facilities, and
depreciation of support equipment and related facilities used in development
activities.

    The following tables set forth costs incurred related to the Company's oil
and gas activities for the years ended December 31:



                                     F-25

    STANDARDIZED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS RELATING TO PROVED
OIL AND GAS RESERVES. The following information has been developed utilizing
procedures prescribed by SFAS No. 69 and based on crude oil and natural gas
reserve and production volumes estimated by the engineering staff of the
Company. It may be useful for certain comparison purposes, but should not be
solely relied upon in evaluating the Company or its performance. Further,
information contained in the following table should not be considered as
representative of realistic assessments of future cash flows, nor should the
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows be viewed as
representative of the current value of the Company.

    The future cash flows presented below are based on sales prices, cost rates,
and statutory income tax rates in existence as of the date of the projections.
It is expected that material revisions to some estimates of crude oil and
natural gas reserves may occur in the future, development and production of the
reserves may occur in periods other than those assumed, and actual prices
realized and costs incurred may vary significantly from those used.

    Management does not rely upon the following information in making investment
and operating decisions. Such decisions are based upon a wide range of factors,
including estimates of probable as well as proved reserves, and varying price
and cost assumptions considered more representative of a range of possible
economic conditions that may be anticipated.

    The following table sets forth the standardized measure of discounted future
net cash flows from projected production of the Company's crude oil and natural
gas reserves at December 31, for the years ended December 31:

                                     F-27

    CHANGES IN STANDARDIZED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS. The
following table sets forth the changes in the standardized measure of discounted
future net cash flows at December 31, for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1994.

                                     F-28

UNAUDITED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION

                                     F-29
                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                           ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
        SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
             FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992
                                (IN THOUSANDS)

                                     S-1

                                   EXHIBITS

    Exhibits not incorporated herein by reference to a prior filing are
designated by an asterisk (*) and are filed herewith; all exhibits not so
designated are incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Form S-1
Registration Statement, Registration No. 33-30678, filed on August 24, 1989
("Form S-1"), or as otherwise indicated.

     3.1(a)       -   Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Enron Oil & Gas
                      Company (Exhibit 3.1 to Form S-1).

     3.1(b)       -   Certificate of Amendment of Restated Certificate of
                      Incorporation of Enron Oil & Gas Company (Exhibit 4.1(b)
                      to Form S-8 Registration Statement, Registration No.
                      33-52201, filed on February 8, 1994).

     3.1(c)       -   Certificate of Amendment of Restated Certificate of
                      Incorporation of Enron Oil & Gas Company (Exhibit 4.1(c)
                      to Form S-8 Registration Statement, Registration No.
                      33-58103, filed on March 15, 1995).

     3.2*         -   Bylaws of Enron Oil & Gas Company.

     3.3          -   Specimen of Certificate evidencing the Common Stock
                      (Exhibit 3.3 to Form S-1).

     4.1          -   Promissory Note due May 1, 1996, dated May 1, 1991
                      (Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                      for the year ended December 31, 1991).

     4.3          -   Amended and Restated Enron Oil & Gas Company 1994 Stock
                      Plan (Exhibit 4.3 to Form S-8 Registration Statement,
                      Registration No. 33-58103, filed on March 15, 1995).

    10.1          -   Services Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1994, between
                      Enron Oil & Gas Company and Enron Corp. (Exhibit 10.1 to
                      the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                      ended December 31, 1993).

    10.2          -   Stock Restriction and Registration Agreement dated as of
                      August 23, 1989 (Exhibit 10.2 to Form S-1).

    10.3          -   Tax Allocation Agreement dated as of August 23, 1989
                      (Exhibit 10.3 to Form S-1), and First Amended and Restated
                      Tax Allocation Agreement dated as of August 9, 1991, as
                      amended on February 6, 1992 (Exhibit 10.3 to Form S-1
                      Registration Statement, Registration No. 33-50462, filed
                      on August 5, 1992).

    10.4          -   Enron Corp. Deferral Plan dated December 10, 1985 (Exhibit
                      10.12 to Form S-1).

    10.5          -   Enron Corp. 1988 Stock Plan (Exhibit 10.13 to Form S-1).

    10.7          -   Enron Corp. 1984 Stock Option Plan (Exhibit 10.15 to
                      Form S-1).

    10.8          -   Enron Corp. 1986 Stock Option Plan (Exhibit 10.16 to
                      Form S-1).

    10.9(a)       -   Employment Agreement between Enron Oil & Gas Company and
                      Forrest Hoglund, dated as of September 1, 1987, as amended
                      (Exhibit 10.19 to Form S-1), and Second and Third
                      Amendments to Employment Agreement dated June 30, 1989 and
                      February 14, 1992, respectively (Exhibit 10.10 to Form S-1
                      Registration Statement, Registration No. 33-50462, filed
                      on August 5, 1992).

    10.9(b)*      -   4th Amendment to Employment Agreement dated December 14,
                      1994, among Enron Corp., Enron Oil & Gas Company and
                      Forrest Hoglund.

    10.10         -   Fuel Supply Contract, dated as of June 30, 1986, by and
                      between Enron Oil & Gas Company, HNG Oil Company, BelNorth
                      Petroleum Corporation and Enron Cogenration One Company,
                      as amended (Exhibit 10.23 to Form S-1).

    10.11         -   Gas Sales Contract dated September 2, 1987 between Enron
                      Oil & Gas Company and Cogenron Inc., as amended (Exhibit
                      10.24 to Form S-1).

    10.12         -   Letter Agreement dated August 20, 1987 between Enron Oil &
                      Gas Company and Panhandle Gas Company (Exhibit 10.25 to
                      Form S-1).

                                     E-1

    10.13         -   Pension Program for Enron Corp. Deferral Plan
                      Participants, effective January 1, 1985, as amended
                      (Exhibit 10.29 to Form S-1).

    10.14         -   Enron Oil & Gas Company 1993 Nonemployee Director Stock
                      Option Plan (Exhibit 10.14 to the Company's Annual Report
                      on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992).

    10.15(a)      -   Credit Agreement, dated as of March 11, 1994, among Enron
                      Oil & Gas Company, the Banks named therein and Texas
                      Commerce Bank, National Association, as Administrative
                      Agent and Promissory Note due January 15, 1998, dated
                      March 11, 1994 to the order of Texas Commerce Bank
                      National Association, Promissory Note due January 15,
                      1998, dated March 11, 1994 to the order of The Bank of New
                      York, Promissory Note due January 15, 1998, dated March
                      11, 1994 to the order of The Bank of Nova Scotia,
                      Promissory Note due January 15, 1998, dated March 11, 1994
                      to the order of Credit Lyonnais Cayman Islands Branch,
                      Promissory Note due January 15, 1998, dated March 11, 1994
                      to the order of Credit Suisse, Promissory Note due January
                      15, 1998, dated March 11, 1994 to the order of The First
                      National Bank of Chicago, and Promissory Note due January
                      15, 1998, dated March 11, 1994 to the order of Bank of
                      America National Trust and Savings Association (Exhibit
                      10.15 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                      year ended December 31, 1993).

    10.15(b)*     -   Assignment and Acceptance dated April 14, 1994, between
                      Texas Commerce Bank National Association and Royal Bank of
                      Canada and Promissory Note due January 15, 1998, dated
                      April 14, 1994, to the order of Texas Commerce Bank
                      National Association and Promissory Note due January 15,
                      1998, dated April 14, 1994, to the order of Royal Bank of
                      Canada.

    10.16         -   Interest Rate and Currency Exchange Agreement, dated as of
                      June 1, 1991, between Enron Risk Management Services Corp.
                      and Enron Oil & Gas Market- ing, Inc. (Exhibit 10.17 to
                      the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                      ended December 31, 1991), Confirmation dated June 14, 1992
                      (Exhibit 10.17 to Form S-1 Registration Statement,
                      Registration No. 33-50462, filed on August 5, 1992) and
                      Confirmations dated March 25, 1991, April 25, 1991, and
                      September 23, 1992 (assigned to Enron Risk Management
                      Services Corp. by Enron Finance Corp. pursuant to an
                      Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated as of November
                      1, 1993, by and between Enron Finance Corp., Enron Risk
                      Management Services Corp. and Enron Oil & Gas Marketing,
                      Inc.). (Exhibit 10.16 to the Company's Annual Report on
                      Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993).

    10.17         -   Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated as of November
                      1, 1993, by and between Enron Oil & Gas Marketing, Inc.,
                      Enron Oil & Gas Company and Enron Risk Management Services
                      Corp. (Exhibit 10.17 to the Company's Annual Report on
                      Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993).

    10.18         -   ISDA Master Agreement, dated as of November 1, 1993,
                      between Enron Oil & Gas Company and Enron Risk Management
                      Services Corp., and Confirmation Nos. 1268.0, 1286.0,
                      1291.0, 1292.0, 1304.0, 1305.0, 1321.0, 1335.0, 1338.0,
                      1370.0, 1471.0, 1485.0, 1486.0, 1494.0, 1495.0, 1509.0,
                      1514.0, 1533.01, 1569.0, 1986.0, 2217.0, 2227.0, 2278.0,
                      2299.0, 2372.0, 2647.0 (Exhibit 10.18 to the Company's
                      Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                      1993).

    10.19         -   Letter Agreement between Colorado Interstate Gas Company
                      and Enron Oil & Gas Marketing, Inc. dated November 1, 1990
                      (Exhibit 10.18 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                      for the year ended December 31, 1990).

    10.22         -   Gas Sales Agreement between Enron Gas Marketing, Inc. and
                      Enron Oil & Gas Marketing, Inc. dated August 22, 1989
                      (Exhibit 10.38 to Form S-1).

    10.23         -   Gas Purchase Agreement between Enron Oil & Gas Company and
                      Enron Oil & Gas Marketing, Inc. dated August 22, 1989
                      (Exhibit 10.41 to Form S-1).

    10.24         -   Gas Purchase Agreement between Enron Oil & Gas Company and
                      Enron Oil & Gas Marketing, Inc. dated August 22, 1989
                      (Exhibit 10.42 to Form S-1).

                                     E-2

    10.25         -   Enron Corp. 1991 Stock Plan (Exhibit 10.08 to Enron Corp.
                      Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                      December 31, 1991).

    10.26         -   Enron Corp. 1988 Deferral Plan (Exhibit 10.49 to
                      Form S-1).

    10.27         -   Form of Enron Corp. Long-Term Incentive Plan Effective as
                      of January 1, 1987 (Exhibit 10.50 to Form S-1).

    10.28         -   Enron Executive Supplemental Survivor Benefits Plan
                      Effective January 1, 1987 (Exhibit 10.51 to Form S-1).

    10.29         -   1988 FlexPerq Program Summary (Exhibit 10.52 to Form S-1).

    10.30         -   Credit Agreement between Enron Corp. and Enron Oil & Gas
                      Company dated September 29, 1992 (Exhibit 10.28 to the
                      Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                      December 31, 1992).

    10.31         -   Credit Agreement between Enron Oil & Gas Company and Enron
                      Corp. dated September 29, 1992 (Exhibit 10.29 to the
                      Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                      December 31, 1992).

    10.33         -   Swap Agreement between Banque Paribas and Enron Oil & Gas
                      Company, dated as of December 5, 1990 (Exhibit 10.37 to
                      the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                      ended December 31, 1990), and Confirmations dated March
                      25, 1991 and April 25, 1991 (Exhibit 10.37 to Form S-1
                      Registration Statement, Registration No. 33-50462, filed
                      on August 5, 1992).

    10.34         -   Enron Oil & Gas Company 1992 Stock Plan (Exhibit 10.40 to
                      the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                      ended December 31, 1991).

    10.35         -   Enron Corp. 1992 Deferral Plan (Exhibit 10.41 to the
                      Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                      December 31, 1991).

    10.36(a)      -   Conveyance of Production Payment, dated September 25,
                      1992, between Enron Oil & Gas Company and Cactus
                      Hydrocarbon 1992-A Limited Partnership (Exhibit 10.34 to
                      the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                      ended December 31, 1992).

    10.36(b)      -   First Amendment to Conveyance of Production Payment, dated
                      effective April 1, 1993 between Enron Oil & Gas Company
                      and Cactus Hydrocarbon 1992-A Limited Partnership (Exhibit
                      10.36(b) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                      the year ended December 31, 1993).

    10.36(c)      -   Second Amendment to Conveyance of Production Payment,
                      dated effective July 1, 1993 between Enron Oil & Gas
                      Company and Cactus Hydrocarbon 1992-A Limited Partnership
                      (Exhibit 10.36(c) to the Company's Annual Report on Form
                      10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993).

    10.36(d)      -   Third Amendment to Conveyance of Production Payment, dated
                      effective October 1, 1993 between Enron Oil & Gas Company
                      and Cactus Hydrocarbon 1992-A Limited Partnership (Exhibit
                      10.36(d) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                      the year ended December 31, 1993).

    10.37(a)      -   Hydrocarbon Exchange Agreement dated September 25, 1992,
                      between Enron Oil & Gas Company and Cactus Hydrocarbon
                      1992-A Limited Partnership (Exhibit 10.35 to the Company's
                      Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                      1992).

    10.37(b)*     -   Amendment to Hydrocarbon Exchange Agreement dated
                      effective as of January 1, 1993, between Enron Oil & Gas
                      Company and Cactus Hydrocarbon 1992-A Limited Partnership.

    10.37(c)*     -   First Amendment to Hydrocarbon Exchange Agreement dated
                      effective as of April 1, 1993, between Enron Oil & Gas
                      Company and Cactus Hydrocarbon 1992-A Limited Partnership.

    10.37(d)*     -   Second Amendment to Hydrocarbon Exchange Agreement dated
                      effective as of July 1, 1993, between Enron Oil & Gas
                      Company and Cactus Hydrocarbon 1992-A Limited Partnership.

    10.37(e)*     -   Amendment to Hydrocarbon Exchange Agreement dated
                      effective as of August 1, 1993, between Enron Oil & Gas
                      Company and Cactus Hydrocarbon 1992-A Limited Partnership.

                                     E-3

    10.37(f)      -   Fourth Amendment to Hydrocarbon Exchange Agreement, dated
                      effective October 1, 1993, between Enron Oil & Gas Company
                      and Cactus Hydrocarbon 1992-A Limited Partnership (Exhibit
                      10.37 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                      year ended December 31, 1993).

    10.38         -   Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated September 25, 1992,
                      between Enron Oil & Gas Company and Cactus Hydrocarbon
                      1992-A Limited Partnership (Exhibit 10.36 to the Company's
                      Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                      December 31, 1992).

    10.39(a)      -   Production and Delivery Agreement, dated September 25,
                      1992, between Enron Oil & Gas Company and Cactus
                      Hydrocarbon 1992-A Limited Partnership (Exhibit 10.37 to
                      the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                      ended December 31, 1992).

    10.39(b)      -   First Amendment to Production and Delivery Agreement,
                      dated effective April 1, 1993 between Enron Oil & Gas
                      Company and Cactus Hydrocarbon 1992-A Limited Partnership
                      (Exhibit 10.39(b) to the Company's Annual Report on Form
                      10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993).

    10.39(c)      -   Second Amendment to Production and Delivery Agreement,
                      dated effective July 1, 1993 between Enron Oil & Gas
                      Company and Cactus Hydrocarbon 1992-A Limited Partnership
                      (Exhibit 10.39(c) to the Company's Annual Report on Form
                      10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993).

    10.39(d)      -   Third Amendment to Production and Delivery Agreement,
                      dated effective October 1, 1993 between Enron Oil & Gas
                      Company and Cactus Hydrocarbon 1992-A Limited Partnership
                      (Exhibit 10.39(d) to the Company's Annual Report on Form
                      10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993).

    10.40         -   Credit Agreement, dated as of March 8, 1994 between Enron
                      Gas & Oil Trinidad Limited and Caribbean Regional
                      Development Investment Trust, and Request for Advance No.
                      1, dated March 4, 1993, and Request for Advance No. 2,
                      dated March 4, 1993 (Exhibit 10.40 to the Company's Annual
                      Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993).

    10.41         -   Promissory Note due May 1, 1998, dated as of March 8,
                      1994, to the order of Caribbean Regional Development
                      Investment Trust (Exhibit 10.41 to the Company's Annual
                      Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993).

    10.42         -   Promissory Note due May 1, 1998, dated as of March 8, 1994
                      to the order of Caribbean Regional Development Investment
                      Trust (Exhibit 10.42 to the Company's Annual Report on
                      Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993).

    10.43         -   Letter of Credit and Reimbursement Agreement, dated March
                      8, 1994, between Enron Gas & Oil Trinidad Limited and
                      Credit Suisse (Exhibit 10.43 to the Company's Annual
                      Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993).

    10.44         -   Parent Guaranty, dated March 8, 1994 between Enron Oil &
                      Gas Company and Credit Suisse (Exhibit 10.44 to the
                      Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                      December 31, 1993).

    10.45(a)*     -   Letter Loan Agreement dated as of May 27, 1994, between
                      Enron Gas & Oil Trinidad Limited and The Bank of Nova
                      Scotia.

    10.45(b)*     -   Promissory Note due May 27, 1999, dated as of May 31,
                      1994, to the order of The Bank of Nova Scotia.

    10.45(c)*     -   Promissory Note due May 27, 1999, dated as of January 10,
                      1995, to the order of The Bank of Nova Scotia.

    10.46*        -   Guaranty dated as of May 27, 1994, between Enron Oil & Gas
                      Company and The Bank of Nova Scotia.

    10.47*        -   Attorney Opinion Letter of Enron Oil & Gas International,
                      Inc. dated December 18, 1994 (Panna and Mukta Fields).

    10.48*        -   Certificate of Enron Oil & Gas India Ltd. dated December
                      22, 1994 (Panna and Mukta Fields).

                                     E-4

    10.49*        -   Financial and Performance Guarantee of Enron Oil & Gas
                      International, Inc. dated December 22, 1994 (Panna and
                      Mukta Fields).

    10.50*        -   Joint Operating Agreement effective as of December 22,
                      1994, among Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Limited, Enron
                      Oil & Gas India Ltd. and Reliance Industries Limited for
                      contract area identified as Panna and Mukta Fields
                      (Appendices B-1 and B-2 have been intentionally omitted.
                      The Company hereby agrees to furnish a copy of either
                      appendix to the Commission upon request).

    10.51*        -   Production Sharing Contract dated as of December 22, 1994,
                      among The Government of India, Oil & Natural Gas
                      Corporation Limited, Reliance Industries Limited and Enron
                      Oil & Gas India Ltd., for contract area identified as
                      Panna and Mukta Fields [Appendices B-1 and B-2 and
                      Appendix G (Figures G-1, VIIA-1 to 10, VIIB-1 to 20 and
                      VIII-3) have all been intentionally omitted. The Company
                      hereby agrees to furnish a copy of any such appendix
                      and/or figure to the Commission upon request].

    10.52*        -   Attorney Opinion Letter of Enron Oil & Gas International,
                      Inc. dated December 18, 1994 (Tapti Fields).

    10.53*        -   Certificate of Enron Oil & Gas India Ltd. dated December
                      22, 1994 (Tapti Fields).

    10.54*        -   Financial and Performance Guarantee of Enron Oil & Gas
                      International, Inc. dated December 22, 1994 (Tapti
                      Fields).

    10.55*        -   Joint Operating Agreement effective as of December 22,
                      1994, among Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Limited, Enron
                      Oil & Gas India Ltd. and Reliance Industries Limited, for
                      contract area identified as Mid-Tapti and South-Tapti Gas
                      Fields [Appendix B (Figure B-1) has been intentionally
                      omitted. The Company hereby agrees to furnish a copy of
                      such appendix to the Commission upon request].

    10.56*        -   Production Sharing Contract dated as of December 22, 1994,
                      among The Government of India, Oil & Natural Gas
                      Corporation Limited, Reliance Industries Limited and Enron
                      Oil & Gas India Ltd., for contract area identified as Mid
                      and South Tapti Field [Appendix B, Appendix G (Figures
                      G-1, VII-1 to 11, VIII-2 to 4 and Appendix 3) have all
                      been intentionally omitted. The Company hereby agrees to
                      furnish a copy of any such appendix, to the Commission
                      upon request].

    22*          -    List of subsidiaries.

    23.1*         -   Consent of DeGolyer and MacNaughton.

    23.2*         -   Opinion of DeGolyer and MacNaughton dated
                      January 13, 1995.

    23.3*         -   Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP.

    24*          -    Powers of Attorney.

    27*          -    Financial Data Schedule.

                                     E-5

                                  SIGNATURES

    ]PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED, ON THE 22ND DAY OF
MARCH, 1995.

                                         ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY
                                                (REGISTRANT)

                                           By  /s/  WALTER C. WILSON
                                                   (WALTER C. WILSON)
                                            SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF
                                                   FINANCIAL OFFICER

    PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF REGISTRANT AND IN
THE CAPACITIES WITH ENRON OIL & GAS COMPANY INDICATED AND ON THE 22ND DAY OF
MARCH, 1995.

     SIGNATURE                                      TITLE
- -----------------------                 --------------------------------

/s/FORREST E. HOGLUND                   Chairman of the Board, President
  (FORREST E. HOGLUND)                    and Chief Executive
                                          Officer and Director
                                          (Principal Executive Officer)

 /s/WALTER C. WILSON                    Senior Vice President and Chief
  (WALTER C. WILSON)                      Financial Officer
                                          (Principal Financial Officer)

    /s/BEN B. BOYD                      Vice President and Controller
    (BEN B. BOYD)                         (Principal Accounting Officer)

   FRED C. ACKMAN*                      Director
   (FRED C. ACKMAN)

  RICHARD D. KINDER*                    Director
 (RICHARD D. KINDER)

   KENNETH L. LAY*                      Director
   (KENNETH L. LAY)

 EDWARD RANDALL, III*                   Director
(EDWARD RANDALL, III)

        *By /s/ANGUS H. DAVIS
              (ANGUS H. DAVIS)
(ATTORNEY-IN-FACT FOR PERSONS INDICATED)



