
10-K405
CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION - DATED 12/31/95




                       Securities and Exchange Commission
                            Washington, D. C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                 For the Fiscal year ended December 31, 1995

                         Commission file number 1-10447

                          CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

               DELAWARE                              04-3072771
    (State or other jurisdiction of               (I.R.S. Employer
    incorporation or organization)              Identification Number)

                   15375 MEMORIAL DRIVE, HOUSTON, TEXAS 77079
          (Address of principal executive offices including Zip Code)


                                 (713) 589-4600
                        (Registrant's telephone number)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                        Name of each exchange
     Title of each class                                 on which registered

 CLASS A COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.10 PER SHARE        NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE
 RIGHTS TO PURCHASE PREFERRED STOCK                    NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days

        Yes   X                                                      No
             ---                                                        ---

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

  The aggregate market value of Class A Common Stock, par value $.10 per share
("Common Stock"), held by non-affiliates (based upon the closing sales price on
the New York Stock Exchange on March 1, 1996), was approximately $336,950,000.

  As of February 29, 1996, there were 22,796,580 shares of Common Stock
outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

  Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held May 16, 1996 are incorporated herein by reference in Items 10, 11, 12, and
13 of Part III of this report.


PART I


                             ---------------------

   The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the
other statements which are not historical facts contained in this report are
forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but
not limited to, market factors, market prices of natural gas and oil, results
of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs and
other factors detailed herein and in the Company's other Securities and
Exchange Commission filings.

PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

  Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (the "Company") explores for, develops, produces,
stores, transports, purchases and markets natural gas and, to a lesser extent,
produces and sells crude oil. Substantially all of the Company's operations are
in the Appalachian Region of West Virginia, Pennsylvania and New York and in
the Western Region, including the Anadarko Basin of southwestern Kansas,
Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle, the Green River Basin of Wyoming, and South
Texas. At December 31, 1995, the Company had approximately 922 Bcfe of total
proved reserves, 97% of which was natural gas. A significant portion of the
Company's natural gas reserves is located in long-lived fields with extended
production histories.

  The Company, a Delaware corporation, was organized in 1989 as the successor
to the oil and gas business of Cabot Corporation ("Cabot"), which was begun in
1891. In 1990, the Company completed its initial public offering of
approximately 18% of the outstanding common stock held by Cabot. Cabot
distributed the remaining common stock of the Company to the shareholders of
Cabot in 1991. The Company has been publicly traded on the New York Stock
Exchange since its initial public offering.

  Unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to the Company
include Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, its predecessors and subsidiaries.
Similarly, all references to Cabot include Cabot Corporation and its
affiliates. All references to wells are gross, unless otherwise stated.

  The following table summarizes certain information, at December 31, 1995,
regarding the Company's proved reserves, productive wells, developed and
undeveloped acreage and infrastructure.


SUMMARY OF RESERVES, PRODUCTION, ACREAGE AND OTHER INFORMATION BY AREAS OF
OPERATION(1)


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1) As of December 31, 1995. For additional information regarding the Company's
    estimates of proved reserves and other data, see "Business -- Reserves,"
    and the "Supplemental Oil and Gas Information to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements."

(2) Includes all properties outside the Appalachian Region, including
    properties located in Anadarko, the Rocky Mountains and the Gulf Coast
    areas.






EXPLORATION, DEVELOPMENT AND PRODUCTION

    The Company is one of the largest producers of natural gas in the
Appalachian basin, where it has conducted operations for more than a century.
The Company has had operations in the Anadarko basin for over 50 years. The
Company acquired its operations in the Rocky Mountains and the Gulf Coast
pursuant to the merger of Washington Energy Resources Company with the Company
which was completed in May of 1994. Historically, the Company has maintained
its reserve base through low-risk development drilling and strategic
acquisitions. The Company continues to focus its operations in the Appalachian
and Western Regions through development of undeveloped reserves and acreage,
acquisition of oil and gas producing properties and, to a lesser extent,
exploration.

APPALACHIAN REGION

    The Company's exploration, development and production activities in the
Appalachian Region are concentrated in Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia and
New York. Operations are managed by a regional office in Pittsburgh. At
December 31, 1995, the Company had approximately 517 Bcfe of proved reserves
(substantially all natural gas) in the Appalachian Region, constituting 56% of
the Company's total proved reserves.

    The Company has 4,100 productive wells (3,768.9 net), of which 4,014 wells
are operated by the Company. There are multiple producing intervals which
include the Medina, Berea, and Big Lime trend formations at depths primarily
ranging from 1,500 to 6,000 feet. Average net daily production in 1995 was 75.7
MMcfe. While natural gas production volumes from Appalachian reservoirs are
relatively low on a per-well basis compared to other areas of the United
States, the productive life of Appalachian reserves is relatively long.

    In 1995, the Company drilled 33 wells (24.5 net) in the Appalachian Region,
of which 24 were development wells (21.5 net). Capital and exploration
expenditures, including pipeline expenditures for the year were $10.9 million.
In the 1996 drilling program year, the Company has plans to drill 96.0 net
wells.

    At December 31, 1995, the Company had 1,044,042 net acres in the region,
including 753,427 net developed acres. At year end, the Company had identified
259.2 net proved undeveloped drilling locations.

    The Company also owns and operates a brine treatment plant near Franklin,
Pennsylvania. The plant, which began operating in 1985, processes and treats
waste fluid generated during the drilling, completion and subsequent production
of oil and gas wells. The plant provides services to the Company and certain
other oil and gas producers in southwestern New York, eastern Ohio and western
Pennsylvania.

    The Company believes that it gains operational efficiency in the
Appalachian Region because of its large acreage position, high concentration of
wells, natural gas gathering and pipeline systems and storage capacity.

WESTERN REGION

    The Company's exploration, development and production activities in the
Western Region are primarily focused in the Anadarko basin in Kansas, Oklahoma
and the Panhandle of Texas, in the Green River Basin of Wyoming and in South
Texas.  Operations for the Western Region are managed from a regional office in
Denver. At December 31, 1995, the Company had approximately 405 Bcfe of proved
reserves (92.5% natural gas) in the Western Region, constituting 44% of the
Company's total proved reserves.

ANADARKO

    The Company has 728 productive wells (486.2 net) in the Anadarko area of
which 544 wells are operated by the Company. Principal producing intervals in
Anadarko are in the Chase, Chester and Morrow formations at depths ranging from
1,500 to 11,000 feet. Average net daily production in 1995 was 50.6 MMcfe.







    In 1995, the Company drilled 31 wells (19.4 net) in Anadarko. Capital and
exploration expenditures for the year were $6.7 million. In the 1996 drilling
program year, the Company has plans to drill 35.4 net wells.

    At December 31, 1995, the Company had approximately 197,934 net acres,
including approximately 177,082 net developed acres. At year end, the Company
had identified 40.4 net proved undeveloped drilling locations.

ROCKY MOUNTAIN

    The Company has 279 productive wells (96.0 net) in the Rocky Mountain area
of which 141 wells are operated by the Company. Principal producing intervals
in Rocky Mountain are in the Frontier and Dakota formations at depths ranging
from 7,500 to 13,500 feet. Average net daily production in 1995 was 31.4 MMcfe.

    In 1995, the Company drilled 19 wells (6.3 net) in the Rocky Mountains.
Capital and exploration expenditures for the year were $6.5 million. In the
1996 drilling program year, the Company has plans to drill 22.3 net wells.

    At December 31, 1995, the Company had approximately 172,827 net acres,
including approximately 37,990 net developed acres. At year end, the Company
had identified 15.3 net proved undeveloped drilling locations.

GULF COAST

    The Company has 172 productive wells (52.5 net) in the Gulf Coast area of
which 44 wells are operated by the Company. Principal producing intervals in
Gulf Coast are in the Frio, Wilcox and Vicksburg formations at depths ranging
from 2,000 to 14,000 feet. Average net daily production in 1995 was 12.7 MMcfe.

    In 1995, the Company drilled 10 wells (5.4 net) in Gulf Coast. Capital and
exploration expenditures for the year were $7.7 million. In the 1996 drilling
program year, the Company has plans to drill 6.9 net wells.

    At December 31, 1995, the Company had approximately 23,593 net acres,
including approximately 15,301 net developed acres. At year end, the Company
had identified 3.3 net proved undeveloped drilling locations.

GAS MARKETING

    The Company is engaged in a wide array of marketing activities designed to
offer its customers long-term reliable supplies of natural gas. Utilizing its
pipeline and storage facilities, gas procurement ability and transportation and
natural gas risk management expertise, the Company provides a menu of services
that includes gas supply and transportation management, short and long-term
supply contracts, capacity brokering and risk management alternatives.  Sales
volumes grew substantially in 1995 as the Company increased the amount of
natural gas purchased for resale. This increase was primarily due to an
increase in gas purchased from producers and marketers in the Rocky Mountain
area and was resold to markets in the Rockies and Pacific Northwest Regions.
Volumes purchased and sold in the Western Region increased from approximately
4.3 Bcf in 1994 to approximately 16.4 Bcf in 1995.

    The marketing of natural gas has changed significantly as a result of Order
636 ("Order 636"), which was issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
in 1992. Order 636 required pipelines to unbundle their gas sales, storage and
transportation services. As a result, local distribution companies and
end-users will separately contract these services from gas marketers and
producers. Order 636 has had the effect of creating greater competition in the
industry and it has also provided the Company the opportunity to reach broader
markets. In 1994 and 1995, there was an increase in the number of third-party
producers that use the Company to market their gas. In addition, the Company
has experienced, as a result of Order 636, increased competition for markets
which has placed pressure on margins.






APPALACHIAN REGION

    The Company's principal markets for its Appalachian Region natural gas are
in the northeastern United States. The Company's marketing subsidiary purchases
the Company's natural gas production in the Appalachian Region as well as
production from local third-party producers and other suppliers to aggregate
larger volumes of natural gas for resale.  This marketing subsidiary sells
natural gas to industrial customers, local distribution companies ("LDCs") and
gas marketers both on and off the Company's pipeline system.

    A majority of the Company's natural gas sales volume in the Appalachian
Region is being sold at market responsive prices under contracts with a term of
one year or less. Of these short term sales, spot market sales are made under
month-to-month contracts while industrial and utility sales generally are made
under year-to-year contracts.  Approximately 20% of the Appalachian production
is sold on fixed price contracts which typically renew annually.

    The Company's Appalachian production is generally sold at a premium price
to production from other producing regions due to its close proximity to
eastern markets. However, that premium has been reduced from historic levels
due to increased competition in the market place resulting in part from changes
in transportation and sales arrangements due to the implementation of pipeline
open access tariffs and Order 636.

    The Company operates a number of gas gathering and pipeline systems, made
up of approximately 3,600 miles of pipeline with interconnects to four
interstate pipeline systems and five LDCs. The Company's natural gas gathering
and pipeline systems enable the Company to connect new wells quickly and to
transport natural gas from the wellhead directly to interstate pipelines, LDCs
and industrial end-users. Control of its gathering and pipeline systems also
enables the Company to purchase, transport and sell natural gas produced by
third parties. In addition, the Company can undertake development drilling
operations without relying upon third parties to transport its natural gas
while incurring only the incremental costs of pipeline and compressor additions
to its system.

    The Company has two natural gas storage fields located in West Virginia,
with a combined working capacity of approximately 4 Bcf of natural gas. The
Company uses these storage fields to take advantage of the seasonal variations
in the demand for natural gas and the higher prices typically associated with
winter natural gas sales, while maintaining production at a nearly constant
rate throughout the year. The storage fields also enable the Company to
periodically increase the volume of natural gas it can deliver by more than 35%
above the volume that it could deliver solely from its production in the
Appalachian Region. The pipeline systems and storage fields are fully
integrated with the Company's producing operations.

WESTERN REGION

    The Company's principal markets for Western Region natural gas are in the
midwest and northwestern United States.  The Company's marketing subsidiaries
purchase all of the Company's natural gas production in the Western Region.
These marketing subsidiaries sell the natural gas to cogenerators, natural gas
processors, LDCs, industrial customers and marketing companies.

    Currently, a majority of the Company's natural gas production in the
Western Region is being sold primarily under contracts with a term of one year
or less at market-responsive prices. Approximately 25% of the Western Region's
production is sold under a cogeneration contract with 13 years remaining and a
price escalation of 5% per year. The Western Region properties are connected to
the majority of the midwestern and northwestern interstate pipelines, affording
the Company access to multiple markets.

    The Company also produces and markets approximately 2,000 barrels a day of
crude oil/condensate in the Western Region at market responsive prices.






RISK MANAGEMENT

    In 1995, the Company entered into certain transactions to manage price
risks associated with its production and purchase commitments. The Company
utilized certain natural gas price swap agreements ("price swaps") to attempt
to manage price risk more effectively and improve the Company's realized
natural gas prices. These price swaps call for payments to (or to receive
payments from) counterparties based upon the differential between a fixed and a
variable gas price. At December 31, 1995, a majority of the open price swaps
(16,085,000 MMbtu in notional quantity) cover the months of January through
April 1996 and a remaining contract (1,260,000 MMbtu in notional quantity)
covers the production months of November 1996 to February 1997. The Company
plans to continue this strategy in the future. See the Overview section of Item
7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations for further discussion.

RESERVES

  CURRENT RESERVES

    The following table sets forth information regarding the Company's
estimates of its net proved reserves at December 31, 1995.



- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1) Liquids include crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids (Ngl).

(2) Natural Gas Equivalents are determined using the ratio of 6.0 Mcf of
    natural gas to 1.0 Bbl of crude oil or condensate.

(3) Includes proved reserves attributable to Anadarko, Rocky Mountains and the
    Gulf Coast Areas.

    The reserve estimates presented herein were prepared by the Company's
petroleum engineering staff and reviewed by Miller and Lents, Ltd., independent
petroleum engineers. For additional information regarding the Company's
estimates of proved reserves, the review of such estimates by Miller and Lents,
Ltd. and certain other information regarding the Company's oil and gas
reserves, see the Supplemental Oil and Gas Information to the Consolidated
Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof. A copy of the review letter by
Miller and Lents, Ltd., has been filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K. The
Company's estimates of reserves set forth in the foregoing table do not differ
materially from those filed by the Company with other federal agencies. The
Company's reserves are sensitive to natural gas sales prices and their effect
on economic producing rates. The Company's reserves are based on oil and gas
prices in effect at December 31, 1995.

    There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of
proved reserves, including many factors beyond the control of the Company and,
therefore, the reserve information set forth in this Form 10-K represents only
estimates. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating
underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured
in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of
the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation
and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers often vary. In
addition, results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of
an estimate may justify revision of such estimate. Accordingly, reserve
estimates are often different from the quantities of crude oil and natural gas
that are ultimately recovered. The meaningfulness of such estimates is highly
dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they were based. In
general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties owned by the
Company declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent the Company
acquires additional properties containing proved reserves or conducts
successful exploration and development activities or both, the proved reserves
of the Company will decline as reserves are produced.






  HISTORICAL RESERVES

    The following table sets forth certain information regarding the Company's
estimated proved reserves for the periods indicated.



- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1) For the year ended December 31, 1993 and 1992 the Western reserves are
    attributable to Anadarko only.

Note: Natural gas equivalents are determined using the ratio of 6.0 Mcf of
natural gas to 1.0 Bbl of crude oil or condensate.

APP = Appalachian Region

WEST = Western Region(1)






VOLUMES AND PRICES; PRODUCTION COSTS

    The following table sets forth historical information regarding the
Company's sales and production volumes and average sales prices received for,
and average production costs associated with, its sales of natural gas and
crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids (Ngl) for the periods indicated.


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1) Equal to the aggregate of production and the net changes in storage and
    exchanges.

(2) Includes information regarding Anadarko, Rocky Mountains and Gulf Coast.
    For the year ended December 31, 1993 includes Anadarko only.

(3) Represents the average sales prices for all volumes (including royalty
    volumes) sold by the Company during the periods shown.

(4) Production costs include direct lifting costs (labor, repairs and
    maintenance, materials and supplies), and the costs of administration of
    production offices, insurance and property and severance taxes but is
    exclusive of depreciation and depletion applicable to capitalized lease
    acquisition, exploration and development expenditures.

ACREAGE

    The following tables summarize the Company's gross and net developed and
undeveloped leasehold and mineral acreage at December 31, 1995. Acreage in
which the Company's interest is limited to royalty and overriding royalty
interests is excluded. The undeveloped mineral fee acreage in West Virginia is
unleased.






LEASEHOLD ACREAGE



MINERAL FEE ACREAGE








TOTAL NET ACREAGE BY AREA OF OPERATION



PRODUCTIVE WELL SUMMARY(1)

      The following table reflects the Company's ownership at December 31, 1995
in natural gas and oil wells in the Appalachian Region (consisting of various
fields located in West Virginia, Pennsylvania, New York, Ohio, Virginia and
Kentucky), and in the Western Region (consisting of various fields located in
Louisiana, Oklahoma, North Texas, Kansas, North Dakota, Utah, South Texas,
Colorado, Wyoming and Canada).


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1)   "Productive" wells are producing wells and wells capable of production.

DRILLING ACTIVITY

      The Company drilled, participated in the drilling of, or acquired wells
as set forth in the table below for the periods indicated:








- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1) Includes the acquisition of net interest in certain wells in the
    Appalachian Region and in the Western Region in 1995, 1994 and 1993 in
    which the Company already held an ownership interest.

(2) The year ended December 31, 1993 included information for Anadarko only.

COMPETITION

    Competition in the Company's primary producing areas is intense. The
Company believes that its competitive position is affected by price, contract
terms and quality of service, including pipeline connection times, distribution
efficiencies and reliable delivery record. The Company believes that its
extensive acreage position and existing natural gas gathering and pipeline
systems and storage fields give it a competitive advantage over certain other
producers in the Appalachian Region which do not have such systems or
facilities in place. The Company also believes that its competitive position in
the Appalachian Region is enhanced by the absence of significant competition
from major oil and gas companies. The Company also actively competes against
some companies with substantially larger financial and other resources,
particularly in the Western Region.

OTHER BUSINESS MATTERS

MAJOR CUSTOMER

    The Company had no sales to any customer that exceeded 10% of the Company's
total revenues in 1995.

SEASONALITY

    Demand for natural gas has historically been seasonal in nature, with peak
demand and typically higher prices occurring during the colder winter months.

REGULATION OF OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION

    The Company's oil and gas production and transportation operations are
subject to various types of regulation by federal, state and local authorities.
Legislation affecting the oil and natural gas industry is under constant review
for amendment or expansion. Further, numerous departments and agencies, both
federal and state,






have issued rules and regulations affecting the oil and natural gas industry
and its individual members, compliance with which is often difficult and costly
and some of which may carry substantial penalties for non-compliance. The
regulatory burden on the oil and natural gas industry increases its cost of
doing business and, consequently, affects its profitability. Inasmuch as such
laws and regulations are frequently expanded, amended or reinterpreted, the
Company is unable to predict the future cost or impact of complying with such
regulations. However, the Company does not believe that under present
regulations it is affected in a significantly different manner by these
regulations than others in the industry.

EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION

    Exploration and production operations of the Company are subject to various
types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Such regulation
includes requiring permits for the drilling of wells, maintaining bonding
requirements in order to drill or operate wells, and regulating the location of
wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration
of properties upon which wells are drilled and the plugging and abandoning of
wells. The Company's operations are also subject to various conservation laws
and regulations. These include the regulation of the size of drilling and
spacing units or proration units and the density of wells which may be drilled
and the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties. In this
regard, some states allow the forced pooling or integration of tracts to
facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands
and leases. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates or
production from oil and natural gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or
flaring of natural gas and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability
of production.  In this regard, such states as Texas, Oklahoma and Louisiana
have in recent years reviewed and substantially revised methods previously used
to gather the necessary information and make monthly determinations of
appropriate field and well allowables. The effect of these regulations is to
limit the amounts of oil and natural gas the Company can produce from its
wells, and to limit the number of wells or the locations at which the Company
can drill.

NATURAL GAS MARKETING, GATHERING AND TRANSPORTATION

    Federal legislation and regulatory controls have historically affected the
price of the natural gas produced by the Company and the manner in which such
production is marketed. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the "FERC")
regulates the interstate transportation and sale for resale of natural gas by
interstate and intrastate pipelines. The FERC previously regulated the maximum
selling prices of certain categories of gas sold in "first sales" in interstate
and intrastate commerce under the Natural Gas Policy Act. Effective January 1,
1993, however, the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act (the "Decontrol Act")
deregulated natural gas prices for all "first sales" of natural gas, which
includes all sales by the Company of its own production. As a result, all sales
of the Company's domestically produced natural gas may be sold at market
prices, unless otherwise committed by contract. The FERC's jurisdiction over
natural gas transportation was unaffected by the Decontrol Act.

    The Company's natural gas sales are affected by the regulation of
intrastate and interstate gas transportation. In an attempt to restructure the
interstate pipeline industry with the goal of providing enhanced access to, and
competition among, alternative natural gas suppliers, the FERC, commencing in
April 1992, issued Order Nos. 636, 636-A and 636-B ("Order No. 636") which have
altered significantly the interstate transportation and sale of natural gas.
Among other things, Order No. 636 required pipelines to unbundle the various
services that they had provided in the past, such as sales, transmission and
storage, and to offer these services individually to their customers. By
requiring interstate pipelines to "unbundle" their services and to provide
their customers with direct access to pipeline capacity held by them, Order No.
636 has enabled pipeline customers to choose the levels of transportation and
storage service they require, as well as to purchase natural gas directly from
third-party merchants other than the pipelines and obtain transportation of
such gas on a nondiscriminatory






basis. The effect of Order No. 636 has been to enable the Company to market its
natural gas production to a wider variety of potential purchasers. The Company
believes that these changes generally have improved the Company's access to
transportation and have enhanced the marketability of its natural gas
production. To date, Order No. 636 has not had any material adverse effect on
the Company's ability to market and transport its natural gas production.
However, the Company cannot predict what new regulations may be adopted by the
FERC and other regulatory authorities, or what effect subsequent regulations
may have on the Company's activities. Further, even though the implementation
of Order No. 636 on individual interstate pipelines is essentially complete,
many of the individual pipeline restructuring proceedings, as well as Order No.
636 itself and the regulations promulgated thereunder, are subject to pending
appellate review and could possibly be changed as a result of future court
orders.

    In recent years the FERC also has pursued a number of other important
policy initiatives which could significantly affect the marketing of natural
gas. Some of the more notable of these regulatory initiatives include (i) a
series of orders in individual pipeline proceedings articulating a policy of
generally approving the voluntary divestiture of interstate pipeline-owned
gathering facilities to the pipeline's nonregulated affiliate, (ii) the
completion of a rulemaking involving the regulation of pipelines with marketing
affiliates under Order No. 497, (iii) FERC's ongoing efforts to promulgate
standards for pipeline electronic bulletin boards and electronic data exchange,
(iv) a generic inquiry into the pricing of interstate pipeline capacity, (v)
efforts to refine FERC's regulations controlling the operation of the secondary
market for released pipeline capacity, and (vi) a policy statement regarding
market-based rates and other non-cost-based rates for interstate pipeline
transmission and storage capacity. Several of these initiatives are intended to
enhance competition in natural gas markets, although some, such as the
so-called "spin-down" of previously regulated gathering facilities by
interstate pipelines to their affiliates, may have the adverse effect on some
in the industry of increasing the cost of doing business as a result of the
monopolization of those facilities by their new, unregulated owners. FERC has
attempted to address some of these concerns in its orders authorizing such
"spin-downs," but it remains to be seen what effect these activities will have
on access to markets and the cost to do business. As to all of these recent
FERC initiatives, the ongoing, or, in some instances, preliminary evolving
nature of these regulatory initiatives makes it impossible at this time to
predict their ultimate impact upon the Company's activities.

    The Company's pipeline systems and storage fields are regulated for safety 
compliance by the Department of Transportation, the West Virginia Public 
Service Commission, the Pennsylvania Department of Natural Resources and the 
New York Department of Public Service.  The Company's pipeline systems in each 
state operate independently and are not interconnected.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

    The Company's operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local
laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, emission,
transportation and discharge of materials into the environment. Permits are
required for the operation of various facilities of the Company, and these
permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal by issuing
authorities. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with
their regulations, and violations are subject to fines, injunctions or both. It
is possible that increasingly strict requirements will be imposed by
environmental laws and enforcement policies thereunder. The Company is also
subject to the Federal Clean Air Act and the Federal Clean Air Act Amendment of
1990 which added significantly to the existing requirements established by the
Federal Clean Air Act. It is not anticipated that the Company will be required
in the near future to expend amounts that are material in relation to its total
capital expenditures program by reason of environmental laws and regulations,
but inas-much as such laws and regulations are frequently changed, the Company
is unable to predict the ultimate cost of such compliance.






    The Company owns and operates a brine treatment plant in Pennsylvania which
processes fluids generated by drilling and production operations. See
"Exploration, Development and Production -- Appalachian Region." The plant's
operations are regulated by Pennsylvania's Department of Environmental
Regulation.

EMPLOYEES

    The Company had approximately 359 active employees as of December 31, 1995.
The Company believes that its relations with its employees are satisfactory.
The Company has not entered into any collective bargaining agreements with its
employees.

OTHER

    The Company's profitability depends on certain factors that are beyond its 
control, such as natural gas and crude oil prices. The nature of the oil and 
gas business involves a variety of risks, including the risk of experiencing 
certain operating hazards such as fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, oil 
spills and encountering formations with abnormal pressures, the occurrence of 
any of which could result in substantial losses to the Company.  The operation 
of the Company's natural gas gathering and pipeline systems also involves 
certain risks, including the risk of explosions and environmental hazards 
caused by pipeline leaks and ruptures. The proximity of pipelines to populated 
areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial 
sites, could exacerbate such risks. At December 31, 1995, the Company owned or
operated approximately 3,600 miles of natural gas gathering and pipeline 
systems. As part of its normal maintenance program, the Company has identified 
certain segments of its pipelines which it believes require repair, 
replacement or additional maintenance. In accordance with customary industry 
practices, the Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of such 
risks.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

    See Item 1. Business.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    The Company and its subsidiaries are defendants or parties in numerous
lawsuits or other governmental proceedings arising in the ordinary course of
business. The Company is also involved in other gas contract issues. In the
opinion of the Company, final judgements or settlements, if any, which may be
awarded in connection with any one or more of these suits and claims could be
significant to the results of operations of any period but would not have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial position.

    In February 1993, Barby Energy Corporation and certain other parties filed
suit in Beaver County, Oklahoma against the Company to determine the rights and
interests of the parties in and to the oil, gas and other minerals underlying a
tract of land in Beaver County, Oklahoma, to quiet title to said mineral
estate, and for an accounting and payment of production proceeds attributable
to said mineral estate. Specifically at issue is whether there was continuous
production from an oil and gas well located on the property since July 5, 1965.
Plaintiffs claim there was a cessation of production, and therefore, all right,
title and interest to such property reverted to them and that they are entitled
to all revenues from such production since the date cessation of production
occurred. The Company believes that it holds a valid oil and gas lease covering
the interest claimed by the plaintiffs. The trial commenced on February 6, 1995
and, pursuant to an order entered on February 13, 1995, the judge denied and
overruled all of the plaintiffs' claims. On March 16, 1995, Barby appealed the
decision of the trial court to the Oklahoma Supreme Court. Barby requested that
the Oklahoma Supreme Court retain the case. Subsequently, the Oklahoma Supreme
Court decided not to retain the case and assigned the appeal to the Oklahoma
Court of Appeals. The Barby appeal has been stayed pending settlement
discussions.






    In September 1995, Barby filed a separate action in state court in
Oklahoma, purporting to represent all similarly situated royalty owners in
Oklahoma, alleging improper calculation of royalties and seeking actual and
punitive damages.  The Company has denied the material allegations of the
complaint. No formal discovery has yet been conducted. This action has been
stayed pending settlement discussions.

    Although no assurances can be given, the Company believes that the ultimate
outcome of the above litigation will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's financial position.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the
period from October 1, 1995 to December 31, 1995.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The following table shows certain information about the executive officers
of the Company as of March 1, 1996, as such term is defined in Rule 3b-7
promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and certain other
officers of the Company.



    With the exception of the following, all executive officers of the Company
have been employed by the Company for at least the last five years.

    Charles P. Siess, Jr. has been Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive
Officer and President of the Company since May 1995. From February 1993 until
January 1994, Mr. Siess served as Acting General Manager of Bridas S.A.P.I.C.
(oil exploration Argentina). Prior thereto, Mr. Siess served as Chairman of the
Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company from December 1989
to December 1992.

    Gerald F. Reiger has been Vice President, Regional Manager of the Company
since February 1995. From May 1994 until February 1995, Mr. Reiger served as
Regional Manager of the Company. Prior thereto, Mr. Reiger was associated with
Washington Energy Resources Company, a subsidiary of Washington Energy Company,
from 1992 to 1994. Prior thereto, Mr.  Reiger served as U.S. Operations Manager
of DeKalb Energy Company.

    Ray R. Seegmiller has been Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and
Treasurer of the Company since August 1995.  From May 1988 until 1993, Mr.
Seegmiller served as President and Chief Executive of Terry Petroleum Company.
Prior thereto, Mr. Seegmiller held various officer positions with Marathon
Manufacturing Company.






PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

    The Common Stock is listed and principally traded on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker symbol "COG". The following table sets forth for the
periods indicated the high and low sales prices per share of the Common Stock,
as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system, and the cash
dividends paid per share of the Common Stock:




    As of January 31, 1996, there were 1,302 registered holders of the Common
Stock. Shareholders include individuals, brokers, nominees, custodians,
trustees and institutions such as banks, insurance companies and pension funds.
Many of these hold large blocks of stock on behalf of other individuals or
firms.

ITEM 6. SELECTED HISTORICAL FINANCIAL DATA

    The following table sets forth a summary of selected consolidated financial
data for the Company for the periods indicated. This information should be read
in conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related
Notes thereto.



(1) See "Earnings (Loss) Per Common Share" under Note 1 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.






ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    The following review of operations should be read in conjunction with the
Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto included elsewhere.

OVERVIEW

    Due to the difficult industry conditions of 1995, the Company was in an
economic squeeze, caught between depressed natural gas prices, the lowest on
Company record since going public in 1990, and high operating costs.
Compounding the problem were increased financing costs from the 1994 and 1993
acquisitions, made when gas prices were significantly higher. This squeeze
caused a net loss for the year and reduced cash flow below the level needed to
sustain drilling and, in turn, maintain reserves and production. In order to
meet the challenges of 1995 and strive to return the Company to profitability
in 1996 and beyond, the Company took the following actions in 1995:

    o    Implemented a cost reduction program which reduced the total workforce
         by 115 employees, resulting in a $6.8 million charge in the first
         quarter. Combined with an additional reduction of 20 managers and
         employees in October, the reduction in annual payroll and fringe
         benefit expenses is expected to exceed $7 million, or 25%, in 1996.

    o    Monetized its Section 29 tight sands tax credits, receiving $2.8
         million in 1995 and projected cash inflows of $3 million in 1996 and
         another $17 million over the remaining six years.

    o    Sold over 580 non-core and marginal wells in the Western Region,
         generating $7.6 million in proceeds as part of an ongoing company-wide
         asset rationalization program, which will carry into 1996.

    o    Completed a valuation adjustment on the 1994 WERCO acquisition,
         receiving a cash payment of $8.4 million.

    o    Monetized settlement claims for $4.3 million in connection with the
         remaining value of gas sales contracts terminated by Columbia Gas
         Transmission Corporation as part of its 1991 bankruptcy filing.

    These actions improved cash flow in 1995 by reducing costs or increasing
cash inflows, and allowed the Company to reduce the debt level to $249 million
at year end, substantially below the $268 million at the beginning of the year,
while expanding the drilling program in the fourth quarter by $9 million.

    During 1995, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting 
Standards No. 121, relating to the impairment of long-lived assets, recording 
a $113.8 million charge ($69.2 million after-tax, or $3.04 per share) in the
third quarter. While the charge has no affect on cash flow, it is expected to
reduce future DD&A expense by approximately 15% or $0.13 per Mcfe produced.
        
    The Company drilled 55 net wells with a drilling success rate of 75%, 
compared to 169 net wells drilled in 1994 at a success rate of 92%. After
drilling only 23 net wells in the first three quarters, the Company stepped up
its program in the fourth quarter, drilling 32 net wells. The 1995 drilling
program was the smallest in its history as a public company. In 1996, the
Company plans to drill 161 net wells.
        
    Natural gas production remained virtually flat at 57.7 Bcf compared to 
58.3 Bcf in 1994. While a full year of production from the WERCO properties
increased production by 3.2 Bcf, production declines in the Appalachian Region
and Anadarko area, primarily due to the reduced drilling program and the asset
rationalization program, more than offset the increase.
        
    Natural gas sales exceeded 112 Bcf in 1995, an increase of 10 Bcf, or
10%, over 1994. This increase was the result of an expanded marketing program
with respect to third-party natural gas purchased for resale ("brokered gas").






    The Company's expanded marketing effort increased purchase and resale
volumes of third-party natural gas by 8.7 Bcf, or 18%, from 1994. The most
significant part of this increase was in natural gas purchased and resold in
brokered arrangements which increased from 23.7 Bcf in 1994 to 31.2 Bcf in
1995. The Company realized a contribution to operating income from these
brokered arrangements of approximately 3 cents per Mcf in 1995, compared with
approximately 5 cents per Mcf in 1994.

    As a hedging strategy to manage commodity price risk associated with its
production and purchase commitments, from time to time the Company enters into
commodity derivative contracts, such as natural gas price swaps and options. At
year end the Company had a number of price swaps in place to hedge a
significant portion of its production in the first quarter of 1996. Due to an
unprecedented decoupling of the Nymex price from realizable sales prices
outside of the northeastern markets, many producers' hedges were left
uncovered, including the Company's hedges of its Western Region production.
Accordingly, the Company recorded a $3.2 million pre-tax charge at year end
when these uncovered hedges were marked to market (see Notes 1 and 13 of the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). By changing the terms of the
hedges, management has taken the necessary steps to prevent future hedge
contracts from becoming 'uncovered' and, when opportunities arise, will
continue to use hedging instruments to reduce downside price risk on its
production and purchase commitments.

    The Company's strategic pursuits are sensitive to energy commodity prices,
particularly the price of natural gas.  The average natural gas price realized
by the Company in 1995 was approximately 18% lower than 1994 and was the lowest
average price realized since the Company became publicly traded. Excluding the
SFAS 121 long-lived asset impairment of $69.2 million (after tax), lower
natural gas prices and increased financing costs related to the 1994 and 1993
acquisitions were the primary factors that caused the net loss and reduced cash
flows for the year. While gas prices in certain regions of the U.S. have moved
up sharply in 1996 and some industry analysts predict improvements in 1996
pricing compared to 1995, the gas market has continued to demonstrate
significant price volatility during the months of January and February 1996.
Consequently, there is still considerable uncertainty among industry analysts
about future gas prices for the rest of 1996 and beyond.

    Because of this challenging price environment, the Company is focused on
the following goals:

     o   Increase cash flows, using a balance of increased production and
         reduced costs. Significant progress has been made toward this goal,
         and the Company expects to be profitable in 1996 if the Henry Hub
         average price is $1.80 or more and assuming a traditional correlation
         between Henry Hub prices and prices in the physical markets.

     o   Maintain reserves per share while increasing production to protect
         long-term shareholder value. The expanded 1995 drilling program and an
         aggressive 1996 program are designed to result in 1996 production
         exceeding 1995, while reserves are also expected to increase.

     o   Reduce debt as a percentage of total capitalization without diluting
         existing shareholder value. To achieve this goal, project returns will
         be compared with the marginal cost of debt when deciding whether to
         reinvest or pay down debt. Other financing alternatives will also be
         reviewed.

    The Company believes that progress toward these goals is appropriate in the
current price environment, and should enable the Company to pursue its
strategic objectives over the long term.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

    The Company's capital resources consist primarily of cash flows from oil
and gas properties and asset-based borrowing supported by its oil and gas
reserves. The Company's level of earnings and cash flow depends on many
factors, including the price of natural gas and oil and its ability to control
or reduce costs. Demand for oil






and gas has historically been subject to seasonal influences characterized by
peak demand and higher prices in the winter heating season. During 1995, the
Company did not experience significant curtailments of production due to market
conditions. However, during the months of August and September 1995, the
Company elected to withhold approximately 12 MMcf per day of natural gas from
markets, or about 7% of its productive capacity, due to low prices, which had
the effect of reducing cash flows for the month.

    Primary sources of cash for the Company during the three-year period ended
December 31, 1995 were funds generated from operations and bank borrowing.
Primary uses of cash for the same period were funds used in operations,
exploration and development expenditures, acquisitions, repayment of debt and
dividends.

       The Company had a net cash outflow of $0.7 million in 1995. Net cash
inflow from operating and financing activities totalled $13.3 million, funding
in most part the capital and exploration expenditures of $14.0 million, net of
the $8.4 million valuation adjustment on the WERCO acquisition and $10.3
million in proceeds for the sale of assets.



    Cash flows provided by operating activities in 1995 were lower by $25.8
million compared with 1994 primarily due to lower gas prices and higher
interest costs attributable to the 1994 and 1993 acquisitions.

    Cash flows provided by operating activities in 1994 were higher by $11.9 
million compared with 1993 primarily due to the cash flows generated from the 
oil and gas properties acquired in the WERCO acquisition.



    Cash flows used by investing activities in 1995 were $144.8 million lower
than in 1994 primarily due to a $48.0 million decrease in capital expenditures
and the lack of a major acquisition in 1995 compared to the $78.5 million
capital outlay for the WERCO acquisition in 1994. The 1995 capital expenditures
were offset in part by proceeds of $8.4 million for a valuation adjustment on
the WERCO acquisition and $10.3 million in proceeds from the sale of
assets.

    Cash flows used by investing activities in 1994 were $59.9 million higher 
than in 1993 primarily due to $52.9 million of increased capital expenditures 
from development drilling activity and the WERCO acquisition.



    Cash flows provided by financing activities from 1993 to 1995 were
primarily borrowings from or payments on the Company's revolving credit
facility. In 1995 the Company reduced its debt under this facility by $19.0
million. In 1994 the Company's debt under this facility increased $99 million,
including $78.5 million to partially fund the WERCO acquisition, $6.2 million
to purchase additional drilling locations in connection with the 1993
acquisition of proved properties from Emax Oil Company ("Emax"), and $7.1
million for other property acquisitions and capital expenditures.

    During 1995, the Company's the available credit line under the revolving
credit facility was reduced to $235 million, or $25 million lower than 1994.
This brought the credit line to a level more consistent with the Company's
needs and lowered the annual commitments fees paid on the unused portion of the
credit line. The available credit line is subject to adjustment on the basis of
the projected present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved oil
and gas reserves (as determined by an independent petroleum engineer's report
incorporating certain assumptions provided by the lender) and other assets. The
Company's outstanding indebtedness under the revolving credit facility was $169
million at December 31, 1995.




    The Company's 1996 debt service is projected to be approximately $19
million. No principal payments are due in 1996, assuming the continued renewal
of the revolving facility.

    During 1995, the Company had recorded charges totaling $1.8 million to
interest expense in connection with the net payments made on interest rate swap
agreements. In December 1995, the Company closed all interest rate swap
agreements, resulting in an additional charge to interest expense of $2.6
million.

    Capitalization information on the Company is as follows:



    The Company's capitalization reflects the non-cash impact to equity of the
$69.2 million SFAS 121 impairment of long-lived assets. (See Note 15 of the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.)

CAPITAL AND EXPLORATION EXPENDITURES

    The following table presents major components of capital and exploration
expenditures for the three years ended December 31, 1995.



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1) Includes $34.6 million of non-cash consideration for the purchase of
    properties from the Harken Anadarko Partners, L.P. ("Harken").

(2) Included in capital expenditures for the WERCO acquisition was $97.5
    million in common and preferred stock of the Company and a $40.2 million
    non-cash component relating to deferred taxes for the difference between
    the tax and book bases of the acquired properties, as required by SFAS 109,
    "Accounting for Income Taxes".

(3) A net cash payment received in connection with a valuation adjustment on
    the 1994 WERCO acquisition.

    The substantial reduction in capital and exploration expenditures in 1995
resulted from the downsized capital expenditures program resulting from
depressed gas prices and the absence of a major acquisition.






    The Company generally funds its capital and exploration activities,
excluding oil and gas property acquisitions, with cash generated from
operations and budgets such capital expenditures based upon projected cash
flows, exclusive of acquisitions.

    Planned expenditures for 1996 have been significantly increased compared
with 1995. Depending on the level of future natural gas prices, the Company
intends to review and adjust the capital and exploration expenditures planned
for 1996 as industry conditions dictate. Presently, the Company projects $69
million in capital and exploration expenditures for 1996. The Company plans to
drill 220 (161 net), compared with 93 wells (55 net) drilled in 1995. Capital
dedicated to the drilling program for 1996 is $41 million.

    Other 1996 capital expenditures are planned primarily for producing
property acquisitions and for gathering and pipeline infrastructure maintenance
and construction.

    During 1995, dividends were paid on the Company's common stock totalling
$3.6 million, on the $3.125 convertible preferred stock totalling $2.2 million,
and on the 6% convertible redeemable preferred stock totalling $3.4 million.
The Company has paid quarterly common stock dividends of $0.04 per share since
becoming publicly traded in 1990. The amount of future dividends is determined
by the Board of Directors and is dependent upon a number of factors, including
future earnings, financial condition, and capital requirements.

OTHER ISSUES AND CONTINGENCIES

    Barby Lawsuit.  In February 1993, Barby Energy Corporation and certain other
parties filed suit in Beaver County, Oklahoma against the Company to determine
the rights and interests of the parties in and to the oil, gas and other
minerals underlying a tract of land in Beaver County, Oklahoma, to quiet title
to said mineral estate, and for an accounting and payment of production
proceeds attributable to said mineral estate. Specifically at issue was whether
there was continuous production from an oil and gas well located on the
property at issue since July 5, 1965. Plaintiffs claimed there was a cessation
of production, and therefore, all right, title and interest to such property
reverted to them and they were entitled to all revenues from such production
since the date cessation of production occurred. The Company maintained that it
holds a valid oil and gas lease covering the interest claimed by the
plaintiffs. The trial commenced on February 6, 1995 and, pursuant to an order
entered on February 13, 1995, the judge denied and overruled all of the
plaintiffs' claims. On March 16, 1995, Barby appealed the decision of the trial
court to the Oklahoma Supreme Court. Barby requested that the Oklahoma Supreme
Court retain the case. Subsequently, the Oklahoma Supreme Court decided not to
retain the case and assigned the appeal to the Oklahoma Court of Appeals. The
Barby appeal has been stayed pending settlement discussions.

    In September 1995, Barby filed a separate action in state court in
Oklahoma, purporting to represent all similarly situated royalty owners in
Oklahoma, alleging improper calculation of royalties and seeking actual and
punitive damages.  The Company has denied the material allegations of the
complaint. No formal discovery has yet been conducted. The action has been
stayed pending settlement discussions.

    Although no assurances can be given, the Company believes that the ultimate
outcome of the above litigation will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's financial position.

    Corporate Income Tax.  The Company generates tax credits for the production
of certain qualified fuels, including natural gas produced from tight
formations and Devonian Shale. The credit for natural gas from a tight
formation ("tight gas sands") amounts to $0.52 per MMbtu for natural gas sold
prior to 2003 from qualified wells drilled in 1991 and 1992.  A number of wells
drilled in the Appalachian Region during 1991 and 1992 qualified for the tight
gas sands tax credit.  The credit for natural gas produced from Devonian Shale
is approximately $1.00 per MMbtu in 1995. As a result of the WERCO acquisition,
certain production from qualifying formations in the Rocky Mountains also
qualifies for the tight gas sands tax credit. However, the benefits of all such
credits have been lost in recent years due to the Company's regular net
operating loss positions. As such, the Company






completed two transactions in 1995 to monetize the value of these tax credits,
resulting in future revenues of $3 million in 1996 and approximately $17
million over the remaining six years (See Note 18 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion).

    The Company may benefit in the future from the alternative minimum tax
("AMT") relief granted under the Comprehensive National Energy Policy Act of
1992. The Act repealed provisions of the AMT requiring a taxpayer's alternative
minimum taxable income to be increased on account of certain intangible
drilling costs ("IDCs") and percentage depletion deductions. The repeal of
these provisions generally applies to taxable years beginning after 1992.  The
repeal of the excess IDC preference cannot reduce a taxpayer's alternative
minimum taxable income by more than 40% (30% for 1993) of the amount of such
income determined without regard to the repeal of such preference.

    Regulations.  The Company's operations are subject to various types of
regulation by federal, state and local authorities. See "Regulation of Oil and
Natural Gas Production and Transportation" and "Environmental Regulations" in
the Other Business Matters section of Item 1. Business for a discussion of
these regulations.

    Restrictive Covenants.  The Company's ability to incur debt, to pay
dividends on its common and preferred stock, and to make certain types of
investments is dependent upon certain restrictive debt covenants in the
Company's various debt instruments. Among other requirements, the Company's
revolving credit facility specifies a minimum cash flow to debt service
coverage ratio of 1.2 to 1.0, projected for the next two years utilizing the
banks assumptions. At December 31, 1995, the calculated ratio for 1996 and 1997
was 2.7 to 1, assuming the continued renewal of the revolving facility.

CONCLUSION

    The Company's financial results depend upon many factors, particularly the
price of natural gas and its ability to market its production on economically
attractive terms. The Company's average 1995 natural gas price decreased 18%
compared with the average natural gas price received in 1994. The deterioration
of gas prices during 1995 has negatively impacted the Company's earnings and
cash flows and has contributed significantly to the net loss recorded in 1995.
While prices in certain regions of the U.S. have moved up sharply in the first
two months of 1996, the volatility of natural gas prices in recent years
remains prevalent in 1996 with wide price swings in day-to-day trading on the
Nymex futures market and the recent decoupling of the Nymex from the markets
outside the Northeast. Given this continued price volatility, management cannot
predict with certainty what pricing levels will be for the remainder of 1996.
Because future cash flows and earnings are subject to such variables, there can
be no assurance that the Company's operations will provide cash sufficient to
fully fund its capital requirements if prices should return to the depressed
levels of 1995.

    While the Company's 1996 plans include a significant increase in capital
spending, potentially negative changes in industry conditions might require the
Company to adjust its 1996 spending plan to ensure the availability of capital,
including, among other things, reductions in capital expenditures or common
stock dividends.

    The Company believes that higher production volumes and natural gas prices
over time coupled with the Company's continuing efforts to reduce costs and
invest in projects with high rates of return will return the Company to
profitability. Furthermore, the Company believes its capital resources,
supplemented, if necessary, with external financing, are adequate to meet its
capital requirements.






RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    For the purpose of reviewing the Company's results of operations, "Net
Income (Loss)" is defined as net income (loss) applicable to common
stockholders. The Company merged its acquired holdings from the WERCO
acquisition, located in the Rocky Mountains and the onshore Gulf Coast, with
the Company's holdings in the Anadarko Region to form the "Western Region" in
1994.

    SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA



    The table below presents the effects of certain selected items ("selected
items") on the Company's results of operations for the three years ended
December 31, 1995.







1995 AND 1994 COMPARED

    Net Income (Loss) and Revenues.  The Company reported a net loss in 1995 of
$17.3 million, or $0.76 per share, down $11.9 million, or $0.52, compared with
1994, excluding the impact of the selected items. The $74.9 million from
special items, or $3.29 per share, consisted of a $113.8 million charge ($69.2
million after tax) related to the adoption of SFAS 121, $7.7 million ($4.7
million after tax) for the cost reduction program and other severance costs,
$3.2 million ($2.0 million after tax) loss related to uncovered gas price
hedges and a $2.6 million charge ($1.6 million after tax) to interest expense
to close interest rate swap contracts, offset in part by other revenue of $4.3
million ($2.6 million after tax) in connection with the sale of a Columbia
bankruptcy claim. Excluding the pre-tax effects of the selected items,
operating income and operating revenues decreased $8.7 million and $24.3
million, respectively. Natural gas sales comprised 92%, or $196.6 million, of
total revenue in 1995. The decrease in total revenues was driven primarily by
an 18% decrease in the average natural gas price, partially offset by a 9%
increase in natural gas sales volumes due to higher gas purchased for resale
(up 18%) as discussed below. Net income (loss) and operating income (loss),
excluding selected items, were similarly impacted by the decline in the average
natural gas price, as well as higher financing costs in connection with the
1994 WERCO and 1993 Emax acquisitions.

    Natural gas sales volumes were down 4.3 Bcf to 52.6 Bcf in the Appalachian
Region due to a decrease in gas purchased for resale. Production volume in the
Appalachian Region was down 2.1 Bcf, or 7%, to 27.5 Bcf due in part to higher
pipeline curtailments and normal production declines not fully replaced by new
production due primarily to reduced drilling activity in 1995. The reduction
in sales due to the production decline in Appalachia was primarily offset by
net changes in gas storage and exchanges. Natural gas sales volumes were up
13.6 Bcf to 64.0 Bcf in the Western Region due primarily to higher production
volume (up 1.5 Bcf) and gas purchased for resale (up 13.1 Bcf), all of which
are primarily due to a full year of operating results from the WERCO
acquisition.

    The average Appalachian natural gas sales price decreased $0.29 per Mcf, or
12%, to $2.18, decreasing operating revenues by approximately $15.4 million.
In the Western Region, the average natural gas sales price decreased $0.36 per
Mcf, or 21%, to $1.37, decreasing operating revenues by approximately $21.4
million. Because the proportion of lower priced Western Region sales volume
relative to total Company sales volume was up significantly, the weighted
average natural gas price for the total Company decreased $0.39 per Mcf, or
18%, to $1.75.

    Crude oil and condensate sales were virtually unchanged at 618 MBbl.

    Costs and Expenses.  Total costs and expenses, excluding the selected items,
decreased $13.5 million, or 6%, due primarily to the following:

    o    The costs of natural gas decreased $3.9 million to $92.8 million. The
         decrease was primarily due to a $0.42 per Mcf decrease in the average
         price of gas purchased for resale, partially offset by a 10.4 Bcf
         increase in gas purchased for resale (including gas exchanges and
         storage).

    o    Direct operations expense decreased $5.0 million, or 15%, due in large
         part to reductions in (1) lease maintenance work and workovers, (2)
         field and regional office expenses due primarily to the cost reduction
         program, and (3) compressor rental and overhaul expenses.

    o    Depreciation, depletion, amortization and impairment expense,
         excluding the $113.8 million impairment of long-lived assets in
         connection with SFAS 121, decreased $2.3 million due primarily to the
         decrease in the DD&A rate in the fourth quarter resulting from the
         SFAS 121 impairment. Due to the adoption of SFAS 121, the Company's
         DD&A rate is expected to decrease in future years by $0.13 per Mcfe.

    o    General and administrative expense decreased $1.4 million, or 8%, due
         largely to costs savings realized from the cost reduction program.






    o    The cost reduction program, recorded in the first quarter, consisted
         primarily of a 23% staff reduction, achieved through early retirement
         and involuntary termination programs. The pre-tax charges related to
         this action totalled $6.8 million, comprised of $3.8 million in salary
         and other severance related expense ($3.6 million paid during the nine
         months) and a $3.0 million non-cash charge for the impact of the staff
         reduction to the pension and postretirement benefits plans.

    o    Taxes other than income decreased $0.9 million, or 7.6%, due primarily
         to the decline in gas revenue.

    Interest expense was up $8.2 million, or 49%, due to the increase in debt
primarily attributable to the WERCO acquisition in 1994 and the Emax
acquisition in 1993.

    Income tax benefit was up $54.4 million due to the comparable decrease in
earnings before income tax. The Company's effective tax rate was virtually
unchanged.

1994 AND 1993 COMPARED

    Net Income (Loss) and Revenues.  The Company recorded a net loss in 1994 of
$5.4 million, down $10.5 million, or $0.48 per share, compared with 1993,
excluding the impact of the selected items. Excluding the pre-tax effects of
the selected items in the table above, operating income decreased $6.2 million
and revenues increased $72.8 million. Natural gas sales comprised 93%, or
$219.7 million, of total revenue in 1994. The increase in revenues was
primarily due to the WERCO acquisition ($42.1 million), an increase in natural
gas purchased for resale ($32.3 million) and an increase in core production
volumes ($5.9 million). Net income and operating income, however, were
negatively impacted in 1994 by an 11% decline in the average natural gas price
and higher depreciation expense and additional financing cost associated with
the WERCO acquisition.

    The Company added two new operating areas through the WERCO acquisition in
the Rocky Mountains and onshore Gulf Coast. The WERCO acquisition provides the
Company with development and exploration opportunities in the Green River Basin
of the Rocky Mountains and in the onshore Gulf Coast; an increase in reserves
which exceeded one trillion cubic feet equivalent of natural gas; and the
expansion of the Company's production base by approximately 40% annualized.
Operating results from the WERCO acquisition for the eight months ended
December 31, 1994 were as follows: 9.5 Bcf of natural gas production, 19.4 Bcf
of natural gas sales, 357 MBbl of oil production and $42.1 million of revenues.
Total natural gas and oil revenues from the acquired properties were $33.7
million and $6.0 million, respectively. The average natural gas price received
on the WERCO acquisition in 1994 was $1.74 per Mcf.

    Natural gas sales volumes were up 17.0 Bcf to 56.9 Bcf in the Appalachian
Region primarily attributable to an increase in natural gas purchased for
resale and, to a lesser extent, increased production. Production volume was up
3.5 Bcf to 29.7 Bcf in the Appalachian Region primarily due to expanded
production associated with the Emax acquisition.  Production volume in the
Western Region was up 8.8 Bcf to 28.6 Bcf due to increased production
associated with the WERCO acquisition. Natural gas sales volumes in the Western
Region were up 21 Bcf primarily due to the increased production and, to a
lesser extent, increased volumes of natural gas purchased for resale.

    The average Appalachian natural gas sales price decreased $0.22 per Mcf, or
8%, to $2.47, reducing operating revenues by approximately $12.3 million. In
the Western Region, the average natural gas sales price also decreased $0.21
per Mcf, or 11%, to $1.73, reducing operating revenues by approximately $9.6
million. Lower spot market gas prices, both for Company production and the
increased volume of natural gas purchased for resale, along with a change in
the weighted mix of sales volumes due to sales from new operating areas, were
the primary reasons the Company's overall weighted average natural gas sales
price decreased $0.26 per Mcf to $2.14 compared with 1993.

    Crude oil and condensate sales increased 342 MBbl to 687 MBbl due primarily
to the Harken acquisition (89 MBbl) and the WERCO acquisition (357 MBbl).






    Costs and Expenses.  Total costs and expenses increased $76.5 million, or
53%, to $222.1 million primarily due to expanded operations associated with the
WERCO acquisition and an increase in natural gas purchased for resale:

    o    The cost of natural gas purchases increased $48.3 million to $96.8
         million. The WERCO acquisition increased this cost by $18.0 million.
         The remaining $30.3 million primarily was due to a 15.1 Bcf increase
         in natural gas purchased for resale, net of storage.

    o    Direct operations expenses increased $4.7 million, or 16%, primarily
         due to $3.7 million of operating expenses attributable to the WERCO
         acquisition and $1.6 million increased operating expenses attributable
         to the first full year of operations on the Emax and Harken
         acquisitions. Direct operations expense per Mcfe of production
         decreased $0.07, or 12%, to $0.53 due to increased production
         primarily attributable to the WERCO acquisition.

    o    Exploration expense increased $1.1 million due to the WERCO
         acquisition.

    o    Depreciation, depletion, amortization and impairment expense increased
         $20.1 million, or 58%, primarily due to the Harken, Emax and WERCO
         acquisitions. DD&A and impairment expense per Mcfe of production
         increased $0.15, or 21%, to $0.86 due primarily to the acquisitions in
         general and further affected by the required accounting treatment of
         the tax free nature of the WERCO acquisition.

    o    General and administrative expenses decreased $0.7 million, or 4%,
         excluding $0.4 million attributable to the WERCO acquisition,
         primarily due to reduced fringe benefit and employee-related expenses.
         General and administrative expenses per Mcfe of production decreased
         $0.09, or 25%, to $0.27 due to the expanded production base, primarily
         from the WERCO acquisition.

    o    Taxes other than income increased $2.7 million, or 28%, primarily due
         to the WERCO acquisition. This expense remained virtually unchanged on
         a unit of production basis.

    Interest expense increased $6.3 million, or 61%, primarily due to a $99
million debt increase and an increase in the interest rate attributable to the
Company's revolving credit facility. The WERCO acquisition and the purchase of
additional drilling locations in connection with the Emax acquisition accounted
for $84.7 million, or 86%, of the debt increase.

    Income tax expense decreased $6.8 million (to a $0.6 million benefit) due
to the decrease in 1994 earnings before income taxes and a $2.9 million charge
in the third quarter of 1993 to record an increase in the federal income tax
rate.

    The dividend requirement on preferred stock increased $3.0 million due
primarily to the $2.3 million associated with the 6% convertible redeemable
preferred stock issued in connection with the WERCO acquisition.  The remaining
$0.7 million increase was attributable to the $3.125 cumulative convertible
preferred stock, issued May 3, 1993, for which only 8 months of dividends were
reflected in the corresponding period of 1993.






ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

    The management of Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation is responsible for the
preparation and integrity of all information contained in the annual report.
The consolidated financial statements and other financial information are
prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and,
accordingly, include certain informed judgements and estimates of management.

    Management maintains a system of internal accounting and managerial
controls and engages internal audit representatives who monitor and test the
operation of these controls. Although no system can ensure the elimination of
all errors and irregularities, the system is designed to provide reasonable
assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions are executed in accordance
with management's authorization and accounting records are reliable for
financial statement preparation.

    An Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, consisting of directors who
are not employees of the Company, meets periodically with management, the
independent accountants and internal audit representatives to obtain assurances
to the integrity of the Company's accounting and financial reporting and to
affirm the adequacy of the system of accounting and managerial controls in
place. The independent accountants and internal audit representatives have full
and free access to the Audit Committee to discuss all appropriate matters.

    We believe that the Company's policies and system of accounting and
managerial controls reasonably assure the integrity of the information in the
consolidated financial statements and in the other sections of the annual
report.


March 1, 1996                           Charles P. Siess, Jr.
                                        Chairman of the Board,
                                        Chief Executive Officer and President






REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

TO THE STOCKHOLDERS AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION:

    We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Cabot Oil &
Gas Corporation as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1995. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Cabot Oil &
Gas Corporation as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the consolidated results
of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1995, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.

    As discussed in Notes 14 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements,
in 1995 the Company changed its method of applying the unit-of-production
method to calculate depreciation and depletion on producing oil and gas
properties, and accounting for the impairment of long-lived assets.

                                        COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.  

Houston, Texas 
March 1, 1996






CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS


- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.






CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.






CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS


   
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1)  Excludes non-cash consideration of $97.5 million of the Company's common 
     and preferred stock issued in connection with the WERCO acquisition. 
     See Note 11 WERCO Acquisition.

  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.






CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.






CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

    Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company") are engaged in
the exploration, development, production and marketing of natural gas and, to a
lesser extent, crude oil and natural gas liquids. The Company also transports,
stores, gathers and purchases natural gas for resale.

    The consolidated financial statements contain the accounts of the Company 
after elimination of all significant intercompany balances and transactions. 
The results of operations of oil and gas properties purchased in the 
acquisition of Washington Energy Resources Company ("WERCO") have been 
included with those of the Company since May 2, 1994.

PIPELINE EXCHANGES

    Natural gas gathering and pipeline operations normally include exchange
arrangements with customers and suppliers.  The volumes of natural gas due to
or from the Company under exchange agreements are recorded at average selling
or purchase prices, as the case may be, and are adjusted monthly to reflect
market changes. The net value of exchanged natural gas is included in
inventories in the consolidated balance sheet.

PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

    The Company uses the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and
gas producing activities. Under this method, acquisition costs for proved and
unproved properties are capitalized when incurred. Exploration costs, including
geological and geophysical costs, the costs of carrying and retaining unproved
properties and exploratory dry hole drilling costs, are expensed. Development
costs, including the costs to drill and equip development wells, and successful
exploratory drilling costs that locate proved reserves, are capitalized. In
addition, the Company limits the total amount of unamortized capitalized costs
to the value of future net revenues, based on current prices and costs.

    Before the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
("SFAS") No. 121 on September 1, 1995, the Company limited the total amount of
unamortized capitalized costs to the value of future net revenues, based on
current prices and costs. Under SFAS 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of", the unamortized
capital costs at a lease level are reduced to fair value if the sum of expected
future net cash flows is less than the net book value (See Note 15 Accounting
For Long-Lived Assets).

    Capitalized costs of proved oil and gas properties, after considering
estimated dismantlement, restoration and abandonment costs, net of estimated
salvage values, are depreciated and depleted on a field basis by the unit-of-
production method using proved developed reserves (See Note 14 Accounting
Change). The costs of unproved oil and gas properties are generally aggregated
and amortized over a period that is based on the average holding period for
such properties and the Company's experience of successful drilling. Properties
related to gathering and pipeline systems and equipment are depreciated using
the straight-line method based on estimated useful lives ranging from 10 to 25
years.  Certain other assets are also depreciated on a straight-line basis.

    Future estimated plug and abandonment cost is accrued over the productive
life of the oil and gas properties. The accrued liability for plug and
abandonment cost is included in accumulated depreciation, depletion and
amortization.






    Costs of retired, sold or abandoned properties, constituting a part of an
amortization base, are charged to accumulated depreciation, depletion, and
amortization. Accordingly, gain or loss, if any, is recognized only when a
group of proved properties (or field), constituting the amortization base, has
been retired, abandoned or sold.

REVENUE RECOGNITION AND GAS IMBALANCES

    The Company applies the sales method of accounting for natural gas revenue.
Under this method, revenues are recognized based on the actual volume of
natural gas sold to purchasers. Natural gas production operations may include
joint owners who take more or less than the production volumes entitled to them
on certain properties. Volumetric production is monitored to minimize these
natural gas imbalances. A natural gas imbalance liability is recorded in other
liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet if the Company's excess takes of
natural gas exceed its estimated remaining recoverable reserves for such
properties.

INCOME TAXES

    The Company follows the asset and liability method in accounting for income
taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for
the estimated future tax consequences attributable to the differences between
the financial carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their
respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using
the tax rate in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are
expected to turn around. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax
assets and liabilities is recognized in the year of the enacted rate change.

NATURAL GAS MEASUREMENT

    The Company records estimated amounts for natural gas revenues and natural
gas purchase costs based on volumetric calculations under its natural gas sales
and purchase contracts. Variances or imbalances resulting from such
calculations are inherent in natural gas sales, production, operation,
measurement, and administration. Management does not believe that differences
between actual and estimated natural gas revenues or purchase costs
attributable to the unresolved variances or imbalances are material.

ACCOUNTS PAYABLE

    This account includes credit balances to the extent that checks issued have
not been presented to the Company's bank for payment. These credit balances
included in accounts payable were approximately $6.2 million and $6.9 million
at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

EARNINGS (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE

    Earnings (loss) per common share is computed by dividing net income (loss),
as adjusted for dividends on preferred stock, by the weighted average number of
shares of common stock ("Common Stock") outstanding during the respective
periods. The dilutive effect of stock options on earnings per common share is
insignificant for all periods and is not included in the computation of
earnings per common share.

    Both the $3.125 cumulative convertible preferred stock and the 6%
convertible redeemable preferred stock ("preferred stock"), issued May 1993 and
May 1994, respectively, had an antidilutive effect on earnings per common
share. The preferred stock was determined not to be a common stock equivalent
at the time of issuance.






RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES

    From time to time, the Company enters into certain commodity derivative
contracts as a hedging strategy to manage commodity price risk associated with
its inventories, production or other contractual commitments. The natural gas
price swap is the type of derivative instrument utilized by the Company. A
natural gas price swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange periodic
payments, usually on a monthly basis. One party pays a fixed price while the
other party typically pays a variable price. Notional quantities of natural gas
are used in each agreement, as the agreements do not involve the physical
exchange or delivery of natural gas. Gains or losses on these hedging
activities are generally recognized over the period that the inventory,
production or other underlying commitment is hedged. Unrealized gains or losses
associated with any natural gas price swap contracts not considered to be a
hedge are recognized currently in the results of operations. The Company had
certain hedge natural gas price swap contracts in December 1995 that were left
'uncovered' due to an unprecedented decoupling of the Nymex gas price from
realizable sales prices in the physical markets. The unrealized loss
attributable to these contracts was recorded currently. See Note 13 Financial
Instruments for further discussion.

CASH EQUIVALENTS

    The Company considers all highly liquid short-term investments with
original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

USE OF ESTIMATES

    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

2. PROPERTIES AND EQUIPMENT

    Properties and equipment are comprised of the following:



    As a component of accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization,
total accrued future plug and abandonment cost was $15.0 million and $14.4
million at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively. The Company believes that
this accrual adequately provides for its estimated future plug and abandonment
cost.






3. ADDITIONAL BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION

    Certain balance sheet amounts are comprised of the following:

                                            
4. INVENTORIES

    Inventories are comprised of the following:







5. DEBT AND CREDIT AGREEMENTS

SHORT-TERM DEBT

    The Company has a $5.0 million unsecured short-term line of credit with a
bank which it uses as part of its cash management program. The interest rate on
the line of credit is at the bank's prime rate. At December 31, 1995 and 1994,
no debt was outstanding under the line.

10.18% NOTES

    In May 1990, the Company issued an aggregate principal amount of $80
million of its 12-year 10.18% Notes (the "10.18% Notes") to a group of nine
institutional investors in a private placement offering. The 10.18% Notes
require five equal annual principal payments beginning in 1998. The Company may
prepay all or any portion of the indebtedness on any date with a prepayment
premium. Excluding the $2.6 million charge in December 1995 to terminate the
remaining interest rate swaps, the Company's effective interest rates for the
10.18% Notes in the two years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994 were 12.6% and
10.65%, respectively, due to the impact of the interest rate swap instruments
obtained in 1993 (see "Interest Rate Swap Agreements" under Note 13 Financial
Instruments). The 10.18% Notes contain restrictions on the merger of the
Company or any subsidiary with a third party other than under certain limited
conditions, as well as various other restrictive covenants customarily found in
such debt instruments, including a restriction on the payment of dividends or
the repurchase of equity securities. Such covenants about dividends and equity
securities are less restrictive than the covenants contained in the Credit
Facility referred to below.

REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT

    In January 1990, the Company entered into an $85 million Revolving Credit
Agreement (the "Credit Facility") with a bank (later expanded to five banks and
a $260 million available line of credit). In 1995, the Company amended its
Credit Facility decreasing the available credit line to $235 million. The
available credit line is subject to adjustment from time-to-time on the basis
of the projected present value (as determined by a petroleum engineer's report
incorporating certain assumptions provided by the lender) of estimated future
net cash flows from certain proved oil and gas reserves and other assets of the
Company. As of February 1996, the Company's available borrowing capacity is
$315 million.  Interest rates are principally based on a reference rate of
either the rate for certificates of deposit ("CD rate") or LIBOR, plus a
margin, or the prime rate. The margin above the reference rate is presently
equal to 3/4 of 1% for the LIBOR based rate, or 7/8 of 1% for the CD based
rate. The Credit Facility provides for a commitment fee on the unused available
balance at an annual rate of 3/8 of 1% and a commitment fee on the unavailable
balance of the credit line at an annual rate of 1/4 of 1%. The Company's
effective interest rates for the Credit Facility in the years ended December
31, 1995, 1994 and 1993 were 6.8%, 5.7% and 4.6%, respectively. Although the
revolving term of the Credit Facility expires in June 1996, it may be extended
with the banks' approval. If such term is not extended, the indebtedness
outstanding will be payable in 24 quarterly installments. Interest rates and
commitment fees are subject to increase if the indebtedness is greater than 80%
of the Company's debt limit of $315 million, as noted below. The Credit
Facility contains various restrictive covenants customarily found in such
facilities, including restrictions (i) prohibiting the merger of the Company or
any subsidiary with a third party other than under certain limited conditions,
(ii) prohibiting the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's or any
subsidiary's assets to a third party, and (iii) restricting certain payments
associated with repurchasing equity securities of the Company or declaring
dividends ("Restricted Payments", as defined in the Credit Facility), if
immediately prior to or after giving effect to such payments, the aggregate of
such Restricted Payments exceeds 15% of cash flows available for debt service,
as defined in the Credit Facility, or an event of default has occurred under
the Credit Facility. In addition, the Credit Facility prohibits the Company
from incurring recourse indebtedness (determined on a consolidated basis) in
excess of the debt limit (presently $315 million) subject to certain
adjustments, including adjustments for sales or acquisitions of oil and gas
properties and other changes in projected cash flows available for debt
service.






6. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

PENSION PLAN

   The Company has a non-contributory, defined benefit pension plan covering
all full-time employees. The benefits for this plan are based primarily on
years of service and pay near retirement. Plan assets consist principally of
fixed income investments and equity securities. The Company funds the plan in
accordance with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and
Internal Revenue Code limitations.

   The Company has a non-qualified equalization plan to ensure payments to
certain executive officers of amounts to which they are already entitled under
the provisions of the pension plan, but which are subject to limitations
imposed by federal tax laws. This plan is unfunded.

   Net periodic pension cost of the Company for the years ended December 31,
1995, 1994 and 1993 are comprised of the following:



   The following table sets forth the funded status of the Company's pension
plans at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively:








   Assumptions used to determine benefit obligations and pension costs are as
follows:



(1)  Represents the rates used to determine the benefit obligation.
     An 8.5% discount rate and 5.5% rate of increase in compensation
     levels were used to compute pension costs.

SAVINGS INVESTMENT PLAN

   The Company has a Savings Investment Plan (the "SIP") which is a defined
contribution plan. The Company matches a portion of employees' contributions.
Participation in the SIP is voluntary and all regular employees of the Company
are eligible to participate. The Company charged to expense plan contributions
of $0.8 million, $0.9 million and $0.7 million in 1995, 1994, and 1993,
respectively. Effective February 1, 1994, the Company's common stock was added
as an investment option within the SIP.

POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS

   In addition to providing pension benefits, the Company provides certain
health care and life insurance benefits ("postretirement benefits") for retired
employees, including their spouses, eligible dependents and surviving spouses
("retirees"). Substantially all employees become eligible for these benefits if
they meet certain age and service requirements at retirement. The Company was
providing postretirement benefits to 273 retirees and 234 retirees at the end
of 1995 and 1994, respectively.

   The Company adopted SFAS 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement
Benefits Other Than Pensions", in 1992 and elected to amortize the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation at January 1, 1992 (the "Transition
Obligation") over 20 years.

   The amortization benefit of the unrecognized Transition Obligation in 1995,
1994 and 1993, presented in the table below, is due to a cost-cutting amendment
to the postretirement medical benefits in 1993. The amendment prospectively
reduced the unrecognized Transition Obligation by $9.8 million and is amortized
over a 5.75 year period beginning in 1993.

   Postretirement benefit costs recognized in the years ended December 31,
1995, 1994 and 1993 are comprised of the following:




   The health care cost trend rate used to measure the expected cost in 1996
for medical benefits to retirees over age 65 was 8.4%, graded down to a trend
rate of 0% in 2001. The health care cost trend rate used to measure the
expected cost in 1996 for retirees under age 65 was 9.5%, graded down to a
trend rate of 0% in 2001. Provisions of the plan should prevent further
increases in employer cost after 2001.









   The weighted average discount rate used in determining the actuarial present
value of the benefit obligation at December 31, 1995 and 1994 was 7.5% and
8.5%, respectively.

   A one-percentage-point increase in health care cost trend rates for future
periods would increase the accumulated net postretirement benefit obligation by
approximately $265 thousand and, accordingly, the total postretirement benefit
cost recognized in 1995 would have also increased by approximately $25
thousand.

   The funded status of the Company's postretirement benefit obligation at
December 31, 1995 and 1994 is comprised of the following:



7. INCOME TAXES

   Income tax expense (benefit) is summarized as follows:



   Total income taxes were different than the amounts computed by applying the
statutory federal income tax rate as follows:











   Income taxes for the year ended December 31, 1993 were increased by $2.3
million due to a change in the federal income tax rate.

   The tax effects of temporary differences that gave rise to significant
portions of the deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets as of December
31, 1995 and 1994 were as follows:


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1)  As a result of the monetization of Section 29 tax credits, the Company
     recorded an asset sale for tax purposes in exchange for a long-term
     note receivable which will be repaid through 100% working and royalty
     interest in the production from the sold properties.

   At December 31, 1995, the Company has a net operating loss carryforward for
regular income tax reporting purposes of $59.5 million which will begin
expiring in 2006. In addition, the Company has an alternative minimum tax
credit carryforward of $4.6 million which does not expire and is available to
offset regular income taxes in future years to the extent that regular income
taxes exceed the alternative minimum tax in any such year.

8. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

LEASE COMMITMENTS

   The Company leases certain transportation vehicles, warehouse facilities,
office space and machinery and equipment under cancelable and non-cancelable
leases, most of which expire within five years and may be renewed by the
Company.  Rent expense under such arrangements totalled $4.9 million, $5.5
million and $5.0 million for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively. Future minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable leases in
effect at December 31, 1995 are as follows:



   Minimum rental commitments are not reduced by minimum sublease rental income
of $2.1 million due in the future under non-cancelable subleases.







CONTINGENCIES

   The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits and is involved in other gas
contract issues. In the opinion of the Company, final judgements or
settlements, if any, which may be awarded in connection with any one or more of
these suits and claims could be significant to the results of operations of any
period but would not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
position.

   In February 1993, Barby Energy Corporation and certain other parties filed
suit in Beaver County, Oklahoma against the Company to determine the rights and
interests of the parties in and to the oil, gas and other minerals underlying a
tract of land in Beaver County, Oklahoma, to quiet title to said mineral
estate, and for an accounting and payment of production proceeds attributable
to said mineral estate. Specifically at issue is whether there was continuous
production from an oil and gas well located on the property since July 5, 1965.
Plaintiffs claim there was a cessation of production, and therefore, all right,
title and interest to such property reverted to them and that they are entitled
to all revenues from such production since the date cessation of production
occurred. The Company believes that it holds a valid oil and gas lease covering
the interest claimed by the plaintiffs. The trial commenced on February 6, 1995
and, pursuant to an order entered on February 13, 1995, the judge denied and
overruled all of the plaintiffs' claims. Barby requested that the Oklahoma
Supreme Court retain the case. Subsequently, the Oklahoma Supreme Court decided
not to retain the case and assigned the appeal to the Oklahoma Court of
Appeals. The Barby appeal has been stayed pending settlement discussions.

   In September 1995, Barby filed a separate action in state court in Oklahoma,
purporting to represent all similarly situated royalty owners in Oklahoma,
alleging improper calculation of royalties and seeking actual and punitive
damages.  The Company has denied the material allegations of the complaint. No
formal discovery has yet been conducted. The action has been stayed pending
settlement discussions.

   Although no assurances can be given, the Company believes that the ultimate
outcome of the above litigation will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's financial position.

9. CASH FLOW INFORMATION

   Cash paid for interest and income taxes is as follows:



   At December 31, 1995 and 1994, the majority of cash and cash equivalents is
concentrated in one financial institution. Additionally, the Company has
accounts receivable that are subject to credit risk.

10. CAPITAL STOCK

INCENTIVE PLANS

   On May 20, 1994, the 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the 1994 Non-Employee
Director Stock Option Plan were approved by the shareholders. The Company has
two other stock option plans - the Incentive Stock Option Plan, adopted in
1989, and the 1990 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan. Under these four
plans (the "Incentive Plans"), incentive and non-statutory stock options,
stock appreciation rights ("SARs") and stock awards may be granted to key
employees and officers of the Company, and non-statutory stock options may be
granted to non-employee directors of the Company. A maximum of 2,660,000 shares
of Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share, are subject to issuance under the
Incentive Plans. All stock options have a maximum term of five or ten years
from the date of grant and vest over time. The options are issued at market
value on








the date of grant. The minimum exercise period for stock options is from the
date of grant. No SARs have been granted under the Incentive Plans. Information
regarding the Company's Incentive Plans is summarized below:



   Management is reviewing the newly issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards ("SFAS") No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", which
will be effective for the Company's 1996 calendar year. The new pronouncement
outlines a fair value based method of accounting for stock options or similar
equity instruments. While the adoption of this fair value method is encouraged,
it allows the Company to continue using the in intrinsic value based method, as
prescribed by Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, to measure
compensation cost for its stock option plans. Should the Company elect to
remain with the intrinsic value method, pro forma disclosures of net income and
earnings per share, using the fair value based method, must be presented. The
Company is currently evaluating the impact, if any, of SFAS 123 on its future
earnings and financial position and, accordingly, has not yet determined if it
will adopt the new accounting method.

DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

   The determination of the amount of future cash dividends, if any, to be
declared and paid on the Common Stock will be subject to the discretion of the
Board of Directors of the Company and will depend upon, among other things, the
Company's financial condition, funds from operations, the level of its capital
and exploration expenditures, and its future business prospects. The Company's
credit agreements restrict certain payments ("Restricted Payments," as defined
in the credit agreements) associated with (i) purchasing, redeeming, retiring
or otherwise acquiring any capital stock of the Company or any option, warrant
or other right to acquire such capital stock or (ii) declaring any dividend, if
immediately prior to or after giving effect to such payments, the aggregate of
such Restricted Payments exceeds 15% of cash flows available for debt service,
as defined in the Credit Facility, or an event of default has occurred under
the credit agreements. Furthermore, the Credit Facility specifies a minimum
cash flow to debt service coverage ratio. As of December 31, 1995, such
restrictions had no adverse impact on the Company's ability to pay regular
dividends.

PURCHASE RIGHTS

   On January 21, 1991, the Board of Directors adopted the Preferred Stock
Purchase Rights Plan and declared a dividend distribution of one right for each
outstanding share of Common Stock. Each right becomes exercisable, at a price
of $55, when any person or group has acquired, obtained the right to acquire or
made a tender or exchange offer for beneficial ownership of 15 percent or more
of the Company's outstanding Common Stock, except pursuant to a tender or
exchange offer for all outstanding shares of Common Stock deemed to be fair and
in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders by a majority of the
independent Continuing






Directors (as defined in the plan). Each right entitles the holder, other than
the acquiring person or group, to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of
Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock ("Junior Preferred Stock"), or to
receive, after certain triggering events, Common Stock or other property having
a market value (as defined in the plan) of twice the exercise price of each
right. After the rights become exercisable, if the Company is acquired in a
merger or other business combination in which it is not the survivor or 50
percent or more of the Company's assets or earning power are sold or
transferred, each right entitles the holder to purchase common stock of the
acquiring company with a market value (as defined in the plan) equal to twice
the exercise price of each right. At December 31, 1995, there were no shares of
Junior Preferred Stock issued.

   The rights, which expire on January 21, 2001, and the exercise price are
subject to adjustment and may be redeemed by the Company for $0.01 per right at
any time before they become exercisable. Under certain circumstances, the
Continuing Directors may opt to exchange one share of Common Stock for each
exercisable right.

PREFERRED STOCK

   At December 31, 1995 and 1994, 692,439 shares of the Company's $3.125
cumulative convertible preferred stock ("$3.125 preferred stock") were issued
and outstanding. Each share has a stated value of $50 and is convertible any
time by the holder into Common Stock at a conversion price of $21 per share,
subject to adjustment. The $3.125 preferred stock is redeemable by the Company
for a stated redemption price per share, starting at $55 per share in 1993 and
declining to $50 per share in 2003, plus accrued dividends. Prior to May 31,
1997, the Company's option to redeem the $3.125 preferred stock is subject to a
provision that the Common Stock closing price must equal at least 130% of the
conversion price for 20 of 30 consecutive trade days. The Company also has the
option to convert the $3.125 preferred stock to Common Stock at the conversion
price provided the Company has the right to redeem the $3.125 preferred stock,
as described above, and the closing price of the Common Stock is at least equal
to the conversion price for 20 consecutive trading days.

   At December 31, 1995 and 1994 1,134,000 shares of 6% convertible redeemable
preferred stock ("6% preferred stock") were issued and outstanding (See Note 11
WERCO Acquisition). Each share has voting rights equal to approximately 1.7
shares of Common Stock, a stated value of $50 and is convertible at any time by
the holder into Common Stock at a conversion price of $28.75 per share, subject
to adjustment. Starting on the fourth anniversary of the date of issuance, the
6% preferred stock is redeemable, in whole or in part, at the Company's option
price of $50 per share. During the period between the fourth and fifth
anniversary dates, the Company may opt to redeem the 6% preferred stock in
shares of Common Stock, using the market price of the Common Stock on the date
redeemed, plus a cash payment for the accrued dividends due on the shares
redeemed. On or after the fifth anniversary date, the $50 per share redemption
price is payable in cash, plus a cash payment for accrued dividends due on the
shares redeemed.

11. WERCO ACQUISITION

   On May 2, 1994, the Company completed the merger between a Company
subsidiary and Washington Energy Resources Company ("WERCO"), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Washington Energy Company. The Company acquired the stock of
WERCO in a tax-free exchange. Total capitalized costs related to the acquisition
were $207.8 million, comprised of cash and stock consideration of $167.6
million (net of an $8.4 million post-closing adjustment in 1995) and a $40.2
million non-cash component relating to the deferred income taxes attributable
to the differences between the tax and book bases of the acquired properties,
as required by SFAS 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes". The acquisition was
recorded using the purchase method. The oil and gas properties are located in
the Green River Basin of Wyoming and in the Gulf Coast.









   The Company issued 2,133,000 shares of 6% convertible redeemable preferred
stock ($50 per share stated value) to Washington Energy Company in exchange for
the capital stock of WERCO.

   The $8.4 million post-closing adjustment was a net cash payment received in
1995 related to a valuation adjustment and was recorded as a reduction to the
net book value of certain of the oil and gas properties acquired.

   The pro forma results of operations in 1994, had the WERCO acquisition
occurred at the beginning of 1994, were total revenue of $259.1 million, net
loss applicable to common shareholders of $7.3 million and net loss per common
share of $0.32. These pro forma results do not purport to be indicative of the
results of future operations, nor the results of historical operations had the
acquisition occurred as of the assumed date.

12. COST REDUCTION PROGRAM

   In January 1995, the Company announced a cost reduction program which
included a voluntary early retirement program, a 15% targeted reduction in
workforce and a consolidation of management in the Rocky Mountain, Anadarko and
onshore Gulf Coast areas into a single Western Region. Accordingly, the Company
recognized a liability and charged to expense $6.8 million in termination
benefits for 115 employees, or 23% of the total workforce, including 24
employees who elected early retirement. The employee terminations were made in
virtually all departments both at the Company's corporate headquarters and each
of the operating region/area offices. The termination benefits included $3.8
million for severance and related costs, which were paid out by year end and a
$3.0 million non-cash charge for curtailments to the Company's pension ($0.4
million) and postretirement ($2.6 million) benefits plans.

13. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

   The following disclosures on the estimated fair value of financial
instruments are presented in accordance with SFAS 107, "Disclosures about Fair
Value of Financial Instruments". Fair value, as defined in SFAS 107, is the
amount at which the instrument could be exchanged currently between willing
parties. The Company uses available marketing data and valuation methodologies
to estimate fair value of debt.



LONG-TERM DEBT

   The fair value of long-term debt is the estimated cost to acquire the debt,
including a premium or discount for the differential between the issue rate and
the year-end market rate. The fair value of the 10.18% Notes is based upon
interest rates available to the Company. The Credit Facility and the short-term
line approximate fair value because these instruments bear interest at rates
based on current market rates.









INTEREST RATE SWAP AGREEMENTS

   In November 1993, the Company executed reverse interest rate swap agreements
with four banks that effectively converted the Company's $80 million fixed rate
notes into variable rate notes. Under the swap agreements, the Company paid a
variable rate of interest that was based on the six-month LIBOR. The banks paid
the Company fixed rates of interest that average 5.00%. The four agreements had
notional principal of $20 million each with terms of two, three, four and five
years. The fair value was determined by obtaining termination values from third
parties (see "Risk Management Activities" under Note 1).

   In January 1995, the Company entered into four additional swap agreements
which effectively fixed interest payments on the original interest rate swaps
until May 1997. In 1995, the Company recorded $4.5 million of interest expense
related to these swap agreements including a $2.6 million charge in December
1995 when cash payments were made to close out the remaining swap positions.

GAS PRICE SWAPS

   The Company has entered into several price swap agreements with six
counterparties. In a majority of the natural gas price swap agreements, the
Company receives a fixed price ("fixed price swap contracts") for a notional
quantity of natural gas in exchange for its paying a variable price based on a
market based index, such as the Nymex gas futures.  The fixed price swap
contracts are used to hedge price risk associated with the Company's
production. During 1995, the fixed prices received on closed contracts ranged
from $1.61 to $2.27 per MMbtu on total notional quantities of 3,565,000 MMbtu.
Eight fixed price swap contracts were open at December 31, 1995 with fixed
prices from $1.82 to $2.54 per MMbtu, contract periods extending to April 1996
and open notional quantities totaling 16,085,000 MMbtu. In the other natural
gas price swap contract closed in 1995, the Company received the variable price
and paid a fixed price ("variable price swap contract") of $1.60 per MMbtu on
total notional quantities of 5,475,000 MMbtu. The Company used this variable
price swap contract to partially hedge the price of third-party purchased gas
used to supply a long-term, fixed price contract.

   Certain of the fixed price swap contracts, open at December 31, 1995, became
'uncovered' due to an unprecedented decoupling of the Nymex gas prices from
realizable sales prices in the physical markets. These 'uncovered' hedge
contracts had notional quantities totalling 5,480,000 MMbtu and covered the
contract months of January to April 1996.  Accordingly, the Company recorded a
$3.2 million unrealized loss at December 31, 1995 and will continue to mark
these 'uncovered' hedge contracts to market until they are closed. Excluding
the 'uncovered' hedge contracts, the estimated fair value of price swaps in the
table above are for hedged transactions in which gains or losses are recognized
in results of operations over the periods that production or purchased gas is
hedged (see "Risk Management Activities" under Note 1).

   After entering into certain fixed price sales contracts to meet the needs of
its customers, the Company opened gas swap agreements to convert these fixed
price contracts to market-sensitive price contracts. During 1995, these
agreements had total notional quantities of 1,925,000 MMbtu in closed contracts
and another 1,260,000 MMbtu in open contracts at December 31, 1995.

   The Company is exposed to market risk on these open contracts to the extent
of changes in market prices for natural gas. However, the market risk exposure
on these hedged contracts is generally offset by the gain or loss recognized
upon the ultimate sale of the natural gas that is hedged.

CREDIT RISK

   Although notional contract amounts are used to express the volume of gas
price and interest rate swap agreements, the amounts potentially subject to
credit risk, in the event of non-performance by third parties, are
substantially smaller.  The Company does not anticipate any material impact to
its financial results due to non-performance by the third parties.







14. ACCOUNTING CHANGE

   Effective January 1, 1995, the Company changed from the property-by-property
basis to the field basis of applying the unit-of-production method to calculate
depreciation and depletion on producing oil and gas properties. The field basis
provides for the aggregation of wells that have a common geological reservoir
or field. The field basis provides a better matching of expenses with revenues
over the productive life of the properties, and, therefore, the Company
believes the new method is preferable to the property-by-property basis.
Because the cumulative effect of the change in method from prior periods was
insignificant, a pre-tax charge of $303 thousand, such amount ("pre-1995
amount") was included with depreciation, depletion and amortization ("DD&A")
expense in 1995. The net effect of the change in method resulted in a $3,967
thousand decrease in DD&A expense and a $2,428 thousand increase in net
earnings in 1995, including the impact of the pre-1995 amount. The pro forma
impact on the results of operations in 1994, had the change in method been
implemented at the beginning of 1994, would have been a decrease in DD&A
expense of approximately $2,378 thousand and a $1,446 thousand increase in net
earnings. The reduction in DD&A expense for 1995 due to the change in method
was offset by higher levels of DD&A expense primarily due to reserve revisions.

15. ACCOUNTING FOR LONG-LIVED ASSETS

   Effective September 30, 1995, the Company adopted SFAS No. 121 "Accounting
for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be
Disposed Of". SFAS 121 requires that an impairment loss be recognized when the
carrying amount of an asset exceeds the sum of the undiscounted estimated
future cash flow of the asset. Under SFAS 121, the Company reviewed the
impairment of oil and gas properties and related assets on an economic unit
basis. For each economic unit determined to be impaired, an impairment loss
equal to the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the
economic unit was recognized. Fair value, on an economic unit basis, was
estimated to be the present value of expected future net cash flows over the
economic lives of the reserves. As a result of the adoption of SFAS 121, the
Company recognized a non-cash charge during the third quarter of $113.8 million
($69.2 million after tax).

16. SALE OF NON-CORE OIL AND GAS PROPERTIES

   The Company sold various non-core oil and gas properties in the Western
Region, obtaining proceeds of $7.6 million.

17. OTHER REVENUE

   The Company recorded $4.6 million ($4.3 million net of severance taxes) in
other revenue in connection with the sale of certain Columbia Gas Transmission
Corporation ("Columbia") bankruptcy claims. The claims related to the remaining
value of gas sales in contracts terminated by Columbia as part of its
bankruptcy filing in 1991.

18. MONETIZATION OF SECTION 29 TAX CREDITS

   In September and November 1995, the Company completed two transactions to
monetize the value of Section 29 tax credits from most of its qualifying
Appalachian and Rocky Mountain properties. The transactions provided up-front
cash of $2.8 million which was recorded as a reduction to the net book value of
natural gas properties, and will generate additional revenues through 2002
estimated at $20 million ($3.0 million projected in 1996) related to the value
of future Section 29 tax credits attributable to these properties. Employing a
volumetric production payment structure, the production, revenues, expenses and
proved reserves related to these properties will continue to be reported by the
Company until the production payment is satisfied.






CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

SUPPLEMENTAL OIL AND GAS INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

OIL AND GAS RESERVES

   Users of this information should be aware that the process of estimating
quantities of "proved" and "proved developed" natural gas and crude oil
reserves is very complex, requiring significant subjective decisions in the
evaluation of all available geological, engineering and economic data for each
reservoir. The data for a given reservoir may also change substantially over
time as a result of numerous factors including, but not limited to, additional
development activity, evolving production history and continual reassessment of
the viability of production under varying economic conditions. Consequently,
material revisions to existing reserve estimates may occur from time to time.
Although every reasonable effort is made to ensure that reserve estimates
reported represent the most accurate assessments possible, the significance of
the subjective decisions required and variances in available data for various
reservoirs make these estimates generally less precise than other estimates
presented in connection with financial statement disclosures.

   Proved reserves represent estimated quantities of natural gas, crude oil and
condensate that geological and engineering data demonstrate, with reasonable
certainty, to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under
economic and operating conditions existing at the time the estimates were made.

   Proved developed reserves are proved reserves expected to be recovered
through wells and equipment in place and under operating methods being utilized
at the time the estimates were made.

   Estimates of proved and proved developed reserves at December 31, 1995, 1994
and 1993 were based on studies performed by the Company's petroleum engineering
staff. The estimates prepared by the Company's engineering staff were reviewed
by Miller and Lents, Ltd., who indicated in their recent letter dated February
8, 1996 that, based on their investigation and subject to the limitations
described in such letter, it was their judgement that the results of those
estimates and projections for 1995 were reasonable in the aggregate.

   No major discovery or other favorable or adverse event subsequent to
December 31, 1995 is believed to have caused a material change in the estimates
of proved or proved developed reserves as of that date.

   The following table sets forth the Company's net proved reserves, including
changes therein, and proved developed reserves for the periods indicated, as
estimated by the Company's engineering staff. All reserves are located in the
United States (more than 99%) or Canada.










CAPITALIZED COSTS RELATING TO OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES

   The following table sets forth the aggregate amount of capitalized costs
relating to natural gas and crude oil producing activities and the aggregate
amount of related accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization.



COSTS INCURRED IN OIL AND GAS PROPERTY ACQUISITION, EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT
   ACTIVITIES AND FINDING AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS OF PROVED RESERVES

   Costs incurred in property acquisition, exploration and development
activities were as follows:


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1)  Exploration expenses that are administrative in nature are excluded
     from the finding and development cost calculation.







HISTORICAL RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FROM OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES

   The results of operations for the Company's oil and gas producing activities
were as follows:



STANDARDIZED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS RELATING TO PROVED OIL
  AND GAS RESERVES

    The following information has been developed utilizing procedures
prescribed by SFAS 69 and based on natural gas and crude oil reserve and
production volumes estimated by the Company's engineering staff. It may be
useful for certain comparison purposes, but should not be solely relied upon in
evaluating the Company or its performance. Further, information contained in
the following table should not be considered as representative of realistic
assessments of future cash flows, nor should the Standardized Measure of
Discounted Future Net Cash Flows be viewed as representative of the current
value of the Company.

    The Company believes that the following factors should be taken into
account in reviewing the following information: (i) future costs and selling
prices will probably differ from those required to be used in these
calculations; (ii) due to future market conditions and governmental
regulations, actual rates of production achieved in future years may vary
significantly from the rate of production assumed in the calculations;
(iii) selection of a 10% discount rate is arbitrary and may not be
reasonable as a measure of the relative risk inherent in realizing future net
oil and gas revenues; and (iv) future net revenues may be subject to different
rates of income taxation.

    Under the Standardized Measure, future cash inflows were estimated by
applying year-end oil and gas prices adjusted for fixed and determinable
escalations, to the estimated future production of year-end proved reserves.

    The average prices related to proved reserves at December 31, 1995, 1994
and 1993 were for oil ($/Bbl) $17.06, $18.34 and $16.20, respectively, and for
natural gas ($/Mcf) $2.06, $1.88 and $2.40, respectively. Future cash inflows
were reduced by estimated future development and production costs based on
year-end costs in order to arrive at net cash flow before tax. Future income
tax expense has been computed by applying year-end statutory tax rates to
future pretax net cash flows, reduced by the tax basis of the properties
involved. Use of a 10% discount rate is required by SFAS 69.

    Management does not rely solely upon the following information in making
investment and operating decisions. Such decisions are based upon a wide range
of factors, including estimates of probable as well as proved reserves, and
varying price and cost assumptions considered more representative of a range of
possible economic conditions that may be anticipated.






   Standardized Measure is as follows:



(1)  Includes the future cash inflows, production costs and development
     costs, as well as the tax basis, relating to the properties included
     in the transactions to monetize the value of Section 29 tax credits.
     See Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
(2)  Future income taxes before discount were $462,058, $433,212 and
     $480,817 for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993,
     respectively.

CHANGES IN STANDARDIZED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS RELATING TO
  PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES

   The following is an analysis of the changes in the Standardized Measure:








CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

SELECTED DATA (UNAUDITED)

          QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)




(1)   Includes a $113.8 million charge ($69.2 million after tax) for the
      impairment of long-lived assets resulting from the adoption of SFAS
      121.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

   None.

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

   The information to be set forth under the caption "Election of Directors" in
the Company's definitive proxy statement ("Proxy Statement") in connection with
the 1996 annual stockholders meeting is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

   The information appearing under the captions "Executive Compensation" and
"Severance Arrangements" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

   The information appearing under the captions "Beneficial Ownership of Over
Five Percent of Common Stock" and "Beneficial Ownership of Directors and
Executive Officers" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

   None.






PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

A. INDEX

1. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

   See Index on page 26

2. FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

   None

3. EXHIBITS

   The following instruments are included as exhibits to this report. Those
exhibits below incorporated by reference herein are indicated as such by the
information supplied in the parenthetical thereafter. If no parenthetical
appears after an exhibit, copies of the instrument have been included herewith.










B. REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

   None






SIGNATURES

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Houston, State of Texas,
on the 23rd day of February 1996.

                                        CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION

                                        By:  /s/ Charles P. Siess, Jr.
                                           -----------------------------------
                                           Charles P. Siess, Jr.
                                           Chairman of the Board, Chief 
                                           Executive Officer and President

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.








                                EXHIBIT  INDEX


 Exhibit
  Number                                                      Description
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   3.2           Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company adopted August 5,
                 1994.
   4.3           (a) Amendment No. 1 to the Rights Agreement dated February 24,
                      1994.
   4.5           Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of May 30, 1995
                 among the Company, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, as agent and
                 the banks named therein.
                  (a) Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement dated September 15,
                      1995.
   10.1          Supplemental Executive Retirement Agreement between the Company
                 and Charles P. Siess, Jr.
   10.2          Form of Change in Control Agreement between the Company and
                 Certain Officers.
   10.10         (c) First through Fifth Amendments to the Trust Agreement.
   10.14         (b) Second Amendment to 1990 Nonemployee Director Stock Option
                     Plan.
   10.17         Employment Agreement between the Company and Ray R. Seegmiller
                 dated September 25, 1995.
   21.1          Subsidiaries of Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation.
   23.1          Consent of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.
   23.2          Consent of Miller and Lents, Ltd.
   27            Financial Data Schedule.
   28.1          Miller and Lents, Ltd. Review Letter dated February 8, 1996.




