
10-K405
d94660e10-k405.txt
FORM 10-K FOR FISCAL YEAR END DECEMBER 31, 2001



================================================================================


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   ----------

                                    FORM 10-K

              [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                     THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2001
                                       OR
            [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                                   ----------

                         Commission File Number 1-10485

                            TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                   DELAWARE                                 75-2303920
         (State or other jurisdiction                    (I.R.S. employer
              of incorporation or                      identification no.)
                 organization)

         5949 SHERRY LANE, SUITE 1400                         75225
                 DALLAS, TEXAS                              (Zip code)
             (Address of principal
              executive offices)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (214) 547-4000

                                   ----------

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                     NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
          TITLE OF EACH CLASS                         ON WHICH REGISTERED
     -----------------------------                 -------------------------
     COMMON STOCK, $0.01 PAR VALUE                  NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      NONE

                                   ----------

    INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS
REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE
REGISTRANT WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH
FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS. YES  X   NO
                                              ---     ---

    INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM
405 OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN, AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO THE
BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION STATEMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THE FORM 10-K OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS
FORM 10-K. YES  X  NO
               ---    ---

    THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF THE VOTING STOCK HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES OF THE
REGISTRANT ON MARCH 1, 2002 WAS $142,746,000.

    THE NUMBER OF SHARES OF COMMON STOCK OF THE REGISTRANT OUTSTANDING ON MARCH
1, 2002 WAS 47,341,364.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    CERTAIN INFORMATION REQUIRED BY PART III OF THIS ANNUAL REPORT IS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE FROM THE REGISTRANT'S DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT FOR
ITS ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS TO BE HELD ON MAY 9, 2002.

================================================================================


                            TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
                                    FORM 10-K
                                










                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

    Tyler Technologies, Inc. ("Tyler" or the "Company") is a leading provider of
integrated information management solutions and services for local governments.
Tyler partners with clients to make local government more accessible to the
public, more responsive to the needs of citizens and more efficient in its
operations. Tyler has a broad line of software products and services to address
the information technology ("IT") needs of virtually every area of operation for
cities, counties, schools and other local government entities. Most of Tyler's
customers install and use its software in-house. For customers who prefer not to
physically acquire the software and hardware, Tyler provides outsourced hosting
of certain of its applications at its data center through an applications
service provider ("ASP") arrangement. Tyler provides professional IT services to
its customers, including software and hardware installation, data conversion,
training and, at times, product modifications. In addition, Tyler is the
nation's largest provider of outsourced property assessment services for taxing
jurisdictions. Tyler also provides continuing customer support services to
ensure proper product performance and reliability, which provides the Company
with long-term customer relationships and a significant base of recurring
revenue.

    Tyler was founded in 1966. Prior to early 1998, the Company operated as a
diversified industrial conglomerate, with diversified operations in various
industrial, retail and distribution businesses, all of which have been sold.

    In 1997, the Company embarked on a multi-phase strategy and growth plan
focused on serving the specialized information management needs of local
governments nationwide. In 1998 and 1999, Tyler made a series of strategic
acquisitions of leading companies in the local government IT market.

    In addition to Tyler's continuing operations in the software and services
business described above, Tyler also operated from 1998 through 2000 a business
segment focused on providing outsourced property records management for local
governments and reselling related data. In late 2000, the Company decided to
dispose of the information and property records services segment in order to
strengthen its balance sheet and allow the Company to focus its capital and
resources on the segment of the business that management believed offers the
greatest growth and profit opportunities. Tyler expects to capitalize on these
opportunities by leveraging its large national client base, its long-term
relationships with local government customers, and its deep domain expertise in
local government operations through the development of state-of-the-art
technologies and new nationally branded applications solutions. Tyler began in
2000 and is continuing several significant initiatives to develop a new
generation of certain of its software products based on n-tier architecture,
SQL-compliant databases, browser compatibility and component-based technology.

    Tyler's historical revenues from continuing operations have grown from $23.4
million in 1998 to $117.9 million in 2001. In addition to growth through
acquisitions, Tyler's business units have experienced significant internal
growth during this period. On a pro forma basis, revenues from continuing
operations have grown from $83.7 million in 1998 to $117.9 million in 2001.

MARKET OVERVIEW

    The state, local and municipal government market is one of the largest and
most decentralized IT markets in the country, consisting of all 50 states,
approximately 3,200 counties, and over 40,000 municipalities and other agencies.
This market is also comprised of hundreds of various government agencies, each
with specialized delegated responsibilities and unique information management
requirements.

    Traditionally, local government bodies and agencies performed state-mandated
duties, including property assessment, record keeping, road maintenance, law
enforcement, administration of election and judicial functions, and the
provision of welfare assistance. Today, a host of emerging and urgent issues is
confronting local governments, each of which demands a service response. These
areas include criminal justice and corrections, administration and finance,
public safety, health and human services, and public works. Transfers of
responsibility from the federal and state governments to county and municipal
governments and agencies in these and other areas also place additional service
and financial requirements on these local government units. In addition,
constituents of local governments are increasingly demanding improved service
and better access to information from public entities. As a result, local
governments recognize the increasing value of information management systems and
services to, among other things, improve revenue collection, provide increased
access to information, and streamline delivery of services to their
constituents. Local






government bodies are now recognizing that "e-government" is an additional
responsibility for community development. From integrated tax systems to
integrated civil and criminal justice information systems, many counties and
cities have benefited significantly from the implementation of jurisdiction-wide
systems that allow different agencies or government offices to share data and
provide a more comprehensive approach to information management. Many city and
county governmental agencies also have unique individual information management
requirements, which must be tailored to the specific functions of each
particular office.

    Many local governments also have difficulties attracting and retaining the
staff necessary to support their IT functions. As a result, they seek to
establish long-term relationships with reliable providers of high quality IT
products and services such as Tyler.

    Although local governments generally face budgetary constraints in their
operations, the primary revenue source of local government is property tax,
which tends to be relatively stable. In addition, the acquisition of technology
typically enables local government to operate more efficiently, and often
provides a measurable return on investment that justifies the purchase of
software and related services.

    Gartner Dataquest currently estimates that state and local government
spending for information technology products and services will grow from $44.4
billion in 2002 to $56.4 billion by 2005. The external services and software
segments of the market, in which Tyler is primarily focused, are expected to be
the most rapidly growing areas of the local government IT market.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

    Tyler provides a comprehensive and flexible suite of products and services
that address the information technology needs of cities, counties, schools and
other local government entities. Tyler derives its revenues from three primary
sources:

    o   software licensing;

    o   professional services; and

    o   maintenance and support.

    Tyler designs, develops and markets a broad range of software products to
serve mission-critical "back-office" functions of local governments. Tyler's
software applications are designed primarily for use on hardware supporting UNIX
/ NT operating systems. Many of the Company's software applications include
Internet-accessible solutions that allow for real-time public access to a
variety of information or that allow the public to transact business with local
governments via the Internet. Tyler's products and services are generally
grouped in four major areas:

    o   financial and city solutions;

    o   justice and courts;

    o   property appraisal and tax; and

    o   recording.

    Each of Tyler's core software systems consists of several fully integrated
application modules. For customers who acquire the software for use in-house,
the Company generally licenses its systems under standard license agreements
which provide the customer with a fully-paid, nonexclusive, nontransferable
right to use the software. In some of the product areas, such as financials and
property tax, Tyler offers multiple solutions designed to meet the needs of
different sized governments.

    Tyler also offers certain software products on an outsourced basis for
customers who do not wish to maintain, update and run these systems or to make
large up-front capital expenditures to implement these advanced technologies.
For these customers, Tyler either hosts the applications and data at a
Company-owned data center, or maintains the hardware and software at the
client's site. Customers typically pay monthly fees under multi-year contracts
for these services.






FINANCIAL AND CITY SOLUTIONS

    Tyler's financial and city solutions products include modular fund
accounting systems that can be tailored to meet the needs of virtually any
government agency or not-for-profit entity. Tyler's financial systems include
modules for general ledger, budget preparation, fixed assets, purchasing,
accounts payable, investment management, payroll and human resources. All of
Tyler's financial systems conform to government auditing and financial reporting
requirements and generally accepted accounting principles.

    Tyler sells utility billing systems that support the billing and collection
of metered and non-metered services, along with multiple billing cycles. Tyler's
Web-enabled utility billing solutions allow customers to access information such
as average consumption and transaction history. In addition, Tyler's systems can
accept secured Internet payments via credit cards and checks.

    Tyler also offers specialized products that automate numerous city
functions, including equipment and project costing, inventory, business
licenses, permits and inspections, citizen complaint tracking, ambulance
billing, fleet maintenance, and cemetery records management.

JUSTICE AND COURTS

    Tyler offers a complete integrated suite of products designed to automate,
track and manage the law enforcement and judicial process, from the initiation
of incidents in computer-aided dispatch/emergency 911 systems through the
process of arrest, court appearances and final disposition to probation. These
applications may be installed on a stand-alone basis or integrated with other
Tyler products to eliminate duplicate entries and improve efficiency.

    Tyler's Web-enabled court systems are designed to automate the tracking and
management of information involved in criminal and civil court cases, including
municipal, family and probate courts. These applications track the status of
criminal and civil cases, process fines and fees and generate the specialized
judgment and sentencing documents, citations, notices and forms required in
court proceedings. Additional judicial applications automate the management of
court calendars, coordinate judges schedules, generate court dockets, manage
justice of the peace processes and automate district attorney and prosecutor
functions. Related products include jury selection, "hot" check processing, and
adult and juvenile probation management applications. The Company's courtroom
technologies allow judges to review cases, calendars, scanned documents and mug
shots using a Web browser. Additionally, document-imaging options include the
ability to scan, store, retrieve and archive a variety of criminal and civil
case-related documents.

    Tyler's law enforcement systems automate police and sheriff functions from
dispatch and records management through booking and jail management. Searching,
reporting and tracking features are integrated, allowing reliable, up-to-date
access to current arrest and incarceration data. The systems also provide
warrant checks for visitors or book-ins, inmate classification and risk
assessment, commissary, property and medical processing, and automation of
statistics and state and federal reporting. Tyler's computer-aided
dispatch/emergency E-911 system tracks calls and the availability of emergency
response vehicles, interfaces with local and state searches, and generally
assists dispatchers in processing emergency situations. The law enforcement and
jail management systems are fully integrated with the suite of court products
that manage the judicial process.

    Tyler's courts and law enforcement systems allow the public to access via
the Internet a variety of information, including criminal and civil court
records, jail booking and release information, bond and bondsmen information,
and court calendars and dockets. In addition, Tyler's systems allow cities and
counties to accept payments for traffic and parking tickets over the Internet,
with a seamless and automatic interface to back-office justice and financial
systems.

    In late 2001, Tyler introduced Odyssey, an all-new unified court case
management system. Odyssey uses enhanced Web-browser concepts to render a unique
user interface. It incorporates the latest technology - XML, n-tier
architecture, component-based design, and an ultra-thin client footprint - to
maximize the value of a court's investment in new software. Tyler believes that
some of Odyssey's design concepts, including embedded imaging functionality,
COM+ objects to enable local customization, and an architecture that enables
multiple deployment options, are first in the court automation marketplace.
Odyssey is the first of Tyler's new generation of n-tier, browser-based products
and initial marketing efforts for the new court case management system are being
focused on large cities and counties.





PROPERTY APPRAISAL AND TAX

    Tyler provides systems that automate the appraisal and assessment of real
and personal property, including record keeping, mass appraisal, inquiry and
protest tracking, appraisal and tax roll generation, tax statement processing,
and electronic state-level reporting. These systems are image- and video-enabled
to facilitate the storage of and access to the many property-related documents
and for the online storage of digital photographs of properties for use in
defending values in protest situations. Other related tax applications are
available for agencies that bill and collect taxes, including cities, counties,
school tax offices, and special taxing and collection agencies. These systems
support billing, collections, lock box operations, mortgage company electronic
payments, and various reporting requirements.

RECORDING

    Tyler offers a number of specialized applications designed to help county
governments enhance and automate courthouse operations. These systems record and
index information for the many documents maintained at the courthouse, such as
deeds, mortgages, liens, UCC financing statements and vital records (birth,
death and marriage certificates). Tyler also offers applications to automate
such functions as child support tracking, motor vehicle registration, voter
registration and election result tabulation.

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES

    Tyler provides a variety of professional IT services to customers who
utilize the Company's software products. Virtually all of Tyler's customers
contract with the Company for installation, training, and data conversion
services in connection with their purchase of software products. The complete
implementation process for a typical system includes planning, design, data
conversion, set-up and testing. At the culmination of the implementation
process, an installation team travels to the customer's facility to ensure the
smooth transfer of data to the new system. Installation fees are charged
separately to customers on either a fixed-fee or hourly charge basis, depending
on the contract, with full pass-through to customers of travel and other
out-of-pocket expenses.

    Both in connection with the installation of new systems and on an ongoing
basis, Tyler provides extensive training services and programs related to its
products and services. Training can be provided in the Company's training
centers, onsite at customers' locations, or at meetings and conferences, and can
be customized to meet customers' requirements. The vast majority of Tyler's
customers contract with the Company for training services, both to improve their
employees' proficiency and productivity and to fully utilize the functionality
of the Company's systems. Training services are generally billed on an hourly
basis, along with travel and other expenses.

    Tyler is also the nation's largest provider of real property appraisal
outsourcing services for local government taxing authorities. These services
include:

    o   the physical inspection of all commercial and residential properties;

    o   data collection and processing;

    o   sophisticated computer analyses for property valuation;

    o   preparation of tax rolls;

    o   community education regarding the assessment process; and

    o   arbitration between taxpayers and the assessing jurisdiction.

    Local government taxing entities normally reappraise real properties from
time to time to update values for tax assessment purposes and to maintain equity
in the taxing process. In some jurisdictions, reassessment cycles are mandated
by law; in others, they are discretionary. While some taxing jurisdictions
perform reappraisals in-house, many local governments outsource this function
because of its cyclical nature and because of the specialized knowledge and
expertise requirements. Tyler's business unit that provides appraisal
outsourcing services to local governments has been in this business since 1938.

    In some instances, Tyler also sells property tax or appraisal software
products in connection with appraisal outsourcing contracts, while other
customers may only engage Tyler to provide appraisal services. Appraisal
outsourcing services are somewhat seasonal in nature to the extent that winter
weather conditions reduce the productivity of data collection activities in
connection with those projects.





MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT

    Following the implementation of our software systems, Tyler provides ongoing
software support services to assist its customers in operating the systems and
to periodically update the software. Support is provided over the phone to
customers through help-desks staffed by Tyler's customer support
representatives. For more complicated issues, Tyler's staff, with customer
permission, can log on to customers' systems remotely. The Company maintains
customers' software largely through releases that contain improvements and
incremental additions, along with updates necessary because of legislative or
regulatory changes.

    Virtually all of Tyler's software customers contract for maintenance and
support from the Company, which provides a significant source of recurring
revenue for the Company. Tyler generally provides maintenance and support under
annual contracts, with a typical fee based on the software product's license
fee. These fees can be increased annually and may also increase as license fees
increase. Maintenance and support fees are generally paid in advance for the
entire maintenance contract period. Most maintenance contracts automatically
renew annually unless the customer, or Tyler gives notice of termination prior
to expiration. Similar support is provided to Tyler's ASP customers, and is
included in their monthly overall fees.

STRATEGY

    Tyler's objective is to grow its revenue and earnings internally,
supplemented by focused strategic acquisitions. The key components of the
Company's business strategy are to:

    o   Provide high quality, value-added products and services to its
        clients. Tyler competes on the basis of, among other things, delivering
        to customers its deep domain expertise in local government operations
        through the highest value products and services in the market. Tyler
        believes it has achieved a reputation as a premium product and service
        provider to the local government market.

    o   Continue to expand its product and service offerings. While Tyler
        already has what it believes to be the broadest line of software
        products for local governments, the Company continually upgrades its
        core software applications and expands its complementary product and
        service offerings to respond to technological advancements and the
        changing needs of its clients. For example, Tyler offers solutions that
        allow the public to access data and conduct transactions with local
        governments, such as paying traffic tickets, property taxes and utility
        bills, via the Internet. The Company believes that the addition of such
        features enhance the market appeal of its core products. In 2001, Tyler
        also began offering certain of its software products in an ASP
        environment, a delivery model that it believes will have increasing
        appeal to local governments and which will be expanded to include more
        products. The Company has also increased its offerings of consulting and
        business process reengineering services.

    o   Leverage a core technology framework across multiple product development
        efforts. Tyler has developed a core technology framework upon which it
        intends to develop a new generation of a number of its products. By
        leveraging the core framework, which is based on an n-tier,
        browser-based architecture, for the development of multiple products,
        the Company believes it can develop new-generation products more
        efficiently, at a lower total cost, and more quickly. In addition,
        utilizing a core framework is also expected to help the Company bring
        new products to market more rapidly. By having more products built on a
        common technology framework, Tyler expects to enhance its cross-selling
        opportunities and be able to provide maintenance and other services more
        efficiently.

    o   Expand its customer base. Tyler seeks to establish long-term
        relationships with new customers primarily through its sales and
        marketing efforts. While Tyler currently has customers in 49 states,
        Canada and Puerto Rico, not all of its product lines have nationwide
        geographic penetration. The Company intends to expand into new
        geographic markets by adding sales staff and targeting marketing efforts
        by product in those areas. Tyler also intends to continue to expand its
        customer base to include larger governments. While the Company's
        traditional market focus has primarily been on small and mid-sized
        governments, Tyler's increased size and market presence, together with
        the technological advances and improved scalability of certain of its
        products, are allowing the Company to achieve success in selling to
        larger customers.

    o   Expand its existing customer relationships. Tyler's existing customer
        base of nearly 6,000 local government offices offers significant
        opportunities for additional sales of IT products and services that
        Tyler currently offers, but that existing customers






        do not fully utilize. Add-on sales to existing customers typically
        involve lower sales and marketing expenses than sales to new customers.

    o   Grow recurring revenue. Tyler has a large recurring revenue base from
        maintenance and support, with an annual run rate in excess of $40.0
        million. Tyler has historically experienced very low customer turnover
        (less than 1% annually for its major business units) and recurring
        revenues continue to grow as the installed customer base increases. In
        addition, since the beginning of 2001, the Company has established a
        growing recurring revenue stream from ASP hosting and other similar
        services.

    o   Maximize economies of scale and take advantage of financial leverage in
        the Company's business. Tyler seeks to develop and maintain a large
        client base to create economies of scale, enabling the Company to
        provide value-added products and services to its customers while
        expanding its operating margins. Because the Company sells primarily
        "off-the-shelf" software, increased sales of the same products result in
        incrementally higher gross margins. In addition, the Company believes
        that it has a marketing and administrative infrastructure in place that
        it can leverage to accommodate significant growth without
        proportionately increasing selling, general and administrative expense.

    o   Attract and retain highly qualified employees. Tyler believes that the
        depth and quality of its operating management and staff is a significant
        strength of the Company, and that the ability to retain such employees
        is crucial to the Company's continued growth and success. We believe
        that Tyler's stable management team, financial strength and growth
        opportunities, as well as its leadership position in the local
        government market, enhance the Company's attractiveness as an employer
        for highly skilled employees.

    o   Pursue selected strategic acquisitions. While the Company expects to
        grow primarily internally, it may from time to time selectively pursue
        strategic acquisitions that provide it with one or more of the
        following:

        [ ]   products and services to complement its existing offerings;

        [ ]   entry into new markets related to local governments; and

        [ ]   new customers and/or geographic expansion.

    When considering acquisition opportunities, Tyler generally focuses on
companies with strong management teams and employee bases and excellent customer
relationships. Tyler's most recent acquisition included in its continuing
operations was completed in November 1999.

SALES, MARKETING, AND CUSTOMERS

    Tyler markets its products and services through direct sales and marketing
personnel located throughout the United States. Other in-house marketing staff
focus on add-on sales, professional services and support.

    Sales of new systems are typically generated from referrals from other
governmental offices or departments within a county or municipality, referrals
from other local governments, relationships established between sales
representatives and county or local officials, contacts at trade shows, direct
mailings, and direct contact from prospects already familiar with the Company.
The Company is active in numerous state, county, and local government
associations, and participates in annual meetings, trade shows, and educational
events.

    Customers consist primarily of county and municipal agencies, school
districts and other local government offices. In counties, customers include the
auditor, treasurer, tax assessor/collector, county clerk, district clerk, county
and district court judges, probation officers, sheriff, and county appraiser. At
municipal government sites, customers include directors from various
departments, including administration, finance, utilities, public works, code
enforcement, personnel, purchasing, taxation, municipal court, and police. In
2001, the Company had one customer that accounted for approximately 13% of the
Company's total revenues. Contracts for software products and services are
generally implemented over periods of three months to one year, with annually
renewing service and software update agreements thereafter. Although these
agreements can be terminated by either the Company or the customer, historically
almost all support and maintenance agreements are automatically renewed
annually. Contracts for appraisal outsourcing services are generally one to
three years in duration. During 2001, approximately 34% of the Company's revenue
was attributable to ongoing support and maintenance agreements.





COMPETITION

    The Company competes with numerous local, regional, and national firms that
provide or offer some or many of the products and services provided by the
Company. Most of these competitors are smaller companies that may be able to
offer less expensive solutions than the Company. Tyler also competes with
national firms, some of which have greater financial and technical resources
than Tyler. The Company also occasionally competes with central internal
information service departments of county or local governments, which requires
the Company to persuade the end-user department to discontinue service by its
own personnel and outsource the service to the Company. The Company competes on
a variety of factors, including price, service, name recognition, reputation,
technological capabilities, and the ability to modify existing products and
services to accommodate the individual requirements of the customer. The
Company's ability to offer an integrated system of applications for several
offices or departments is often a competitive strength. County and local
governmental units often are required to seek competitive proposals. Competition
may be increased if a customer seeks proposals for only one aspect of its system
(such as only motor vehicle registration) rather than bidding all of the system
as an integrated whole, because single function bidding generally results in
more bidders and more intense price competition.

SUPPLIERS

    All computers, peripherals, printers, scanners, operating system software,
office automation software, and other equipment necessary for the implementation
and provision of software systems and services by Tyler are presently available
from several third-party sources. Hardware is purchased on original equipment
manufacturer or distributor terms at discounts from retail. The Company has not
experienced any significant supply problems.

BACKLOG

    At December 31, 2001, the Company's estimated sales backlog was
approximately $96.3 million, compared to $97.1 million at December 31, 2000. The
backlog represents contracts that have been signed but not delivered or
performed as of year-end. Approximately $76.2 million of the backlog is expected
to be installed or services are expected to be performed during 2002.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, AND LICENSES

    The Company regards certain features of its internal operations, software,
and documentation as confidential and proprietary and relies on a combination of
contractual restrictions, trade secret laws, and other measures to protect its
proprietary intellectual property. The Company does not rely on patents. The
Company believes that, due to the rapid rate of technological change in the
computer software industry, trade secrets and copyright protection are less
significant than factors such as knowledge, ability and experience of the
Company's employees, frequent product enhancements, and timeliness and quality
of support services. The Company typically licenses its software products under
exclusive license agreements, which are generally non-transferable and have a
perpetual term.

EMPLOYEES

    At December 31, 2001, the Company had approximately 1,200 employees.
Appraisal outsourcing projects are periodic in nature and can be widely
dispersed geographically. The Company often hires temporary employees to assist
in these projects whose term of employment generally ends with the project's
completion. None of the Company's employees are represented by a labor union or
are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Management considers its
relations with its employees to be positive.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

    The Company occupies approximately 230,000 square feet of office and
warehouse space, 27,000 of which is owned by the Company. The Company leases its
principal executive office located in Dallas, Texas, as well as other offices,
facilities and project offices for its operating companies in Texas, Iowa,
Maine, Ohio, Michigan, Colorado, Idaho, North Carolina, Massachusetts,
Pennsylvania, Connecticut, New Hampshire, New York, Rhode Island, California,
Georgia, Wisconsin and Florida.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

    On October 29, 2001, H.T.E., Inc. ("HTE") notified the Company that it had
attempted a cash redemption of all of the 5.6 million shares of HTE common stock
currently owned by the Company at a price of $1.30 per share. Management of the
Company believes that the attempted redemption of the Company-owned HTE shares
was invalid and takes exception to the manner in which fair value





was calculated. Management of HTE contends that its ability to redeem the shares
of common stock owned by the Company and the manner of calculation of fair value
by HTE is in accordance with Florida state statutes for "control shares." On
October 29, 2001, the Company notified HTE that its purported redemption of the
shares owned by the Company was invalid and contrary to Florida law, and in any
event, the calculation by HTE of fair value for such shares was incorrect. On
October 30, 2001, HTE filed a complaint in a civil court in Seminole County,
Florida requesting the court to enter a declaratory judgment declaring that
HTE's purported redemption of all of the Company-owned shares at a redemption
price of $1.30 per share was lawful and to effect the redemption and cancel the
Company-owned shares. The Company removed the case to the United States District
Court, Middle District of Florida, Orlando Division and requested a declaratory
judgment from the court declaring, among other things, (a) that HTE's purported
redemption of any or all of the shares held by the Company was illegal under
Florida law, (b) in the alternative, that HTE's right of redemption, if any,
under Florida law only applies to the "control shares" owned by the Company
(i.e., those shares in excess of 20% of the issued and outstanding shares of
common stock of HTE as of the date that the Company acquired such shares), (c)
in the alternative, that HTE's calculation of fair value for the redemption of
any or all of the shares owned by the Company was grossly understated, and (d)
that the Company maintains the ability to vote up to 20% of the issued and
outstanding shares of HTE common stock owned by the Company. Although the
Company believes that the attempted stock redemption by HTE is invalid, there
can be no assurance that the court will rule in favor of the positions asserted
by the Company.

    One of the Company's non-operating subsidiaries, Swan Transportation Company
("Swan"), has been and is currently involved in various claims raised by
hundreds of former employees of a foundry that was once owned by an affiliate of
Swan and the Company for alleged work related injuries and physical conditions
resulting from alleged exposure to silica, asbestos, and/or related industrial
dusts during their employment at the foundry. The operating assets of the
foundry were sold by the Company on December 1, 1995. As a non-operating
subsidiary of the Company, the current assets of Swan consist primarily of
various insurance policies issued to Swan during the relevant time periods and
restricted cash of $2.3 million at December 31, 2001. Swan has tendered the
defense and indemnity obligations arising from these claims to its insurance
carriers, who have entered into settlement agreements with approximately 275 of
the plaintiffs, each of whom agreed to release Swan, the Company, and its
subsidiaries and affiliates from all such claims in exchange for payments made
by the insurance carriers.

     On December 20, 2001, Swan filed a petition under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of
Delaware. The bankruptcy filing by Swan was the result of extensive negotiations
between the Company, Swan, their respective insurance carriers, and an ad hoc
committee of plaintiff attorneys representing substantially all of the then
known plaintiffs. Swan filed its plan of reorganization in February 2002. The
principal features of the plan of reorganization include: (a) the creation of
a trust, which is to be funded principally by fifteen insurance carriers
pursuant to certain settlement agreements executed pre-petition between Swan,
the Company, and such carriers; (b) the implementation of a claims resolution
procedure pursuant to which all present and future claimants may assert claims
against such trust for alleged injuries; (c) the issuance of certain injunctions
under the federal bankruptcy laws requiring any such claims to be asserted
against the trust and barring such claims from being asserted, either now or in
the future, against Swan, the Company, all of its affected affiliates, and the
insurers participating in the funding of the trust; and (d) the full and final
release of each of Swan, the Company, all of its affected affiliates, and the
insurers participating in the funding of the trust from any and all claims
associated with the once-owned foundry by all claimants that assert a claim
against, and receive compensation from, the trust. In order to receive the
foregoing benefits, the Company has agreed, among other things, to make certain
cash contributions to the trust, the amount of which is not expected to be in
excess of the settlement liability previously recorded by the Company in its
consolidated financial statements.

     The Company anticipates that Swan's plan of reorganization will be voted on
by the creditors of Swan during the second quarter of 2002. Because the material
terms of the plan of reorganization have been pre-negotiated between the various
affected parties, the Company anticipates that the plan, as currently
contemplated, will be approved by Swan's creditors, at which time it will then
be presented to the bankruptcy court for final approval. If the plan of
reorganization as currently contemplated is approved, the Company anticipates
that all of the liabilities associated with the foundry formerly owned by
affiliates of the Company will be eliminated. There can be no assurance that the
plan of reorganization as currently contemplated will be approved by the
creditors of Swan, and if approved by such creditors, will be approved in such
form by the bankruptcy court, if at all.

    Other than ordinary course, routine litigation incidental to the business of
the Company and except as described herein, there are no material legal
proceedings pending to which the Company or its subsidiaries are parties or to
which any of its properties are subject.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

    Not applicable.








                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

    Tyler common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. At December 31,
2001, Tyler had approximately 2,950 stockholders of record. A number of the
Company's stockholders hold their shares in street name; therefore, there are
substantially more than 2,950 beneficial owners of its common stock.

    The following table sets forth for the calendar periods indicating the high
and low sales price per share of Tyler common stock as reported on the New York
Stock Exchange.



    No cash dividends were paid in 2001 or 2000. The Company's bank credit
agreement contains restrictions on the payment of cash dividends. Also, the
Company intends to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of its
business, and therefore does not anticipate declaring a cash dividend in the
foreseeable future.









ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

(In thousands, except per share data)





(1) 2001, 2000, 1999 and 1998 include the results of operations of continuing
    companies formerly comprising the software systems and services segment from
    the acquired companies' respective dates of acquisition and excludes the
    results of operations of the discontinued information and property records
    services segment, automotive parts segment and the fund-raising segment.
    Prior years' selected financial data have been restated to reflect
    discontinuation of the information and property records services segment in
    2000, the automotive parts segment in 1998 and the fund-raising segment in
    1997. For years prior to 1998, selling, general and administrative expense
    includes only amounts relating to the holding company. See Notes 2 and 3 in
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2) Depreciation and amortization included in cost of revenues and selling,
    general and administrative expense for 2001, 2000, 1999, 1998 and 1997 was
    $4,014, $2,783, $1,145, $493 and $116, respectively.

(3) EBITDA consists of income or loss from continuing operations before
    interest, costs (recovery) of certain acquisition opportunities, income
    taxes, depreciation, and amortization. Although EBITDA is not calculated in
    accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
    States, the Company believes that EBITDA is widely used as a measure of
    operating performance. Nevertheless, this measure should not be considered
    in isolation or as a substitute for operating income, cash flows from
    operating activities, or any other measure for determining the Company's
    operating performance or liquidity that is calculated in accordance with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. EBITDA does
    not take into account the Company's debt service requirements and other
    commitments and accordingly EBITDA is not necessarily indicative of amounts
    that may be available for reinvestment in the Company's business or other
    discretionary uses. In addition, since all companies do not calculate EBITDA
    in the same manner, this measure may not be comparable to similarly titled
    measures reported by other companies.











ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.

FORWARD - LOOKING STATEMENTS

    This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements
other than historical or current facts, including, without limitation,
statements about the business, financial condition, business strategy, plans and
objectives of management, and prospects of the Company are forward-looking
statements. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in
such forward-looking statements are reasonable, such forward-looking statements
are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ
materially from these expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include,
without limitation, the ability of the Company to successfully integrate the
operations of acquired companies, technological risks associated with the
acceptance of the Company's products by its customers, development of new
products and the enhancement of existing products, changes in the budgets and
regulatory environments of the Company's government customers, the ability to
attract and retain qualified personnel, changes in product demand, the
availability of products, changes in competition, changes in economic
conditions, changes in tax risks and other risks indicated in the Company's
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These risks and
uncertainties are beyond the ability of the Company to control, and in many
cases, the Company cannot predict the risks and uncertainties that could cause
its actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the
forward-looking statements.

    When used in this Annual Report, the words "believes," "plans," "estimates,"
"expects," "anticipates," "intends," "continue," "may," "will," "should,"
"projects," "forecasts," "might," "could" or the negative of such terms and
similar expressions as they relate to the Company or its management are intended
to identify forward-looking statements.

GENERAL

    On September 29, 2000, the Company sold for cash certain net assets of
Kofile, Inc. ("Kofile") and another subsidiary, the Company's interest in a
certain intangible work product, and a building and related building
improvements. Effective December 29, 2000, the Company sold for cash its land
records business unit, Business Resources Corporation ("Resources"), including
among others, Resources wholly-owned subsidiaries Government Records Services,
Inc. and Title Records Corporation, to an affiliate of Affiliated Computer
Services, Inc. ("ACS"). Concurrent with the sale to ACS, management of the
Company with the Board of Director's approval adopted a formal plan of disposal
for the remaining businesses and assets of the information and property records
services segment. This restructuring program was designed to focus the Company's
resources on its software systems and services segment and to substantially
reduce debt. In March 1999, the Company sold its automotive parts segment. The
business and assets divested or identified for divesture have been classified as
discontinued operations in 2001, 2000 and 1999. All prior year financial
information included herein has been restated to reflect these dispositions as
discontinued operations. Continuing operations in 2001, 2000, and 1999 are
comprised of the results of operations of the companies formerly comprising the
software systems and services segment.

The following is a summary of significant acquisitions consummated in prior
years that remain in continuing operations:

    On February 19, 1998, the Company acquired The Software Group and
Interactive Computer Designs, Inc., which provide county, local and municipal
governments with software, systems and services to serve their information
technology and automation needs.

    Effective August 1, 1998, the Company completed the purchase of Computer
Management Services, which provides integrated information management systems
and services to county and municipal governments.

    Effective March 1, 1999, the Company acquired Eagle Computer Systems, Inc.,
which supplies networked computing solutions and services for county
governments.

    Effective April 1, 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of Micro
Arizala Systems, Inc. d/b/a FundBalance, a company which develops and markets
fund accounting software and other applications for state and local governments,
not-for-profit organizations and cemeteries.

    On April 21, 1999, the Company acquired Process Incorporated d/b/a Computer
Center Software, which designs and develops integrated financial and land
management information systems for counties, cities, schools and not-for-profit
organizations.





    On November 4, 1999, the Company acquired selected assets and assumed
selected liabilities of Cole Layer Trumble Company, ("CLT"), a division of a
privately held company. CLT provides property appraisal software and services to
governments.

    All of the Company's acquisitions have been accounted for using the purchase
method for business combinations, and the results of operations of the acquired
entities are included in the Company's historical consolidated financial
statements from their respective dates of acquisition.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

    The discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of
operations are based upon the Company's consolidated financial statements, which
have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires the
Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its
estimates, including those related to investments, intangible assets, bad debts
and long-term service contracts, deferred income tax assets, reserve for
discontinued operations and contingencies and litigation. The Company bases its
estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the
basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities
that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from
these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company believes
the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments
and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements.

    The Company derives revenue from software licenses, hardware, postcontract
customer support/maintenance and services which typically range from
installation, training and basic consulting to software modification and
customization to meet specific customer needs. For multiple element software
arrangements which do not entail the performance of services which are
considered essential to the functionality of the software, the Company records
revenue when the delivered products or performed services result in a legally
enforceable claim. The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts, sales
adjustments and estimated cost of product warranties which are provided at the
time the revenue is recognized. Because of the nature of its customers being
governmental entities, the Company rarely incurs a loss resulting from the
inability of its customers to make required payments. Alternatively, customers
may become dissatisfied with the functionality of the software products and/or
the quality of the services and request a reduction of the aggregate contract
price or similar concession. While the Company engages in extensive product and
service quality programs and processes, the Company's allowances for such
contract price reductions may need to be revised in the future. In connection
with its customer contracts and the related adequacy of its reserves and
measures of progress towards completion, the Company's project managers are
charged with the responsibility to continually review the status of each
customer on a specific contract basis. Also, corporate as well as operating
company management review on a quarterly basis significant past due account
receivables and the related adequacy of the Company's reserves.

    For software arrangements that include customization of the software which
is considered essential to its functionality and for real estate appraisal
outsourcing projects, the Company recognizes revenue and profit as the work
progresses using the percentage-of-completion method. This method relies on
estimates of total expected contract revenue, billings and collections and
expected contract costs. The Company follows this method since reasonably
dependable estimates of the revenue and costs applicable to various stages of a
contract can be made. At times, the Company performs additional and/or
non-contractual services for little to no incremental fee, to satisfy the
customer expectations. Recognized revenues and profit are subject to revisions
such as the type just described as the contract progresses to completion.
Revisions to future profit estimates are charged to income in the period in
which the facts that give rise to the revision first become known.

    The Company accounts for all of its acquisitions using the purchase method
of accounting for business combinations. The cost of acquired companies is
allocated to identifiable assets based on estimated fair value, with the excess
allocated to goodwill. Accordingly, the Company has a significant balance of
acquisition intangible assets, including software, customer base, workforce and
goodwill. In addition, the Company capitalizes software development costs
incurred subsequent to the establishment of technological feasibility. These
intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are
reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of
the asset is generally measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an
asset to estimated future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset.
The assessment of recoverability or of the estimated useful life for
amortization purposes will be affected if the timing or the amount of estimated
future operating cash flows are not achieved.




    With an original cost basis of $15.8 million, the Company acquired a 32%
interest in HTE, a publicly held company in which the Company is unable to exert
significant influence. Accordingly, the investment is classified as an
available-for-sale security and is recorded at fair value as determined by
quoted market prices, which have been reasonably volatile. The Company's
accounting policy is to record an investment impairment charge when it believes
an investment has experienced a decline in value other than temporary. To date,
the unrealized holding loss in this investment has been excluded from earnings
and has been reported in a separate component of shareholders' equity. During
2001, HTE attempted a cash redemption for all of the shares held by the Company
for an aggregate redemption price of $7.3 million, which is materially less than
the carrying value recorded at December 31, 2001 and the Company's original cost
basis, and litigation between the two parties has been initiated. Future adverse
changes in market conditions affecting HTE, poor operating results, or an
adverse court ruling regarding the attempted redemption or a negotiated
settlement could result in a reduction in the original cost basis to the then
current fair value being charged to operations in the future.

    The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets
to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. While the Company has
considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning
strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, in the event the
Company were to determine that it would be able to realize its deferred tax
assets in the future in excess of its net recorded amount, an adjustment to the
deferred tax asset would increase income in the period such determination was
made. Likewise, should the Company determine that it would not be able to
realize all or part of its net deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment
to the deferred tax asset would be charged to income in the period such
determination was made.

    The Company has a reserve for discontinued operations which includes, among
other things, a reserve for estimated claim settlement costs associated with
work related injuries and physical conditions of former employees resulting from
alleged injuries from silica, asbestos, and/or related industrial dusts during
their employment. In late 2001, a non-operating subsidiary of the Company filed
a bankruptcy petition, and this subsidiary was the parent of a company which was
the former owner of a cast iron pipe and fittings foundry where the alleged
injuries occurred. Because the material terms of the plan of reorganization have
been pre-negotiated between the various affected parties, the Company
anticipates that the plan, as currently contemplated, will be approved by the
subsidiary's creditors, at which time it will then be presented to the
bankruptcy court for final approval. If the plan of reorganization as currently
contemplated is approved, the Company anticipates that all of the liabilities
associated with the foundry formerly owned by affiliates of the Company will be
eliminated at an amount no greater than the liability reflected in the
consolidated financial statements. In the event the proposal plan does not
materialize, it is reasonably possible that the amounts recorded as liabilities
for this matter could change by material amounts. There can be no assurance that
the plan of reorganization as currently contemplated will be approved by the
creditors and if approved by such creditors, will be approved in such form by
the bankruptcy court, if at all.

2001 COMPARED TO 2000

REVENUES

    Revenues from continuing operations were $117.9 million for the year ended
December 31, 2001, a 26% increase from revenues of $93.2 million for the prior
year.

    Software license revenues increased each quarter during 2001 from $3.6
million in the first quarter to $5.8 million in the fourth quarter. For the year
ended December 31, 2001, software license revenue was $18.9 million, compared to
$18.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase was due mainly
to sales of third-party software that provided additional functionality to
certain of the Company's proprietary software, sales of proprietary software to
new customers and in new geographic areas, primarily the midwestern United
States, and sales of upgraded financial and utility software modules to existing
customers. The increase was somewhat offset by lower tax and appraisal software
sales.

    Professional services revenues grew 41% to $52.9 million for the year ended
December 31, 2001, from $37.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000.
Included in professional services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2001,
was appraisal outsourcing services revenue of $34.3 million, compared to $20.8
million in the prior year. The 65% increase for the year in appraisal
outsourcing services revenue was primarily due to the Company's continued
progress on its contract with Nassau County, New York Board of Assessors
("Nassau County"). The contract to provide outsourced assessment services for
Nassau County, together with tax assessment administration software and
training, is valued at a total of approximately $34.0 million. Implementation of
the Nassau County contract began in September 2000 and is expected to be
completed by the Spring of 2003. For the year ended December 31, 2001, the
Company recorded $14.4 million of professional services revenue related to
Nassau County.





    For the year ended December 31, 2001, maintenance revenue increased 23%, to
$39.9 million, from $32.5 million for 2000. Higher maintenance revenue was due
to an increase in the Company's base of installed software and systems products
and maintenance rate increases for several product lines. Maintenance and
support services are provided for the Company's software and related products.

    Hardware and other revenues increased $1.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 2001 from $4.6 million for the same period of 2000. Approximately
$700,000 of the increase relates to the Nassau County contract. Other increases
are due to timing of installations of equipment on customer contracts and are
dependent on the contract size and on varying customer hardware needs.

COST OF REVENUES

    For the year ended December 31, 2001, cost of revenues was $77.9 million
compared to $58.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase in
cost of revenues was primarily due to the increase in revenues.

    Gross margin was 34% for the year ended December 31, 2001, compared to 37%
for the year ended December 31, 2000. Overall gross margins were lower because
the Company's 2001 revenue mix included more professional services compared to
2000. Historically, gross margins are higher for software licenses than for
professional services due to personnel costs associated with professional
services. In addition, software license costs increased during 2001 compared to
2000, due to increased amortization of software development costs. The Company
released several new products during the second and third quarters of 2001, at
which time amortization of the related software development costs commenced.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

    Selling, general and administrative expense for the year ended December 31,
2001 was $31.1 million compared to $32.8 million in the prior year. Selling,
general and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues declined to 26%
in 2001 from 35% in 2000 because such expenses are primarily fixed and therefore
did not increase in proportion to the Company's revenue growth. The decline in
selling, general and administrative expense was due to a reduction in corporate
costs following the sale of the information and property records services
segment, lower acquisition-related costs such as legal and travel expenses and
lower research and development costs which are expensed.

AMORTIZATION OF ACQUISITION AND OTHER INTANGIBLES

    The Company has accounted for all of its past acquisitions using the
purchase method of accounting for business combinations. The excess of the
purchase price over the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the
acquired companies ("goodwill") is amortized using the straight-line method of
amortization over their respective estimated useful lives. See "Accounting
Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted".

    At December 31, 2001 and 2000, the Company had $82.2 million and $84.7
million, respectively, of goodwill, post-acquisition software development costs
and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization. Such intangibles
amounted to 56% of total assets at December 31, 2001 and 2000; and 81% and 88%
of shareholders' equity at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Goodwill
excluding accumulated amortization at December 31, 2001 and 2000 was $51.1
million. Amortization expense of acquisition intangibles was $6.9 million in
2001 and 2000.

    The Company considers a variety of factors in estimating the useful lives
and recoverability of goodwill and other intangible assets. Determining the
appropriate useful life of goodwill and other intangible assets is a matter of
judgment. In making its determination, the Company considered a number of
factors, including the following:

    o   position of the acquired enterprise in the market and the extent of
        barriers to entry for competitors;

    o   age, historical operating performance, and quality of earnings of the
        acquired enterprise, including the extent of operating history and the
        presence or lack of stable earnings history;

    o   experience of the acquired enterprise's management;

    o   the future viability of products and services, including the impact of
        technological changes and advances and the level of continued investment
        necessary to maintain the acquired enterprise's technological position;

    o   estimated future cash flows of the respective assets;






    o   competition; and

    o   industry practice.

    In addition, the Company periodically retains the services of an outside
appraisal firm to assist in determining the initial value assigned to newly
acquired identifiable intangible assets and the estimated useful lives. At
December 31, 2001 and 2000, management of the Company believes such assets are
recoverable and the estimated useful lives are reasonable.

NET INTEREST EXPENSE

    Net interest expense was $479,000 for the year ended December 31, 2001
compared to $4.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Interest expense
declined due to a significant reduction in bank debt with the proceeds from the
disposal of the Company's former information and property records services
segment (see Note 2 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). In addition,
in connection with certain internally developed software projects, the Company
capitalized $578,000 of interest costs during 2001, compared to $586,000 for
2000.

INCOME TAX PROVISION

    For the year ended December 31, 2001, the Company had income from continuing
operations before income taxes of $1.8 million and an income tax provision of
$1.5 million, resulting in an effective tax rate of 85%. For 2000, the Company
had a loss from continuing operations before income tax benefit of $10.3 million
and an income tax benefit of $2.8 million, resulting in an effective benefit
rate of 27%. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2001
were different from the statutory United States federal income tax rate of 35%
primarily due to non-deductible items such as goodwill amortization as compared
to the relative amount of pretax earnings or loss.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

    On September 29, 2000, the Company sold for a cash sale price of $14.4
million certain net assets of Kofile, Inc. and another subsidiary, the Company's
interest in a certain intangible work product, and a building and related
building improvements. Effective December 29, 2000, the Company sold for cash
its land records business unit, Business Resources Corporation, to an affiliate
of ACS (the "Resources Sale"). The Resources Sale was valued at approximately
$71.0 million. Concurrent with the Resources Sale, management of the Company
with the Board of Directors' approval adopted a formal plan of disposal for the
remaining businesses and assets of the information and property records services
segment. This restructuring program was designed to focus the Company's
resources on its software systems and services segment and to reduce debt. The
business and assets divested or identified for divesture have been classified as
discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements
with prior periods' financial statements restated to report separately their
operations in compliance with Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No.
30.

    The Company's formal plan of disposal provided for the remaining businesses
and assets of the information and property records services segment to be
disposed of by December 29, 2001. At the time management elected to discontinue
the remaining businesses in this segment, its remaining assets included a
start-up company engaged in constructing a Web-enabled national repository of
public records data, and Capitol Commerce Reporter, Inc. ("CCR"), which provides
public records research, principally in Texas. The interdependency of these
operations with those of Resources resulted in the Company's decision to
discontinue the development of the repository and other related products and
exit the land records business following the Resources Sale.

    The estimated loss on the disposal of these remaining businesses and assets
at December 29, 2000, amounted to $13.6 million (after an income tax benefit of
$3.8 million), consisting of an estimated loss on disposal of the businesses of
$11.5 million (net of an income tax benefit of $2.7 million) and a provision of
$2.1 million (after an income tax benefit of $1.1 million) for anticipated
operating losses from the measurement date of December 29, 2000 to the estimated
disposal dates. Although the actual proceeds on the subsequent sales of
businesses and assets and the related income tax treatment of the various
disposals differed from the individual components of each as originally
estimated at the time the reserve for losses for discontinued operations was
first established, no adjustment to the net loss reserve is considered
appropriate at this time. The anticipated operating losses to the disposal dates
include the effects of the settlement of certain employment contracts, losses on
real property leases, severance costs and similar closing related costs. The
provision for anticipated operating costs which was provided in 2000
approximates actual operating costs incurred since the measurement date of
December 29, 2000.





    On May 16, 2001, the Company sold all of the common stock of another
business that had previously been designated as a discontinued operation. In
connection with the sale, the Company received cash proceeds of $575,000,
approximately 60,000 shares of Company common stock, a promissory note of
$750,000 payable in 58 monthly installments at an interest rate of 9%, and other
contingent consideration. Because the note receivable is highly dependent upon
future operations of the buyer, the Company is recording its value as cash is
received. On September 21, 2001, the Company sold all of the common stock of CCR
for $3.1 million in cash and future payments contingent on the retention of
certain customers subsequent to the sale. Since the gains or losses on these
sales were estimated as of the measurement date of December 29, 2000, no
additional adjustments were recorded to the estimated loss on the disposals of
the discontinued businesses.

    Revenues from the information and property records services segment amounted
to $39.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2000.

    One of the Company's non-operating subsidiaries is involved in various
claims for work-related injuries and physical conditions relating to a formerly
owned subsidiary that was sold in 1995. During 2001 and 2000, the Company
recorded net losses, net of related tax effect, of $3,000 and $748,000,
respectively (See Note 17 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

INVESTMENT SECURITY AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE

    Pursuant to an agreement with two major shareholders of HTE, the Company
acquired approximately 32% of HTE's common stock in two separate transactions in
1999. On August 17, 1999, the Company exchanged 2.3 million shares of its common
stock for 4.7 million shares of HTE common stock. This initial investment was
recorded at $14.0 million. The second transaction occurred on December 21, 1999,
in which the Company exchanged 484,000 shares of its common stock for 969,000
shares of HTE common stock. This additional investment was recorded at $1.8
million. The investment in HTE common stock is classified as a non-current asset
since it was made for a continuing business purpose.

    Florida state corporation law restricts the voting rights of "control
shares", as defined, acquired by a third party in certain types of acquisitions,
which restrictions may be removed by a vote of the shareholders. The Florida
"control share" statute has not been interpreted by the courts. HTE has taken
the position that, under the Florida statute, all of the shares acquired by the
Company constitute "control shares" and therefore do not have voting rights
until such time as shareholders of HTE, other than the Company, restore voting
rights to those shares. Management of the Company believes that only the shares
acquired in excess of 20% of the outstanding shares of HTE constitute "control
shares" and therefore believes the Company currently has the right to vote all
HTE shares it owns up to at least 20% of the outstanding shares of HTE. On
November 16, 2000, the shareholders of HTE, other than Tyler, voted to deny the
Company its right to vote the "control shares" of HTE.

    On October 29, 2001, HTE notified the Company that it had attempted a cash
redemption of all of the 5.6 million shares of HTE common stock currently owned
by the Company at a price of $1.30 per share. Management of the Company believes
that the attempted redemption of the Company-owned HTE shares was invalid and
takes exception to the manner in which fair value was calculated. Management of
HTE contends that its ability to redeem the shares of common stock owned by the
Company and the manner of calculation of fair value by HTE is in accordance with
Florida state statutes for "control shares." On October 29, 2001, the Company
notified HTE that its purported redemption of the shares owned by the Company
was invalid and contrary to Florida law, and in any event, the calculation by
HTE of fair value for such shares was incorrect. On October 30, 2001, HTE filed
a complaint in a civil court in Seminole County, Florida requesting the court to
enter a declaratory judgment declaring that HTE's purported redemption of all of
the Company-owned shares at a redemption price of $1.30 per share was lawful and
to effect the redemption and cancel the Company-owned shares. The Company
removed the case to the United States District Court, Middle District of
Florida, Orlando Division and requested a declaratory judgment from the court
declaring, among other things, (a) that HTE's purported redemption of any or all
of the shares held by the Company was illegal under Florida law, (b) in the
alternative, that HTE's right of redemption, if any, under Florida law only
applies to the "control shares" owned by the Company (i.e., those shares in
excess of 20% of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of HTE as of
the date that the Company acquired such shares), (c) in the alternative, that
HTE's calculation of fair value for the redemption of any or all of the shares
owned by the Company was grossly understated, and (d) that the Company maintains
the ability to vote up to 20% of the issued and outstanding shares of HTE common
stock owned by the Company. Although the Company believes that the attempted
stock redemption by HTE is invalid there can be no assurance that the court will
rule in favor of the positions asserted by the Company.

    Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, an
investment of 20% or more of the voting stock of an investee should lead to a
presumption that in absence of evidence to the contrary, an investor has the
ability to exercise significant





influence over the operating and financial policies of an investee. Management
of the Company has concluded that it currently does not have such influence as
evidenced by the following key factors:

    o   Inability to resolve the different interpretations regarding the ability
        to vote the shares;

    o   Inability to obtain additional financial information not otherwise
        available to other shareholders; and

    o   Inability to obtain certain confirmations and consents from the
        investee's independent auditors.

    Accordingly, the Company accounts for its investment in HTE pursuant to the
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 115,
"Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities". In
accordance with SFAS No. 115, the Company used quoted market price per share in
calculating fair value to be used for financial reporting purposes. SFAS No. 115
does not permit the adjustment of quoted market prices in the determination of
fair value and, accordingly, the ultimate value the Company could realize
because of its significant investment could vary materially from the amount
presented. These securities are classified as available-for-sale and are
recorded at fair value as determined by quoted market prices. Unrealized holding
gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, on available-for-sale
securities are excluded from earnings and are reported as a separate component
of shareholders' equity until realized. Realized gains and losses from the sale
of available-for-sale securities (none in each of the three years ended December
31, 2001) are determined on a specific identification basis. A decline in the
market value of any available-for-sale security below cost that is deemed to be
other than temporary results in a reduction in carrying amount to fair value.
The impairment is charged to earnings and a new cost basis for the security is
established. Management of Tyler continues to conclude it has both the intent
and the ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow
for the anticipated recovery in fair value. At this time, management of the
Company does not believe the decline in the market value is other than
temporary. In making this determination, management considered, among other
items, the conditions in the local government software industry, the financial
condition of the issuer, and recent public statements by the issuer concerning
its future prospects. In addition, for a period of time during 2001 and in
February 2002, the quoted market value price per share of HTE was above Tyler's
average per share cost basis of $2.81 per share. The cost, fair value and gross
unrealized holding gains (losses) of the investment securities
available-for-sale, based on the quoted market price for HTE common stock
(amounts in millions, except per share amounts) are presented below.





NET INCOME AND OTHER MEASURES

    Net income was $269,000 in 2001 compared to a net loss of $24.6 million in
2000. For 2001, diluted earnings per share was $0.01 and, for 2000, diluted loss
per share was $0.54. Income from continuing operations was $272,000, or $0.01
per diluted share in 2001, compared to a loss from continuing operations of $7.5
million, or $0.17 per diluted share in 2000.

    Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA")
from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2001, was $13.0
million, compared to EBITDA of $4.3 million in 2000. EBITDA consists of income
or loss from continuing operations before interest, income taxes, depreciation,
amortization and costs (recovery) of acquisition costs previously expensed.
Although EBITDA is not calculated in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States, the Company believes that EBITDA is
widely used as a measure of operating performance. Nevertheless, the measure
should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for operating income,
cash flows from operating activities, or any other measure for determining the
Company's operating performance or liquidity that is calculated in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. EBITDA is
not necessarily indicative of amounts that may be available for reinvestment in
the Company's business or other discretionary uses. In addition, since all
companies do not calculate EBITDA in the same manner, this measure may not be
comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Cash
provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2001 was $12.7
million compared to cash used by operating activities of $7.1 million for the
year ended December 31, 2000.




2000 COMPARED TO 1999

    Because of the significance of certain of the Company's acquisitions in
1999, in the following analysis of results of operations, the Company has
provided pro forma amounts as if all of the Company's acquisitions and
dispositions previously discussed had occurred as of the beginning of 1999.
There were no acquisitions since 1999 that remain in continuing operations.

REVENUES

    On a pro forma basis, revenues were $93.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 2000, compared to $107.4 million in the comparable prior year
period. The decline in revenues on a pro forma basis was primarily because of
post-Year 2000 ("Y2K") related factors. Local governments reduced spending for
software applications and systems in 2000 for a variety of reasons, including
the acceleration of some projects into 1999 in anticipation of Y2K problems and
the delay of some new systems projects in 2000 as they recovered from intensive
efforts to become Y2K compliant in the prior year. Many customers and potential
customers appeared to have instituted Y2K "lockdowns" and did not install new
systems during 2000. Additionally, the 1999 pro forma revenues benefited
somewhat from accelerated Y2K compliance related sales.

    Pro forma software license revenue in 2000 decreased approximately 25% to
$18.6 million from $24.9 million in 1999. Pro forma software license revenue
comparisons were negatively impacted by the post-Y2K factors described above.

    Professional service revenue on a pro forma basis decreased approximately
$6.5 million to $37.4 million in 2000 from $43.9 million in 1999. Professional
services such as data conversion and training are often contracted for in
conjunction with software license sales. Thus, the decline in software license
sales volume in 2000 negatively impacted related professional services revenues.
Pro forma professional services revenue declined despite the inclusion of
approximately $4.7 million of appraisal services and software revenue in 2000
from the Company's contract with Nassau County.

    Pro forma maintenance revenue was $32.5 million for 2000 and $28.3 million
for the comparable prior year period. The 15% increase is due to an increase in
the Company's base of installed software and systems products. Maintenance
revenue was approximately 35% of total revenue in 2000 compared to approximately
26% in 1999, on a pro forma basis. Maintenance and support services are provided
for the Company's software products, including property appraisal products, and
third party software and hardware. The renewal rates for property appraisal
system maintenance agreements are not as high as other software and hardware
maintenance agreements and will vary somewhat from period to period. Excluding
property appraisal maintenance agreements, pro forma maintenance revenue
increased approximately 20% for the year ended December 31, 2000 compared to the
comparable prior year period.

    Hardware revenue on a pro forma basis decreased $5.7 million in 2000
compared to 1999 as a result of the Company focusing its sales effort on higher
margin products and services.

COST OF REVENUES

    For the year ended December 31, 2000, on a pro forma basis, cost of revenues
was $58.9 million compared to $60.9 million in 1999. Gross margin, on a pro
forma basis, decreased to 37% in 2000 from 43% for the same period in the prior
year. Gross margin decreased because software license revenue was a lower
percentage of the overall product mix in 2000 compared to 1999. Software license
revenue carries higher margins than other revenue categories. Another factor
contributing to a lower gross margin in 2000 was higher personnel costs.
Personnel costs, which are the primary component of cost of service and
maintenance revenue, increased due to higher costs of contract labor, salary
adjustments and higher head count as a result of staffing increases associated
with record high revenues in 1999.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE

    For the year ended December 31, 2000, selling, general and administrative
expense was $32.8 million, or 35% of revenues. For the same period in the prior
year, selling, general and administrative expense was $35.1 million, or 33% of
revenues, on a pro forma basis. Selling, general and administrative expense
include sales commission costs, which declined as a result of lower sales
volume. This decline was offset somewhat by costs associated with consolidating
certain finance and administrative functions and higher personnel costs.






COSTS (RECOVERY) OF CERTAIN ACQUISITION OPPORTUNITIES

    In March 1999, the Company entered into a merger agreement pursuant to which
the Company contemplated the acquisition of all of the outstanding common stock
of CPS Systems, Inc. ("CPS"). In connection with that agreement, the Company
provided CPS with bridge financing in the form of notes secured by a second lien
on substantially all of the assets of CPS, including accounts receivable,
inventory, intangibles, equipment and intellectual property. In January 2000,
CPS filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States
Bankruptcy Code. On March 24, 2000, the bankruptcy court conducted a public
auction of the assets of CPS.

    Accordingly, the aggregate bridge financings and related accrued interest
receivable and other costs amounting to $1.9 million were expensed in the 1999
consolidated financial statements. In 2001 the Company received cash of
approximately $235,000 through CPS bankruptcy proceedings in connection with the
notes. The Company anticipates no further recovery of amounts due under its
secured notes.

AMORTIZATION OF ACQUISITION INTANGIBLES

    The Company has accounted for all acquisitions using the purchase method of
accounting for business combinations. Unallocated purchase price over the fair
value of net identifiable assets of the acquired companies ("goodwill") and
intangibles associated with acquisition are amortized using the straight-line
method of amortization over their respective useful lives, commencing at the
acquisition date. Amortization expense of acquisition intangibles increased $1.9
million from 1999 to $6.9 million in 2000 as the result of several acquisitions
which occurred mid-year 1999.

NET INTEREST EXPENSE

    Interest expense increased substantially for the year ended December 31,
2000 compared to the same period in 1999. The senior credit facility was amended
in August 2000 and December 2000 to, among other things, accelerate repayment of
borrowings under the facility. Accordingly, a cumulative $1.4 million charge was
recorded in 2000 to accelerate the amortization of previously capitalized loan
costs. Borrowings under the senior credit facility were used to finance
acquisitions, as well as capital expenditures, including proprietary software
development costs, resulting in higher interest expense. Capitalized software
development costs were $6.7 million for 2000, as compared to $1.4 million for
1999. In addition to higher debt levels, the average effective interest rate for
2000 was 10.2% compared to 7.7% for 1999.

INCOME TAX PROVISION

    In 2000, the Company had a pre-tax loss from continuing operations of $10.3
million and an income tax benefit of $2.8 million, resulting in an effective
benefit rate of 27%. In 1999, the Company had a pretax loss from continuing
operations of $1.8 million and an income tax provision of $188,000. The lower
effective income tax benefit is due to non-deductible items such as goodwill
amortization as compared to the relative amount of pretax loss.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

    The income (loss) from operations (net of income taxes) amounted to a loss
of $4.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000 and income of $1.9 million
for the year ended December 31, 1999 and represents the operating income or loss
of the information and property records services segment until their disposal
measurement date of December 29, 2000. The loss on disposal (net of income
taxes) amounting to $12.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2000
represents the gain or loss on the disposal of Kofile and of Resources, as well
as the estimated loss on the anticipated disposals of the remaining businesses
in this segment. In addition to the loss on disposal of information and property
records services in 2000, the Company also recorded loss on disposal in 2000 and
1999 of $748,000 (net an income tax benefit of $403,000) and $1.9 million (net
of an income tax benefit of $877,000), respectively, in connection with
non-operating subsidiaries involved in various claims for work related injuries
and physical conditions and for environmental claims relating to a formerly
owned subsidiary that was sold in 1995. Also, the 1999 loss on disposal includes
an additional loss of $907,000 (net of income taxes of $183,000) in connection
with the automotive parts segment disposal.





NET LOSS AND OTHER MEASURES

    Net loss was $24.6 million in 2000 compared to $2.8 million in 1999. Diluted
loss per share was $0.54 and $0.07 for 2000 and 1999, respectively. Net loss
from continuing operations was $7.5 million, or $0.17 per diluted share, in 2000
compared to net loss of $2.0 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, in 1999.

ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS NOT YET ADOPTED

    In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") issued
SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." SFAS No. 142 addresses the
accounting and reporting of acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. SFAS
No. 142 discontinues amortization of acquired goodwill and instead requires
annual impairment testing of acquired goodwill. Intangible assets will be
amortized over their useful economic life and tested for impairment in
accordance with SFAS No. 142. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful
economic life should not be amortized until the life of the asset is determined
to be finite. The Company is required to adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 142
effective January 1, 2002. SFAS No. 142 will have a significant favorable impact
on the Company's 2002 financial results and beyond. See Note 1 in Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the impact of SFAS
No. 142.

    Also in June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations."
SFAS No. 141 requires that all business combinations be accounted for under the
purchase method and defines the criteria for identifying intangible assets for
recognition apart from goodwill. SFAS No. 141 applies to all business
combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 and all business combinations
accounted for using the purchase method for which the acquisition date is July
1, 2001 or later. The Company is required to adopt the provisions of SFAS No.
141 effective January 1, 2002.

    In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment
or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." SFAS No. 144 addresses financial accounting
and reporting for the impairment of long-lived assets and for long-lived assets
to be disposed of. Under SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss is recognized only if
the carrying amount of a long-lived asset to be held and used is not recoverable
from its undiscounted cash flows and the loss is measured as the difference
between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset. Long-lived assets
to be disposed of by sale are to be measured at the lower of their carrying
amount or fair value, less cost to sell, and depreciation related to such
long-lived assets is required to be discontinued.

    In addition, SFAS No. 144 retains the basic provisions of APB Opinion No. 30
for the presentation of discontinued operations in the income statement but
broadens that presentation to include a component of an entity rather than a
segment of a business. The provisions of this Statement are effective for
financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001,
and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early application
encouraged. The provisions of this Statement generally are to be applied
prospectively. The Company has not determined the effect of this new standard;
however, due to the similarities with existing accounting standards regarding
impairment losses, the impact is not expected to be material in the
determination of carrying amounts for long-lived assets.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY

    During the year ended December 31, 2001, the Company had a revolving credit
agreement with a group of banks (the "Senior Credit Facility"), which initially
provided for borrowings up to $15.0 million and had a maturity date of July 1,
2002. After amendments to the Senior Credit Facility in May and September
related to the sale of certain assets, the available borrowings were reduced to
$7.0 million. Borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility bore interest at the
lead bank's prime rate plus a margin of 3%. The borrowings were limited to 80%
of eligible receivables. In December 2001, the Company terminated the Senior
Credit Facility. The effective average interest rates for borrowings under the
Senior Credit Facility during 2001 and 2000 were 10.3% and 10.2%, respectively.

    On March 5, 2002, the Company entered into a new revolving credit agreement
with a bank (the "2002 Credit Facility") which has a maturity date of January 1,
2005 and provides for total availability of up to $10.0 million. Borrowings
under the 2002 Credit Facility bear interest at either prime rate or at the
London Interbank Offered Rate plus a margin of 3% and are limited to 80% of
eligible accounts receivable. The 2002 Credit Facility is secured by
substantially all of the Company's personal property, and by a pledge of the
common stock of the Company's operating subsidiaries, and is also guaranteed by
such subsidiaries. Under the terms of the 2002 Credit Facility, the Company is
required to maintain certain financial ratios and other financial conditions and
is also prohibited from making certain investments, advances, dividends or
loans.





    The Company leases certain offices, transportation, computer and other
equipment used in its continuing operations under noncancelable operating lease
agreements expiring at various dates through 2011. Most leases contain renewal
options and some contain purchase options. Total future obligations under
noncancelable leases and maturities of long-term debt at December 31, 2001, are
as follows: 2002 - $3.2 million; 2003 - $2.7 million; 2004 - $2.4 million; 2005
- - $4.7 million; 2006 - $1.6 million; subsequent to 2006 - $5.4 million. Payments
in 2005 include a note payment of $2.8 million.

    For the year ended December 31, 2001, the Company made capital expenditures
of $9.3 million for continuing operations. These expenditures included $6.2
million relating to software development costs. The remaining expenditures were
primarily for computer equipment and expansions required to support internal
growth. The Company also purchased a formerly leased building for $1.3 million
in connection with an existing obligation of the discontinued information and
property records service segment. Subsequent to December 31, 2001, the Company
entered into a contract to sell the building for approximately $1.0 million in
cash subject to the potential buyer securing financing for the purchase. The
building is included in net assets of discontinued operations on the
consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2001. Capital expenditures in 2001
were primarily funded with cash generated from operations.

    Excluding acquisitions, Tyler anticipates that 2002 capital spending will be
approximately $10.0 million, $6.5 million of which will be related to software
development. Capital spending in 2002 is expected to be funded from cash flow
from operations.

    On May 16, 2001, the Company sold all of the common stock of one of the
remaining businesses that was previously designated as a discontinued operation.
In connection with the sale, the Company received, among other consideration,
cash proceeds of $575,000, and a promissory note of $750,000 payable in 58
monthly installments at an interest rate of 9%. On September 21, 2001, the
Company sold all of the common stock of CCR, which had also been classified as a
discontinued operation. The sale price of the common stock consisted of $3.1
million in cash, as well as future payments contingent on the retention of
certain customers subsequent to the sale.

    On November 4, 1999, the Company acquired selected assets and assumed
selected liabilities of Cole Layer Trumble Company ("CLT") from a privately held
company ("Seller"). A portion of the consideration consisted of the issuance of
1.0 million restricted shares of Tyler common stock and included price
protection on the sale of the stock. The price protection, which expired
November 4, 2001, was equal to the difference between the actual sale proceeds
of the Tyler common stock and $6.25 on a per share basis, but was limited to
$2.75 million. During the year ended December 31, 2001, the Seller submitted to
Tyler a claim under the price protection provision which qualified for the
maximum amount of the price protection. The purchase agreement contained a
number of post-closing adjustments which resulted in a receivable of
approximately $1.4 million due Tyler from the Seller. During the year ended
December 31, 2001 and concurrent with the settlement of the price protection
provision, Tyler paid the Seller $1.35 million in cash on a net basis and
eliminated the aforementioned receivable. The two parties entered into a mutual
release agreement to fully settle the price protection and related purchase
agreement provisions.

    The Company is from time to time engaged in discussions with respect to
selected acquisitions and expects to continue to assess these and other
strategic acquisition opportunities as they arise. The Company may also require
additional financing if it decides to make additional acquisitions. There can be
no assurance, however, that any such opportunities will arise, that any such
acquisitions will be consummated or that any needed additional financing will be
available when required on terms satisfactory to the Company. Absent any
acquisitions, the Company anticipates that cash flows from operations, working
capital and available borrowing capacity under the 2002 Credit Facility will
provide sufficient funds to meet its needs for at least the next year.

CAPITALIZATION

    The Company's capitalization at December 31, 2001, consisted of $3.0 million
in long-term obligations (including current portion) and $100.9 million in
shareholders' equity. The total debt-to-capital ratio was 2.9% at December 31,
2001.


ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

    The Company's market risk sensitive instruments do not subject the Company
to material market risk exposure.





ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

    The consolidated financial statements of the Company, together with the
report of independent auditors and financial statement schedule, are included
herein and listed under the heading "(a)(1) The consolidated financial
statements of the Company of Part IV, Item 14." Financial statement schedules
other than the schedule included have been omitted because the required
information is contained in the consolidated financial statements or related
notes, or such information is not applicable.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

    None.





                                    PART III

    The information required by Items 10 through 13 of Part III is incorporated
herein by reference from the indicated sections of Tyler's definitive proxy
statement for its annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 9, 2002 (the
"Proxy Statement"). Only those sections of the Proxy Statement that specifically
address the items set forth herein are incorporated by reference. Such
incorporation by reference does not include the Compensation Committee Report,
the Audit Committee Report or the Stock Performance Graphs, included in the
Proxy Statement.



                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

            (a) (1) The consolidated financial statements of the Company are
                    filed as part of this report.



    Certain of the exhibits to this report are hereby incorporated by reference,
as specified:


















*    Filed herewith.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K











                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                           TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

Date: March 5, 2002                        By:  /s/ Louis A. Waters
                                                ------------------------------
                                                Louis A. Waters
                                                Co-Chief Executive Officer
                                                Chairman of the Board
                                                (principal executive officer)

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.











                REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Tyler Technologies, Inc.

    We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Tyler
Technologies, Inc. as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2001. Our audits also
included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 14(a).
These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Tyler
Technologies, Inc. at December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the consolidated results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2001, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. Also, in our opinion, the related
financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.

                                                       ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Dallas, Texas
February 22, 2002, except for the
last paragraph in Note 10 as to which
the date is March 5, 2002









Tyler Technologies, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Operations
For the years ended December 31
In thousands, except per share amounts



See accompanying notes









Tyler Technologies, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
December 31
In thousands, except share and per share amounts



See accompanying notes.









Tyler Technologies, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity For the years ended December 31,
2001, 2000 and 1999 In thousands



See accompanying notes.









Tyler Technologies, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
For the years ended December 31
In thousands




See accompanying notes.









                            Tyler Technologies, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                  (Tables in thousands, except per share data)

                           December 31, 2001 and 2000

(1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

    Tyler Technologies, Inc. ("Tyler" or the "Company") provides integrated
software systems and related services for local governments. Tyler develops and
markets a broad line of software products and services to address the
information technology ("IT") needs of cities, counties, schools and other local
government entities. Tyler also provides professional IT services to its
customers, including software and hardware installation, data conversion,
training and product modifications, along with continuing maintenance and
support for customers using its systems. The Company also provides property
appraisal outsourcing services for taxing jurisdictions.

    The Company discontinued the operations of its information and property
records services segment in 2000. See Note 3 for discussion of discontinued
businesses.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

    The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company
and its subsidiaries, all of which are wholly-owned. All significant
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

    Cash and cash equivalents of $5.3 million and $8.2 million at December 31,
2001 and 2000, respectively, consist of money market investments with an initial
term of less than three months. For purposes of the statements of cash flows,
the Company considers all investments with original maturities of three months
or less to be cash equivalents.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

    The Company derives revenue from software licenses, postcontract customer
support/maintenance ("PCS"), and services. PCS includes telephone support, bug
fixes, and rights to upgrade on a when-and-if available basis. Services range
from installation, training, and basic consulting to software modification and
customization to meet specific customer needs. In software arrangements that
include rights to multiple software products, specified upgrades, PCS, and/or
other services, the Company allocates the total arrangement fee among each
deliverable based on the relative fair value of each of the deliverables,
determined based on vendor-specific objective evidence.

    The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with Statement of Position
("SOP") 97-2, "Software Revenue Recognition", as amended, as follows:

    Software Licenses - The Company recognizes the revenue allocable to software
licenses and specified upgrades upon delivery of the software product or upgrade
to the end user, unless the fee is not fixed or determinable or collectibility
is not probable. If the fee is not fixed or determinable, revenue is recognized
as payments become due from the customer. If collectibility is not considered
probable, revenue is recognized when the fee is collected. Arrangements that
include software services, such as training or installation, are evaluated to
determine whether those services are essential to the functionality of other
elements of the arrangement.

    A majority of the Company's software arrangements involve "off-the-shelf"
software and the other elements are not considered essential to the
functionality of the software. For those software arrangements in which services
are not considered essential, the software license fee is recognized as revenue
after delivery has occurred, customer acceptance is reasonably assured, the fee
represents an enforceable claim and probable of collection and the remaining
services such as training are considered nominal.





    Software Services - When software services are considered essential, revenue
under the entire arrangement is recognized as the services are performed using
the percentage-of-completion contract accounting method. When software services
are not considered essential, the fee allocable to the service element is
recognized as revenue as the services are performed.

    Computer Hardware Equipment - Revenue allocable to equipment based on vendor
specific evidence of fair value is recognized when the equipment is delivered
and collection is probable.

    Postcontract Customer Support - PCS agreements are generally entered into in
connection with initial license sales and subsequent renewals. Revenue allocated
to PCS is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period the PCS is
provided. All significant costs and expenses associated with PCS are expensed as
incurred.

    Contract Accounting - For arrangements that include customization or
modification of the software, or where software services are otherwise
considered essential, or for real estate appraisal projects, revenue is
recognized using contract accounting. Revenue from these arrangements is
recognized using the percentage-of-completion method with progress-to-completion
measures based primarily upon labor hours incurred or units completed. Revenue
earned is based on the progress-to-completion percentage after giving effect to
the most recent estimates of total cost. Changes to total estimated contract
costs, if any, are recognized in the period they are determined. Provisions for
estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are made in the period in which such
losses are determined.

    Deferred revenue consists primarily of payments received in advance of
revenue being earned under software licensing, software and hardware
installation, support and maintenance contracts.

USE OF ESTIMATES

    The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at
the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

    Property, equipment and purchased software are recorded at cost.
Depreciation and amortization are computed for financial reporting purposes
primarily utilizing the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of
the related assets, or for leasehold improvements and capital leases, the
shorter of the base lease term or estimated useful life. For income tax
purposes, accelerated depreciation methods are primarily used with the
establishment of deferred income tax liabilities for the resulting temporary
differences.

    Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Costs of
renewals and betterments are capitalized. The cost and accumulated depreciation
and amortization applicable to assets sold or otherwise disposed of are removed
from the asset accounts, and any net gain or loss is included in the statement
of operations.

INTEREST COST

    The Company capitalizes interest cost as a component of capitalized software
development costs. During the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, the
Company capitalized $578,000 and $586,000, respectively of interest cost. No
interest cost was capitalized in 1999.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS

    The Company expenses all research and development costs as incurred. The
Company expensed $412,000, $973,000 and $1.6 million of research and development
costs in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

INCOME TAXES

Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred
tax assets and liabilities are recognized for future tax consequences
attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their






respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using
enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which
those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect
on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in
income in the period that includes the enactment date.

STOCK COMPENSATION

    As permitted by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No.
123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", the Company continues to apply
the provisions of Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees", as amended. Under APB Opinion No.
25, compensation expense is recorded on the date of grant only if the current
market price of the underlying common stock exceeds the exercise price.

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

    The following table sets forth the components of total comprehensive income
(loss) for the periods presented:



    There was no tax effect in connection with the change in the unrealized gain
(loss) for each of the years presented since management could not conclude it
was more likely than not that the tax benefit would be realized on the
cumulative unrealized holding loss.

SEGMENT AND RELATED INFORMATION

    Although the Company has a number of operating subsidiaries, separate
segment data has not been presented as they meet the criteria for aggregation
set forth in SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and
Related Information".

GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

    The cost of acquired companies is allocated first to identifiable assets
based on estimated fair values. Costs allocated to identifiable intangible
assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining estimated
useful lives of the assets, as determined principally by underlying contract
terms or independent appraisals. The excess of the purchase price over the fair
value of identifiable assets acquired, net of liabilities assumed, is recorded
as goodwill and amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
life. The useful life is determined based on the individual characteristics of
the acquired entity and ranges from twenty to twenty-five years.

    In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") issued
SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." SFAS No. 142 addresses the
accounting and reporting of acquired goodwill and other intangibles assets. SFAS
No. 142 discontinues amortization of acquired goodwill and instead requires
annual impairment testing of acquired goodwill. Intangible assets will be
amortized over their useful economic life and tested for impairment in
accordance with SFAS No. 142. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful
economic life should not be amortized until their life is determined to be
finite.

    The provisions of SFAS No. 142 will be effective for fiscal years beginning
after December 31, 2001 and will be adopted effective January 1, 2002. SFAS No.
142 will have a significant impact on the Company's financial results based on
the historical amortization of goodwill (including workforce). During 2001, 2000
and 1999, the Company reported after-tax goodwill amortization expense of
approximately $3.0 million, $2.9 million, and $2.2 million, respectively, which,
beginning January 1, 2002, will no longer be expensed under SFAS No. 142. The
Company does not anticipate the adoption of SFAS No. 142 to generate an
impairment charge in 2002.

IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

    The Company accounts for its long-lived assets in accordance with the
provisions of SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of". SFAS No. 121 requires that
long-lived assets and






certain identifiable intangibles be reviewed for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not
be recoverable. Recoverability of assets, including goodwill, to be held and
used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future
net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If such assets are
considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the
amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceed the fair value of the
assets. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of carrying amount or
fair value less costs to sell.

COSTS OF COMPUTER SOFTWARE

    SFAS No. 86, "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to be Sold,
Leased, or Otherwise Marketed", requires capitalization of software development
costs incurred subsequent to establishment of technological feasibility and
prior to the availability of the product for general release to customers. In
2001, 2000 and 1999, the Company capitalized approximately $6.2 million, $6.7
million and $1.4 million, respectively, of software development costs, which
primarily include personnel costs. Systematic amortization of capitalized costs
begins when a product is available for general release to customers and is
computed on a product-by-product basis at a rate not less than straight-line
basis over the product's remaining estimated economic life. Amortization of
software development costs in 2001, 2000 and 1999 was approximately $1.7
million, $622,000 and $75,000, respectively.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

    The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value
of each class of financial instruments:

    Cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivables, trade accounts payables and
certain other assets: The carrying amounts approximate fair value because of the
short maturity of these instruments. The Company's available-for-sale
investments are carried at fair value based on quoted market prices.

    Long-term obligations: The carrying amount of long-term obligations
approximates fair value either due to the variable nature of their stated
interest rates or the stated interest rates approximate market rates. These
estimated fair value amounts have been determined using available market
information or other appropriate valuation methodologies.

    The Company has no involvement with derivative financial instruments,
including those for speculative or trading purposes.

CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK AND UNBILLED RECEIVABLES

    Concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to
the wide variety of customers and markets into which the Company's products and
services are provided, as well as their dispersion across many different
geographic areas. As a result, as of December 31, 2001, the Company does not
consider itself to have any significant concentrations of credit risk.

    The Company's property appraisal outsourcing service contracts can range up
to three years in duration. In connection with these percentage of completion
contracts and for certain software service contracts, the Company may perform
the work prior to when the services are billable and/or payable pursuant to the
contract. The Company has recorded retentions and unbilled receivables (costs
and estimated profit in excess of billings) of approximately $7.5 million and
$4.7 million at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively, in connection with
such contracts. Retentions are included in trade accounts receivable and current
assets and amounted to $4.5 million at December 31, 2001, of which $3.1 million
is expected to be collected in excess of one year.

    For the year ended December 31, 2001, the Company had one customer that
accounted for approximately 13% of the Company's total consolidated revenues.
For the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999, the Company did not have a
single customer that accounted for greater than 10% of total consolidated
revenues.

RECLASSIFICATIONS

    The Company reclassified certain prior year accounts of discontinued
operations as of December 31, 2000 to conform to the current year presentation.





(2) ACQUISITIONS

    Effective March 1, 1999, the Company acquired Eagle Computer Systems, Inc.
("Eagle"). Eagle is a leading supplier of networked computing solutions for
county governments.

    Effective April 1, 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of Micro
Arizala Systems, Inc. d/b/a FundBalance, a company which develops and markets
fund accounting software and other applications for local governments,
not-for-profit organizations and cemeteries.

    On April 21, 1999, the Company acquired Process Incorporated d/b/a Computer
Center Software, which designs and develops integrated financial and
land management information systems for counties, cities, schools and
not-for-profit organizations.

    Effective May 1, 1999, the Company acquired Gemini Systems, Inc., which
develops and markets software products for municipal governments and utilities.

    On July 16, 1999, the Company acquired Pacific Data Technologies, Inc.,
which was included in the information and property records services segment
which has been discontinued.

    On November 4, 1999, the Company acquired selected assets and assumed
selected liabilities of Cole Layer Trumble Company ("CLT") from a privately held
company ("Seller"). A portion of the consideration consisted of the issuance of
1.0 million restricted shares of Tyler common stock and included a price
protection on the sale of the stock. The price protection, which expired
November 4, 2001, was equal to the difference between the actual sale proceeds
of the Tyler common stock and $6.25 on a per share basis, but was limited to
$2.75 million. During the year ended December 31, 2001, the Seller submitted to
Tyler a claim under the price protection provision which qualified for the
maximum amount of the price protection. Contingent consideration of this nature
does not change the recorded costs of the acquisition and the claim is first
recorded when submitted. Accordingly, the claim submitted during the year of
$2.75 million net of the deferred tax benefit of $963,000, has been charged to
paid-in capital during the year. The purchase agreement contained a number of
post-closing adjustments which resulted in a receivable of approximately $1.4
million due Tyler from the Seller. During the year ended December 31, 2001 and
concurrent with the settlement of the price protection provision, Tyler paid the
Seller $1.35 million in cash on a net basis and eliminated the aforementioned
receivable. The two parties entered into a mutual release agreement to fully
settle the price protection and related purchase agreement provisions.

    On January 3, 2000, the Company acquired Capitol Commerce Reporter, Inc.
("CCR"). CCR was included in the information and property records services
segment which has been discontinued. CCR provided public records research,
document retrieval, filing and information services. The Company paid cash of
$3.0 million; assumed notes with a fair value of $4.0 million; and paid
transaction costs of $90,000 in connection with this acquisition.

    The Company accounted for all of the aforementioned acquisitions using the
purchase method of accounting for business combinations. Under this method of
accounting, the aggregate purchase price is allocated to assets acquired and
liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. Results of operations
of the acquired entities are included in the Company's consolidated financial
statements from the respective dates of acquisition. The excess purchase price
over the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired companies
(goodwill) is amortized using the straight-line method of amortization over
their respective estimated useful lives.

    During the year ended December 31, 1999, the Company paid cash of $25.6
million; issued 6.0 million shares of Tyler common stock with a fair value of
$31.8 million and assumed debt of $2.3 million in connection with its 1999
acquisitions. In addition to consideration paid in cash and common stock for the
1999 acquisitions, the Company provided other consideration which totaled
approximately $3.2 million and consisted of assignment of certain notes. Cash
paid for acquisitions does not reflect cash paid for transaction costs related
to the execution of the acquisitions, such as legal, accounting and consulting
fees, of approximately $673,000 in 1999 and excludes acquired cash balances of
approximately $338,000 in 1999.






(3) DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

Information and Property Records Services Segment

    On September 29, 2000, the Company sold for a cash sale price of $14.4
million certain net assets of Kofile, Inc. and another subsidiary, the Company's
interest in a certain intangible work product, and a building and related
building improvements ("Kofile Sale"). Effective December 29, 2000, the Company
sold for cash its land records business unit, consisting of Business Resources
Corporation ("Resources"), to an affiliate of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.
("ACS") (the "Resources Sale"). The Resources Sale was valued at approximately
$71.0 million. Concurrent with the Resources Sale, management of the Company
with the Board of Directors' approval adopted a formal plan of disposal for the
remaining businesses and assets of the information and property records services
segment. This restructuring program was designed to focus the Company's
resources on its software systems and services segment and to reduce debt. The
businesses and assets divested or identified for divesture were classified as
discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements in
2000 and the prior periods' financial statements were restated to report
separately their operations in compliance with APB Opinion No. 30. The net gain
on the Kofile Sale and the Resources Sale amounted to approximately $1.5 million
(net of an income tax benefit of $2.4 million).

    The Company's formal plan of disposal provided for the remaining businesses
and assets of the information and property records services segment to be
disposed of by December 29, 2001. At the time management elected to discontinue
the remaining businesses in this segment, its remaining assets included a
start-up company engaged in constructing a Web-enabled national repository of
public records data, and Capitol Commerce Reporter, Inc. ("CCR"), which provided
public records research, principally in Texas. The interdependency of these
operations with those of Resources resulted in the Company's decision to
discontinue the development of the repository and other related products and
exit the land records business following the Resources Sale.

    The estimated loss on the disposal of these remaining businesses and assets
at December 29, 2000 amounted to $13.6 million (after an income tax benefit of
$3.8 million), consisting of an estimated loss on disposal of the businesses of
$11.5 million (net of an income tax benefit of $2.7 million) and a provision of
$2.1 million (after an income tax benefit of $1.1 million) for anticipated
operating losses from the measurement date of December 29, 2000 to the estimated
disposal dates. Although the actual proceeds on the subsequent sales of
businesses and assets and the related income tax treatment of the various
disposals differed from the individual components of each as originally
estimated at December 29, 2000, no adjustment to the net loss reserve is
considered appropriate at this time. The anticipated operating losses to the
disposal dates include the effects of the settlement of certain employment
contracts, losses on real property leases, severance costs and similar closing
related costs. The provision for anticipated operating costs which was provided
in 2000 approximates actual operating costs incurred since the measurement date
of December 29, 2000.

    On May 16, 2001, the Company sold all of the common stock of another
business which had previously been designated as a discontinued operation. In
connection with the sale, the Company received cash proceeds of $575,000,
approximately 60,000 shares of Company common stock, a promissory note of
$750,000 payable in 58 monthly installments at an interest rate of 9%, and other
contingent consideration. Because the note receivable is highly dependent upon
future operations of the buyer, the Company is recording its value as cash is
received. On September 21, 2001, the Company sold all of the common stock of CCR
which also had been previously designated as a discontinued operation. The sale
price of the common stock consisted of $3.1 million in cash and future payments
contingent on the retention of certain customers subsequent to the sale. Since
the gains or losses on these sales were estimated as of the measurement date of
December 29, 2000, no additional adjustments to the estimated loss on the
disposals of the discontinued businesses are considered appropriate at this
time.

    The income tax expense or benefit associated with the gains or losses on the
respective sales of the businesses in the information and property records
services segment and the planned dispositions of the remaining assets and
businesses differs from the statutory income tax rate of 35% due to the
elimination of deferred taxes related to the basis difference between amounts
reported for income taxes and financial reporting purposes and the utilization
of available capital loss carryforwards which were fully reserved in the
valuation account prior to the respective sales.









    The condensed components of net assets of discontinued operations of the
information and property records services segment and one of the Company's
non-operating subsidiaries included in the consolidated balance sheets as of
December 31, 2001 and 2000 are as follows:



    The condensed statements of operations relating to the information and
property records services segment for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999
are presented below:




Other

    In December 1998, the Company entered into a letter of intent to sell its
non-core automotive parts segment. Accordingly, this segment has been accounted
for as a discontinued operation in 1998 with prior years' financial statements
restated to report separately their operations in compliance with APB Opinion
No. 30. The Company originally estimated the net loss on disposal to be $8.9
million, which was recorded in the fourth quarter of 1998. The estimated loss
included anticipated operating losses from the measurement date of December 1998
to the date of disposal and associated transaction costs. On March 26, 1999, the
Company sold all of the outstanding common stock of the company comprising the
automotive parts segment and received $15.8 million in cash during 1999 prior to
transactions costs. In 1999, the Company recorded additional losses of $907,000
(including income taxes of $183,000) to reflect adjusted estimated transaction
costs, funded operating losses which were higher than originally estimated,
adjustments to amounts previously provided for income taxes in connection with
the sale and to write down to estimated net realizable value a post-closing
receivable in connection with a dispute with the purchaser.

    One of the Company's non-operating subsidiaries is involved in various
claims for work-related injuries and physical conditions relating to a formerly
owned subsidiary that was sold in 1995. During 2001, 2000 and 1999, the Company
recorded net losses, net of related tax effect, of $3,000, $748,000 and $1.9
million, respectively (see Note 17 in Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements).

(4) RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

    On September 29, 2000, the Company sold for cash certain net assets of
Kofile and another subsidiary, the Company's interest in a certain intangible
work product, and a building and related building improvements to investment
entities beneficially owned by a principal shareholder of the Company, who was
also a director at the time.

    From time to time, the Company charters aircraft from businesses in which
either a former director and/or member of management of the Company is an owner
or part owner. For the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 the Company
incurred rental expense related to such arrangements to a non-corporate officer
management member of $83,000, $81,000 and $116,000 respectively.





    During 1999 through mid-2000, the Company chartered an aircraft from a
former director. The Company incurred rental expense related to these charters
of $325,000 and $133,000 in 2000 and 1999, respectively.

    The Company has three office building lease agreements with various
shareholders and a non-corporate officer management member of the Company. Total
rental expense related to such leases for the years ended December 31, 2001,
2000 and 1999 was $1.1 million, $679,000 and $525,000, respectively.

    Total future minimum rental under noncancelable related party operating
leases as of December 31, 2001, are as follows:




(5) PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

    Property and equipment consists of the following at December 31:



    Depreciation expense totaled $2.3 million, $2.0 million and $1.1 million
during the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

(6) INVESTMENT SECURITY AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE

    Pursuant to an agreement with two major shareholders of H.T.E., Inc.
("HTE"), the Company acquired approximately 32% of HTE's common stock in two
separate transactions in 1999. On August 17, 1999, the Company exchanged 2.3
million shares of its common stock for 4.7 million shares of HTE common stock.
This initial investment was recorded at $14.0 million. The second transaction
occurred on December 21, 1999, in which the Company exchanged 484,000 shares of
its common stock for 969,000 shares of HTE common stock. The additional
investment was recorded at $1.8 million. The investment in HTE common stock is
classified as a non-current asset since it was made for a continuing business
purpose.

    Florida state corporation law restricts the voting rights of "control
shares", as defined, acquired by a third party in certain types of acquisitions,
which restrictions may be removed by a vote of the shareholders. The courts have
not interpreted the Florida "control share" statute. HTE has taken the position
that, under the Florida statute, all of the shares acquired by the Company
constitute "control shares" and therefore do not have voting rights until such
time as shareholders of HTE, other than the Company, restore voting rights to
those shares. Management of the Company believes that only the shares acquired
in excess of 20% of the outstanding shares of HTE constitute "control shares"
and therefore believes it has the right to vote all HTE shares it owns up to at
least 20% of the outstanding shares of HTE. On November 16, 2000, the
shareholders of HTE, other than Tyler, voted to deny the Company its right to
vote the "control shares" of HTE.

    On October 29, 2001, HTE notified the Company that it had attempted a cash
redemption of all of the 5.6 million shares of HTE common stock currently owned
by the Company at a price of $1.30 per share. Management of the Company believes
that the attempted redemption of the Company-owned HTE shares was invalid and
takes exception to the manner in which fair value was calculated. Management of
HTE contends that its ability to redeem the shares of common stock owned by the
Company and the manner of calculation of fair value by HTE is in accordance with
Florida state statutes for "control shares." On October 29, 2001, the Company
notified HTE that its purported redemption of the shares owned by the Company
was invalid and contrary to Florida law,





and in any event, the calculation by HTE of fair value for such shares was
incorrect. On October 30, 2001, HTE filed a complaint in a civil court in
Seminole County, Florida requesting the court to enter a declaratory judgment
declaring that HTE's purported redemption of all of the Company-owned shares at
a redemption price of $1.30 per share was lawful and to effect the redemption
and cancel the Company-owned shares. The Company removed the case to the United
States District Court, Middle District of Florida, Orlando Division and
requested a declaratory judgment from the court declaring, among other things,
(a) that HTE's purported redemption of any or all of the shares held by the
Company was illegal under Florida law, (b) in the alternative, that HTE's right
of redemption, if any, under Florida law only applies to the "control shares"
owned by the Company (i.e., those shares in excess of 20% of the issued and
outstanding shares of common stock of HTE as of the date that the Company
acquired such shares), (c) in the alternative, that HTE's calculation of fair
value for the redemption of any or all of the shares owned by the Company was
grossly understated, and (d) that the Company maintains the ability to vote up
to 20% of the issued and outstanding shares of HTE common stock owned by the
Company. Although the Company believes that the attempted stock redemption by
HTE is invalid there can be no assurance that the court will rule in favor of
the positions asserted by the Company.

    Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, an
investment of 20% or more of the voting stock of an investee should lead to a
presumption that in absence of evidence to the contrary, an investor has the
ability to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial
policies of an investee. Management of the Company has concluded that it
currently does not have such influence as evidenced by the following key
factors:

    o   Inability to resolve the different interpretations regarding the ability
        to vote the shares;

    o   Inability to obtain additional financial information not otherwise
        available to other shareholders; and

    o   Inability to obtain certain confirmations and consents from the
        investee's independent auditors.

    Accordingly, the Company accounts for its investment in HTE pursuant to the
provisions of SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities". Although these shares are held for a continuing business
purpose, these securities are classified as "available-for-sale" and are
recorded at fair value as determined by quoted market prices as required
pursuant to SFAS No. 115. Unrealized holding gains and losses, net of the
related tax effect, on available-for-sale securities are excluded from earnings
and are reported as a separate component of shareholders' equity until realized.
Realized gains and losses from the sale of available-for-sale securities are
determined on a specific identification basis. A decline in the market value of
any available-for-sale security below cost that is deemed to be other than
temporary, results in a reduction in the carrying amount to fair value. The
impairment is charged to earnings and a new cost basis for the security is
established. Management of Tyler continues to conclude it has both the intent
and the ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow
for the anticipated recovery in fair value. At this time, management of the
Company does not believe the decline in the market value is other than
temporary. In making this determination, management considered, among other
items, the conditions in the local government software industry, the financial
condition of the issuer, and recent public statements by the issuer concerning
its future prospects. In addition, for a period of time during 2001 and February
2002, the quoted market value price per share of HTE was above Tyler's average
per share cost basis of $2.81 per share.

    The cost, fair value and gross unrealized holding gains (losses) of the
investment securities available-for-sale, based on the quoted market price for
HTE common stock (amounts in millions, except per share amounts) are presented
below. In accordance with SFAS No. 115, the Company used quoted market price per
share in calculating fair value to be used for financial reporting purposes.
SFAS No. 115 does not permit the adjustment of quoted market prices in the
determination of fair value and, accordingly, the ultimate value the Company
could realize because of its significant investment could vary materially from
the amount presented.



    If the uncertainty regarding the voting shares is resolved in the Company's
favor, the Company will retroactively adopt the equity method of accounting for
this investment. Therefore, the Company's results of operations and retained
earnings for periods beginning with the 1999 acquisition will be retroactively
restated to reflect the Company's investment in HTE for all periods in which it
held an investment in the voting stock of HTE. Under the equity method, the
original investment is recorded at cost and is adjusted




periodically to recognize the investor's share of earnings or losses after the
respective dates of acquisition. The Company's investment in HTE would include
the unamortized excess of the Company's investment over its equity in the net
assets of HTE.

    Because of the effects of such a future change, the following information
has been provided or derived from publicly filed financial information which has
not been independently confirmed to the Company and is considered unaudited. HTE
reported net income of $865,000 and net losses of $3.4 million and $14.9 million
for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Subsequent
to the Company's initial acquisition of HTE's shares in August 1999, HTE
recorded charges of approximately $7.9 million, net of tax, related to
write-offs of software development costs, certain accounts receivables and
employee-termination benefits that were recorded by HTE as a result of changes
in management and charges for litigation settlements. During 2000, HTE recovered
a portion of these costs, which totaled $1.1 million. These costs would be
considered pre-acquisition costs by the Company in determining its share of
HTE's loss from the respective dates of acquisition. Had the Company's
investment in HTE been accounted for under the equity method, the Company would
have recorded equity in losses of HTE of $548,000, $2.3 million and $1.4 million
for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.


(7) COSTS (RECOVERY) OF CERTAIN ACQUISITION OPPORTUNITIES

    In March 1999, the Company entered into a merger agreement pursuant to which
the Company contemplated the acquisition of all of the outstanding common stock
of CPS Systems, Inc. ("CPS"). In connection with that agreement, the Company
provided CPS with bridge financing in the form of notes secured by a second lien
on substantially all of the assets of CPS, including accounts receivable,
inventory, intangibles, equipment and intellectual property. In January 2000,
CPS filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States
Bankruptcy Code. On March 24, 2000, the bankruptcy court conducted a public
auction of the assets of CPS.

    Accordingly, the aggregate bridge financings and related accrued interest
receivable and costs amounting to $1.9 million were expensed in the 1999
consolidated financial statements. In 2001, the Company received cash of
approximately $235,000 through CPS bankruptcy proceedings in connection with the
notes. The Company anticipates no further recovery of amounts due under its
secured notes.


(8) GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

    Goodwill, other intangible assets and related accumulated amortization
consists of the following at December 31:



    Amortization expense totaled $8.6 million, $7.5 million and $5.0 million for
the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

(9) ACCRUED LIABILITIES

    Accrued liabilities consists of the following at December 31:







(10) LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS

     Long-term obligations consists of the following at December 31:



    The aggregate maturities of long-term obligations for each of the years
subsequent to December 31, 2001, are as follows: 2002 - $123,000; 2003 -
$74,000; 2004 - $36,000; 2005 - $2.8 million; 2006 - $0.

    Interest paid in 2001, 2000 and 1999 was $814,000, $8.8 million and $4.1
million, respectively.

    During the year ended December 31, 2001, the Company had a revolving credit
agreement with a group of banks (the "Senior Credit Facility"), which initially
provided for borrowings up to $15.0 million and had a maturity date of July 1,
2002. After amendments to the Senior Credit Facility in May and September
related to the sale of certain assets, the available borrowings were reduced to
$7.0 million. Borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility bore interest at the
lead bank's prime rate plus a margin of 3%. The borrowings were limited to 80%
of eligible receivables. In December 2001, the Company terminated the Senior
Credit Facility. The effective average interest rates for borrowings under the
Senior Credit Facility during 2001 and 2000 were 10.3% and 10.2%, respectively.

    On March 5, 2002, the Company entered into a new revolving credit
agreement with a bank (the "2002 Credit Facility") which has a maturity date of
January 1, 2005 and provides for total availability of up to $10.0 million.
Borrowings under the 2002 Credit Facility bear interest at either prime rate or
at the London Interbank Offered Rate plus a margin of 3% and are limited to 80%
of eligible accounts receivable. The 2002 Credit Facility is secured by
substantially all of the Company's personal property, by a pledge of the common
stock of the Company's operating subsidiaries, and is also guaranteed by such
subsidiaries. Under the terms of the 2002 Credit Facility, the Company is
required to maintain certain financial ratios and other financial conditions and
is prohibited from making certain investments, advances, cash dividends or
loans.

(11) INCOME TAX

    The income tax provision (benefit) included in continuing operations
consists of the following:



    The income tax provision (benefit) differs from amounts computed by applying
the federal statutory tax rate of 35% to income (loss) from continuing
operations before income taxes as follows:







    Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities as of December
31 are as follows:




    At December 31, 2001, the Company had available approximately $10.5 million
of net tax operating loss carryforwards for federal income tax purposes. These
carryforwards, which may provide future tax benefits, expire from 2012 through
2021. Based upon the periods in which taxable temporary differences are
anticipated to reverse, management believes it is more likely than not that the
Company will realize the benefits of these deductible differences, including the
net operating loss carryforwards, at December 31, 2001. However, the amount of
the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted in the future if
estimates of reversing taxable temporary differences are revised.

    Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely
than not that all the deferred tax assets will be realized except for the asset
relating to the basis difference on investment security available-for-sale and
other minor temporary differences. Accordingly, the Company believes that no
valuation allowance is required for the remaining deferred tax assets.

    During the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company sold Resources, Kofile
and certain other businesses (see Note 3). In connection with these respective
sales, the Company utilized approximately $45.9 million of available capital
loss carryforwards which were fully reserved in the valuation allowance account
at December 31, 1999.

    The Company paid income taxes, net of refunds received, of $273,000 in 2001
and $2.8 million in 1999, and received a refund of prior years' income taxes of
$2.7 million in 2000.

(12)  SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

    In May 2000, the Company sold 3.3 million shares of common stock and 333,380
warrants pursuant to a private placement agreement with Sanders Morris Harris,
Inc., for approximately $10.0 million in gross cash proceeds, before deducting
commissions and offering expenses of approximately $730,000. Each warrant is
convertible into one share of common stock at an exercise price of $3.60 per
share. The warrants expire in May 2005. The common stock sold in this
transaction is not registered and may only be sold pursuant to Rule 144 under
the Securities Act of 1933, generally after being held for at least one year.

    As of December 31, 2001, the Company had an additional warrant outstanding
to purchase 2.0 million shares of the Company's common stock at $2.50 per share
and expires in September 2007. The warrant was issued in September 1997 to
Richmond Partners, Ltd. for which the Chairman of the Board of the Company is
deemed to have beneficial ownership.

(13) STOCK OPTION PLAN

    The Company's stock option plan provides for the granting of non-qualified
and incentive stock options, as defined by the Internal Revenue Code, to key
employees and directors of the Company and its subsidiaries of up to 5.5 million
shares of the Company's common stock at prices which represent fair market value
at dates of grant. All options granted have ten-year terms and generally vest
over, and become fully exercisable at the end of, three to eight years of
continued employment.





    The following table summarizes the transactions of the Company's stock
option plan for the three-year period ended December 31, 2001:



    The following table summarizes information concerning outstanding and
exercisable options at December 31, 2001:



    As allowed by SFAS No. 123, the Company has continued to follow APB Opinion
No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees", which does not recognize
compensation expense on the issuance of its stock options because the option
terms are fixed and the exercise price equals the market price of the underlying
stock on the grant date.

    As required by SFAS No. 123, the Company has determined the pro forma
information as if the Company had accounted for stock options granted since
January 1, 1995, under the fair value method of SFAS No. 123. The Black-Scholes
option pricing model was used with the following weighted-average assumptions
for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively: risk-free interest rates of 5.1%, 6.1%
and 5.6%; dividend yield of 0%; expected common stock market price volatility
factor of .78, .73 and .70; and a weighted-average expected life of the options
of seven years. The weighted-average fair value of options granted in 2001, 2000
and 1999 was $1.28, $2.02 and $3.47 per share, respectively.

    Had compensation expense been recorded based on the fair values of the stock
option grants, the Company's 2001, 2000 and 1999 pro forma net loss would have
been $919,000, $26.0 million and $4.6 million, or $0.02, $0.57 and $0.12 per
diluted share, respectively.

    During the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company granted to an employee
50,000 shares of restricted common stock with a fair value of $303,000 at the
grant date. The Company recorded annual compensation expense of $151,500 during
each of the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999, based on the service period
provided for in the agreement and the vesting period over which the restrictions
lapse.






(14)  EARNINGS (LOSS) PER SHARE

    Basic earnings per common share data is computed using the weighted-average
number of common shares outstanding for the relevant period. Diluted earnings
per common share data is computed using the weighted-average number of common
shares outstanding plus common share equivalents represented by stock options
and stock warrants, if such stock options and stock warrants have a dilutive
effect in the aggregate.

    The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings
(loss) per share:



    For the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, 2.3 million, 3.5
million and 3.4 million options, respectively, were not included in the
computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would have been
antidilutive. Additionally, warrants to purchase 333,380, 2.3 million and 2.0
million shares of the Company's common stock for 2001, 2000, and 1999,
respectively, were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share
because the effect would have been antidilutive.

(15) LEASES

    The Company leases certain offices, and transportation, computer and other
equipment used in its operations under noncancelable operating lease agreements
expiring at various dates through 2011. Most leases contain renewal options and
some contain purchase options. The leases generally provide that the Company pay
taxes, maintenance, insurance and certain other operating expenses.

    Rent expense was approximately $2.8 million in 2001, $2.1 million in 2000
and $1.1 million in 1999.

    Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable leases at December 31,
2001 are as follows:



(16) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

    The Company has a retirement savings plan structured under Section 401(k) of
the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"). The plan covers substantially all
employees meeting minimum service requirements. Under the plan, employees may
elect to reduce their current compensation by up to 15%, subject to certain
maximum dollar limitations prescribed by the Code, and have the amount
contributed to the plan as salary deferral contributions. The Company
contributes up to a maximum of 2% of an employee's compensation to the plan. The
Company made contributions to the plan and charged continuing operations
$868,000, $761,000 and $396,000 in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.





(17)  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    One of the Company's non-operating subsidiaries, Swan Transportation Company
("Swan"), has been and is currently involved in various claims raised by
hundreds of former employees of a foundry that was once owned by an affiliate of
Swan and the Company for alleged work related injuries and physical conditions
resulting from alleged exposure to silica, asbestos, and/or related industrial
dusts during their employment at the foundry. The operating assets of the
foundry were sold by the Company on December 1, 1995. As a non-operating
subsidiary of the Company, the current assets of Swan consist primarily of
various insurance policies issued to Swan during the relevant time periods and
restricted cash of $2.3 million at December 31, 2001. Swan has tendered the
defense and indemnity obligations arising from these claims to its insurance
carriers, who have entered into settlement agreements with approximately 275 of
the plaintiffs, each of whom agreed to release Swan, the Company, and its
subsidiaries and affiliates from all such claims in exchange for payments made
by the insurance carriers.

    On December 20, 2001, Swan filed a petition under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of
Delaware. The bankruptcy filing by Swan was the result of extensive negotiations
between the Company, Swan, their respective insurance carriers, and an ad hoc
committee of plaintiff attorneys representing substantially all of the then
known plaintiffs. Swan filed its plan of reorganization in February 2002. The
principal features of the plan of reorganization include: (a) the creation of a
trust, which is to be funded principally by fifteen insurance carriers pursuant
to certain settlement agreements executed pre-petition between Swan, the
Company, and such carriers; (b) the implementation of a claims resolution
procedure pursuant to which all present and future claimants may assert claims
against such trust for alleged injuries; (c) the issuance of certain injunctions
under the federal bankruptcy laws requiring any such claims to be asserted
against the trust and barring such claims from being asserted, either now or in
the future, against Swan, the Company, all of its affected affiliates, and the
insurers participating in the funding of the trust; and (d) the full and final
release of each of Swan, the Company, all of its affected affiliates, and the
insurers participating in the funding of the trust from any and all claims
associated with the once-owned foundry by all claimants that assert a claim
against, and receive compensation from, the trust. In order to receive the
foregoing benefits, the Company has agreed, among other things, to make certain
cash contributions to the trust, the amount of which is not expected to be in
excess of the settlement liability previously recorded by the Company in its
consolidated financial statements.

    The Company anticipates that Swan's plan of reorganization will be voted on
by the creditors of Swan during the second quarter of 2002. Because the material
terms of the plan of reorganization have been pre-negotiated between the various
affected parties, the Company anticipates that the plan, as currently
contemplated, will be approved by Swan's creditors, at which time it will then
be presented to the bankruptcy court for final approval. If the plan of
reorganization as currently contemplated is approved, the Company anticipates
that all of the liabilities associated with the foundry formerly owned by
affiliates of the Company will be eliminated at an amount no greater than the
liability reflected in the consolidated financial statements. There can be no
assurance that the plan of reorganization as currently contemplated will be
approved by the creditors of Swan, and if approved by such creditors, will be
approved in such form by the bankruptcy court, if at all.

    The Company initially provides for estimated claim settlement costs when
minimum levels can be reasonably estimated. If the best estimate of claim costs
can only be identified within a range and no specific amount within that range
can be determined more likely than any other amount within the range, the
minimum of the range is accrued. Based on an initial assessment of claims and
contingent claims that may result in future litigation, a reserve for the
minimum amount of $2.0 million for claim settlements was recorded in 1996. Legal
and related professional services costs to defend litigation of this nature have
been expensed as incurred. During the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000, and
1999, the Company charged discontinued operations $3,000, $748,000, and $1.9
million, respectively, in connection with settlement, legal and related
professional costs, and the remaining liability was approximately $1.9 million
at December 31, 2001. Because of the inherent uncertainty discussed above, it is
reasonably possible that the amounts recorded as liabilities for Swan related
matters could change in the near term by amounts that would be material to the
consolidated financial statements.

    See footnote 6 for discussion of litigation in connection with HTE's
attempted cash redemption of all shares of HTE common stock currently owned by
the Company.

    Other than ordinary course, routine litigation incidental to the business of
the Company and except as described herein, there are no material legal
proceedings pending to which the Company or its subsidiaries are parties or to
which any of its properties are subject.





(18) QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (unaudited)

    The following tables contain selected financial information from unaudited
consolidated statements of operations for each quarter of 2001 and 2000.


                                  QUARTER ENDED
                      (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)













                            TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

                  Years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999











                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS











*    Filed herewith.


