
10-K405
d84862e10-k405.txt
FORM 10-K FOR FISCAL YEAR END DECEMBER 31, 2000



================================================================================
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   ---------

                                    FORM 10-K

              [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                     THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2000

                                       OR

            [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                                    ---------

                         Commission File Number 1-10485

                            TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            DELAWARE                                     75-2303920
   (State or other jurisdiction                       (I.R.S. employer
        of incorporation or                           identification no.)
          organization)

    2800 W. MOCKINGBIRD LANE                                75235
        DALLAS, TEXAS                                     (Zip code)
     (Address of principal
      executive offices)

    Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (214) 902-5086

                                   ----------

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                   NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
         TITLE OF EACH CLASS                        ON WHICH REGISTERED
     -----------------------------                -----------------------
     COMMON STOCK, $0.01 PAR VALUE                NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      NONE

                                    ---------

    INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS
REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE
REGISTRANT WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH
FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS. YES X  NO
                                             ---   ---

    INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM
405 OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN, AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO THE
BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION STATEMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THE FORM 10-K OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS
FORM 10-K. YES X  NO
              ---   ---

         THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF THE VOTING STOCK HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES
OF THE REGISTRANT ON MARCH 19, 2001 WAS $ 45,185,000.

         THE NUMBER OF SHARES OF COMMON STOCK OF THE REGISTRANT OUTSTANDING ON
MARCH 19, 2001 WAS 47,179,371.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    CERTAIN INFORMATION REQUIRED BY PART III OF THIS ANNUAL REPORT IS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE FROM THE REGISTRANT'S DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT FOR
ITS ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS TO BE HELD ON MAY 31, 2001.
================================================================================




                            TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
                                    FORM 10-K
                                





                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

GENERAL

    Tyler Technologies, Inc. ("Tyler" or the "Company") is a leading provider of
end-to-end, e-government information management solutions for local governments.
Tyler partners with clients to make local government more accessible to the
public, more responsive to needs of citizens and more efficient. Tyler has a
broad line of products and services to address the information technology needs
of virtually every area of operation for cities, counties, schools and other
local government entities. Tyler's client base includes nearly 6,000 local
government offices in 49 states, Canada and Puerto Rico.

    The Company was founded in 1966. With the sale of Business Resources
Corporation for cash in a transaction valued at $71.0 million, the Company
discontinued the information and property records services segment in December
2000. The continuing segment of the Company consists of the businesses in the
software systems and services segment. Unless otherwise specified, the following
description of the Company's business relates only to the continuing operations
of its software systems and services segment. In February 1998, the Company
embarked on a multi-phase strategy and growth plan focused on serving the
specialized information management needs of local government. Since that time,
Tyler has experienced significant growth both internally and as a result of a
number of acquisitions, both in the information and property records services
segment as well as strategic acquisitions in the software systems and services
segment. Prior to February 1998, the Company provided products and services to
customers in other segments through ownership of various diversified operating
companies, all of which have been discontinued.

    Tyler made the decision to dispose of the information and property records
services segment in order to strengthen its balance sheet and allow the Company
to focus its financial and human capital on what management believes are
opportunities for more rapid growth in the local government software and
services business. Tyler expects to capitalize on these growth opportunities by
leveraging its nationally installed client base, its long-term relationships
with local governments, and its domain expertise in the marketplace through the
development of state-of-the-art technologies and new nationwide branded
application solutions. Tyler began in 2000 and is continuing in 2001 several
significant initiatives to design and develop a new generation of certain of its
software products built on state-of-the-art n-tier architecture, SQL compliant
databases, browser compatible, and component-based technology. In addition, in
2001 Tyler will begin to deploy certain products in an application service
provider ("ASP") environment, providing hosting and data center services for
clients. Tyler expects to deploy both existing legacy applications solutions and
newly developed Tyler branded products in the ASP model.

MARKET OVERVIEW

    The state, local, and municipal government market is one of the largest and
most decentralized information technology markets in the United States,
consisting of all 50 states with over 40,000 municipalities and agencies and
3,200 counties. This market is also comprised of hundreds of various
governmental agencies, each with specialized, delegated responsibilities and
unique information management requirements.

    Traditionally, local governmental bodies and agencies performed
state-mandated duties, including property assessment, record keeping, road
maintenance, administration of election and judicial functions, and the
provision of welfare assistance. Today, a host of emerging and urgent issues are
confronting local government, each of which demands a service response. These
areas include criminal justice and corrections, administration and finance,
public safety, health and human services, and public works. Transfers of
responsibility from the federal and state governments to county and municipal
governments and agencies in these and other areas also place additional service
and financial requirements on these governmental units. As a result, these
governmental bodies and agencies recognize the increasing value of information
management services and systems to, for example, improve revenue collection,
provide increased access to information, and streamline delivery of government
services to their constituents. Local governmental bodies are now recognizing
that `e-government' is an additional responsibility for community development.
From integrated tax systems to integrated criminal justice information systems,
many counties and municipal governments have benefited significantly from the
implementation of jurisdiction-wide systems that allow different agencies to
share data and provide a more comprehensive approach to information management.
Many of the county and municipal government agencies also have individual
information management requirements, which must be tailored to the specific
services being provided.


                                     Page 3



    In 2000, Dataquest (a unit of Gartner Group) estimated the annual
expenditures by state, local, and municipal governmental bodies and agencies for
information technology products and services at approximately $43 billion.
Dataquest estimates this market will grow to over $59 billion by 2005. The
external services and software segments of the market, in which Tyler has
significant offerings, are expected to be the most rapidly growing areas of the
local government information technology market.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

    Tyler provides cities, counties and other local government entities with
software systems and services to meet their diverse information technology and
automation needs. The Company designs, develops, markets and supports a broad
range of application software products to serve mission-critical back-office
functions. Certain software products include Internet-accessible solutions that
allow for real-time public access to a variety of public information or that
allow the public to transact business with local governments via the Internet.
Tyler also assists local governments with all aspects of software and hardware
selection, network design and management, installation and training, and ongoing
support and related services. In connection with these services the Company
integrates its own products with computer equipment from hardware vendors,
third-party database management applications, and office automation software.
Tyler is also the nation's largest provider of mass appraisal services to taxing
jurisdictions, including physical inspection of properties in assessing
jurisdictions, data collection and processing, computer analysis for property
valuation and preparation of tax rolls.

    Tyler's products and services generally are grouped in four major areas -
Financial and City Solutions, Justice and Courts, Property Appraisal and Tax,
and Recording Systems.

Financial and City Solutions

    Tyler's financial and city solutions products include modular fund
accounting solutions that can be tailored to meet the needs of virtually any
government agency or not-for-profit entity. Tyler's systems include modules for
general ledger, budget preparation, payroll, human resources, fixed assets,
purchasing, accounts payable and investment management. All of Tyler's systems
conform to government auditing and financial reporting requirements and
generally accepted accounting principles.

    The Company offers utility billing systems that support the billing and
collection of multiple metered and non-metered services, as well as multiple
billing cycles. Comprehensive applications calculate and generate bills for one
or more cycles and generate penalties and late notices for each billing cycle.
Tyler offers Web-enabled utility billing solutions that allow customers to
access information such as average consumption, flood plain information and
transaction history. In addition, the utility billing solutions can allow
Tyler's clients to accept secured Internet payments via credit cards and checks.

    Tyler's specialized municipal information products automate numerous
functions of city hall, including municipal court management, equipment and
project costing, inventory, special assessments, and tax billing and collection.
Other applications designed to meet specific municipal government needs include
cemetery records management, ambulance billing and fleet maintenance, citizen
complaint tracking, permits and inspections, and business licenses.

Justice and Courts

    Tyler offers a complete integrated suite of law enforcement and justice
products designed to automate, track and manage the judicial process from
incidents initiated in computer-aided dispatch/emergency E-911 systems through
the process of arrest, court appearances and final disposition to probation.
These applications may be installed on a stand-alone basis or integrated with
other Tyler law enforcement and justice products to eliminate duplicate entries
and improve efficiency.

    Tyler's Web-enabled court systems are designed to automate the tracking and
management of information involved in criminal and civil court cases. These
applications track the status of criminal and civil cases, process fines and
fees and generate the specialized judgment and sentencing documents, citations,
notices and forms required in court proceedings. Additional judicial
applications automate the management of court calendars, coordinate judges'
schedules, generate court dockets, manage justice of the peace processes and
automate district attorney and prosecutor functions. Related products also
include jury selection, "hot" check processing, and adult and juvenile probation
processing applications. Tyler's technologies for courtrooms allow judges to
review cases, calendars, scanned documents and mug shots using a Web browser.
Additionally, document-imaging options include the ability to scan, store,
retrieve and archive a variety of criminal and civil case-related documents.


                                     Page 4


    Tyler's law enforcement systems automate law enforcement agency functions
from dispatch and police records management to booking and jail management.
Searching, reporting and tracking features are integrated, allowing reliable,
up-to-date access to the latest arrest and incarceration data. The system also
provides warrant checks for visitors or book-ins, inmate classification and risk
assessment, commissary, property and medical processing, and automation of
statistics and state and federal reporting. Tyler's computer-aided
dispatch/emergency E-911 system tracks calls and the availability and status of
emergency response vehicles, interfaces with local and state searches, and
generally assists dispatchers in processing emergency situations. The law
enforcement and jail management systems are fully integrated with the suite of
court related products that track and manage the judicial process.

    Tyler's judicial systems also allow the public to access via the Internet a
variety of information contained in the judicial system, including criminal and
civil court records, jail booking and release information, bond and bondsmen
information and court calendars and dockets. Tyler's e-government systems also
allow cities and counties to accept payments for traffic and parking tickets
over the Internet, with a seamless and automatic interface to the back-office
system.

Property Appraisal and Tax

    Tyler provides systems that automate the appraisal and assessment of real
and personal property, including record keeping, mass appraisal, inquiry and
protest tracking, appraisal and tax roll generation, tax statement processing,
and electronic state level reporting. These systems are image- and video-enabled
to facilitate the storage of the many property-related documents involved and
for the on-line storage of digital photographs of properties for use in
defending values in protest situations. Other related applications are available
for tax billing and collection agencies, including counties and cities, school
tax offices, and special collection agencies. These systems support billing,
collections, lock box operations, mortgage company electronic payments, and
automate various reporting requirements.

    Tyler is also the nation's largest provider of mass real property appraisal
services for local government taxing authorities. These services include:

     o    the physical inspection of all properties in the assessing
          jurisdiction,

     o    data collection and processing,

     o    sophisticated computer analysis for property valuation,

     o    preparation of tax rolls,

     o    community education on the assessment process and

     o    arbitration between taxpayers and the assessing jurisdiction.

    Property appraisal and tax services are seasonal to the extent that harsh
winter weather conditions reduce the time available to perform certain services.

Recording Systems

    Tyler offers a number of specialized applications designed to help county
governments enhance and automate courthouse operations. These systems record and
index information for the many documents maintained at the courthouse, such as
deeds, mortgages, liens, UCC financing statements and vital records (birth,
death and marriage certificates). Tyler also offers applications to automate
such functions as child support tracking, voter registration and election result
tabulations, and motor vehicle registration.

Other

    The Company also provides Website development and hosting services for local
government clients. Tyler's InSite product includes turn-key services to build,
maintain and host a community's presence on the Internet. InSite includes an
e-portal to allow Internet access to information maintained in the client's
back-office systems, and allows the public to transact business with the local
government via the Web. The first installations of InSite were completed during
2000 and the Company believes that the availability of these features enhances
the appeal of its core systems to customers.

    In addition, Tyler provides a variety of products that interface with and
enhance its other products, including electronic document imaging systems that
integrate scanning, retrieval, and display of document images into other
applications where needed. Other products add electronic video imaging, which
integrates the capture and display of pictures with other applications.


                                     Page 5


SALES, MARKETING, AND CUSTOMERS

    Tyler markets its products and services through direct sales and marketing
personnel located throughout the United States. Other in-house marketing staff
focus on add-on sales, professional services and support.

    Sales of new systems are typically generated from referrals from other
governmental offices or departments within a county or municipality, referrals
from other local governments, relationships established between sales
representatives and county or local officials, contacts at trade shows, direct
mailings, and direct contact from prospects already familiar with the Company.
The Company is active in numerous state, county, and local government
associations, and participates in annual meetings, trade shows, and educational
events.

    Customers consist primarily of county, municipal agencies, school districts
and other local government offices. In counties, customers include the auditor,
treasurer, tax assessor/collector, county clerk, district clerk, county and
district court judges, probation officers, sheriff's office, and county
appraiser. At municipal government sites, customers include directors from
various departments, including administration, finance, utilities, public works,
code enforcement, personnel, purchasing, taxation, municipal court, and police.
No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's total revenues
in 2000. Contracts for software products and services are generally implemented
over periods of three months to one year, with annually renewing service and
software update agreements thereafter. Although these agreements can be
terminated by either the Company or the customer, historically most support and
maintenance agreements are automatically renewed annually. Contracts for mass
appraisal services are generally one to three years in duration. During 2000,
approximately 35% of the Company's revenue was attributable to ongoing support
and maintenance agreements.

    Tyler's installed customer base includes nearly 6,000 local government
offices in 49 states, Canada and Puerto Rico. The Company's operating units have
historically experienced very low customer turnover, averaging less than 1%
annually.

COMPETITION

    The Company competes with numerous local, regional, and national firms that
provide or offer some or all of the products and services provided by the
Company. Most of these competitors are smaller companies that may be able to
offer less expensive solutions than the Company. Tyler also competes with
national firms, some of which have greater financial and technical resources
than Tyler. The Company also occasionally competes with central internal
information service departments of county or local governments, which requires
the Company to persuade the end-user department to discontinue service by its
own personnel and outsource the service to the Company. The Company competes on
a variety of factors, including price, service, name recognition, reputation,
technological capabilities, and the ability to modify existing products and
services to accommodate the individual requirements of the customer. The
Company's ability to offer an integrated system of applications for several
offices or departments is often a factor in its favor. County and local
governmental units often are required to put their contracts up for competitive
bid. Competition may be increased if a customer seeks bids on only one aspect of
its system (such as only motor vehicle registration) rather than bidding all of
the system as an integrated whole, because single function bidding generally
results in more bidders and more intense price competition.

SUPPLIERS

    All computers, peripherals, printers, scanners, operating system software,
office automation software, and other equipment necessary for the implementation
and provision of software systems and services by Tyler are presently available
from several third-party sources. Hardware is purchased on original equipment
manufacturer or distributor terms at discounts from retail. The Company has not
experienced any significant supply problems.

BACKLOG

    At December 31, 2000, the Company's estimated sales backlog was
approximately $97.1 million, compared to $67.2 million at December 31, 1999.
Backlog increased primarily due to a contract the Company signed in August 2000
for reappraisal services and software with Nassau County, New York which will
run through the end of 2002. The backlog represents contracts that have been
signed but not delivered or performed as of year-end. Approximately $67.9
million of the backlog is expected to be installed or services are expected to
be performed during 2001.

                                     Page 6


INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, AND LICENSES

    The Company regards certain features of its internal operations, software,
and documentation as confidential and proprietary and relies on a combination of
contractual restrictions, trade secret laws, and other measures to protect its
proprietary intellectual property. The Company does not rely on patents. The
Company believes that, due to the rapid rate of technological change in the
computer software industry, trade secrets and copyright protection are less
significant than factors such as knowledge, ability and experience of the
Company's employees, frequent product enhancements, and timeliness and quality
of support services. The Company typically licenses its software products under
exclusive license agreements, which are generally non-transferable and have a
perpetual term.

EMPLOYEES

    At December 31, 2000, the Company had approximately 1,267 employees, of
which approximately 29 were employed in the corporate office. Mass property
appraisal projects are periodic in nature and can be widely dispersed
geographically. The Company often hires temporary employees to assist in these
projects whose term of employment generally ends with the project's completion.
None of the Company's employees are represented by a labor union or are subject
to collective bargaining agreements. Management considers its relations with its
employees to be positive.

OTHER INFORMATION

    The Company previously classified its operations into two segments -
software systems and services and information and property records services. In
September 2000, the Company sold certain real estate and the assets of two
businesses in the information and property records services segment, including
Kofile, Inc., for $14.4 million in cash. In December 2000, the Company sold for
cash in a transaction valued at $71.0 million its Business Resources Corporation
and affiliated units, which comprised the majority of the remaining operations
of the information and property records services segment. The Company expects to
sell or otherwise dispose of the remaining units in that segment during 2001.
Accordingly, the operating results of the information and property records
services segment has been classified as discontinued operations in the
accompanying consolidated financial statements.

ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES.

    The Company occupies approximately 216,000 square feet of office and
warehouse space, 27,000 of which is owned by the Company. The Company leases its
principal executive office located in Dallas, Texas, as well as other offices,
facilities and project offices for its operating companies in Texas, Iowa,
Maine, Ohio, Michigan, Colorado, Idaho, North Carolina, Massachusetts,
Pennsylvania, Connecticut, New Hampshire, New York, Rhode Island, California,
Georgia, Wisconsin and Florida. The Company's owned property has been pledged as
security under its senior credit facility.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

    Two of the Company's non-operating subsidiaries, Swan Transportation Company
("Swan") and TPI of Texas, Inc. ("TPI"), have been and/or are currently involved
in various claims raised by approximately 550 former TPI employees for work
related injuries and physical conditions resulting from alleged exposure to
silica, asbestos, and/or related industrial dusts during their employment by
TPI. Swan was the parent company of TPI, which owned and operated a foundry in
Tyler, Texas for approximately 28 years. As non-operating subsidiaries of the
Company, the assets of Swan and TPI consist primarily of various insurance
policies issued to each company during the relevant time periods. Swan and TPI
have tendered the defense and indemnity obligations arising from these claims to
their insurance carriers. To date, Swan's insurance carriers have entered into
settlement agreements with over 230 of the plaintiffs, each of which agreed to
release Swan, TPI, the Company, and its subsidiaries and affiliates from all
such claims in exchange for payments made by the insurance carriers. Because of
the inherent uncertainties discussed above, it is reasonably possible that the
amounts recorded as liabilities for TPI and Swan related matters could change in
the near term by amounts that would be material to the consolidated financial
statements.

    Other than ordinary course, routine litigation incidental to the business of
the Company and except as described herein, there are no material legal
proceedings pending to which the Company or its subsidiaries are parties or to
which any of its properties are subject.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

    Not applicable.



                                     Page 7




                                     PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

    Tyler common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. At December 31,
2000, Tyler had approximately 3,000 stockholders of record. A number of the
Company's stockholders hold their shares in street name; therefore, there are
substantially more than 3,000 beneficial owners of its common stock.

    The following table sets forth for the calendar periods indicating the high
and low sales price per share of Tyler common stock as reported on the New York
Stock Exchange.



    No cash dividends were paid in 2000 or 1999. The Company intends to retain
earnings for use in the operation and expansion of its business, and therefore
does not anticipate declaring a cash dividend in the foreseeable future.




                                     Page 8




ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
(In thousands, except per share data)






(1) 2000, 1999, and 1998 include the results of operations of the companies
    formerly comprising the software systems and services segment from the
    acquired companies' respective dates of acquisition and excludes the results
    of operations of the discontinued automotive parts and supplies segment and
    the information and property records services segment. Prior years' selected
    financial data have been restated to reflect discontinuation of the
    information and property records services segment in 2000, the automotive
    parts and supply segment in 1998, and the fund-raising segment in 1997. For
    years prior to 1998, selling, general and administrative expense includes
    only amounts relating to the holding company. See Notes 2 and 3 in Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2) Depreciation and amortization included in cost of revenues and selling,
    general and administrative expenses for 2000, 1999, 1998, 1997, and 1996 was
    $2,783, $1,145, $493, $116, and $101, respectively.

(3) 1996 selling, general and administrative expenses include pretax
    restructuring and other charges of $3,616.

(4) EBITDA consists of income from continuing operations before interest, costs
    of certain acquisition opportunities, income taxes, depreciation, and
    amortization. Although EBITDA is not calculated in accordance with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, the Company
    believes that EBITDA is widely used as a measure of operating performance.
    Nevertheless, this measure should not be considered in isolation or as a
    substitute for operating income, cash flows from operating activities, or
    any other measure for determining the Company's operating performance or
    liquidity that is calculated in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles. EBITDA does not take into account the Company's debt
    service requirements and other commitments and accordingly EBITDA is not
    necessarily indicative of amounts that may be available for reinvestment in
    the Company's business or other discretionary uses. In addition, since all
    companies do not calculate EBITDA in the same manner, this measure may not
    be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.

    On a pro forma basis, EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2000 and 1999,
    was $4,253 and $13,135, respectively. Pro forma information presents the
    consolidated results of operations as if all the Company's acquisitions and
    the disposition of the information and property records services segment
    occurred as of the beginning of 1999, after giving effect to certain
    adjustments, including amortization of intangibles, interest and income tax
    effects.



                                     Page 9


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

FORWARD - LOOKING STATEMENTS

    This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within
the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements
other than historical or current facts, including, without limitation,
statements about the business, financial condition, business strategy, plans and
objectives of management, and prospects of the Company are forward-looking
statements. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in
such forward-looking statements are reasonable, such forward-looking statements
are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ
materially from these expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include,
without limitation, the ability of the Company to successfully integrate the
operations of acquired companies, technological risks associated with the
development of new products and the enhancement of existing products, changes in
the budgets and regulatory environments of the Company's government customers,
the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, changes in product
demand, the availability of products, changes in competition, changes in
economic conditions, changes in tax risks and other risks indicated in the
Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These risks and
uncertainties are beyond the ability of the Company to control, and in many
cases, the Company cannot predict the risks and uncertainties that could cause
its actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the
forward-looking statements.

    When used in this Annual Report, the words "believes," "plans," "estimates,"
"expects," "anticipates," "intends," "continue," "may," "will," "should,"
"projects," "forecasts," "might," "could," or the negative of such terms and
similar expressions as they relate to the Company or its management are intended
to identify forward-looking statements.

GENERAL

    On September 29, 2000, the Company sold for cash certain net assets of
Kofile, Inc. ("Kofile") and another subsidiary, the Company's interest in a
certain intangible work product, and a building and related building
improvements. Effective December 29, 2000, the Company sold for cash its land
records business unit, Business Resources Corporation ("Resources"), including
among others, Resources wholly-owned subsidiaries Government Records Services,
Inc. and Title Records Corporation, to an affiliate of Affiliated Computer
Services, Inc. ("ACS"). Concurrent with the sale to ACS, management of the
Company with the Board of Director's approval adopted a formal plan of disposal
for the remaining businesses and assets of the information and property records
services segment. This restructuring program was designed to focus the Company's
resources on its software systems and services segment and to reduce debt. In
March 1999, the Company sold Forest City Auto Parts Company ("Forest City"),
which was an automotive parts and supplies business. The business and assets
divested or identified for divesture have been classified as discontinued
operations in 2000, 1999, and 1998. All prior year financial information
included herein has been restated to reflect these dispositions. Continuing
operations in 2000, 1999, and 1998 are comprised of the results of operations of
the companies formerly comprising the software systems and services segment.

    The following is a summary of significant acquisitions consummated in 1998
and 1999 that remain in continuing operations:

    On February 19, 1998, the Company acquired The Software Group ("TSG") and
Interactive Computer Designs, Inc. ("INCODE"), which provide county, local and
municipal governments with software, systems and services to serve their
information technology and automation needs. Their customer base is mainly
located in Texas, Georgia and Oregon.

    Effective August 1, 1998, the Company completed the purchase of Computer
Management Services ("CMS"). CMS provides integrated information management
systems and services to county and municipal governments throughout Iowa,
Minnesota, Missouri, South Dakota, Illinois, Wisconsin and other states,
primarily in the upper Midwest.

    Effective March 1, 1999, the Company acquired Eagle Computer Systems,  Inc.
("Eagle"). Eagle supplies networked computing solutions and services for county
governments, primarily in the western United States.

    Effective April 1, 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of Micro
Arizala Systems, Inc. d/b/a FundBalance ("FundBalance"), a company which
develops and markets fund accounting software and other applications for state
and local governments, not-for-profit organizations and cemeteries.


                                    Page 10


    On April 21, 1999, the Company acquired Process Incorporated d/b/a Computer
Center Software ("MUNIS"), which designs and develops integrated financial and
land management information systems for counties, cities, schools and
not-for-profit organizations primarily located in the northeastern and
southeastern United States.

    On November 4, 1999, the Company acquired selected assets and assumed
selected liabilities of Cole Layer Trumble Company, ("CLT"), a division of a
privately held company. CLT provides property appraisal software and services to
governments.

    All of the Company's acquisitions have been accounted for using the
purchase method for business combinations, and the results of operations of the
acquired entities are included in the Company's historical consolidated
financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition. Because of the
significance of these acquisitions, in the following analysis of results of
operations, the Company has provided pro forma amounts as if all of the
Company's acquisitions and dispositions previously discussed had occurred as of
the beginning of 1998. There were no acquisitions during 2000 that remain in
continuing operations.

2000 COMPARED TO 1999

REVENUES

    On a pro forma basis, revenues were $93.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 2000, compared to $107.4 million in the comparable prior year
period. The decline in revenues on a pro forma basis was primarily because of
post-Year 2000 ("Y2K") related factors. Local governments reduced spending for
software applications and systems for a variety of reasons, including
anticipation of Y2K problems and delaying new systems projects while they
recover from their intensive efforts to become Y2K compliant in the prior year.
Many customers and potential customers appeared to have instituted Y2K
"lockdowns" and did not install new systems during 2000. Additionally, the 1999
pro forma revenues benefited somewhat from accelerated Y2K compliance related
sales.

    Pro forma software license revenue in 2000 decreased approximately 25% to
$18.6 million from $24.9 million compared to 1999. Pro forma software license
revenue comparisons were negatively impacted by the post-Y2K factors described
above.

    Professional service revenue on a pro forma basis decreased approximately
$6.5 million to $37.4 million in 2000 compared from $43.9 million in 1999.
Professional services such as data conversion and training are often contracted
for in conjunction with software license products. Thus, the decline in software
license sales volume in 2000 negatively impacted professional services. Pro
forma professional services revenue declined despite the inclusion of
approximately $4.7 million of appraisal services and software revenue in 2000
from the Company's contract with Nassau County, New York Board of Assessors
("Nassau County"). The Nassau County contract to reassess all residential and
commercial properties in Nassau County and provide assessment administration
software and training to help maintain equity and manage the property tax
process is valued at $34.0 million. Implementation of the Nassau County contract
began in September 2000 and is expected to be completed late 2002.

    Pro forma maintenance revenue was $32.5 million for 2000 and $28.3 million
for the comparable prior year period. The 15% increase is due to an increase in
the Company's base of installed software and systems products. Maintenance
revenue was approximately 35% of total revenue in 2000 compared to approximately
26% in 1999, on a pro forma basis. Maintenance and support services are provided
for the Company's software products, including property appraisal products, and
third party software and hardware. The renewal rates for property appraisal
system maintenance agreements are not as high as other software and hardware
maintenance agreements and will vary somewhat from period to period. Excluding
property appraisal maintenance agreements, pro forma maintenance revenue
increased approximately 20% for the year ended December 31, 2000 compared to the
comparable prior year period.

    Hardware revenue on a pro forma basis decreased $5.7 million in 2000
compared to 1999 as a result of the Company focusing its sales effort on higher
margin products and services.

COST OF REVENUES

    For the year ended December 31, 2000, on a pro forma basis, cost of revenues
was $58.9 million compared to $60.9 million in 1999. Gross margin, on a pro
forma basis, decreased to 37% in 2000 from 43% for the same period in the prior
year. Gross margin decreased because software license revenue was a lower
percentage of the overall product mix in 2000 compared to 1999. Software license
revenue carries higher margins than other revenue categories. Another
contributing factor to a lower gross margin in 2000 was




                                    Page 11


higher personnel costs. Personnel costs, which is the primary component of cost
of service and maintenance revenue, increased due to higher costs of contract
labor, salary adjustments and higher head count as a result of staffing
increases associated with record high revenues in 1999.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

    For the year ended December 31, 2000, selling, general and administrative
expenses were $32.8 million, or 35% of revenues. For the same period in the
prior year, selling, general and administrative expenses were $35.1 million, or
33% of revenues, on a pro forma basis. Selling, general and administrative
expenses include sales commission costs which declined as a result of lower
sales volume. This decline was offset somewhat by costs associated with
consolidating certain finance and administrative functions and higher personnel
costs.

COSTS OF CERTAIN ACQUISITION OPPORTUNITIES

    In March 1999, the Company entered into a merger agreement pursuant to which
the Company contemplated the acquisition of all of the outstanding common stock
of CPS Systems, Inc. ("CPS"). In connection with that agreement, the Company
provided CPS with bridge financing in the form of notes secured by a second lien
on substantially all of the assets of CPS, including accounts receivable,
inventory, intangibles, equipment and intellectual property.

    In January 2000, CPS filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11
of the United States Bankruptcy Code. On March 24, 2000, the bankruptcy court
conducted a public auction of the assets of CPS. The Company anticipates minimal
to no recovery of amounts due under its secured notes. Accordingly, the
aggregate bridge financings and related accrued interest receivable and other
costs amounting to $1.9 million were expensed in the 1999 consolidated financial
statements.


AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLES

    The Company accounted for all 1999 and 1998 acquisitions using the purchase
method of accounting for business combinations. The excess of the purchase price
over the net identifiable assets of the acquired companies ("goodwill") is
amortized using the straight-line method of amortization over their respective
estimated useful lives.

    At December 31, 2000 and 1999, the Company had $84.7 million and $85.7
million, respectively, of goodwill and other intangible assets, net of
accumulated amortization. Such intangibles amounted to 55% and 34% of total
assets and 88% and 62% of shareholders' equity at December 31, 2000 and 1999,
respectively. Goodwill excluding accumulated amortization at December 31, 2000
and 1999 was $51.1 million and $53.8 million, respectively. The decrease in
unamortized goodwill from the prior year is primarily due to adjustments made to
goodwill in the third quarter of 2000 relating to appraisal reports for CLT from
an outside appraisal firm that assisted the Company in assigning value to its
newly acquired identifiable intangible assets.

    The Company considers a variety of factors in estimating the useful lives of
goodwill and other intangible assets to be recorded as a result of its
acquisitions. Determining the appropriate useful life of goodwill and other
intangible assets is a matter of judgment. In making its determination, the
Company considered a number of factors, including the following:

     o    position of the acquired enterprise in the market and the extent of
          barriers to entry for competitors;

     o    age, historical operating performance, and quality of earnings of the
          acquired enterprise, including the extent of operating history and the
          presence or lack of stable earnings history;

     o    experience of the acquired enterprise's management;

     o    the future viability of products and services, including the impact of
          technological changes and advances and the level of continued
          investment necessary to maintain the acquired enterprise's
          technological position;

     o    competition; and

     o    industry practice.

    In addition, the Company periodically retains the services of an outside
appraisal firm to assist in determining the value assigned to newly acquired
identifiable intangible assets and the estimated useful lives. At December 31,
2000 and 1999, management of the Company believes such assets are recoverable
and the estimated useful lives are reasonable.

                                    Page 12


NET INTEREST EXPENSE

    Interest expense increased substantially for the year ended December 31,
2000 compared to the same period in 1999. The senior credit facility was amended
in August 2000 and December 2000 to, among other things, accelerate repayment of
borrowings under the facility. Accordingly, a cumulative $1.4 million charge was
recorded in 2000 to accelerate the amortization of previously capitalized loan
costs. Borrowings under the senior credit facility were used to finance
acquisitions, as well as capital expenditures, including proprietary software
development costs, resulting in higher interest expense. Capitalized software
development costs were $6.7 million for 2000, as compared to $1.4 million for
1999. In addition to higher debt levels, the average effective interest rate for
2000 was 10.2% compared to 7.7% for 1999.

INCOME TAX PROVISION

    In 2000, the Company had a pre-tax loss from continuing operations of $10.3
million and an income tax benefit of $2.8 million, resulting in an effective
benefit rate of 27%. In 1999, the Company had a pretax loss from continuing
operations of $1.8 million and an income tax provision of $188,000. The lower
effective income tax benefit is due to non-deductible items such as goodwill
amortization as compared to the relative amount of pretax loss.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

Information and Property Records Services Segment Divestiture

    On September 29, 2000, the Company sold for cash certain net assets of
Kofile and another subsidiary, the Company's interest in a certain intangible
work product, and a building and related building improvements (the "Kofile
sale"). Effective December 29, 2000, the Company sold for cash its land records
business unit, Resources including among others, Resources wholly-owned
subsidiaries Government Records Services, Inc. and Title Records Corporation, to
an affiliate of ACS (the "Resources sale"). Concurrent with the Resources sale,
management of the Company with the Board of Director's approval adopted a formal
plan of disposal for the remaining businesses and assets of the information and
property records services segment. This restructuring program was designed to
focus the Company's resources on its software systems and services segment and
to reduce debt. The business and assets divested or identified for divesture
have been classified as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated
financial statements with prior years' financial statements restated to report
separately their operations in compliance with Accounting Principles Board
("APB") Opinion No. 30.

    The Kofile sale was to investment entities beneficially owned by a principal
shareholder of the Company. The cash sales price was $14.4 million and the gain
on the sale, after the effects of transaction costs, amounted to $403,000 (net
of an income tax benefit of $200,000).

    The Resources sale was valued at approximately $71.0 million, consisting of
approximately $70.0 million in cash and ACS's assumption of approximately $1.0
million of capital lease obligations. The gain on the sale, after transaction
costs, amounted to $1.1 million (net of an income tax benefit of $2.2 million).
Transaction costs and certain costs directly related to the sale were estimated
to be $4.1 million and included investment banking fees, professional fees, cash
payments to departing employees and approximately $844,000 in connection with
the issuance of 500,000 shares of restricted common stock to departing
employees.

    The Company anticipates that the remaining businesses and assets of the
segment will be disposed of by December 29, 2001. One of the remaining assets
consists of a start-up company that has been engaged in constructing a
Web-enabled national repository of public records data. Another remaining
business is Capitol Commerce Reporter, Inc. ("CCR"), which was purchased in
January 2000 and provides public records research, principally UCCs in Texas.
The interdependency of these operations with those of Resources resulted in the
Company's decision to discontinue the development of the database and other
related products and exit the land records business following the Resources
sale. The estimated loss on the disposal of these remaining businesses and
assets amounted to $13.6 million (after an income tax benefit of $3.8 million),
consisting of an estimated loss on disposal of the businesses of $11.5 million
(net of an income tax benefit of $2.7 million) and a provision of $2.1 million
(after an income tax benefit of $1.1 million) for anticipated operating losses
from the measurement date of December 29, 2000 to the estimated disposal dates.
The anticipated operating losses to the disposal dates include the effects of
the settlement of certain employment contracts, losses on real property leases,
severance costs and similar closing related costs. The amounts the Company will
ultimately realize could differ materially from the amounts assumed in arriving
at the loss on disposal of the discontinued operations.


                                    Page 13

Automotive Parts Segment Divestiture

    In December 1998, the Company entered into a letter of intent to sell its
non-core automotive parts business, Forest City. Accordingly, this segment has
been accounted for as a discontinued operation in compliance with APB Opinion
No. 30.

    On March 26, 1999, the Company sold all of the outstanding common stock of
Forest City, to a private investor (the "Purchaser") for $24.5 million. Proceeds
consisted of $12.0 million in cash, $3.8 million in a short-term secured
promissory note, $3.2 million in senior secured subordinated notes and $5.5
million in preferred stock. The short-term secured promissory note was fully
paid in July 1999. The senior secured subordinated notes carry interest rates
ranging between 6% to 8%, become due in March 2002, and are secured by a second
lien on Forest City inventory and real estate. The preferred stock will be
mandatorily redeemable March 2006. Both the subordinated notes and the preferred
stock will be subject to partial or whole redemption upon the occurrences of
specified events.

    In determining the loss on the disposal of the business, the subordinated
notes were valued using present value techniques. As discussed in Note 2 in the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the $3.2 million in senior secured
subordinated notes were subsequently assigned without recourse to another party
in connection with an acquisition. Because redemption of the preferred stock is
highly dependent upon future successful operations of the buyer and due to the
extended repayment terms, the Company is unable to estimate the degree of
recoverability. Accordingly, the Company determined it would record the value of
the preferred stock as cash is received. The Company originally estimated the
loss on the disposal of Forest City to be $8.9 million, which was recorded in
the fourth quarter of 1998. The estimated loss included anticipated operating
losses from the measurement date of December 1998 to the date of disposal and
associated transaction costs. In 1999, the Company recorded additional losses of
$907,000 (including taxes of $183,000) to reflect adjusted estimated transaction
costs, funded operating losses which were higher than originally estimated,
income tax benefit adjustment and a write down of a receivable in connection
with a dispute.

    Subsequent to December 31, 2000, Forest City filed for bankruptcy under
Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. The Company does not expect
this matter to have a material adverse effect on the financial statements.

Other

    In 1998, the Company recorded a final gain adjustment of $801,000 relating
to the 1997 sale of its subsidiary Institutional Financing Services Inc.

    For the year ended December 31, 2000, loss from operations, net of income
tax benefit for the discontinued information and property records services
segment was $4.3 million. For the year ended December 31, 1999, income from
operations, net of income tax for the discontinued information and property
records services segment was $1.9 million. During the year ended December 31,
1998, income from the operations, net of income tax, for the discontinued
information and property records services segment as well as the automotive
parts segment amounted to $2.2 million.

    Two of the Company's non-operating subsidiaries are involved in various
claims for work related injuries and physical conditions and for environmental
claims relating to a formerly owned subsidiary that was sold in 1995. During
2000 and 1999, the Company expensed $748,000 (net of an income tax benefit of
$403,000) and $1.9 million (net of an income tax benefit of $877,000),
respectively, for trial costs and settlement costs in excess of the amounts
accrued associated with these claims. See Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

INVESTMENT SECURITY AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE

    Pursuant to an agreement with two major shareholders of H.T.E., Inc.
("HTE"), the Company acquired approximately 32% of HTE's common stock in two
separate transactions in 1999. On August 17, 1999, the Company exchanged 2.3
million shares of its common stock for 4.7 million shares of HTE common stock.
This initial investment was recorded at $14.0 million. The second transaction
occurred on December 21, 1999, in which the Company exchanged 484,000 shares of
its common stock for 969,000 shares of HTE common stock. This additional
investment was recorded at $1.8 million. The investment in HTE common stock is
classified as a non-current asset since it was made for a continuing business
purpose.

    Florida state corporation law restricts the voting rights of "control
shares", as defined, acquired by a third party in certain types of acquisitions,
which restrictions may be removed by a vote of the shareholders. The Florida
"control share" statute has not been interpreted by the courts. HTE has taken
the position that, under the Florida statute, all of the shares acquired by the
Company



                                    Page 14


constitute "control shares" and therefore do not have voting rights until such
time as shareholders of HTE, other than the Company, restore voting rights to
those shares. Management of the Company believes that only the shares acquired
in excess of 20% of the outstanding shares of HTE constitute "control shares"
and therefore believes it currently has the right to vote all HTE shares it owns
up to at least 20% of the outstanding shares of HTE. On November 16, 2000, the
shareholders of HTE, other than Tyler, voted to deny the Company its right to
vote the "control shares" of HTE.

    Under generally accepted accounting principles, an investment of 20% or more
of the voting stock of an investee should lead to a presumption that in absence
of evidence to the contrary, an investor has the ability to exercise significant
influence over the operating and financial policies of an investee. Management
of the Company has concluded that it currently does not have such influence as
evidenced by the following key factors:

     o    Inability to resolve the different interpretations regarding the
          ability to vote the shares;

     o    Inability to obtain additional financial information not otherwise
          available to other shareholders; and

     o    Inability to obtain certain confirmations and consents from the
          investee's independent auditors.

    Accordingly, the Company accounts for its investment in HTE pursuant to the
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 115,
"Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities". These
securities are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value
as determined by quoted market prices. Unrealized holding gains and losses, net
of the related tax effect, on available-for-sale securities are excluded from
earnings and are reported as a separate component of shareholders' equity until
realized. Realized gains and losses from the sale of available-for-sale
securities (none in each of the three years ended December 31, 2000) are
determined on a specific identification basis. A decline in the market value of
any available-for-sale security below cost that is deemed to be other than
temporary results in a reduction in carrying amount to fair value.

    At December 31, 2000, the cost, fair value and gross unrealized holding
losses of the investment securities available-for-sale amounted to $15.8
million, $5.1 million and $10.7 million, respectively, based on a quoted market
price for HTE stock of $.91 per share. At December 31, 1999, the fair value and
gross unrealized holding gains of the investment securities available-for-sale
amounted to $33.7 million and $17.9 million, respectively, based on a quoted
market price of $6.00. At March 12, 2001, the fair value of the investment
securities available-for-sale was $8.4 million based on a quoted market price of
$1.50 per share.

    At December 31, 2000, the Company has an unrealized loss on its investment
in HTE of $10.7 million. A decline in the market value of any available for sale
security below cost that is deemed to be other than temporary results in a
reduction in the carrying amount to fair value and the impairment is charged to
earnings and a new cost basis for the security is established. At this time,
management of the Company does not believe the decline in the market value is
other than temporary. In making this determination, management concluded it has
both the intent and the ability to hold the investment for a period of time
sufficient to allow for the anticipated recovery in fair value. Other conditions
considered, among others, included the conditions in the local government
software industry, the financial condition of the issuer, and recent favorable
public statements by the issuer concerning its future prospects.

    If the uncertainty regarding the voting shares is resolved in the Company's
favor, the Company will retroactively adopt the equity method of accounting for
this investment. Therefore, the Company's results of operations and retained
earnings for periods beginning with the 1999 acquisition will be retroactively
restated to reflect the Company's investment in HTE for all periods in which it
held an investment in the voting stock of HTE. Under the equity method, the
original investment is recorded at cost and is adjusted periodically to
recognize the investor's share of earnings or losses after the respective dates
of acquisition. The Company's investment in HTE would include the unamortized
excess of the Company's investment over its equity in the net assets of HTE.
This excess would be amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated
economic useful life of ten years. In addition, any loss in value of an
investment which is other than a temporary decline would also be charged to
earnings.

NET LOSS AND OTHER MEASURES

    Net loss was $24.6 million in 2000 compared to $2.8 million in 1999. Diluted
loss per share was $0.54 and $0.07 for 2000 and 1999, respectively. Net loss
from continuing operations was $7.5 million, or $0.17 per diluted share, in 2000
compared to net loss of $2.0 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, in 1999. On a
pro forma basis, net loss from continuing operations was $4.0 million, or $0.09
per diluted share, in 2000 compared to income from continuing operations of
$905,000 or $0.02 per diluted share in 1999.


                                    Page 15


    Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and costs of
certain acquisition opportunities ("EBITDA") for the year ended December 31,
2000, was $4.3 million compared to $8.0 million in 1999. EBITDA consists of
income from continuing operations before interest, costs of certain acquisition
opportunities, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Although EBITDA is
not calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States, the Company believes that EBITDA is widely used as a measure
of operating performance. Nevertheless, the measure should not be considered in
isolation or as a substitute for operating income, cash flows from operating
activities, or any other measure for determining the Company's operating
performance or liquidity that is calculated in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. EBITDA is not necessarily indicative of amounts
that may be available for reinvestment in the Company's business or other
discretionary uses. In addition, because all companies do not calculate EBITDA
in the same manner, this measure may not be comparable to similarly titled
measures reported by other companies.

1999 COMPARED TO 1998

REVENUES

    On a pro forma basis, total revenues increased $23.7 million, or 28% to
$107.4 million, for the twelve months ended December 31, 1999 compared to $83.7
million in the comparable prior year period. Pro forma software license revenue
in 1999 increased approximately 31% compared to 1998. Software license revenues
benefited from customers' efforts to become Year 2000 compliant by upgrading
their software systems. In addition, software license revenue in 1999 included
the installation of several large contracts for judicial information management
and court systems and property appraisal and tax systems and increased sales
volume from utilities applications. As a percentage of total revenues on a pro
forma basis, software license revenue was approximately 23% in both 1999 and
1998.

    Professional service revenue on a pro forma basis increased approximately
37% in 1999 compared to 1998. Approximately two-thirds of this increase is due
to customization and modifications of software products required in several
large contracts installed in 1999. The remaining one-third of the increase is
due to increased volume in mass appraisal services. Professional service revenue
was approximately 40% of total revenues in 1999 compared to approximately 38% in
1998, on a pro forma basis.

    Pro forma maintenance revenue increased $7.1 million due to an increase in
the Company's base of installed software and systems products. Maintenance
revenue was approximately 26% and 25% of total revenue for 1999 and 1998,
respectively, on a pro forma basis.

    Hardware revenues on a pro forma basis decreased approximately 10% in 1999
compared to 1998 as a result of the Company focusing its sales effort on higher
margin products and services. This decrease was offset slightly by an increase
in customer upgrades due to Y2K compliance requirements.

COST OF REVENUES

    On a pro forma basis, total cost of revenues increased $11.7 million, or
24%, for the twelve months ended December 31, 1999 compared to $49.2 million in
the comparable prior year period. Gross margin increased to 43% in 1999 compared
to 41% for same period in the prior year, on a pro forma basis. The gross margin
benefited from a product mix in 1999 that included less hardware and third party
software than the prior year on a pro forma basis. Hardware and third party
software have lower margins than proprietary software license products and
services. The gross margin increase was offset slightly by higher costs
associated with third party services utilized in connection with the performance
of two large mass property appraisal contracts in 1999.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

    Selling, general and administrative expenses on a pro forma basis were $35.1
million in 1999, compared to $25.6 million in 1998. Selling, general and
administrative expense as a percentage of pro forma revenues was approximately
33% and 31% for the twelve months ended December 31, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.

COSTS OF CERTAIN ACQUISITION OPPORTUNITIES

    On July 31, 1998, the Company entered into a letter of intent with a Fortune
500 company to acquire certain businesses of the company in a transaction to be
accounted for as a purchase business combination. These businesses had estimated
annual revenues in excess of $500 million and represented a business opportunity
which was aligned with the Company's strategy in the information


                                    Page 16


management business. Direct and incremental costs totaling $3.1 million
associated with the combination, primarily consisting of fees paid to outside
legal and accounting advisors for due diligence, were incurred by the Company
and would have been considered as a cost of the acquisition upon the successful
closing of the transaction. Subsequent to September 30, 1998, the potential
seller elected not to sell any of the businesses. Accordingly, all costs
associated with this opportunity were expensed in the 1998 consolidated
financial statements.

AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLES

    The Company accounted for all of its acquisitions using the purchase method
of accounting for business combinations. Unallocated purchase price over the net
identifiable assets of the acquired companies is amortized using the
straight-line method of amortization over their respective useful lives.

NET INTEREST EXPENSE

    As a result of the debt incurred to finance acquisitions and their related
transaction costs in 1999, the Company recorded net interest expense of $1.8
million compared to $234,000 in 1998.

INCOME TAX PROVISION

    In 1999, the Company had a pretax loss from continuing operations of $1.8
million and an income tax provision of $188,000 resulting in a negative
effective tax rate of 11%. The comparable 1998 effective benefit rate was 21%.
The difference in the tax rates is due to non-deductible items such as goodwill
amortization as compared to the relative amount of pretax earnings or loss.

NET LOSS AND OTHER MEASURES

    Net loss was $2.8 million in 1999 compared to $8.4 million in 1998. Diluted
loss per share was $0.07 and $0.26 for 1999 and 1998, respectively. Net loss
from continuing operations was $2.0 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, in 1999
compared to a net loss of $2.5 million, or $0.08 per diluted share in 1998.

ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS NOT YET ADOPTED

    In June 1999, SFAS No. 137 "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities-Deferral of Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 133" was
issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB"). The Statement
defers for one year the effective date of FASB Statement No. 133, "Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities". The rule now will apply to
all fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. FASB Statement No. 133 will
require the Company to recognize all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair
value. Derivatives that are not hedges must be adjusted to fair value through
income. If the derivative is a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge,
changes in the fair value of derivatives will either be offset against the
change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities, or firm commitments
through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive income until the hedged
item is recognized in earnings. The adoption of SFAS No. 133 did not have a
material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements and related
disclosures.

LIQUIDITY

    In December 2000, the Company amended its revolving credit agreement with a
group of banks ("Senior Credit Facility") to provide for total borrowings of up
to $15.0 million and a maturity date of July 1, 2002. Borrowings under the
Senior Credit Facility, as amended, initially bear interest at the lead bank's
prime rate plus a margin of 2.00%, which margin increases by 0.50% quarterly
through January 1, 2002. Borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility are limited
to 80% of eligible accounts receivable. At December 31, 2000, the Company had
outstanding borrowings and letters of credit of $4.8 million and unused
available borrowing capacity of $10.2 million under the Senior Credit Facility.
The interest rate at December 31, 2000 was 11.5%. The effective average interest
rates for borrowings during 2000 and 1999 were 10.2% and 7.7%, respectively.

    The Senior Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of the Company's
real and personal property and by a pledge of the common stock of present and
future significant operating subsidiaries. The Senior Credit Facility is also
guaranteed by such subsidiaries. Under the terms of the Senior Credit Facility,
the Company is required to maintain certain financial ratios and other financial
conditions. The Senior Credit Facility also prohibits the Company from making
certain investments, advances or loans and



                                    Page 17


restricts substantial asset sales, capital expenditures and cash dividends. At
December 31, 2000, the Company was in compliance with its various covenants
under the Senior Credit Facility, as amended.

    In addition, at December 31, 2000, the Company had several promissory notes
payable, and other installment notes totaling $3.4 million (including current
portion of $353,000). Fixed interest rates on the promissory and installment
notes ranged from 6.1% to 10.0% The Company made principal payments of $3.8
million during 2000 on these notes and notes included in the information and
property records segment.

    On September 29, 2000, the Company sold for cash certain non-core assets for
an aggregate sale price of $14.4 million. The assets sold consisted of certain
net assets of two operating subsidiaries, the Company's interest in a certain
intangible work product, and the sale of a building and related building
improvements. The net proceeds of the sale were used to repay an existing
obligation of one of the companies sold and to reduce the Company's borrowings
under the Senior Credit Facility.

    Effective December 29, 2000, the Company sold for cash its land records
business unit, Resources, including among others, Resources' wholly-owned
subsidiaries Government Records Services, Inc. and Title Records Corporation, to
ACS. The Resources sale was valued at approximately $71.0 million, consisting of
approximately $70.0 million in cash and ACS's assumption of approximately $1.0
million of capital lease obligations. The net proceeds of the sale were used to
reduce the Company's borrowing under the Senior Credit Facility.

    In 2000, the Company made capital expenditures for continuing operations of
$9.4 million. These expenditures included $6.7 million relating to the
development of proprietary software, including new products and new versions of
existing products. The remaining expenditures were primarily for computer
equipment for internal use and use in connection with the Company's ASP services
and building and leasehold improvements at the Company's operating facilities.

    The Company entered into a tax-benefit transfer lease in 1983 pursuant to
which it is obligated to make income tax payments totaling $713,000 in 2001.
This obligation is included in deferred taxes at December 31, 2000.

    Excluding acquisitions, Tyler anticipates that 2001 capital spending will be
approximately $12.0 million, which is expected to be funded from a combination
of internal operations and bank financing. In January 2001, the Company
purchased a formerly leased building in Austin, Texas for $1.3 million, which is
included in 2001 anticipated expenditures of $12.0 million.

    In May 2000, the Company sold 3.3 million shares of common stock and 333,380
warrants pursuant to a private placement agreement with Sanders Morris Harris
Inc. for approximately $10.0 million in gross cash proceeds before deducting
commissions and offering expenses of approximately $730,000. Each warrant is
convertible into one share of common stock at an exercise price of $3.60 per
share. The warrants expire in May 2005. The common stock sold in this
transaction is not registered and may only be sold pursuant to Rule 144 under
the Securities Act of 1933, generally after being held for at least one year.
Tyler used the proceeds from the offering primarily for new product development.

    On November 4, 1999, the Company purchased Cole Layer Trumble Company
("CLT") from a privately held company (the "Seller"). A portion of the
consideration consisted of restricted shares of Tyler common stock and included
a price protection on the future sale of the Company's common stock by the
Seller, which expires no later than November 4, 2001. The price protection is
equal to the difference between the actual sale proceeds of the Tyler common
stock and $6.25 on a per share basis, but is limited to $2.8 million.

    The Company is from time to time engaged in discussions with respect to
selected acquisitions and expects to continue to assess these and other
acquisition opportunities as they arise. The Company may also require additional
financing if it decides to make additional acquisitions. There can be no
assurance, however, that any such opportunities will arise, that any such
acquisitions will be consummated or that any needed additional financing will be
available when required on terms satisfactory to the Company. Absent any
acquisitions, the Company anticipates that cash flows from operations, working
capital and available borrowing capacity under the Senior Credit Facility will
provide sufficient funds to meet its needs for at least the next year.


                                    Page 18


CAPITALIZATION

    The Company's capitalization at December 31, 2000, consisted of $8.1 million
in long-term obligations (including current portion) and $96.1 million in
shareholders' equity. The total debt-to-capital ratio was 7.8% at December 31,
2000.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

    The Company's market risk sensitive instruments do not subject the Company
to material market risk exposure.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

    The consolidated financial statements of the Company, together with the
report of independent auditors and financial statement schedule, are included
herein and listed under the heading "(a)(1) The consolidated financial
statements of the Company of Part IV, Item 14." Financial statement schedules
other than the schedule included have been omitted because the required
information is contained in the consolidated financial statements or related
notes, or such information is not applicable.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

    None.




                                    Page 19


                                    PART III

    The information required by Items 10 through 13 of Part III is incorporated
herein by reference from the indicated sections of Tyler's definitive proxy
statement for its annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 31, 2001 (the
"Proxy Statement"). Only those sections of the Proxy Statement that specifically
address the items set forth herein are incorporated by reference. Such
incorporation by reference does not include the Compensation Committee Report,
the Audit Committee Report or the Stock Performance Graphs, included in the
Proxy Statement.



                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

  (a) (1)  The consolidated financial statements of the Company
           are filed as part of this report.



    Certain of the exhibits to this report are hereby incorporated by reference,
as specified:

 EXHIBIT
 NUMBER                         DESCRIPTION
 -------  -------------------------------------------------------------------
 3.1      Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Tyler Three, as amended
          through May 14, 1990, and Certificate of Designation of Series A
          Junior Participating Preferred Stock (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the
          Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1990, and
          incorporated herein).

                                    Page 20


 3.2      Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation
          (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Form 8-K, dated February 19,
          1998, and incorporated herein).

 3.3      Amended and Restated By-Laws of Tyler Corporation, dated November 4,
          1997 (filed as Exhibit 3.3 to the Company's Form 10-K for the year
          ended December 31, 1997, and incorporated herein).

*3.4      Certificate of Amendment dated May 19, 1999 to the Restated
          Certificate of Incorporation.

 4.1      Rights Agreement, dated as of March 14, 1993, by and between Tyler
          Corporation and The First National Bank of Boston, as Rights Agent,
          which includes the form of Rights Certificate as Exhibit B thereto
          (filed as Exhibit 4 to the Company's Form 8-K, dated January 29, 1993,
          and incorporated herein).

 4.2      Specimen of Common Stock Certificate (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the
          Company's registration statement no. 33-33505 and incorporated
          herein).

 4.3      Credit agreement among Tyler Technologies, Inc., Bank of America,
          N.A., Chase Bank of Texas, N.A., BankOne, Texas, N.A. and Bank of
          America Securities LLC, dated October 1, 1999 (filed as Exhibit 4.3 to
          the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1999, and
          incorporated herein).

 4.4      Purchase Agreement dated May 19, 2000, between Tyler Technologies,
          Inc., and Sanders Morris Harris Inc. (filed as Exhibit 4.4 to the
          Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2000, and
          incorporated herein).

 4.5      Warrant to purchase common stock of Tyler Technologies, Inc. (filed as
          Exhibit 4.5 to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
          2000, and incorporated herein).

 4.6      Amendment #3 to the Credit Agreement dated October 1, 1999 (filed as
          Exhibit 4.6 to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
          2000, and incorporated herein).

*4.9      Amendment #5 to the Credit Agreement dated October 1, 1999.

 10.1     Form of Indemnification Agreement for directors and officers (filed as
          Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
          31, 1992, and incorporated herein).

 10.2     Stock Option Plan amended and restated as of February 7, 1997 (filed
          as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's registration statement no. 33-34809
          and incorporated herein).

 10.3     Asset Purchase Agreement dated September 29, 2000, by and among Tyler
          Technologies, Inc., Kofile, Inc., Spectrum Data, Inc., EiSolutions,
          Inc., Kofile Acquisition Corporation and Spectrum Data Acquisition
          Corporation (filed as Exhibit 4.7 to the Company's Form 10-Q for the
          quarter ended September 30, 2000, and incorporated herein).

                                    Page 21


 10.4     Real Estate Purchase and Sale Agreement dated September 29, 2000, by
          and among Business Resources Corporation, Spectrum Data, Inc. and
          William D. and Marilyn Oates (filed as Exhibit 4.8 to the Company's
          Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2000, and incorporated
          herein).

 10.5     Indemnification Agreement, dated December 20, 1989 (filed as Exhibit
          2.3 to the Company's registration statement no. 33-33505 and
          incorporated herein).

 10.6     Second Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of
          December 29, 1997, and effective as of October 8, 1997, among the
          Company, T1 Acquisition Corporation, Business Resources Corporation,
          and William D. Oates (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 8-K,
          dated February 19, 1998, and incorporated herein).

 10.7     Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of
          December 29, 1997, and effective as of October 8, 1997, among the
          Company, T2 Acquisition Corporation, The Software Group, Inc., and
          Brian B. Berry and Glenn A. Smith (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the
          Company's Form 8-K, dated February 19, 1998, and incorporated herein).

 10.8     Amendment Number One, dated February 19, 1998, and effective as of
          October 8, 1997, to the Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of
          Merger among the Company, T2 Acquisition Corporation, The Software
          Group, Inc. and Brian B. Berry and Glenn A. Smith (filed as Exhibit
          10.3 to the Company's Form 8-K, dated February 19, 1998, and
          incorporated herein).

 10.9     Acquisition Agreement dated as of November 20, 1995, by and among the
          Registrants, Tyler Pipe Industries, Inc. and Ransom Industries, Inc.,
          formerly known as Union Acquisition Corporation (filed as Exhibit 2.1
          to the Company's Form 8-K, dated December 14, 1995, and incorporated
          herein).

 10.10    Purchase Agreement between Tyler Corporation, Richmond Partners, Ltd.
          and Louis A. Waters, dated August 20, 1997 (filed as Exhibit 10.24 to
          the Company's Form 8-K, dated September 2, 1997, and incorporated
          herein).

 10.11    Employment agreement between the Company and Brian K. Miller, dated
          December 1, 1997. (filed as Exhibit 10.16 to the Company's Form 10-K
          for the year ended December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein).

 10.12    Employment agreement between the Company and Theodore L. Bathurst,
          dated October 7, 1998, (filed as Exhibit 10.18 to the Company's Form
          10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1998, and incorporated
          herein).

 10.13    Purchase agreement dated March 26, 1999 between Tyler Corporation and
          HalArt, L.L.C. (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 8K, dated
          April 8, 1999, and incorporated herein).

 10.14    Agreement and Plan of Merger dated April 20, 1999, between Tyler
          Corporation ("Parent") and Computer Center Software Inc., a Delaware
          corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of


                                    Page 22


          Parent, Process, Incorporated d/b/a Computer Center Software (filed as
          exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 8K, dated May 4, 1999 and
          incorporated herein).

 10.15    Asset Purchase Agreement dated November 3, 1999 to be effective as of
          October 29, 1999, by and among Tyler Technologies, Inc., CLT Company,
          a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and
          Day & Zimmermann, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability corporation
          (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 8K, dated November 18,
          1999 and incorporated herein).

 10.16    Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 29, 2000, among
          Affiliated Computer Services, Inc., ACS Enterprise Solutions, Inc.,
          Tyler Technologies, Inc., and Business Resources Corporation (filed as
          Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 8K, dated January 16, 2001 and
          incorporated herein).

*21       Subsidiaries of Tyler

*23       Consent of Ernst & Young LLP

          Tyler will furnish copies of these exhibits to shareholders upon
          written request and payment for copying charges of $0.15 per page.

*     Filed herewith.

(b)   Reports on Form 8-K




                                    Page 23




                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                              TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

Date: March 19, 2001                          By:  /s/ Louis A. Waters
                                                   -----------------------------
                                                   Louis A. Waters
                                                   Co-Chief Executive Officer
                                                   Chairman of the Board
                                                   (principal executive officer)

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

    Date: March 19, 2001           By: /s/ Louis A. Waters
                                       ----------------------------------------
                                       Louis A. Waters
                                       Chairman of the Board
                                       Co-Chief Executive Officer

    Date: March 19, 2001           By: /s/ John M. Yeaman
                                       ----------------------------------------
                                       John M. Yeaman
                                       Co-Chief Executive Officer and President
                                       Director
                                       (principal executive officer)

    Date: March 19, 2001           By: /s/ Theodore L. Bathurst
                                       ----------------------------------------
                                       Theodore L. Bathurst
                                       Vice President and Chief
                                       Financial Officer
                                       (principal financial officer)

    Date: March 19, 2001           By: /s/ Brian K. Miller
                                       ----------------------------------------
                                       Brian K. Miller
                                       Vice President - Finance and Treasurer

    Date: March 19, 2001           By: /s/ Terri L. Alford
                                       ----------------------------------------
                                       Terri L. Alford
                                       Controller
                                       (principal accounting officer)

    Date: March 19, 2001           By: /s/ Ernest H. Lorch
                                       ----------------------------------------
                                       Ernest H. Lorch
                                       Director

    Date: March 19, 2001           By: /s/ F. R. Meyer
                                       ----------------------------------------
                                       F. R. Meyer
                                       Director

    Date: March 19, 2001           By: /s/ C.A. Rundell, Jr.
                                       ----------------------------------------
                                       C.A. Rundell, Jr.
                                       Director



                                    Page 24




                REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Tyler Technologies, Inc.

    We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the
related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity, and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000. Our
audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at
Item 14(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and schedule based on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Tyler
Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries at December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2000, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States. Also, in our opinion, the
related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.

                                           ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Dallas, Texas
March 9, 2001




                                    Page 25




Tyler Technologies, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Operations
For the years ended December 31
In thousands, except per share amounts




         See accompanying notes




                                    Page 26




Tyler Technologies, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
December 31
In thousands, except share and per share amounts



       See accompanying notes.




                                    Page 27




Tyler Technologies, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
For the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
In thousands



See accompanying notes.




                                    Page 28




Tyler Technologies, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
For the years ended December 31
In thousands



      See accompanying notes.




                                    Page 29




                            Tyler Technologies, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                  (Tables in thousands, except per share data)

                           December 31, 2000 and 1999

(1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

    Tyler Technologies, Inc. (the "Company") provides county, local and
municipal governments with software systems and services to serve their
information technology and automation needs. Software products are integrated
with computer equipment from hardware vendors, third-party database management
applications and office automation software. In addition, the Company also
assists local and county governments with all aspects of software and hardware
selection, network design and management, installation and training and on-going
support and related services. The Company also provides mass property appraisal
services to taxing jurisdictions, including physical inspection of all
properties in the assessing jurisdiction, data collection and processing,
computer analysis for property valuation and preparation of tax rolls.

    The Company discontinued the operations of its information and property
records services segment and automotive parts segment. See Note 3 for discussion
of discontinued businesses.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

    The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company
and its subsidiaries, all of which are wholly-owned. All significant
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Prior years' financial statements have been restated to reflect discontinued
businesses.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

    Cash and cash equivalents of $8.9 million and $2.0 million at December 31,
2000 and 1999, respectively, consist of money market accounts with an initial
term of less than three months. For purposes of the statements of cash flows,
the Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments with original
maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

    The Company derives revenue from software licenses, postcontract customer
support/maintenance ("PCS"), and services. PCS includes telephone support, bug
fixes, and rights to upgrade on a when-and-if available basis. Services range
from installation, training, and basic consulting to software modification and
customization to meet specific customer needs. In software arrangements that
include rights to multiple software products, specified upgrades, PCS, and/or
other services, the Company allocates the total arrangement fee among each
deliverable based on the relative fair value of each of the deliverables,
determined based on vendor-specific objective evidence.

    In October 1997, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
("AICPA") issued Statement of Position ("SOP") 97-2, "Software Revenue
Recognition" which supersedes SOP 91-1. The Company was required to adopt SOP
97-2 for software transactions entered into beginning January 1, 1998.

    The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with SOP 97-2 as amended, as
follows:

    Software Licenses - The Company recognizes the revenue allocable to software
licenses and specified upgrades upon delivery and installation of the software
product or upgrade to the end user, unless the fee is not fixed or determinable
or collectibility is not probable. If the fee is not fixed or determinable,
revenue is recognized as payments become due from the customer. If
collectibility is not considered probable, revenue is recognized when the fee is
collected. Arrangements that include software services, such as training or
installation, are evaluated to determine whether those services are essential to
the functionality of other elements of the arrangement.


                                    Page 30


    A majority of the Company's software arrangements involve "off-the-shelf"
software and the other elements are not considered essential to the
functionality of the software. For those software arrangements in which services
are not considered essential, the software license fee is recognized as revenue
after delivery and installation have occurred, customer acceptance is reasonably
assured, the fee represents an enforceable claim and probable of collection and
the remaining services such as training are considered nominal.

    Software Services - When software services are considered essential, revenue
under the entire arrangement is recognized as the services are performed using
the percentage-of-completion contract accounting method. When software services
are not considered essential, the fee allocable to the service element is
recognized as revenue as the services are performed.

    Computer Hardware Equipment - Revenue allocable to equipment based on vendor
specific evidence of fair value is recognized when the equipment is delivered
and collection is probable.

    Postcontract Customer Support - PCS agreements are generally entered into in
connection with initial license sales and subsequent renewals. Revenue allocated
to PCS is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period the PCS is
provided. All significant costs and expenses associated with PCS are expensed as
incurred.

    Contract Accounting - For arrangements that include customization or
modification of the software, or where software services are otherwise
considered essential, or for real estate mass appraisal projects, revenue is
recognized using contract accounting. Revenue from these arrangements is
recognized on a percentage-of-completion method with progress-to-completion
measures based primarily upon labor hours incurred or units completed.

    Deferred revenue consists primarily of payments received in advance of
revenue being earned under software licensing, software and hardware
installation, support and maintenance contracts.

    Prior to the disposal of its information and property records services
segment, the Company provided computerized indexing and imaging of real property
records, records management and micrographic reproduction, as well as
information management outsourcing and professional services required by county
and local government units and agencies. The Company also provided title plant
update services to title companies and sales of copies of title plants. The
Company recognized service revenue when services were performed and equipment
sales when the products were shipped.

    The information and property records services segment also sold copies of
title plants which were usually made under long-term installment contracts. The
contract with the customer was generally bundled with a long-term title plant
update service arrangement. The bundled fees were payable on a monthly basis
over the respective contract period and revenue was recognized on an as-billable
basis over the terms of the arrangement.

    The information and property records services segment also received royalty
revenue relating to the current activities of two of its operating companies.
Royalty revenue was recognized as earned upon receipt of royalty payments.

USE OF ESTIMATES

    The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

    Property, equipment and purchased software are recorded at cost.
Depreciation and amortization are computed for financial reporting purposes
primarily utilizing the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of
the related assets, or for leasehold improvements and capital leases, the
shorter of the base lease term or estimated useful life. For income tax
purposes, accelerated depreciation methods are primarily used with the
establishment of deferred income tax liabilities for the resulting temporary
differences.

    Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Costs of
renewals and betterments are capitalized. The cost and accumulated depreciation
and amortization applicable to assets sold or otherwise disposed of are removed
from the asset accounts, and any net gain or loss is included in the statement
of operations.



                                    Page 31


IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

    The Company accounts for its long-lived assets in accordance with the
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 121,
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
be Disposed Of". SFAS No. 121 requires that long-lived assets and certain
identifiable intangibles be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be
recoverable. Recoverability of assets, including goodwill, to be held and used
is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future net
cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered
to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by
which the carrying amount of the assets exceed the fair value of the assets.

    Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of carrying amount or
fair value less costs to sell.

INTEREST COST

    The Company capitalizes interest cost as a component of capitalized software
development costs. During the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company
capitalized $586,000 of interest cost. No interest cost was capitalized in 1999
or 1998.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS

    The Company expenses all research and development costs as incurred. The
Company expensed $973,000 and $1.6 million of research and development costs in
2000 and 1999, respectively. Research and development costs in 1998 were
insignificant.

INCOME TAXES

    Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for future tax consequences
attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax
assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to
taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to
be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a
change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the
enactment date.

STOCK COMPENSATION

    The Company has adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation", which permits entities to recognize as expense over
the vesting period the fair value of all stock-based awards as of the date of
grant. Alternatively, SFAS No. 123 also allows entities to continue to apply the
provisions of Accounting Principle Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees", and related interpretations and provide pro forma
net income and pro forma earnings per share disclosures for employee stock
option grants made in 1995 and future years as if the fair-value-based method
defined in SFAS No. 123 had been applied. Under APB Opinion No. 25, compensation
expense would be recorded on the date of grant only if the current market price
of the underlying common stock exceeded the exercise price.

    The Company has elected to continue to apply the provisions of APB Opinion
No. 25 and provide the pro forma disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123. See Note
13 for additional information.

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

    SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income", requires the reporting and
displaying of comprehensive income and its components. The Statement also
requires that the accumulated balance of the other comprehensive income to be
displayed separately from retained earnings and additional paid-in-capital in
the equity section of the consolidated balance sheet. For the year ended
December 31, 2000, the Company reported a comprehensive loss of $53.2 million,
including a change of $28.6 million in the unrealized loss on investment
classified as available-for-sale. There was no tax effect in connection with the
change in the unrealized loss for the year ended December 31, 2000 since
management could not conclude it was more likely than not that the tax benefit
would be realized. For the year ended December 31, 1999, the Company reported
comprehensive income of $15.1 million, including a change of $17.9 million in
the unrealized gain on investment classified as available-for-sale. There was no
tax effect in connection with the change in the unrealized gain for the year
ended December 31, 1999 due to the change in the valuation allowance related to
the then existing capital loss carryforwards.

                                    Page 32


SEGMENT AND RELATED INFORMATION

    The Company has adopted SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures About Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information", which establishes standards for reporting
information about operating segments. As this statement pertains to disclosure
and informational requirements, it has no impact on the Company's operating
results or financial position. Although the Company has a number of operating
subsidiaries, separate segment data has not been presented as they meet the
criteria set forth in SFAS No. 131 for aggregation.

GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

    The cost of acquired companies is allocated first to identifiable assets
based on estimated fair values. Costs allocated to identifiable intangible
assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining estimated
useful lives of the assets, as determined principally by underlying contract
terms or independent appraisals. The excess of the purchase price over the fair
value of identifiable assets acquired, net of liabilities assumed, is recorded
as goodwill and amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
life. The useful life is determined based on the individual characteristics of
the acquired entity and ranges from five to twenty-five years.

    The Company periodically evaluates the carrying amounts of goodwill, as well
as the related amortization periods, to determine whether adjustments to these
amounts or useful lives are required based on current events and circumstances.
The evaluation is based on the Company's projection of the undiscounted future
operating cash flows of the acquired operation over the remaining useful lives
of the related goodwill. To the extent such projections indicate that future
undiscounted cash flows are not sufficient to recover the carrying amounts of
related goodwill, the underlying assets are written down by charges to expense
so that the carrying amount is equal to fair value, primarily determined based
on future discounted cash flows. The assessment of recoverability of goodwill
will be affected if estimated future operating cash flows are not achieved.

COSTS OF COMPUTER SOFTWARE

    SFAS No. 86, "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to be Sold,
Leased, or Otherwise Marketed", requires capitalization of software development
costs incurred subsequent to establishment of technological feasibility and
prior to the availability of the product for general release to customers. In
2000 and 1999, the Company capitalized approximately $6.7 million and $1.4
million, respectively, of software development costs, which primarily include
personnel costs. No such costs were capitalized in 1998. Systematic amortization
of capitalized costs begins when a product is available for general release to
customers and is computed on a product-by-product basis at a rate not less than
straight-line basis over the product's remaining estimated economic life.
Amortization of software development costs in 2000 and 1999 was approximately
$622,000 and $75,000, respectively.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

    The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value
of each class of financial instruments:

    Cash and cash equivalents, trade accounts receivables, other current assets,
other assets, notes payable to banks, trade accounts payables, and accrued
expenses (nonderivatives): The carrying amounts approximate fair value because
of the short maturity of these instruments. The Company's available-for-sale
investments are carried at fair value.

    Long-term obligations: The fair value of the Company's long-term obligations
is estimated by discounting the future cash flows of each instrument at rates
currently offered to the Company for similar debt instruments of comparable
maturities by the Company's banks. Based upon the borrowing rates available to
the Company for bank loans with similar terms and average maturities, the
estimated fair value of the long-term obligations approximates carrying value at
December 31, 2000 and 1999.

    The Company has no involvement with derivative financial instruments,
including those for speculative or trading purposes.

CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK AND UNBILLED RECEIVABLES

    Concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to
the wide variety of customers and markets into which the Company's products and
services are provided, as well as their dispersion across many different
geographic areas. As a result, as of December 31, 2000, the Company does not
consider itself to have any significant concentrations of credit risk. See Note
2 in connection with a receivable due from the seller of a business the Company
acquired.

                                    Page 33


    The Company's mass property appraisal service contracts can range up to
three years in duration. In connection with these percentage of completion
contracts and for certain software service contracts, the Company may perform
the work prior to when the services are billable pursuant to the contract. The
Company has recorded unbilled receivables (costs and estimated profit in excess
of billings) of approximately $4.7 million and $5.4 million at December 31, 2000
and 1999, respectively, in connection with such contracts. Retentions included
in trade accounts receivable and current assets that are expected to be
collected in excess of one year amounted to approximately $1.2 million at
December 31, 2000.

COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    The Company accounts for certain environmental matters in accordance with
SOP 96-1, "Environment Remediation Liabilities". The Company accrues for losses
associated with environmental remediation obligations when such losses are
probable and reasonably estimatable.

    Accruals for estimated losses from environmental remediation obligations
generally are recognized no later than completion of the remedial feasibility
study. Such accruals are adjusted as further information develops or
circumstances change. Such costs include the incremental direct costs of the
remediation effort, including fees estimated to be paid to outside law firms and
certain internal employee compensation and benefits directly related to the
remediation effort. Costs of future expenditures for environmental remediation
obligations are not discounted to their present value. Recoveries of
environmental remediation costs from other parties are recorded as assets when
their receipt is deemed probable and have been included in noncurrent other
receivables at December 31, 1999.

    Legal costs to defend nonenvironmental litigation matters are expensed as
incurred.

RECLASSIFICATIONS

    As a result of the implementation of a new management information system,
the Company has been able to more accurately allocate certain costs between cost
of revenues and selling, general and administrative expense. Accordingly,
certain amounts for previous years have been reclassified to conform to the 2000
presentation.

(2) ACQUISITIONS

    On February 19, 1998, the Company completed the purchases of Business
Resources Corporation ("Resources"), The Software Group, Inc. ("TSG") and
Interactive Computer Designs, Inc. ("INCODE"). Resources, which was included in
the information and property records services segment, provides a wide range of
information management outsourcing services, primarily to county governments as
well as to some commercial users. TSG and INCODE provide county, local and
municipal governments with software, systems and services to serve their
information technology and automation needs.

    Effective August 1, 1998, the Company completed the purchase of Computer
Management Services, Inc. ("CMS"). CMS provides integrated information
management systems and services to county and municipal governmental agencies
throughout Iowa, Minnesota, Missouri, South Dakota, Illinois, Wisconsin and
other states, primarily in the upper Midwest.

    Effective March 1, 1999, the Company acquired Eagle Computer Systems,  Inc.
("Eagle"). Eagle is a leading supplier of networked computing solutions for
county governments, primarily in the western United States.

    Effective April 1, 1999, the Company completed its acquisition of Micro
Arizala Systems, Inc. d/b/a FundBalance ("FundBalance"), a company which
develops and markets fund accounting software and other applications for local
governments, not-for-profit organizations and cemeteries.

    On April 21, 1999, the Company acquired Process Incorporated d/b/a Computer
Center Software ("MUNIS"), which designs and develops integrated financial and
land management information systems for counties, cities, schools and
not-for-profit organizations. MUNIS provides software solutions to customers
primarily located throughout the northeastern and southeastern United States.

    Effective May 1, 1999, the Company acquired Gemini Systems, Inc.
("Gemini"). Gemini develops and markets software products for municipal
governments and utilities primarily in the eastern United States.

                                    Page 34


    On July 16, 1999, the Company acquired Pacific Data Technologies, Inc.
("Pacific Data"), which was included in the information and property records
services segment. Pacific Data is the primary developer of the Company's
database initiative to automate and manage public information records for
Internet delivery.

    On November 4, 1999, the Company purchased Cole Layer Trumble Company
("CLT") from a privately held company ("Seller"). A portion of the consideration
consisted of restricted shares of Tyler common stock and included a price
protection on the sale of the Company's common stock, which expires no later
than November 4, 2001. The price protection is equal to the difference between
the actual sale proceeds of the Tyler common stock and $6.25 on a per share
basis, but is limited to $2.8 million. The subsequent payment, if any, of the
contingent consideration will not change the recorded costs of the acquisition.
The purchase agreement contained a number of post-closing adjustments and, in
addition, certain CLT customers inadvertently submitted post-closing cash
receipts to the Seller. As a result of this activity, the Company has recorded a
receivable from the Seller amounting to $1.3 million at December 31, 2000. As
consideration for the purchase, the Company assigned, without recourse, a note
receivable to the Seller obtained in connection with the sale of Forest City
Auto Parts Company (See Note 3). Although the Company did not assume any credit
risk in connection with this assignment, the Seller has withheld payment on its
payable to the Company. After consideration of the price protection granted to
Seller in connection with the issuance of 1.0 million shares of restricted Tyler
common stock at the time of purchase, management of the Company believes the
receivable is recoverable.

    On January 3, 2000, the Company acquired Capitol Commerce Reporter, Inc.
("CCR"). CCR, which was included the information and property records services
segment, provides public records research, document retrieval, filing and
information services.

    During 1998 and 1999, the Company also made other acquisitions which were
immaterial.

    The Company accounted for all of the aforementioned acquisitions using the
purchase method of accounting for business combinations. Under this method of
accounting, the aggregate purchase price is allocated to assets acquired and
liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. During the year ended
December 31, 2000, the Company completed its evaluation of the fair value of
assets acquired and liabilities assumed for certain 1999 acquisitions. The
effects of the final purchase price allocations in 2000 were not significant.
Results of operations of the acquired entities are included in the Company's
consolidated financial statements from the respective dates of acquisition. The
excess purchase price over the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the
acquired companies (goodwill) is amortized using the straight-line method of
amortization over their respective estimated useful lives.

    Following is a summary of the Company's 2000, 1999 and 1998 acquisitions:



    In addition to consideration paid in cash and common stock for the 1999
acquisitions, the Company provided other consideration which totaled
approximately $3.2 million and consisted of assignment of notes obtained in
conjunction with the Forest City Auto Parts Company disposition (See Note 3).

    Cash paid for acquisitions does not reflect cash paid for transaction costs
related to the execution of the acquisitions, such as legal, accounting and
consulting fees, of approximately $90,000, $673,000 and $2.5 million in 2000,
1999 and 1998, respectively and excludes acquired cash balances of approximately
$17,000, $338,000 and $2.6 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.



                                    Page 35


    The following unaudited pro forma information presents the consolidated
results of operations as if all of the Company's acquisitions and disposition of
the information and property records services segment (See Note 3) occurred as
of the beginning of 2000 and 1999, after giving effect to certain adjustments,
including amortization of intangibles, interest and income tax effects and
reflecting only the loss on the respective disposals of the discontinued
operations in the year reflected in the historical consolidated financial
statements. The pro forma information does not purport to represent what the
Company's results of operations actually would have been had such transactions
or events occurred on the dates specified, or to project the Company's results
of operations for any future period.



(3) DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

Information and Property Records Services Segment

    On September 29, 2000, the Company sold for cash certain net assets of
Kofile, Inc. ("Kofile") and another subsidiary, the Company's interest in a
certain intangible work product, and a building and related building
improvements (the "Kofile sale"). Effective December 29, 2000, the Company sold
for cash its land records business unit, Resources, including among others,
Resources' wholly-owned subsidiaries Government Records Services, Inc. and Title
Records Corporation, to an affiliate of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc.
("ACS") (the "Resources sale"). Concurrent with the Resources sale, management
of the Company with the Board of Director's approval adopted a formal plan of
disposal for the remaining businesses and assets of the information and property
records services segment. This restructuring program was designed to focus the
Company's resources on its software systems and services segment and to reduce
debt. The business and assets divested or identified for divesture have been
classified as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial
statements with prior years' financial statements restated to report separately
their operations in compliance with APB Opinion No. 30.

    The Kofile sale was to investment entities beneficially owned by Mr. William
D. Oates, a principal shareholder, who was also a Director and Chairman of the
Executive Committee of the Company at the time of the sale. The cash sale price
was $14.4 million and the gain on the sale after the effects of transaction
costs, amounted to $403,000 (net of an income tax benefit of $200,000).

    The Resources sale was valued at approximately $71.0 million, consisting of
$70.0 million in cash and the assumption by ACS of $1.0 million of capital lease
obligations. The gain on the sale, after transaction costs, amounted to $1.1
million (net of an income tax benefit of $2.2 million). Transaction costs and
certain costs directly related to the sale were estimated to be $4.1 million and
included investment banking fees, professional fees, cash payments to departing
employees and approximately $844,000 in connection with the issuance of 500,000
shares of restricted common stock to departing employees.

    The Company's formal plan of disposal provides for the remaining businesses
and assets of the segment to be disposed of by December 29, 2001. One of the
remaining assets consists of a start-up company which has been engaged in
constructing a Web-enabled national repository of public records data. Another
remaining business is CCR, which was purchased in January 2000 and provides
public records research, principally UCCs in Texas. The interdependency of these
operations with those of Resources resulted in the Company's decision to
discontinue the development of the database and other related products and exit
the land records business following the Resources sale. The estimated loss on
the disposal of these remaining businesses and assets amounted to $13.6 million
(after an income tax benefit of $3.8 million), consisting of an estimated loss
on disposal of the businesses of $11.5 million (net of an income tax benefit of
$2.7 million) and a provision of $2.1 million (after an income tax benefit of
$1.1 million) for anticipated operating losses from the measurement date of
December 29, 2000 to the estimated disposal dates. The anticipated operating
losses to the disposal dates include the effects of the settlement of certain
employment contracts, losses on real property leases, severance costs and
similar closing related costs. The amounts the Company will ultimately realize
could differ materially from the amounts assumed in arriving at the loss on
disposal of the discontinued operations.

                                    Page 36


    The income tax expense or benefit associated with the gains or losses on the
respective sales of the businesses in the information and property records
services segment and the planned dispositions of the remaining assets and
businesses differs from the statutory income tax rate of 35% due to the
elimination of deferred taxes related to the basis difference between amounts
reported for income taxes and financial reporting purposes and the utilization
of available capital loss carryforwards which were fully reserved in the
valuation account prior to the respective sales.

    The condensed components of net assets of discontinued operations of the
information and property records services segment included in the consolidated
balance sheets as of December 31, 2000 and 1999 are as follows:



    The condensed statements of operations relating to the information and
property records services segment as well as the automotive parts segment in
1998 discussed below for the years ended December 31 are presented below:



Automotive Parts Segment

    In December 1998, the Company entered into a letter of intent to sell its
non-core automotive parts retailer, Forest City Auto Parts Company ("Forest
City"). Accordingly, this segment has been accounted for as a discontinued
operation with prior years' financial statements restated to report separately
their operations in compliance with APB Opinion No. 30.

    On March 26, 1999, the Company sold all of the outstanding common stock of
Forest City to a private investor (the "Purchaser") for approximately $24.5
million. Proceeds consisted of $12.0 million in cash, $3.8 million in a
short-term secured promissory note, $3.2 million in senior secured subordinated
notes and $5.5 million in preferred stock. The short-term secured promissory
note was fully paid in July 1999. The senior secured subordinated notes carry
interest rates ranging between 6% to 8%, become due in March 2002, and are
secured by a second lien on Forest City inventory and real estate. The preferred
stock will be mandatorily redeemable in March 2006. Both the subordinated notes
and the preferred stock are subject to partial or whole redemption upon the
occurrences of specified events.

    In determining the loss on the disposal of the business, the subordinated
notes were valued using present value techniques. As discussed in Note 2, the
$3.2 million in senior secured subordinated notes were subsequently assigned
without recourse to the Seller on November 4, 1999 in connection with an
acquisition.

    Because the redemption of the preferred stock was highly dependent upon
future operations of the buyer and due to its extended repayment terms, the
Company was unable to estimate the degree of recoverability. Accordingly, the
Company determined it would record the value of the preferred stock as cash is
received. The Company originally estimated the loss on the disposal of Forest
City to be $8.9 million, which was recorded in the fourth quarter of 1998. The
estimated loss included anticipated operating losses from the



                                    Page 37


measurement date of December 1998 to the date of disposal and associated
transaction costs. In 1999, the Company recorded additional losses of $907,000
(including income taxes of $183,000) to reflect adjusted estimated transaction
costs, funded operating losses which were higher than originally estimated,
adjustments to amounts previously provided for income taxes in connection with
the sale and to write down to estimated net realizable value a post-closing
receivable in connection with a dispute with the purchaser.

Other

    In 1998, the Company recorded a final gain adjustment of $801,000 relating
to the 1997 sale of its subsidiary Institutional Financing Services Inc.

    Two of the Company's non-operating subsidiaries are involved in various
claims for work related injuries and physical conditions and for environmental
claims relating to a formerly owned subsidiary that was sold in 1995. During
2000 and 1999, the Company expensed $748,000 (net of an income tax benefit of
$403,000) and $1.9 million (net of an income tax benefit of $877,000),
respectively, for trial costs and settlement costs in excess of the amounts
accrued associated with these claims (See Note 17).

    Interest has been charged to discontinued operations based on the net assets
of the information and property records services segment and the automotive
parts segment. External interest expense of $4.2 million, $2.1 million and $2.0
million, was allocated to discontinued operations in 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively. Income tax (benefit) has been charged (credited) to discontinued
operations based on the income tax (benefit) resulting from inclusion of the
discontinued segments in the Company's consolidated federal income tax return.

    The income tax provision (benefit) differs from the amount which would be
provided by applying the statutory income tax rate to income (loss) before
income tax (benefit) due to permanent difference items consisting primarily of
non-deductible goodwill and state income taxes.

(4) RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

    On September 29, 2000, the Company sold for cash certain net assets of
Kofile and another subsidiary, the Company's interest in a certain intangible
work product, and a building and related building improvements to investment
entities beneficially owned by a principal shareholder of the Company, who was
also a director at the time (See Note 3).

    From time to time, the Company charters aircraft from businesses in which
either a former director and/or member of management of the Company is an owner
or part owner. For the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999, the Company
incurred rental expense related to such arrangements to a non-corporate officer
management member of $81,000 and $116,000, respectively, and to a former
director of $325,000 and $133,000, respectively.

    The Company has several notes receivable from non-officer employees totaling
$367,000 and $443,000 at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. All of the
notes are non-interest bearing and are due between 2000 and 2005. There is no
significant difference between the face value and the present value of the
notes.

    The Company has four office building lease agreements with various
shareholders of the Company. Total rental expense related to such leases for the
years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 was $679,000, $525,000 and $83,000,
respectively.

    Total future minimum rental under noncancelable related party operating
leases as of December 31, 2000, are as follows:






                                    Page 38




(5) PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

    Property and equipment consists of the following at December 31:



Depreciation expense totaled $2.0 million, $1.1 million and $309,000 during the
years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

(6) INVESTMENT SECURITY AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE

    Pursuant to an agreement with two major shareholders of H.T.E., Inc.
("HTE"), the Company acquired approximately 32% of HTE's common stock in two
separate transactions in 1999. On August 17, 1999, the Company exchanged 2.3
million shares of its common stock for 4.7 million shares of HTE common stock.
This initial investment was recorded at $14.0 million. The second transaction
occurred on December 21, 1999, in which the Company exchanged 484,000 shares of
its common stock for 969,000 shares of HTE common stock. The additional
investment was recorded at $1.8 million. The investment in HTE common stock is
classified as a non-current asset since it was made for a continuing business
purpose.

    Florida state corporation law restricts the voting rights of "control
shares", as defined, acquired by a third party in certain types of acquisitions,
which restrictions may be removed by a vote of the shareholders. The Florida
"control share" statute has not been interpreted by the courts. HTE has taken
the position that, under the Florida statute, all of the shares acquired by the
Company constitute "control shares" and therefore do not have voting rights
until such time as shareholders of HTE, other than the Company, restore voting
rights to those shares. Management of the Company believes that only the shares
acquired in excess of 20% of the outstanding shares of HTE constitute "control
shares" and therefore believes it currently has the right to vote all HTE shares
it owns up to at least 20% of the outstanding shares of HTE. On November 16,
2000, the shareholders of HTE, other than Tyler, voted to deny the Company its
right to vote the "control shares" of HTE.

    Under generally accepted accounting principles, an investment of 20% or more
of the voting stock of an investee should lead to a presumption that in absence
of evidence to the contrary, an investor has the ability to exercise significant
influence over the operating and financial policies of an investee. Management
of the Company has concluded that it currently does not have such influence as
evidenced by the following key factors:

     o    Inability to resolve the different interpretations regarding the
          ability to vote the shares;

     o    Inability to obtain additional financial information not otherwise
          available to other shareholders; and

     o    Inability to obtain certain confirmations and consents from the
          investee's independent auditors.

    Accordingly, the Company accounts for its investment in HTE pursuant to the
provisions of SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities". These securities are classified as available-for-sale and
are recorded at fair value as determined by quoted market prices. Unrealized
holding gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, on available-for-sale
securities are excluded from earnings and are reported as a separate component
of shareholders' equity until realized. Realized gains and losses from the sale
of available-for-sale securities (none in each of the three years ended December
31, 2000) are determined on a specific identification basis.

    At December 31, 2000, the cost, fair value and gross unrealized holding
losses of the investment securities available-for-sale amounted to $15.8
million, $5.1 million and $10.7 million, respectively, based on a quoted market
price for HTE common stock of $0.91 per share. At December 31, 1999, the fair
value and gross unrealized holding gains of the investment securities
available-for-sale amounted to $33.7 million and $17.9 million, respectively,
based on a quoted market price of $6.00. At March 12, 2001, the fair value of
the investment securities available-for-sale was $8.4 million based on a quoted
market price of $1.50 per share.

                                    Page 39


    At December 31, 2000, the Company has an unrealized loss on its investment
in HTE of $10.7 million. A decline in the market value of any available for sale
security below cost that is deemed to be other than temporary results in a
reduction in the carrying amount to fair value. The impairment is charged to
earnings and a new cost basis for the security is established. At this time,
management of the Company does not believe the decline in the market value is
other than temporary. In making this determination, management concluded it has
both the intent and the ability to hold the investment for a period of time
sufficient to allow for the anticipated recovery in fair value. Other conditions
considered, among others, included the conditions in the local government
software industry, the financial condition of the issuer, and recent favorable
public statements by the issuer concerning its future prospects.

    If the uncertainty regarding the voting shares is resolved in the Company's
favor, the Company will retroactively adopt the equity method of accounting for
this investment. Therefore, the Company's results of operations and retained
earnings for periods beginning with the 1999 acquisition will be retroactively
restated to reflect the Company's investment in HTE for all periods in which it
held an investment in the voting stock of HTE. Under the equity method, the
original investment is recorded at cost and is adjusted periodically to
recognize the investor's share of earnings or losses after the respective dates
of acquisition. The Company's investment in HTE would include the unamortized
excess of the Company's investment over its equity in the net assets of HTE.
This excess would be amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated
economic useful life of ten years.

    Because of the effects of such a future change, the following information
has been provided or derived from publicly filed financial information which has
not been independently confirmed to the Company and is considered unaudited. HTE
reported net losses of $3.4 million and $14.9 million for the years ended
December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Subsequent to the Company's initial
acquisition of HTE's shares in August 1999, HTE recorded charges of
approximately $7.9 million, net of tax, related to write-offs of software
development costs, certain accounts receivables and employee-termination
benefits that were recorded by HTE as a result of changes in management and
charges for litigation settlements. During 2000, HTE recovered a portion of
these costs, which totaled $1.1 million. These costs would be considered
pre-acquisition costs by the Company in determining its share of HTE's loss from
the respective dates of acquisition. Had the Company's investment in HTE been
accounted for under the equity method, the Company would have recorded equity in
losses of HTE of $2.3 million and $1.4 million for the years ended December 31,
2000 and 1999, respectively.

(7) COSTS OF CERTAIN ACQUISITION OPPORTUNITIES

CPS Systems Notes Receivable

    In March 1999, the Company entered into a merger agreement pursuant to which
the Company contemplated the acquisition of all of the outstanding common stock
of CPS Systems, Inc. ("CPS"). In connection with that agreement, the Company
provided CPS with bridge financing of $1.0 million in the form of a note secured
by a second lien on substantially all of the assets of CPS, including accounts
receivable, inventory, intangibles, equipment and intellectual property. The
note bore interest at 2% over the prime rate and was initially due on October
30, 1999. In June 1999, Tyler provided notice to CPS that it was exercising its
right to terminate the merger agreement. Although the original agreement was
terminated, the Company and CPS continued to negotiate to find an alternative
structure for the transaction. In August 1999, Tyler provided an additional
$200,000 of bridge financing, on terms similar to the original note and
continued to provide additional bridge financings on terms similar to the other
notes.

    In January 2000, CPS filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11
of the United States Bankruptcy Code. On March 24, 2000, the bankruptcy court
conducted a public auction of the assets and the Company submitted a cash only
bid of $100,000 for the California Visual Basic/Oracle Tax and CAMA software
assets of CPS.

    The Company closed on the transaction on March 30, 2000, and anticipates
minimal to no recovery of amounts due under its secured notes. Accordingly, the
aggregate bridge financings and related accrued interest receivable and other
costs amounting to $1.9 million was charged to 1999 operations.

Other

    On July 31, 1998, the Company entered into a letter of intent with a Fortune
500 company to acquire certain businesses of the company in a transaction to be
accounted for as a purchase business combination. These businesses had estimated
annual revenues of over $500 million and represented a business opportunity
which was aligned with the Company's strategy in the information management
business. Direct and incremental costs associated with the proposed combination,
primarily consisting of fees paid to



                                    Page 40


outside legal and accounting advisors for due diligence, were incurred by the
Company and would have been considered as a cost of the acquisition upon the
successful closing of the transaction. Subsequent to September 30, 1998, the
potential seller elected not to sell any of the businesses. Accordingly, all
costs associated with this opportunity have been expensed in the accompanying
1998 consolidated financial statements and are included in "costs of certain
acquisition opportunities."

(8) GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

    Goodwill, other intangible assets and related accumulated amortization
consists of the following at December 31:



    Annual amortization expense totaled $7.5 million, $5.0 million and $1.5
million during the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

(9) ACCRUED LIABILITIES

    Accrued liabilities consists of the following at December 31:



(10) LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS

     Long-term obligations consists of the following at December 31:



    The aggregate maturities of long-term obligations for each of the years
subsequent to December 31, 2000, assuming the revolving credit facility matures
as scheduled, are as follows: 2001 - $353,000; 2002 - $4.9 million; 2003 -
$54,000; 2004 - $24,000; 2005 - $2.8 million.

    Interest paid in 2000, 1999 and 1998 was $8.8 million, $4.1 million, $1.8
million, respectively.

    In December 2000, the Company amended its revolving credit agreement with a
group of banks (the "Senior Credit Facility") to provide for total borrowings of
up to $15.0 million and a maturity date of July 1, 2002. Borrowings under the
Senior Credit Facility, as amended, initially bear interest at the lead bank's
prime rate plus a margin of 2.00%, which margin increases by 0.50% quarterly
through January 1, 2002. Borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility are limited
to 80% of eligible accounts receivable. At December 31, 2000, the Company had
outstanding borrowings and letters of credit of $4.8 million and unused
available borrowing capacity of $10.2 million under the Senior Credit Facility.
The interest rate at December 31, 2000 was 11.5%. The effective average interest
rates for borrowings during 2000 and 1999 were 10.2% and 7.7%, respectively. As
a result of the amendments made to the



                                    Page 41


credit facility during 2000, a $1.4 million charge was recorded pursuant to
Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") 98-14 "Accounting for Changes in
Line-of-Credit or Revolving-Debt Arrangements" to accelerate the amortization of
previously capitalized loan costs.

    The Senior Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of the Company's
real and personal property and by a pledge of the common stock of present and
future significant operating subsidiaries. The Senior Credit Facility is also
guaranteed by such subsidiaries. Under the terms of the Senior Credit Facility,
the Company is required to maintain certain financial ratios and other financial
conditions. The Senior Credit Facility also prohibits the Company from making
certain investments, advances or loans and restricts substantial asset sales,
capital expenditures and cash dividends. At December 31, 2000, the Company is in
compliance with its various covenants under the Senior Credit Facility, as
amended.

(11) INCOME TAX

    The provision (benefit) included in continuing operations for income tax
consists of the following:



    The income tax provision (benefit) differs from amounts computed by applying
the federal statutory tax rate of 35% to loss from continuing operations as
follows:



    Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities as of December
31 are as follows:



    At December 31, 2000, the Company had available approximately $11.6 million
of net tax operating loss carryforwards for federal income tax purposes. These
carryforwards, which may provide future tax benefits, expire in 2020. Based upon
the periods in which taxable temporary differences are anticipated to reverse,
management believes it is more likely than not that the Company will realize the
benefits of these deductible differences, including the net operating loss
carryforwards, at December 31, 2000. However, the



                                    Page 42


amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted in the
future if estimates of reversing taxable temporary differences are revised.

    Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely
than not that all the deferred tax assets will be realized except for those
relating to the capital loss carryforwards and the related basis difference on
investment security available-for-sale. Accordingly, the Company believes that
no valuation allowance is required for the remaining deferred tax assets. The
Company's capital loss carryforwards expire beginning in 2003.

    During the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company sold Resources, Kofile
and certain other businesses (see Note 3). In connection with these respective
sales, the Company utilized approximately $45.9 million of available capital
loss carryforwards which were fully reserved in the valuation allowance
account at December 31, 1999.

    The Company received a refund of prior years' income taxes of $2.7 million
in 2000, and paid income taxes, net of refunds received, of $2.8 million and
$1.5 million in 1999 and 1998, respectively.

(12) SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

    The Company has authorized 1.0 million shares of $10 par value voting
preferred stock. The board of directors had designated 250,000 shares as Series
A Junior Participating Preferred Stock which were reserved for issuance upon
exercise of the Company's stock purchase rights. In December 1997, the board of
directors authorized the redemption of the preferred stock purchase rights in
connection with the contemplated acquisitions of Resources, TSG and INCODE. The
rights were redeemed in January 1998 at $.01 per share. Prior to this
redemption, each share of the Company's common stock included a stock purchase
right. These rights, which did not have voting rights, could be exercised only
after public announcement that a person or group had acquired 20% or more of the
Company's common stock or public announcement of an offer for 30% or more of the
Company's common stock. The Company had the right to redeem the rights at a
price of $.01 per right at any time prior to 15 days (or such longer period as
the board of directors may have determined) after the acquisition of 20% of the
Company's common stock. Upon exercise each right could have been used to
purchase 1/100 of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock for
$21. Each share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock would have had
a minimum preferential quarterly dividend of 100 times the dividend declared on
common stock, minimum liquidation preference of $100 per share and other
preferential common stock conversion features in connection with mergers or
other business combinations.

    In May 2000, the Company sold 3.3 million shares of common stock and 333,380
warrants pursuant to a private placement agreement with Sanders Morris Harris
Inc. for approximately $10.0 million in gross cash proceeds, before deducting
commissions and offering expenses of approximately $730,000. Each warrant is
convertible into one share of common stock at an exercise price of $3.60 per
share. The warrants expire in May 2005. The common stock sold in this
transaction is not registered and may only be sold pursuant to Rule 144 under
the Securities Act of 1933, generally after being held for at least one year.

    As of December 31, 2000, the Company had an additional warrant outstanding
to purchase 2.0 million shares of the Company's common stock at $2.50 per share.
The warrant expires in September 2007.

(13) STOCK OPTION PLAN

    The Company's stock option plan provides for the granting of non-qualified
and incentive stock options, as defined by the Internal Revenue Code, to key
employees and directors of the Company and its subsidiaries of up to 5.5 million
shares of the Company's common stock at prices which represent fair market value
at dates of grant. All options granted have ten year terms and generally vest
over, and become fully exercisable at the end of, three to five years of
continued employment.




                                    Page 43




    The following table summarizes the transactions of the Company's stock
option plan for the three-year period ended December 31, 2000:



    The following table summarizes information concerning outstanding and
exercisable options at December 31, 2000:



    As allowed by SFAS No. 123, the Company has continued to follow APB Opinion
No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees", which does not recognize
compensation expense on the issuance of its stock options because the option
terms are fixed and the exercise price equals the market price of the underlying
stock on the grant date.

    As required by SFAS No. 123, the Company has determined the pro forma
information as if the Company had accounted for stock options granted since
January 1, 1995, under the fair value method of SFAS No. 123. The Black-Scholes
option pricing model was used with the following weighted-average assumptions
for 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively: risk-free interest rates of 6.1%, 5.56%
and 5.16%; dividend yield of 0%; expected common stock market price volatility
factor of .73, .70 and .68; and a weighted-average expected life of the options
of seven years. The weighted-average fair value of options granted in 2000, 1999
and 1998 was $2.02, $3.47 and $4.93 per share, respectively.

    Had compensation expense been recorded based on the fair values of the stock
option grants, the Company's 2000, 1999, and 1998 pro forma net loss would have
been $26.0 million, $4.6 million and $9.0 million, or $0.57, $0.12, and $0.28
per diluted share, respectively. These pro forma calculations only include the
effects of grants since 1995. Accordingly, the impacts are not necessarily
indicative of the effects on reported net income of future years.

    During the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company granted to an employee
50,000 shares of restricted common stock with a fair value of $303,000 at the
grant date. The Company recorded compensation expense of $151,500 and $151,500
during the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively, based on the
service period provided for in the agreement and the vesting period over which
the restrictions lapse.

                                    Page 44


(14) EARNINGS (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE - BASIC AND DILUTED

    In accordance with SFAS No. 128 "Earnings per Share", the Company has
presented basic income (loss) per share, computed on the basis of the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding during the year, and diluted income
(loss) per share, computed on the basis of the weighted average number of common
shares and all dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the year.

    The Company incurred a loss from continuing operations in 2000, 1999 and
1998. As a result, the denominator was not adjusted for dilutive securities in
these years as the effect would have been antidilutive.

    For the years ended December 31, the following options were not included in
the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would have been
antidilutive:



    Additionally, the warrants to purchase 2.3 million shares of the Company's
common stock were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share
for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 because the effect would
have been antidilutive.

(15) LEASES

    The Company leases certain offices, and transportation, computer and other
equipment used in its operations under noncancelable operating lease agreements
expiring at various dates through 2010. Most leases contain renewal options and
some contain purchase options. The leases generally provide that the Company pay
taxes, maintenance, insurance and certain other operating expenses.

    Rent expense was approximately $2.1 million in 2000, $1.1 million in 1999
and $486,000 in 1998.

    The Company has capital leases for certain equipment, which is included in
"Property and equipment, net." The present value of future minimum lease
payments relating to these assets are capitalized based on contract provisions.
Capitalized amounts are depreciated over the lesser of the term of the lease or
the normal depreciable lives of the assets.

    Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable leases at December 31,
2000 are as follows:



(16) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

    The Company has a retirement savings plan structured under Section 401(k) of
the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"). The plan covers substantially all
employees meeting minimum service requirements. Under the plan, employees may
elect to reduce their current compensation by up to 15%, subject to certain
maximum dollar limitations prescribed by the Code, and have the amount
contributed to the plan as salary deferral contributions. The Company
contributes up to a maximum of 2% of an employee's compensation to the plan. The
Company made contributions to the plan and charged continuing operations
$761,000, $396,000 and $106,000 in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.




                                    Page 45




(17) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    Two of the Company's non-operating subsidiaries, Swan Transportation Company
("Swan") and TPI of Texas, Inc. ("TPI"), have been and/or are currently involved
in various claims raised by approximately 550 former TPI employees for work
related injuries and physical conditions resulting from alleged exposure to
silica, asbestos, and/or related industrial dusts during their employment by
TPI. Swan was the parent company of TPI, which owned and operated a foundry in
Tyler, Texas for approximately 28 years. As non-operating subsidiaries of the
Company, the assets of Swan and TPI consist primarily of various insurance
policies issued to each company during the relevant time periods. Swan and TPI
have tendered the defense and indemnity obligations arising from these claims to
their insurance carriers. To date, Swan's insurance carriers have entered into
settlement agreements with over 230 of the plaintiffs, each of which agreed to
release Swan, TPI, the Company, and its subsidiaries and affiliates from all
such claims in exchange for payments made by the insurance carriers.

    The Company initially provides for estimated claim settlement costs when
minimum levels can be reasonably estimated. If the best estimate of claim costs
can only be identified within a range and no specific amount within that range
can be determined more likely than any other amount within the range, the
minimum of the range is accrued. Based on an initial assessment of claims and
contingent claims that may result in future litigation involving TPI, a reserve
for the minimum amount of $2.0 million for claim settlements was recorded in
1996. Legal and related professional services costs to defend litigation of this
nature have been expensed as incurred. During the years ended December 31, 2000
and 1999, the Company charged discontinued operations $748,000 and $1.9 million,
respectively, in connection with settlement, legal and related professional
costs, and the remaining liability was approximately $1.9 million at December
31, 2000.

    The New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (the "NJDEP") has
alleged that a site where Jersey-Tyler Company ("Jersey-Tyler"), a former
affiliate of TPI, once operated a foundry contains lead and possible other
priority pollutant metals and may need on-site and off-site remediation. In
January 1995, TPI agreed with the NJDEP to undertake certain investigatory
actions relating to the alleged contamination in and around the site, which
investigation was completed during the first quarter of 2001. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, TPI has in the past denied, and continues to deny, any liability
for alleged environmental contamination at the site. The NJDEP has not asserted
that the Company is a potentially responsible party for the site.

    On November 27, 2000, TPI consummated a transaction with a third party
contractor for a complete transfer of environmental liabilities and obligations
relating to the site. Under the agreement, the third party contractor has
executed an enforceable agreement with the NJDEP whereby such contractor has
assumed substantially all liability related to the site and has been identified
as the responsible party for all clean up activities of the site as required by
the NJDEP. The remedial activities conducted by the third party contractor are
funded by a trust and are secured by clean-up cost containment insurance and
environmental response, compensation, and liability insurance, of which the
Company and TPI are a named insured. The funds placed in the trust are governed
by a trust agreement that only permits distribution for remediation of the site.
The trust was funded from various sources, including other alleged potentially
responsible parties, TPI's insurance carriers, and TPI.

    Because of the inherent uncertainties discussed above, it is reasonably
possible that the amounts recorded as liabilities for TPI and Swan related
matters could change in the near term by amounts that would be material to the
consolidated financial statements.

    Other than ordinary course, routine litigation incidental to the business of
the Company and except as described herein, there are no material legal
proceedings pending to which the Company or its subsidiaries are parties or to
which any of its properties are subject.



                                    Page 46




(18) QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (unaudited)

    The following tables contain selected financial information from unaudited
consolidated statements of operations for each quarter of 2000 and 1999.





                                    Page 47




                            TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

                  Years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998









                                    Page 48


                                 EXHIBIT NUMBER




