
10-K



                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[X] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (Fee required) FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994

[ ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (No fee required) For the transition period from--- to---

Commission File Number 1-3492

                              HALLIBURTON COMPANY
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

             DELAWARE                             73-0271280
(State or other jurisdiction of                   (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation of organization)                    Identification No.)

                    3600 LINCOLN PLAZA, DALLAS, TEXAS 75201
                    (Address of principal executive offices)
                  TELEPHONE NUMBER - AREA CODE (214) 978-2600


          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                                                  NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON
             TITLE OF EACH CLASS                      WHICH REGISTERED 
             -------------------                      -----------------
Common Stock par value $2.50 per share            New York Stock Exchange 
Zero coupon convertible subordinated debentures
 due March 13, 2006                               New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. 
Yes X No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.---

The aggregate market value of Common Stock held by nonaffiliates on March 21,
1995, determined using the per share closing price on the New York Stock
Exchange Composite tape of $37.25 on that date was approximately
$4,253,900,000.

As of March 21, 1995, there were 114,199,702 shares of Halliburton Company 
Common Stock $2.50 par value per share outstanding.

Portions of the Halliburton Company Proxy Statement dated March 21, 1995, are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.

PART I

ITEM  1. BUSINESS.

     GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS - Halliburton Company (the Company) was
established in 1919 and incorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware in
1924. The Company provides energy services, engineering and construction
services, and property and casualty insurance services.
     Information related to acquisitions and dispositions is set forth in Note
19 to the financial statements of this Annual Report.

     FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT BUSINESS SEGMENTS - The Company is comprised of
three business segments. See Note 12 to the financial statements of this Annual
Report for financial information about these three business segments. Energy
Services product sales were $307.9 million in 1994, $414.4 million in 1993 and
$437.0 million in 1992.

     DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES AND PRODUCTS - The following is a summary which
briefly describes the Company's services and products for each business segment.
ENERGY SERVICES: Halliburton Energy Services (Energy Services) provides a wide
range of services and products used in the exploration, development and
production of oil and natural gas. Energy Services operates worldwide serving
major oil companies, independent operators and national oil companies. The
services and products provided by Energy Services include cementing, casing
equipment and water control services; completion and production products;
directional drilling systems, measurement while drilling, logging while drilling
and mud logging services; open and cased hole logging and perforating services
and logging and perforating products; well testing, reservoir description and
evaluation services, tubing conveyed well completion systems and reservoir
engineering services; stimulation and sand control services and tools and coiled
tubing services; wellhead pressure control equipment, well control, hydraulic
workover and downhole video services. In January, 1994, the Company sold
substantially all of its geophysical business. In November, 1994, the Company
sold its natural gas compression business, which was engaged in the sale and
leasing of natural gas compressors and gas processing equipment. In December,
1994, the Company sold substantially all of its U.S. based self-elevating
workover platforms. 
ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION SERVICES: Engineering and Construction
Services includes services for both land and marine activities. Included are
technical and economic feasibility studies, site evaluation, licensing,
conceptual design, process design, detailed engineering, procurement, project
and construction management, construction and start-up assistance of electric
utility plants, chemical and petrochemical plants, refineries, pulp and paper
mills, metal processing plants, highways and bridges, subsea construction,
fabrication and installation of subsea pipelines, offshore platforms, production
platform facilities, marine engineering and other marine related projects,
contract maintenance and operations and maintenance services for both industry
and government, engineering and environmental consulting and waste management
services for industry, utilities and government, and remedial engineering and
construction services for hazardous waste sites (Brown & Root). 
INSURANCE SERVICES: Insurance Services provides property and casualty
insurance products and services (Highlands Insurance Company).

     MARKETS AND COMPETITION - The Company is one of the world's largest
diversified energy services and engineering and construction services companies.
     The Company's services and products are sold in highly competitive markets
throughout the world. Competition in both services and products is based on a
combination of price, service (including the ability to deliver services and
products on an "as needed where needed" basis), product quality, warranty and
technical proficiency. Some Energy Services' and Engineering and Construction
Services' customers have indicated a preference for integrated services and
solutions. These integrated services, in the case of Energy Services, relate to
all phases of exploration and production of oil and gas, and, in the case of
Engineering and Construction Services, relate to all phases of design,
procurement, construction, project management and maintenance of a facility.
Demand for these types of integrated services is based primarily upon quality of
service, technical proficiency and overall price.
     The Company conducts business worldwide in over 100 countries. Since the
market for the Company's services and products is so large and crosses many
geographic lines, a meaningful estimate of the number of competitors cannot be
made. The markets are, however, highly competitive with many substantial
companies operating in each market.
     Generally, the Company's services and products are marketed through its own
servicing and sales organizations. A small percentage of sales of Energy
Services' products is made by supply stores and third-party representatives.
     Operations in some countries may be affected by unsettled political
conditions, expropriation or other governmental actions, and exchange control
and currency problems. The Company believes the geographic diversification of
its business activities reduces the risk that loss of its operations in any one
country would be material to the conduct of its operations taken as a whole.
Information regarding the Company's exposures to foreign currency fluctuations,
risk concentration and financial instruments used to minimize risk is included
in Note 15 to the financial statements of this Annual Report.

     CUSTOMERS AND BACKLOG - Substantially all of the Company's Energy Services
and a significant portion of Engineering and Construction Services are related
to the energy industries. In 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively, 75%, 77% and
79% of the Company's revenues were derived from the sale of products and
services to, including construction for, the energy industries.
     The following schedule summarizes the backlog of engineering and
construction projects at December 31, 1994 and 1993:



     It is estimated that nearly 60% of the backlog existing at December 31,
1994 will be  completed  during  1995.  
     The Company does not believe that engineering and construction backlog
should necessarily be relied on as an indication of future operating results
since such backlog figures are subject to substantial fluctuations. Arrangements
included in backlog are in many instances extremely complex, nonrepetitive in
nature and may fluctuate in contract value. Many contracts do not provide for a
fixed amount and are subject to modification or termination by the customer. Due
to the size of certain contracts, the termination or modification of any one or
more contracts or the addition of other contracts may have a substantial and
immediate effect on backlog.
      Orders for Energy Services are generally placed by customers on the basis
of current need. Therefore, backlog of orders for these services and products
are not material.

     RAW MATERIALS - All raw materials essential to the Company's business are
normally readily available. Where the Company is dependent on a single supplier
for any materials essential to its business, the Company is confident that it
could make satisfactory alternative arrangements in the event of interruption in
the supply of such materials.

     RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND PATENTS - The Company maintains an active
research and development program to assist in the improvement of existing
products and processes, the development of new products and processes and the
improvement of engineering standards and practices that serve the changing needs
of its customers. Information relating to expenditures for research and
development is included in Note 13 to the financial statements of this Annual
Report.
     The Company owns a large number of patents and has pending a substantial
number of patent applications, covering various products and processes. It is
also licensed under patents owned by others. The Company does not consider a
particular patent or group of patents to be material to the Company's business.

     SEASONALITY - Weather and natural phenomena can temporarily affect the
performance of the Company's services. Winter months in the Northern Hemisphere
tend to affect operations negatively, but the widespread geographical locations
of the Company's services serve to mitigate the seasonal nature of the Company's
business.

     EMPLOYEES - At December 31, 1994 the Company employed  approximately 57,200
people of which 21,700 were located outside the United States. 

     REGULATION - The Company is subject to various environmental laws and
regulations. Compliance with such requirements has neither substantially
increased capital expenditures or adversely affected the Company's competitive
position, nor materially affected the Company's earnings. The Company does not
anticipate any such material adverse effects in the foreseeable future as a
result of such existing laws and regulations. Note 14 to the financial
statements of this Annual Report discusses the Company's involvement as a
potentially responsible party in remedial activities to clean up various
"Superfund" sites.

ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES.

     Information  relating  to  lease  payments  is  included  in Note 14 to the
financial statements of this Annual Report.
     The Company's owned and leased facilities, as described below, are suitable
and adequate for their intended use.

     ENERGY SERVICES - Energy Services owns manufacturing facilities covering
approximately 3,400,000 square feet. Principal locations of these manufacturing
facilities are Davis and Duncan, Oklahoma; Alvarado, Amarillo, Carrollton,
Cisco, Fort Worth, Garland, Houston and Mansfield, Texas; Arbroath, Scotland;
Reynosa, Mexico; and Jurong, Singapore. The manufacturing facilities at Davis,
Amarillo, Cisco, Mansfield and one of four facilities in Houston were inactive
at the end of 1994. One of the two facilities in Carrollton was inactive at the
end of 1993 and was sold in 1994. Energy Services also leases manufacturing
facilities covering approximately 96,000 square feet. Principal locations of
these facilities are Jurong, Singapore; Basingstoke, England; and Kilwinning,
Scotland.
     Research, development and engineering activities are carried out in owned
facilities covering approximately 442,000 square feet in Duncan, Oklahoma;
Houston and Carrollton, Texas; and Aberdeen, Scotland; and leased facilities
covering approximately 41,000 square feet in Bedford, England; and Leiderdorp,
Holland.
     In addition, service centers, sales offices and field warehouses are
operated at approximately 200 locations in the United States, almost all of
which are owned, and at approximately 265 locations outside the United States in
both the Eastern and Western Hemispheres.

     ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION SERVICES - Engineering and Construction
Services owns manufacturing facilities covering approximately 441,000 square
feet in Houston, Texas, and Edmonton, Canada. The Company leased 388,000 square
feet of this manufacturing space in Houston to another Company in 1994.
Engineering and Construction Services also owns marine fabrication facilities
covering approximately 640 acres in Belle Chasse, Louisiana; Greens Bayou,
Texas; Sunda Strait, Indonesia (35% owned); and Nigg and Wick, Scotland. The
Harbor Island, Texas facility including approximately 220 acres and part of the
Belle Chasse, Louisiana facility of approximately 90 acres were sold during
1994. The remaining approximately 165 acres of the Belle Chasse, Louisiana
facility continued to be idle. Engineering and design, project management and
procurement services activities are carried out in owned facilities covering
approximately 1,500,000 square feet in Houston, Texas; Edmonton, Canada; and
Aberdeen, Scotland; and leased facilities covering approximately 2,000,000
square feet in Mobile, Alabama; Alhambra, California; Gaithersburg, Maryland;
London, England; Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; Singapore; Aberdeen, Scotland; Plzen,
Czech Republic; and Bahrain.
     In addition, laboratories, services centers, and sales offices are operated
at approximately 30 locations in the United States, almost all of which are
leased by the Company, and at approximately 5 foreign locations in both Eastern
and Western Hemispheres.

     INSURANCE SERVICES - Insurance Services operates from leased facilities in
Houston, Texas and London, England covering approximately 130,000 square feet.
Insurance Services also operates out of approximately 10 sales and service
centers in the United States and 2 international locations in the Eastern
Hemisphere which are leased by the Company.

     GENERAL CORPORATE - General Corporate operates from leased facilities in
Dallas, Texas covering approximately 55,000 square feet. The Company also leases
approximately 5,500 square feet of space in Washington, D.C. Due to the
outsourcing of the Company's computer and data processing services, the owned
and leased facilities in Arlington, Texas covering approximately 85,000 and
36,000 square feet, respectively, will be vacated during 1995 and the owned
facility is intended to be sold or leased. 

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

     Information relating to various commitments and contingencies is described
in Note 14 to the financial statements of this Annual Report.

ITEM  4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the
fourth quarter of 1994.

ITEM 4(A).  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

     The following table indicates the names and ages of the executive officers
of the registrant along with a listing of all offices held by each during the
past five years:

NAME AND AGE               OFFICES HELD AND TERM OF OFFICE

   Jerry H. Blurton        Vice President - Finance, since September 1991
   (Age 50)                Vice President and Controller, October 1989 to 
                             September 1991

   Lester L. Coleman       Executive Vice President and General Counsel, 
   (Age 52)                  since May 1993
                           President of Energy Services Group, September 1991
                             to May 1993
                           Executive Vice President of Finance and Corporate
                             Development, January 1988 to September 1991

*  Thomas H. Cruikshank    Director of Registrant, since May 1977
   (Age 63)                Chairman of the Board, since June 1989
                           Chief Executive Officer, since May 1983

*  Dale P. Jones           Director of Registrant, since December 1988
   (Age 58)                President, since June 1989

*  Tommy E. Knight         President and Chief Executive Officer of Brown &  
   (Age 56)                  Root, Inc., since May 1992
                           Executive Vice President - Operations of Brown & 
                             Root, Inc, January 1990 to May 1992

*  Kenneth R. LeSuer       President and Chief Executive Officer of 
   (Age 59)                  Halliburton Energy Services, since March 1994
                           President and Chief Operating Officer of 
                             Halliburton Energy Services, May 1993 to March 1994
                           President and Chief Executive Officer of Halliburton 
                             Services, December 1989 to May 1993

*  W. Bernard Pieper       Chief Operating Officer, since February 1994
   (Age 62)                Vice Chairman, since May 1992
                           President and Chief Executive Officer of Brown & 
                             Root, Inc.  (Subsidiary of the Registrant), July 
                             1990 to May 1992
                           President and Chief Operating Officer of Brown & 
                             Root, Inc., January 1989 to July 1990

* Members of the Executive Committee of the registrant.
There are no family relationships between the executive officers of the
registrant.

PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER 
          MATTERS.

     The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the
Stock Exchange of London, and the Swiss Stock Exchanges at Zurich, Geneva, Basel
and Lausanne. The Company has initiated proceedings to de-list its common stock
from the Toronto Stock Exchange. Information relating to market prices of common
stock and quarterly dividend payments is included under the caption "Quarterly
Data and Market Price Information" on page 46 of this Annual Report. At December
31, 1994, there were approximately 17,400 shareholders of record. In calculating
the number of shareholders, the Company considers clearing agencies and security
position listings as one shareholder for each agency or listing.

ITEM  6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

     Information relating to selected financial data is included on page 47 of
this Annual Report.

ITEM  7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

     Information relating to management's discussion and analysis of financial
condition and results of operations is included on pages 8 to 14 of this Annual
Report.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
                                                                        PAGE NO.
                                                                        --------
Responsibility for Financial Reporting                                     15
Report of Arthur Andersen LLP, Independent Public Accountants              16
Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended
  December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                         17
Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1994 and 1993                  18
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended
  December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                                         19
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the
  Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992                             20

Notes to Financial Statements                                           21 to 45

Quarterly Data and Market Price Information                                46

The related financial statement schedules are included under Part IV, Item 14 of
this Annual Report.

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND 
FINANCIAL CONDITION

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
     The business of the Company is significantly affected by worldwide
expenditures of the energy industries. The Company operates in over 100
countries. Operations in some countries may be affected by unsettled political
conditions, expropriation or other governmental actions, and exchange control
and currency problems. The Company believes the diversification of its
activities reduces the risk that loss of its operations in any one country would
be material to the conduct of its operations taken as whole.
     The operations of Halliburton Energy Services are impacted quickly by
short-term increases and decreases in oil and natural gas development activities
in major producing areas throughout the world. These development activities are
sensitive to the legislative environment in the United States and other major
producing countries, developments in the Middle East and the impact of these and
other events on the pricing of oil and natural gas.
     The operations of Engineering and Construction Services are subject to
longer-term economic trends in the United States and other major countries. A
major economic factor is the capital spending plans for hydrocarbon processing
and pipeline delivery networks of major oil, natural gas and chemical companies
throughout the world. Other factors include the capital spending plans of the
pulp and paper industry, environmental laws which require emission standards
performance for existing and new facilities and governmental spending for
military and logistical support by the United States and the United Kingdom.
     The operations of Insurance Services are impacted by the legislative and
legal environment in the United States, interest rates and catastrophic events.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

CONSOLIDATED HIGHLIGHTS
     Revenues in 1994 were $5,740.5 million, a decrease of 10% from 1993
revenues of $6,350.8 million and a 13% decrease from 1992 revenues of $6,565.9
million. Excluding the revenues of the geophysical operations which were
divested in January 1994, revenues in 1994 decreased by 3% from 1993 and by 6%
from 1992. Energy Services revenues, excluding geophysical revenues, declined in
1994 compared to 1993 but increased over 1992. Revenues from Engineering and
Construction Services and Insurance Services declined from 1993 and 1992.
     Operating income in 1994 was $235.0 million, compared with operating losses
of $132.6 million in 1993 and $101.4 million in 1992. Excluding the items listed
below, operating income in 1994 increased by 9% over 1993 and by 32% over 1992.
Most of the increase in operating income, excluding the items listed below, was
from Energy Services.
     In 1994, the Company recognized a $42.6 million charge against Energy
Services operating income ($27.7 million net of income taxes) to recognize
severance costs for the termination of about 2,700 employees. See Note 17 to the
consolidated financial statements. In 1993, the Company recognized a $301.8
million charge against Energy Services operating income ($263.8 million net of
income taxes) to reflect the net realizable value of the Company's geophysical
operations which were disposed of in January 1994. See Note 19 to the
consolidated financial statements. The Company also provided a $20.0 million
charge in 1993 ($13.0 million net of income taxes) related to Energy Services
non-geophysical employee severance costs. In addition, the Company provided a
$46.3 million charge in 1993 and a $21.0 million charge in 1992 ($33.9 million
and $17.4 million net of income taxes in 1993 and 1992) related to claims loss
reserves on its United Kingdom insurance business in each year and expenses for
the suspension of underwriting activities in 1993 of the Insurance Services
United Kingdom subsidiary. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.
See Note 18 to the financial statements for a description of special charges in
Energy Services and Engineering and Construction Services in 1992 which provided
for the closing and consolidating of certain operating facilities, globalizing
employee benefits and personnel reductions, relocations and associated employee
benefits costs, technological obsolescence of certain inventories and equipment
related to the introduction of new technologies, realignment of worldwide
manufacturing capabilities, write-down of certain investments in operations
which are no longer in the Company's long-term strategic interest, reduction in
certain intangible assets, and other items.



     Consolidated net income for 1994 was $177.8 million compared to net losses
of $161.0 million in 1993 and $137.3 million in 1992. Excluding the items listed
below, net income would have been $141.2 million in 1994, $123.2 million in 1993
and $99.7 million in 1992.
     Net income per share in 1994 was $1.56, compared to a loss per share of
$1.43 in 1993 and a loss per share of $1.28 in 1992. Excluding the items listed
above, net income per share would have been $1.24 per share in 1994, $1.10 in
1993 and $.93 in 1992.



ENERGY SERVICES
     In 1993, the Company reorganized the ten separate business units of Energy
Services into a single division. The objectives of the reorganization were to
deliver services and products more focused on the specific needs of its
customers in each geographical area, integrate products, services and processes
to deliver integrated services and solutions to customers, more easily adapt to
changes in market sizes and locations, and, as a result, produce acceptable
operating results and cash flows. This reorganization enabled the Company to
reduce the number of Energy Services employees during 1994. In addition, the
Company adopted a performance measurement and, for 1995, an incentive
compensation plan based upon cash flows and shareholder value creation. The
reduced cost structure, improvements in delivery of products and services to
customers, and organizational efficiencies improved Energy Services operating
profit performance in 1994 to the highest level since 1990.
     Recently, the price of natural gas declined and is expected to remain below
1994 price levels during 1995. A decline in natural gas prices tends to reduce
exploration and on-land drilling activities in North America quickly, while
North American offshore activities are impacted if a decline in prices is
sustained over a longer period of time. During this same time period, the price
of oil has risen. The net result of these factors should reduce the demand for
energy services and products in North America, but increase the demand
internationally. As a result, the Company expects the demand for Energy Services
in 1995 to be about the same as 1994 or slightly lower. However, Energy Services
will continue to benefit from its reduced cost structure and operational
customer focus.
     Revenues in 1994 were $2,514.0 million, a 15% decrease from 1993 revenues
of $2,953.4 million and an 8% decrease from 1992 revenues of $2,726.3 million.
Excluding the revenues of the divested geophysical operations, revenues in 1994
decreased by 1% from 1993, but increased by 11% over 1992. The decrease in
revenues in 1994 from 1993 relates primarily to reduced activities in the North
Sea and Middle East and market disturbances in Nigeria and Brazil. In addition,
higher levels of completion activity were experienced in the early part of 1993
on wells drilled prior to the December 31, 1992 expiration of United States
section 29 tight sands gas tax credits. The increase in 1994 revenues over 1992
relates primarily to the acquisition of the drilling systems business in 1993.
     Operating income in 1994 was $191.1 million, compared to losses of $147.7
million in 1993 and $63.6 million in 1992. Excluding the items listed below,
operating income would have been $233.7 million, a 20% increase over 1993 income
of $194.2 million and a 61% increase over 1992 income of $145.0 million. Most of
the increase in operating income is related to the successful implementation of
strategic action plans that have continued to lower the cost structure and
improve organizational efficiencies particularly in North America and increased
activities in South America. Operating income in 1994 includes $12.4 million
(compared to $31.0 million in 1993 and $10.5 million in 1992) resulting from a
combination of ongoing operations and collections on work performed in Libya by
foreign subsidiaries of the Company.




ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION SERVICES
     Engineering and Construction Services bid activities increased in 1994 over
1993 and this trend is expected to continue into 1995 and 1996. Improved profits
and cash flows in key industries served are leading customers to expand their
capital spending plans. In addition, opportunities continue to be sought for
integration of services offered by Engineering and Construction Services with
those of Energy Services in total energy field development and operation.
Integrated service arrangements offered through alliances and partnering
agreements with major energy companies and government-owned energy companies
will likely expand in 1995. Engineering and Construction Services also continues
to seek arrangements with government entities for privatization of services. As
government entities try to maintain or reduce costs, a number of opportunities
to provide services and management contracts are becoming available. The growth
in these types of opportunities along with improving economic development in
major countries throughout the world should be beneficial in 1995.
     Revenues in 1994 were $2,996.2 million, a 5% decrease from 1993 revenues of
$3,140.7 million and a 16% decrease from 1992 revenues of $3,563.7 million. Most
of the decrease is related to a decline in available work in downstream energy
projects due primarily to uncertainty in long-term oil prices and United Kingdom
tax policies on North Sea development activity as well as restrictions on
customers' cash flows in the Middle East. This decrease was partially offset by
awards of additional privatization service agreements primarily in Europe and
Africa.
     Operating income in 1994 was $67.2 million, compared to income of $79.3
million in 1993 and a loss of $12.0 million in 1992. Excluding the special
charges in 1992, operating income in 1992 would have been $70.6 million. The
decrease in operating income in 1994 is due primarily to contract losses on
North Sea marine fabrication projects and an electric utility plant project in
the United States. The decline in 1994 operating income is partially offset by
profitability on pipeline construction projects in the North Sea and the Far
East and inclusion of a $5.0 million gain on the sale of an environmental
remediation subsidiary. Operating income in 1994 also includes income of $5.1
million (compared to $13.7 million in 1993) resulting primarily from work
performed in Libya by foreign subsidiaries of the Company.
     The backlog of unfilled firm orders for engineering and construction
projects increased by 14% in 1994 over 1993. Backlog may not be a reliable
indicator of future profitability or activity levels due to the duration of many
projects and the complexity of various contract terms.

INSURANCE SERVICES
     Revenues were $230.3 million in 1994, a 10% decrease from 1993 and a 17%
decrease from 1992. Insurance Services exited from the assumed reinsurance
property catastrophe business in 1994. However, it is still exposed to
catastrophes that may occur in the future through the writing of direct property
coverages, primarily in Texas and Louisiana. The reduced revenues primarily
result from lower earned premiums on discontinued lines of business and from
changes by some customers in the type of workers' compensation coverage to a
deductible contract which delays the cash flow of premiums received.
     Insurance Services had an operating loss of $0.4 million in 1994 compared
to a loss of $42.2 million in 1993 and a loss of $4.8 million in 1992. Excluding
provisions for claim loss reserves on United Kingdom business and suspension of
underwriting activities in the United Kingdom in 1993 and 1992, operating income
would have been $4.1 million in 1993 and $16.2 million in 1992. Investment
income was lower in 1994 and 1993 compared to 1992 due primarily to lower yields
on available investments and reductions in invested balances in 1994 along with
the realization in 1992 of gains from the sale of certain investments.
     The Company's insurance subsidiaries have numerous reinsurance agreements
with other insurance companies. See Note 11 to the financial statements.

NONOPERATING ITEMS
     Interest income in 1992 includes interest on an income tax refund of $12.8
million. Excluding the interest on this refund, interest income in 1994 and 1993
was lower than 1992 due primarily to lower interest rates available on invested
cash and equivalents and lower average levels of invested cash.
     Foreign currency losses in 1994 were $15.6 million compared with 1993
losses of $21.0 million and 1992 losses of $32.7 million. The foreign currency
losses in 1994 relate primarily to Brazil and Venezuela. Prior year losses
related primarily to various Latin American and African currency exposures in
1993 and to European, African and Latin American currency exposures in 1992.
Economic programs were recently initiated by the governments of Brazil, Mexico
and Venezuela to stabilize their economies and curtail the rate of devaluation
in their local currencies. If these programs are successful, future foreign
exchange losses of the Company in these countries should be significantly
smaller than in the past. However, if these programs are unsuccessful, then
future foreign exchange losses in these countries will likely continue. Nigeria
recently changed its currency controls. This change will likely result in about
an $8 million gain in Nigeria in the first quarter of 1995.
     Nonoperating income in 1994 includes a gain on the sale of the Company's
natural gas compression business of $102.0 million. Nonoperating income in 1992
includes a $13.6 million gain on sale of the Company's health care cost
management services company.
     Income taxes were reduced in 1993 by $40.4 million due to a settlement with
the Internal Revenue Service relating to tax assessments for the 1980-1987
taxable years. See Note 7 to the financial statements. Income taxes were further
reduced in 1993 by an additional $6.4 million due to changes in Federal income
tax laws.
     The effective income tax rates, excluding the items outlined above, for the
years 1994, 1993 and 1992 were 39%, 43% and 48%, respectively. The decline in
the Company's effective income tax rate from 1993 and 1992 is primarily due to
the improvement in foreign earnings and the reduction in foreign losses not
fully benefitted by the Company.
     The Company reviews the probable realizability of its deferred tax assets
and liabilities in each taxing jurisdiction utilizing historical and forecast
information. A valuation allowance is provided for deferred tax assets if it is
more likely than not these items will either expire before the Company is able
to realize their benefit, or that future deductibility is statutorily prohibited
or uncertain. Approximately 80% of the deferred tax assets at December 31, 1994
relate to United States Federal temporary differences. The Company believes it
has sufficient taxable income in the combination of carryback years, future
reversals of taxable temporary differences and anticipated future taxable income
to utilize the future deductions represented in the deferred tax assets. In
addition, the Company can implement certain tax planning strategies to
accelerate taxable amounts to utilize any expiring carryforwards not offset by a
valuation allowance.
     The Company changed its methods of accounting for income taxes and
postretirement benefits other than pensions in 1992. See Notes 7 and 16 to the
financial statements for a description of changes in accounting methods.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     The Company ended the year 1994 with cash and equivalents of $428.1
million, an increase of $379.3 million from 1993 and an increase of $194.8
million from 1992. Excluding cash and equivalents of Insurance Services, which
are restricted from general corporate purposes unless paid to the parent as a
dividend, cash and equivalents at the end of the year 1994 were $375.3 million,
an increase of $367.8 million from 1993 and an increase of $228.9 million from
1992. The increase in cash is due primarily to an increase in cash flows from
proceeds from the sale of the geophysical business and the natural gas
compression business as outlined below and from operating activities.

OPERATING ACTIVITIES
     Cash flows from operating activities in 1994 were $443.4 million, up from
$243.1 million in 1993 and $381.6 million in 1992. The increase in cash flows
from operating activities in 1994 is primarily due to improved profitability and
the sale of geophysical services which eliminated a source of historically
negative cash flows. In addition, receivables and inventories in Energy Services
declined, which were partially offset by declines in payables primarily related
to payments of geophysical related liabilities. Receivables also declined in
1994 due to collections of income tax receivables.

INVESTING ACTIVITIES
     Cash flows from investing activities provided $194.3 million in cash in
1994 compared to a use of $342.5 million in 1993 and a use of $138.5 million in
1992. The 1994 increase is due to proceeds from the sale of the geophysical
business and natural gas compression business, the sale of two small
subsidiaries, along with reduced outflows for software development and capital
expenditures and the elimination of outflows related to geophysical speculative
data.
     In January 1994, the Company sold substantially all of the assets of its
geophysical services and products business for $190.0 million in cash and notes
subject to certain adjustments. The notes received were sold in 1994.
     In November 1994, the Company sold its natural gas compression business for
$205.0 million cash. 
     Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment were $234.7 million in 1994,
down from $246.9 million in 1993 and $315.9 million in 1992. The reduction in
the Company's expenditures for property, plant and equipment reflects, in part,
Energy Services combining its resources to optimize the most profitable target
market. The Company's expenditures for property, plant and equipment in 1995 may
be slightly higher than in 1994, unless market conditions deteriorate. The
Company believes that current levels of expenditures for property, plant and
equipment related to Energy Services, while reduced from historical levels, are
adequate to support current and anticipated replacement requirements.
     The Company had net payments for purchases of marketable securities in 1994
of $16.2 million, compared to net payments of $17.0 million in 1993 and net
receipts from sales or maturities of $211.5 million in 1992. The net payments in
1994 and 1993 are primarily due to investment activities by Insurance Services.
The net receipts for 1992 are primarily due to the maturities of the Company's
investment of cash available for general corporate use in short-term securities
which, at the time of purchase, had maturities in excess of 90 days.
     Receipts from sales of property, plant and equipment increased in 1994 over
1993 and 1992 due primarily to the sale of workover platforms.
     Other investing activities were $11.0 million in 1994, down from $81.8
million in 1993 and $88.0 million in 1992. Other investing activities include
investments in proprietary information to be licensed or sold. The decrease is
due primarily to the disposal of the geophysical business.

FINANCING ACTIVITIES
     Cash flows from financing activities used $252.6 million in 1994 compared
to $81.0 million in 1993 and $135.8 million in 1992. The 1994 increase in
outflows is related to the reduction of short-term indebtedness, the redemption
of long-term debt and installments on the note issued by the Company to the
buyer of the geophysical business.
     Long-term debt was $643.1 million at the end of 1994, compared to $623.9
million at the end of 1993 and $656.7 million at the end of 1992. In 1994, the
Company redeemed the remaining $23.8 million of its 10.2% debentures and made
$48.8 million in installments on the $73.8 million note issued by the Company to
the buyer of the geophysical business. In 1993, the Company redeemed $56.5
million principal amount of its debentures. The Company issued $42 million of
short-term debt in 1992, which was refinanced as long-term debt in 1993. In
addition, in 1992 the Company redeemed $55.8 million principal amount of its
debentures. Total debt was 26%, 27% and 26% of total capitalization at the end
of 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.
     Each holder of the Company's zero coupon convertible subordinated
debentures has the option to require the Company to purchase the debentures on
March 13, 1996 for a purchase price equal to the issue price plus accrued
original issue discount to date of purchase. The aggregate amount of debentures
on March 13, 1996 is expected to be $403.2 million. Under the current market
conditions, redemption of the debentures by each holder would be likely.
     The Company has sufficient ability to borrow additional short-term and
long-term funds if necessary. See Note 8 to the financial statements regarding
the Company's various short-term lines of credit. In July 1993, the Company
filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission
covering a proposed public offering of the Company's debt securities with an
aggregate initial public offering price not to exceed $500 million. The Company
may offer and sell from time-to-time one or more series of its debt securities
on terms to be determined at the time of the offering. In 1993, in connection
with the acquisition of the drilling systems business, the Company issued
6,857,000 shares of Common Stock previously held as treasury stock. See Note 19
to the financial statements.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     The Company is involved as a potentially responsible party in remedial
activities to clean up various "Superfund" sites under applicable Federal law
which imposes joint and several liability, if the harm is indivisible, on
certain persons without regard to fault, the legality of the original disposal,
or ownership of the site. Although it is very difficult to quantify the
potential impact of compliance with environmental protection laws, management of
the Company believes that any liability of the Company with respect to all but
two of such sites will not have a material adverse effect on the results of
operations of the Company. See Note 14 to the financial statements for
additional information on these two sites.

EXPORT MATTERS

     See Note 14 to the financial statements concerning certain actions of the
United States Government concerning exports by subsidiaries of the Company.


RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING

     Halliburton Company is responsible for the preparation and integrity of its
published financial statements. The financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
and, as such, include amounts based on judgments and estimates made by
management. The Company also prepared the other information included in the
annual report and is responsible for its accuracy and consistency with the
financial statements.
     The financial statements have been audited by the independent accounting
firm, Arthur Andersen LLP, which was given unrestricted access to all financial
records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of stockholders, the
board of directors and committees of the board.
     The Company maintains a system of internal control over financial
reporting, which is intended to provide reasonable assurance to the Company's
management and board of directors regarding the preparation of financial
statements. The system includes a documented organizational structure and
division of responsibility, established policies and procedures including codes
of conduct to foster a strong ethical climate, which are communicated throughout
the Company, and the careful selection, training and development of our people.
Internal auditors monitor the operation of the internal control system and
report findings and recommendations to management and the board of directors,
and corrective actions are taken to address control deficiencies and other
opportunities for improving the system as they are identified. The board,
operating through its audit committee, which is composed entirely of directors
who are not officers or employees of the Company, provides oversight to the
financial reporting process.
     There are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any system of
internal control, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention
or overriding of controls. Accordingly, even an effective internal control
system can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement
preparation. Furthermore, the effectiveness of an internal control system may
change over time.
     The Company assessed its internal control system in relation to criteria
for effective internal control over financial reporting described in "Internal
Control-Integrated Framework" issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based upon that assessment, the
Company believes that, as of December 31, 1994, its system of internal control
over financial reporting met those criteria.

HALLIBURTON COMPANY




by (Thomas H. Cruikshank)                      by (Jerry H. Blurton)
    Thomas H. Cruikshank                           Jerry H. Blurton
    Chairman of the Board                            Vice President-
 and Chief Executive Officer                           Finance


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors, 
Halliburton Company:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Halliburton
Company (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiary companies as of December 31,
1994 and 1993, and the related consolidated statements of income, cash flows and
shareholders' equity for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 1994. These financial statements are the responsibility of Halliburton
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Halliburton
Company and subsidiary companies as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 1994, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.
     As discussed in Notes 2 and 11 to the financial statements, as required by
generally accepted accounting principles, the Company changed its methods of
accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities and reinsurance
of short-duration and long-duration contracts effective December 31, 1993 and
January 1, 1993, respectively. In addition, as discussed in Notes 7 and 16 to
the financial statements, as required by generally accepted accounting
principles, the Company changed its methods of accounting for income taxes and
accounting for postretirement benefits, respectively, effective January 1, 1992.



(ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP)
 ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
 Dallas, Texas
   February 1, 1995










NOTE  1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION.
     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company
and all majority-owned subsidiaries. All material intercompany accounts and
transactions are eliminated. Investments in other affiliated companies in which
the Company has at least 20 percent ownership and does not have management
control are accounted for on the equity method. Certain prior year amounts have
been reclassified to conform with current year presentation.
CASH EQUIVALENTS.
     The Company considers all highly liquid investments with an original
maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
INVESTMENTS.
     In 1993, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities"
(SFAS 115), which requires the classification of debt and equity securities into
the following categories: held-to-maturity, available-for-sale, or trading.
Investments classified as held-to-maturity are measured at amortized cost. This
classification is based upon the Company's intent and ability to hold these
securities to full maturity. Investments classified as available-for-sale or
trading are measured at fair value at the balance sheet dates. Unrealized gains
and losses for available-for-sale investments are reported as a separate
component of shareholders' equity. Investments primarily relate to the
activities of the Company's insurance subsidiaries, and consist of commercial
paper, bonds and equity securities. 
REINSURANCE RECOVERABLES.
     Reinsurance receivables (including amounts related to claims incurred but
not reported) and prepaid reinsurance premiums are classified as assets. Amounts
recoverable from reinsurers are estimated consistent with the determination of
the claim liability associated with the reinsured policy. 
INVENTORIES.
     Inventories are stated at cost which is not in excess of market. Cost
represents invoice or production cost for new items and original cost less
allowance for condition for used material returned to stock. Production cost
includes material, labor and manufacturing overhead. About one-half of all sales
items (including related work in process and raw materials) are valued on a
last-in, first-out (LIFO) basis. Inventories of sales items owned by foreign
subsidiaries and inventories of operating supplies and parts are generally
valued at average cost. 
DEPRECIATION AND MAINTENANCE.
     Depreciation for financial reporting purposes is provided primarily on the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Expenditures
for maintenance and repairs are expensed; expenditures for renewals and
improvements are generally capitalized. Upon sale or retirement of property,
plant and equipment, the related cost and accumulated depreciation are removed
from the accounts and any gain or loss is recognized.
EXCESS OF COST OVER NET ASSETS ACQUIRED.
     The excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired is generally
amortized on the straight-line basis over periods not exceeding 40 years.
INCOME TAXES.
     In 1992, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," which requires recognition of deferred
tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events
that have been included in the financial statements or tax returns. 
DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS.
     The Company enters into derivative financial transactions to hedge existing
or projected exposures to changing foreign exchange rates, interest rates,
security prices, or commodity prices. The Company does not enter into derivative
transactions for speculative purposes. Gains and losses on commodity futures
transactions, which involve hedging price movements over the life of long-term
fixed price contracts, are deferred until the futures contracts are liquidated.
Hedges of other than commodity prices are generally carried at fair value with
the resulting gains and losses reflected in the results of operations. Gains and
losses on foreign exchange contracts where the local currency is the functional
currency are recorded in a separate component of shareholders' equity.
RESERVES FOR INSURANCE LOSSES AND CLAIMS AND UNEARNED PREMIUMS.
     The reserves for insurance losses and claims include estimates of amounts
required to settle losses incurred but not reported. Changes in estimates and
differences between estimates and ultimate payments are reflected in income in
the period in which such changes and differences become known. Unearned premiums
are determined by prorating policy premiums over the terms of the policies.
REVENUES AND INCOME RECOGNITION.
     The Company recognizes revenues as services are rendered or products are
shipped. The distinction between services and product sales is based upon the
overall business intent of the particular business operation. Revenues from
construction contracts are reported on the percentage of completion method of
accounting using measurements of progress toward completion appropriate for the
work performed. All known or anticipated losses on any contracts are provided
for currently. Claims for additional compensation are recognized during the
period such claims are resolved.
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION.
     The Company's primary functional currency is the U.S. dollar. Most foreign
entities translate monetary assets and liabilities at year-end exchange rates
while non-monetary items are translated at historical rates. Income and expense
accounts are translated at the average rates in effect during the year, except
for depreciation and cost of product sales which are translated at historical
rates. Gains or losses from changes in exchange rates are recognized in
consolidated income in the year of occurrence. The remaining entities use the
local currency as the functional currency and translate net assets at year-end
rates while income and expense accounts are translated at average exchange
rates. Adjustments resulting from these translations are reflected in the
Shareholders' equity section titled "Cumulative translation adjustment". 
INCOME PER SHARE.
     Income per share is based on the weighted average number of common shares
and common share equivalents outstanding during each year. Common share
equivalents included in the computation represent shares issuable upon assumed
exercise of stock options which have a dilutive effect.

NOTE 2. INVESTMENTS
     The Company adopted SFAS 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt
and Equity Securities" as of the end of 1993. Investments, which are primarily
held by the Company's insurance subsidiaries, at December 31, 1994 and 1993 are
as follows:





     The Company is not a trader in bonds and has classified investments into
two categories: available-for-sale and held-to-maturity.
     Investments classified as available-for-sale may be sold to fund liquidity
requirements, assist in meeting regulatory capital requirements and other
operating needs, or because of a change in credit worthiness of the issuer.
     All other investments are classified as held-to-maturity. These investments
include bonds in which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until
contractual maturity is reached.
     The fair value of investments is based on quoted market prices, where
available, or quotes from external pricing sources such as brokers for those or
similar investments and issues. No individual security issue exceeds 2% of total
assets.
     The carrying and fair value of debt securities available-for-sale and
held-to-maturity as of December 31, 1994, are shown below by contractual
maturity. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities as securities
may be restructured, called or prepaid. Securities with multiple maturity dates
are disclosed separately rather than allocated over several maturity groupings.



     Proceeds from sales of investments available-for-sale during 1994 were
$63.0 million. Gross gains of $1.6 million were realized on those sales. The
cost of each security sold was specifically identified in computing the related
realized gain or loss.
     Net unrealized losses on investments available-for-sale included in
shareholders' equity at December 31, 1994 was $7.6 million, net of income tax
benefit of $2.6 million. At December 31, 1993, the Company had net unrealized
gains on investments available-for-sale included in shareholders' equity of $9.3
million, net of income taxes of $2.3 million.
     Securities classified as held-to-maturity having an amortized cost of $19.9
million were called by their issuers prior to maturity during 1994 which
resulted in a net realized gain of $0.3 million.

NOTE 3.  RECEIVABLES
     The Company's receivables are generally not collateralized. Notes and
accounts receivable at December 31, 1994 include $30.1 million ($36.3 million at
December 31, 1993) not currently due from customers in accordance with
applicable retainage provisions of engineering and construction contracts. Of
the December 31, 1994 amount, approximately $29.1 million is expected to be
collected during 1995 and the remainder is due in subsequent years.
     Unbilled work on uncompleted contracts generally represents work currently
billable and such work is usually billed during normal billing processes in the
next month.

NOTE 4.  INVENTORIES
     Consolidated inventories at December 31, 1994 and 1993 consist of the
following:



     About one-half of all sales items (including related work in process and
raw materials) are valued using the LIFO method. If the average cost method had
been in use for inventories on the LIFO basis, total inventories would have been
about $21.9 million and $37.0 million higher than reported at December 31, 1994
and 1993, respectively.

NOTE 5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
     Major classes of fixed assets at December 31, 1994 and 1993 are as follows:


NOTE 6.  RELATED COMPANIES
     The Company conducts some of its operations through various joint venture
and other partnership forms which are principally accounted for using the equity
method. Summarized financial statements for the combined jointly-owned
operations which are not consolidated are as follows:


     European Marine Contractors, Limited, which is 50% owned by the Company and
part of Engineering and Construction Services, specializes in engineering,
procurement and construction of marine pipelines.
     Included in the Company's revenues for 1994, 1993 and 1992 are equity in
income of related companies of $93.0 million, $76.3 million and $40.5 million,
respectively.
     When the Company sells or transfers assets to an affiliated company that is
accounted for using the equity method and the affiliated company records the
assets at fair value, the excess of the fair value of the assets over the
Company's net book value is deferred and amortized over the expected lives of
the assets. Deferred gains included in the Company's other liabilities were
$19.4 million and $22.8 million at December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

 
NOTE 7.  INCOME TAXES
     In 1992, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" (SFAS 109), which recognizes deferred tax
assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of existing
differences between the financial reporting and tax reporting bases of assets
and liabilities and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for tax
purposes. The cumulative impact of adoption of SFAS 109 was a benefit of $15.5
million, or 14 cents per share.

     The components of the (provision) benefit for income taxes are:


     Included in deferred income taxes are foreign tax credits of $18.4 million
in 1994 and $28.3 million in 1992 and net operating loss carryforwards utilized
of $9.1 million and $7.3 million in 1993 and 1992, respectively.
     The U.S. and foreign components of income (loss) before income taxes,
minority interest and changes in accounting methods are as follows:


     The primary components of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities
and the related valuation allowances are as follows:


     The Company has foreign tax credits which expire in 1997 of $14.0 million.
     The Company has net foreign operating loss carryforwards which expire as
follows: 1995, $6.1 million; 1996, $8.0 million; 1997, $9.1 million; 1998, $14.9
million; 1999 through 2004, $42.4 million; and indefinite, $62.3 million.

    Reconciliations between the actual benefit (provision) for income taxes and
that computed by applying the U.S. statutory rate to income or loss before
income taxes, minority interest and changes in accounting methods are as
follows:


     During 1994, the Company received a statutory notice of deficiency for the
1989 tax year from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) of $51.8 million,
excluding any penalties or interest. The Company believes it has meritorious
defenses and does not expect that any liability resulting from the 1989 tax year
will result in a material adverse effect on its results of operations or
financial position.
     In 1993, the Company reached a settlement with the IRS for the 1980-1987
taxable years. As a result of the settlement, as well as significant prepayments
of taxes in prior years, the Company received a refund and net income was
increased by $40.4 million in 1993.

NOTE 8. LINES OF CREDIT AND LONG-TERM DEBT
     The Company has short-term lines of credit totaling $445.0 million with
several U.S. banks. No borrowings were outstanding at December 31, 1994 under
these credit facilities. At December 31, 1994, $30.7 million of other short-term
debt was outstanding.
     Long-term debt at December 31, 1994 and 1993 consists of the following:


     The Company's 8.75% debentures due February 15, 2021 do not have sinking
fund requirements and are not redeemable prior to maturity.
     The Company's $728.2 million principal amount at maturity of zero coupon
convertible subordinated debentures due 2006 do not have periodic interest
payment requirements and have an annual yield to maturity of 6.00%. Each $1,000
principal amount at maturity debenture is convertible into 6.824 shares of
Common Stock of the Company. Each debenture holder has the option to require the
Company to purchase the debentures on March 13, 1996 and March 13, 2001 for a
purchase price equal to the issue price of the debentures plus accrued original
issue discount to the date of purchase, which amount may be paid by the Company
in cash or shares of the Company's Common Stock. Five million shares of the
Company's Common Stock have been reserved in the event of conversion and are
presently antidilutive for earnings per share purposes. The debentures are
redeemable for cash at any time at the option of the Company at redemption price
equal to the issue price of the debentures plus accrued original issue discount
to the date of redemption.
     In 1994, the Company issued $73.8 million in notes to the purchaser of the
geophysical business to cover some of the costs of reducing certain geophysical
operations, including the cost of personnel reductions, leases of geophysical
marine vessels and closing of duplicate facilities. The Company's notes are
payable over two years at a rate of 4%.  During 1994, the Company redeemed 
$48.8 million of this note payable.
     On June 1, 1994, the Company redeemed the remaining $23.8 million of the
10.2% sinking fund debentures due June 1, 2005.
     Maturities of long-term debt for the succeeding five years are as follows:
1995, $20.1 million; 1996, $15.6 million; 1997, $10.5 million; 1998, $21.0
million; and no maturities in 1999.

NOTE 9.  COMMON STOCK
     In 1993, shareholders of the Company approved the 1993 Stock and Long-Term
Incentive Plan (1993 Plan). The 1993 Plan provides for the grant of any or all
of the following types of awards: (1) stock options, including incentive stock
options and non-qualified stock options; (2) stock appreciation rights, in
tandem with stock options or freestanding; (3) restricted stock; (4) performance
share awards; and (5) stock value equivalent awards. Under the terms of the 1993
Plan, 5.5 million shares of the Company's Common Stock were reserved for
issuance to key employees. At December 31, 1994, 3.6 million shares were
available for future grants. Stock option transactions for 1993 and 1994 are
summarized as follows:


     All stock options are granted at fair market value of the Common Stock at
the grant date and generally expire ten years from the grant date or three years
after date of retirement, if earlier. Stock options vest over a three year
period, with one-third of the shares becoming exercisable on each of the first
three anniversaries of the grant date. The number of stock option shares
exercisable at December 31, 1994 were 243,826. Restricted shares awarded under
the 1993 Plan for 1994 and 1993 were 80,600 (net of forfeitures of 5,000 shares)
and 107,000, respectively.
     In 1993, shareholders of the Company also approved the Restricted Stock
Plan for Non-Employee Directors (Restricted Stock Plan). Under the terms of the
Restricted Stock Plan, each non-employee director receives an annual award of
200 restricted shares of Common Stock as a part of compensation. The Company
reserved 50,000 shares of Common Stock for issuance to non-employee directors.
At December 31, 1994, 46,600 shares were available for future issuance.
     In 1994, the Company awarded 96,750 restricted shares under the Employees'
Restricted Stock Plan. The Company reserved 100,000 shares of Common Stock for
issuance to employees who are not officers. At December 31, 1994, 3,250 shares
were available for future issuance.
     Under the terms of the Company's career executive incentive stock plan
adopted by the Company in 1969, 7.5 million shares of the Company's Common Stock
were reserved for issuance to officers and key employees at a purchase price not
to exceed par value of $2.50 per share. At December 31, 1994, 5.9 million shares
(net of 1.0 million shares forfeited) have been issued under the plan. No
further grants will be made under the career executive incentive stock plan.
     Restricted shares issued under the 1993 Plan, Restricted Stock Plan,
Employees' Restricted Stock Plan and the career executive incentive stock plan
are limited as to sale or disposition with such restrictions lapsing
periodically over an extended period of time. The fair market value of the
stock, on the date of issuance, is being amortized and charged to income (with
similar credits to paid-in capital in excess of par value) generally over the
average period during which the restrictions lapse. At December 31, 1994, the
unamortized amount is $20.8 million.
     See Note 8 for other shares of Common Stock reserved for possible issuance.

NOTE 10.  SERIES A JUNIOR PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK
     In 1986, the Company declared a dividend of one preferred stock purchase
right (a Right) on each outstanding share of Common Stock, par value $2.50 per
share (the Common Shares). The terms of the outstanding Rights were subsequently
modified by the Company's Board of Directors as of February 15, 1990 (the
Amended Rights Agreement). Pursuant to the Amended Rights Agreement, each Right
will entitle the holder thereof to buy one one-hundredth of a share of the
Company's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, without par value (the
Preferred Shares), at an exercise price of $70, subject to certain antidilution
adjustments. The Rights will not be exercisable or transferable apart from the
Common Shares, until the tenth business day after a person or group (i) acquires
20% or more of the Common Shares or (ii) announces an intention to make a tender
or exchange offer for 20% or more of the Common Shares. The Rights will not have
any voting rights or be entitled to dividends. If, after the Rights become
exercisable, (i) the Company merges into another entity, (ii) an acquiring
entity merges into the Company and the Common Shares of the Company are
exchanged for other securities or assets, or (iii) the Company sells more than
50% of its assets or earning power, then each Right will entitle its holder to
purchase, at the exercise price of the Right, that number of shares of common
stock of the acquiring company having a current market value of two times the
exercise price of the Right. Alternatively, if a holder acquires 20% or more of
the Company's Common Shares, then each Right not owned by such acquiring person
or group will entitle the holder to purchase, for the exercise price, the number
of Common Shares, having a current market value of two times the exercise price
of the Right. The Rights are redeemable at the Company's option for $.05 per
Right at any time prior to the time that a person or group acquires beneficial
ownership of 20% or more of the Common Shares. At any time after a person or
group acquires 20% or more of the Common Shares, but prior to the time such
acquiring person acquires 50% or more of the Common Shares, the Company's Board
of Directors may redeem the Rights (other than those owned by the acquiring
person), in whole or in part, by exchanging one Common Share for each two Common
Shares for which a Right is then exercisable (subject to adjustment). The Rights
will expire on the earlier to occur of (i) June 1, 1996, or (ii) the exchange or
redemption of the Rights.

NOTE 11. INSURANCE SUBSIDIARIES
     The consolidated financial statements include property and casualty
insurance subsidiaries and a health care management subsidiary sold effective
September 30, 1992.
     Undistributed earnings of $177.5 million were restricted as to payment of
dividends by the insurance subsidiaries at December 31, 1994.
     Assets of the insurance subsidiaries, with the exception of dividend
payments to the parent company, are not available for general corporate use.


     Insurance Services written premiums are as follows:




     A United Kingdom subsidiary of the Company suspended further underwriting
activities due to unacceptable loss experience in 1993 and 1992. The Company
recognized a $46.3 million and a $21.0 million charge to operating income in
1993 and 1992, respectively, for additional claim loss reserves and for future
administrative expenses of claims processing and other activities related to
insurance coverage previously written in the United Kingdom. The subsidiary may
resume underwriting activities in the future if market conditions improve.
     The Company's insurance subsidiaries have numerous reinsurance agreements
with other insurance companies. To the extent that any reinsurance company is
unable to meet its obligations under the reinsurance agreements, the Company's
insurance subsidiaries would remain obligated.
     Total reinsurance recoverables primarily relate to ceded losses and
incurred but not reported claims. Major reinsurers include American Re-Insurance
Company, General Reinsurance Corporation and Cigna Property and Casualty Company
with A.M. Best ratings of A+, A++ and A-, respectively.
     In 1993, the Company adopted SFAS 113, "Accounting and Reporting for
Reinsurance of Short-Duration and Long-Duration Contracts," which requires
reinsurance receivables (including amounts related to claims incurred but not
reported) and prepaid reinsurance premiums to be classified as assets.
     Insurance losses and claims related to asbestos and environmental
remediation are based upon management's best estimates using facts currently
known, taking into consideration the current legislative and legal environment.
Developed case law and adequate claim history do not exist for such claims.
Estimates of the liability are reviewed and updated continually. Due to the
significant uncertainties related to these types of claims, past claim
experience may not be representative of future claim experience.

NOTE 12.  BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
     The Company operates in three segments - Energy Services, Engineering and
Construction Services, and Insurance Services. Energy Services' products and
services include drilling systems and services, pressure pumping equipment and
services, logging and perforating, specialized completion and production
equipment and services, and well control. Engineering and Construction Services
provides engineering, construction, project management, facilities operation and
maintenance, and environmental services for industrial and government customers.
Insurance Services offers casualty, property, surety and marine insurance
services.
     The Company's equity in income or losses of related companies is included
in revenues and operating income of each applicable segment.
     Insurance Services' revenues include $34.4 million, $52.1 million and $41.0
million in intersegment sales for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and
1992, respectively. Intersegment revenues included in the revenues of the other
business segments are immaterial. Sales between geographic areas and export
sales are also immaterial.
     Depreciation and amortization expenses were increased in 1993 by the loss
for the sale of the geophysical business in 1994 discussed in Note 19 by $128.9
million. In 1992, depreciation and amortization expenses of Energy Services and
Engineering and Construction Services were increased $62.1 million and $12.0
million, respectively, by the special charges discussed in Note 18.
     General corporate assets are primarily comprised of cash and equivalents
and certain other investments.





NOTE 13.  RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
     Research and development expenses are charged to income as incurred. Such
charges were $109.5 million in 1994, $126.5 million in 1993 and $112.1 million
in 1992. In addition, the Company capitalized software development costs related
primarily to integrated information technologies and project management of $6.4
million in 1994, $39.8 million in 1993 and $44.8 million in 1992.

NOTE 14. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
     At December 31, 1994, the Company was obligated under noncancelable
operating leases, expiring on various dates to 2108, principally for the use of
land, offices, equipment and field facilities. Aggregate rentals charged to
operations for such leases totaled $107.5 million in 1994, $133.6 million in
1993 and $137.4 million in 1992. Future aggregate rentals on noncancelable
operating leases are as follows: 1995, $74.3 million; 1996, $53.3 million; 1997,
$41.0 million; 1998, $31.2 million; 1999, $22.2 million; and thereafter, $101.1
million.
     The Company is involved as a potentially responsible party (PRP) in
remedial activities to clean up various "Superfund" sites under applicable
Federal law which imposes joint and several liability, if the harm is
indivisible, on certain persons without regard to fault, the legality of the
original disposal, or ownership of the site. Although it is very difficult to
quantify the potential impact of compliance with environmental protection laws,
management of the Company believes that any liability of the Company with
respect to all but two of such sites will not have a material adverse effect on
the results of operations of the Company. With respect to a site in Jasper
County, Missouri (Jasper County Superfund Site), and a site in Nitro, West
Virginia (Fike/Artel Chemical Superfund Site), sufficient information has not
been developed to permit management to make such a determination and management
believes the process of determining the nature and extent of remediation at each
site and the total costs thereof will be lengthy.
     Brown & Root, Inc. (Brown & Root), a subsidiary of the Company, has been
named as a PRP with respect to the Jasper County Superfund Site by the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The Jasper County Superfund Site includes
areas of mining activity that occurred from the 1800's through the mid 1950's in
the Southwestern portion of Missouri. The site contains lead and zinc mine
tailings produced from mining activity. Brown & Root is one of nine
participating PRPs which have agreed to perform a Remedial
Investigation/Feasibility Study (RI/FS), which is not expected to be completed
until March 1995. Although the entire Jasper County Superfund Site comprises 237
square miles as listed on the National Priorities List, in the RI/FS scope of
work, the EPA has only identified seven areas, or subsites, within this area
that need to be studied and then possibly remediated by the PRPs. Additionally,
the Administrative Order on Consent for the RI/FS only requires Brown & Root to
perform RI/FS work at one of the subsites within the site, the Neck/Alba
subsite, which only comprises 3.95 square miles. Brown & Root's share of the
cost of such a study is not expected to be material. Brown & Root cannot
determine the extent of its liability, if any, for remediation costs on any
reasonably practicable basis.
     The Company is one of 32 companies that have been designated as PRPs at the
Fike/Artel Chemical Superfund Site. Six "Operable Units" have been established
by the EPA in connection with remediation activities for the site. The EPA
instituted litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
West Virginia (United States v. American Cyanamid Co., Inc. et al.) against all
PRPs seeking recovery of its past response costs in Operable Unit 1. The PRPs
are subject to a Consent Decree with respect to the remediation of Operable Unit
2. In June 1993, the EPA issued a Unilateral Administrative Order requiring all
PRPs to implement remediation of Operable Unit 3. The PRPs have entered into an
Administrative Order on Consent that will allow them to perform a site-wide
RI/FS (Operable Unit 4). The Company's share of past response costs alleged by
the EPA for Operable Unit 1, remediation cost estimates for Operable Units 2 and
3, and cost estimates to perform the RI/FS (Operable Unit 4) range in the
aggregate from approximately $1.7 million to approximately $2.3 million. There
are at present no reliable estimates of costs to remediate Operable Units 5 and
6, because the EPA has not yet proposed any remediation methodology. Those costs
may, however, be significantly larger than the estimates thereof for the other
units. Although the liability associated with this site could possibly be
significant to the results of operations of some future reporting period,
management believes, based on current knowledge, that its share of costs at this
site is unlikely to have a material adverse impact on the Company's consolidated
financial condition.
     In April 1991, the U.S. Customs Service initiated an investigation of a
subsidiary of the Company, Halliburton Logging Services, Inc. (HLS), and in
October 1991, as a result of its own internal inquiry, HLS provided information
to the U.S. Departments of Commerce and Justice, in each case regarding the
export and re-export of certain oil field tools. The tools were exported by HLS
and its predecessors to certain foreign affiliates and were re-exported by them
to an HLS foreign affiliate in Libya without a validated re-export license. The
shipments involved thermal multigate decay tools used in oil field logging
operations and occurred between December 1987 and June 1989. During 1992, HLS
received subpoenas to produce documents related to the foregoing matter before a
Federal grand jury. The Company believes the U.S. Government will take the
position that such shipments violated Presidential Executive Orders imposing
sanctions against Libya (the Orders) as well as export regulations of the
Department of Commerce (the Regulations).
     Halliburton Geophysical Services, Inc. (HGS), a subsidiary acquired by the
Company in 1988, in an unrelated matter, advised the U.S. Departments of
Commerce and Justice in March 1992 that the United Kingdom subsidiary of HGS, as
a small part of its business, shipped to Libya, during the period from March
1987 through April 1991, United States origin spare parts, primarily for
equipment of various types, and performed certain repairs and training on the
equipment. The consignee was a Libyan-based geophysical company in which HGS
owned an indirect, minority interest. Moreover, certain items validly shipped to
this consignee in a third country were subsequently re-exported by it to Libya
without specific re-export authorization. After discovering these matters, the
U.K. subsidiary terminated all activities in support of Libyan companies and
operations. The Company believes the U.S. Government will take the position that
such actions violated the Orders and the Regulations.
     On July 1, 1993, HLS and HGS, as well as certain other subsidiaries of the
Company, were merged into the Company. In January 1994 the Company disposed of
its geophysical business which included substantially all of the business of
HGS.
     The privilege of exporting oil field tools and other products to its
affiliates is important to the Company in order to support its worldwide logging
services. Sanctions against corporations for violations of the Orders and the
Regulations range from civil penalties, including denial of export privileges
and monetary penalties, to significant criminal fines. Although the Company
cannot predict the exact nature of the sanctions the U.S. Government may seek
with respect to these matters, the Company believes the U.S. Government will
seek to impose civil penalties or criminal fines or both. In the opinion of the
Company the amount of such penalties and fines would not be material to the
results of operations or the consolidated financial position of the Company.
     The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various other legal
proceedings. Although the ultimate disposition of such proceedings is not
presently determinable, in the opinion of the Company any liability that might
ensue would not be material in relation to the consolidated financial position
of the Company.

NOTE 15.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK CONCENTRATION
FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK.
     The Company operates in over 100 countries around the world and has
exposures to currency fluctuations in approximately 80 foreign currencies. These
exposures subject the Company to the risk that the eventual dollar net cash
flows from sales to customers and purchases from suppliers could be adversely
affected by changes in exchange rates. Some currencies have established markets
that facilitate the active exchange of one currency for another (traded
currencies), but most currencies are not widely traded and are actively
controlled by their respective governments (non-traded currencies). As part of
the Company's efforts to minimize foreign exchange risk, the Company hedges its
foreign currency exposure in traded currencies through the use of simple
currency derivative instruments. Foreign currency transactions for speculative
(trading) purposes are not permitted.
     It is the Company's policy to hedge significant exposures to potential
foreign exchange losses considering current market conditions, future operating
activities and the cost of hedging the exposure in relation to the perceived
risk of loss. Techniques in managing foreign exchange risk include, but are not
limited to, foreign currency borrowing, investments, forward exchange contracts,
and foreign exchange option contracts. Forward exchange contracts are
commitments to buy or sell a specified amount of a foreign currency at a
specified price and time. Foreign exchange option contracts (puts or calls)
convey the right, but not the obligation, to sell or buy a specified amount of
foreign currency at a specified price. A put is an option to sell; a call is an
option to buy.
     The table below provides a comparison of the Company's net asset
(liability) position at December 31, 1994, in traded (other than U.S. dollar)
and non-traded currencies as well as the fair value of the notional amounts of
hedging contracts in which the Company is a buyer or a seller. The "buyer"
amounts represent the U.S. dollar equivalent of contracts where the Company is
the purchaser of foreign currencies and the "seller" amounts represent the U.S.
dollar equivalent of contracts where the Company is the seller of foreign
currencies.


     The Company limits some of its ability to benefit from favorable
fluctuations in foreign exchange rates through the use of forward contracts.
None of the forward or option contracts utilized are exchange traded. At
December 31, 1994, the Company had outstanding forward contracts and currency
options at fair values of $11.8 million and $12.2 million, respectively, to
manage its foreign exchange risk. Such contracts generally have an expiration
date of one year or less. Forward contracts are generally used to hedge
identifiable cash flows and currency options are generally used to hedge cash
flows with an indeterminable maturity date. Some of the contracts involve the
exchange of two foreign currencies, according to the local needs of foreign
subsidiaries. Foreign currency amounts are translated at rates current at the
reporting date with gains or losses and the amortization of premiums paid for
such contracts included in foreign currency gains (losses). The table below
summarizes by major currency the fair value of the notional amounts of the
Company's forward exchange and option contracts in U.S. dollars at December 31,
1994.



     Cash flow exposures in non-traded currencies are generally not hedged due
primarily to cost considerations and lack of available markets. The Company
attempts to manage its working capital position to minimize currency exposure to
these non-traded currencies and recognizes that pricing for the services and
products offered in such countries should cover the cost of exchange rate
devaluations. The Company has historically incurred transaction losses in
non-traded currencies such as Brazil, Venezuela, Mexico and Nigeria due to the
magnitude of currency devaluations, rather than the size of the foreign currency
exposures. The net foreign exchange losses in these four currencies were $18.8
million in 1994, $24.8 million in 1993 and $20.5 million in 1992. At December
31, 1994, the combined net asset position in these four currencies was $7.6
million. 

INTEREST RATE RISK.
     The Company has an interest rate cap agreement to reduce the risk of
changes in interest rates on its $42.0 million floating rate long-term debt due
in 1998. The Company paid $.5 million to place a maximum interest rate cap of
6.55% per annum on this debt cumulatively from 1995 through 1998, the last three
years of the credit agreement. Amounts receivable, if any, under this interest
cap agreement will be treated as an adjustment to interest expense in the period
it is earned and the cost of the cap will be amortized to interest expense over
the three year period for which it will be effective.

COMMODITY EXCHANGE RISK.
     The Company often enters into exchange traded commodity futures contracts
to protect the Company against adverse fuel and raw material price movements
over the life of long-term fixed price contracts in its engineering and
construction services business. As fuel and/or raw materials are consumed, the
Company reduces the number of contracts outstanding and gains or losses incurred
from the liquidation of the contracts are recognized as part of the cost of the
fuel or raw materials. Gains or losses from rolling the portfolio forward are
deferred until the contracts are liquidated. As of December 31, 1994, the
Company had deferred losses from such contracts of $.2 million. As of December
31, 1994, the notional amount of such contracts held by the Company was $2.9
million.

CREDIT RISK.
     Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to
concentrations of credit risk are primarily cash equivalents, investments and
trade receivables. It is the Company's practice to place its cash equivalents
and investments in high quality securities with various investment institutions.
The Company derives the majority of its revenues from sales and services to,
including engineering and construction for, the energy industry. Within the
energy industry, trade receivables are generated from a broad and diverse group
of customers. There are concentrations of receivables in the United States and
the United Kingdom. The Company maintains an allowance for losses based upon the
expected collectibility of all trade accounts receivable. The notional amounts
of the Company's foreign exchange contracts and commodity futures contracts do
not represent amounts exchanged by the parties, and thus, are not a measure of
the exposure of the Company. The credit exposure of the Company on foreign
exchange contracts and commodity futures contracts is represented by the
carrying amount of such contracts. The Company does not expect any
counterparties to fail to meet their obligations under these contracts given
their high credit ratings.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS.
     The financial position of the Company at December 31, 1994, includes
certain financial instruments which may have a fair value that is different from
the value currently reflected on the financial statements. In reviewing the
financial instruments of the Company, certain assumptions and methods were used
to determine the fair value of each category of financial instruments for which
it is practicable to estimate that value.
     The carrying amounts and estimated fair value of the Company's financial
instruments at December 31, 1994, and 1993 are as follows:



     The carrying amounts of derivatives are included in other assets and
generally represent the unamortized amounts paid for the instruments. The
carrying amount of short-term financial instruments (cash and equivalents,
receivables, and certain other liabilities) approximates fair value due to the
short maturity of those instruments. The fair value of investments, long-term
debt, foreign exchange risk instruments and interest rate risk instruments is
based on quoted market prices, where available, or quotes from external pricing
sources such as brokers for those or similar investments and issues. The
carrying amount of commodity exchange risk instruments is based on the margin
requirements of these instruments and, as such, approximates fair value.

NOTE 16.  RETIREMENT PLANS
     The Company offers a postretirement medical plan to certain employees that
qualify for retirement and, on the last day of active employment, are enrolled
as participants in the Company's active employee medical plan. The Company's
liability is limited to a fixed contribution amount for each participant or
dependent. Effective in September 1993, coverage under this plan ceases when the
participant reaches age 65. However, those participants aged 65 or over on
January 1, 1994, have the option to participate in an expanded prescription drug
program in lieu of the medical coverage. The plan participants share the total
cost for all benefits provided above the fixed Company contribution and
participants' contributions are adjusted as required to cover benefit payments.
The Company has made no commitment to adjust the amount of its contributions;
therefore, the computed accumulated postretirement benefit obligation amount is
not affected by the expected future healthcare cost inflation rate.
     In 1992, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 106 "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions"
(SFAS 106), which requires accrual, during the years that the employee renders
the services, of the expected cost of providing postretirement benefits. As of
January 1, 1992, the Company recognized the transition obligation of $29.3
million as a charge to the net loss, net of income taxes of $16.0 million, or 27
cents per share. Prior to adoption of SFAS 106, the Company expensed its
contributions as incurred.
     Net periodic postretirement benefit cost included the following components:



     The weighted-average discount rate used in determining the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation was 8% in 1994, 7% in 1993 and 8% in 1992.
     The Company's postretirement medical plan's funded status reconciled with
the amounts included in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets at December
31, 1994 and 1993 is as follows:



     The Company is not required to fund its future obligation under the plan.
     The Company has various retirement plans which cover a significant number
of its employees. The major pension plans are defined contribution plans, which
provide pension benefits in return for services rendered, provide an individual
account for each participant, and have terms that specify how contributions to
the participant's account are to be determined rather than the amount of pension
benefits the participant is to receive. Contributions to these plans are based
on pre-tax income and/or discretionary amounts determined on an annual basis.
The Company's expense for the defined contribution plans totaled $98.7 million,
$56.1 million and $73.7 million in 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively.
     Other pension plans include defined benefit plans, which define an amount
of pension benefit to be provided, usually as a function of one or more factors
such as age, years of service, or compensation. As a result of the sizable
reduction in the number of employees, curtailment gains of $8.9 million are
reflected in the net amortization (deferral) component of net periodic pension
cost for 1994. These plans are funded to operate on an actuarially sound basis.
     Assumed long-term rates of return on plan assets, discount rates in
estimating benefit obligations and rates of compensation increases vary for the
different plans according to the local economic conditions. The rates used are
as follows:



     The net periodic pension cost for defined benefit plans is as follows:


     The reconciliation of the funded status for defined benefit plans where
assets exceed accumulated benefits is as follows:



     The reconciliation of the funded status for defined benefit plans where
accumulated benefits exceed assets is as follows:



NOTE 17.  ENERGY SERVICES SEVERANCE COSTS
     In the second quarter of 1994, the Company recognized severance costs of
$42.6 million, net of $12.7 million which was previously accrued, to provide for
the termination of about 2,700 Energy Services employees. The terminations
mostly impact middle and senior management levels and various product line
support and general and administrative employees. Approximately 85% of the
terminations occurred by year-end with the remainder to occur during the first
quarter of 1995. At December 31, 1994, the remaining liability for these
severance costs was $7.8 million.

NOTE 18.  SPECIAL CHARGES
     In November 1992, the Company announced restructuring and reorganization
actions within Energy Services and Engineering and Construction Services
designed to enable the Company to more effectively provide services and
products, as well as to better meet the changing needs of its customers
throughout the world. The Company, through the implementation of certain
strategic initiatives, recorded special charges of $264.6 million in 1992. These
special charges include $59.7 million for the closing and consolidation of
certain operating facilities; $57.6 million for globalizing employee benefits
and personnel reductions, relocations and associated employee benefits costs
from the above actions; $53.5 million for the technological obsolescence of
certain inventories and equipment related to the introduction of new
technologies; $35.5 million for the realignment of worldwide manufacturing
capabilities, which includes outsourcing of some items previously manufactured
by the Company and the consolidation of existing capacity; $23.0 million for
certain investments in operations which are no longer in the Company's long-term
strategic interest; $17.9 million from the reduction in value of certain
intangible assets related primarily to geophysical speculative data; and $17.4
million of other items primarily related to the cost of relocating equipment as
a result of the above actions.

NOTE 19.  ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS
     The Company sold its natural gas compression business unit in November 1994
for $205 million in cash. The sale resulted in a pretax gain of $102 million, or
56 cents per share after tax. The business unit sold owns and operates a large
natural gas compressor rental fleet in the United States and Canada. The
compressors are used to assist in the production, transportation and storage of
natural gas.
     Additionally in November 1994, the Company announced that a definitive
agreement was reached regarding the sale of its industrial services business
unit. The business unit provides chemical cleaning, hydrojetting and vacuum
removal services to the petrochemical and refining, pulp and paper, and power
industries throughout the United States. The closing of the sale was completed
during the first quarter of 1995.
     In January 1994, the Company sold substantially all of the assets of its
geophysical services and products business, to Western Atlas International Inc.
for $190.0 million in cash and notes subject to certain adjustments. The notes
of $90.0 million were sold for cash in the first quarter of 1994. In addition,
the Company issued $73.8 million in notes to Western Atlas to cover some of the
costs of reducing certain geophysical operations, including the cost of
personnel reductions, leases of geophysical marine vessels and the closing of
duplicate facilities. The Company's notes to Western Atlas are payable over two
years at a rate of interest of 4%. An initial installment of $33.8 million was
made in February 1994, and eight quarterly installments of $5 million are
payable thereafter.
     The Company recognized a $301.8 million charge ($263.8 million after tax)
in 1993 related to the sale of its geophysical business. This charge includes
$120.7 million for the writedown to the net realizable value of equipment and
other assets; $54.0 million for anticipated operating and contract losses
through the dates of disposition or completion; $43.4 million for marine vessel
leases and mobilization; $35.1 million for facility leases and closures; $34.4
million for personnel and severance; and $14.2 million for transition costs and
other related matters.
     The sale includes some international business locations, the closings of
which have been deferred pending certain approvals and consents. The approvals
and consents are expected to be received within the next several months and such
closings will result in some additional consideration.
     The Company retains ownership of certain assets and liabilities of the
geophysical business including some accounts receivable, real estate properties,
lease obligations, certain employee obligations, and a majority interest in an
international joint venture company. Although the disposition of the remaining
assets is uncertain, the remaining liabilities are expected to be settled over
the next several months.
     Services and products provided through the geophysical business include
seismic data collection and data processing services for both land and marine
seismic exploration activities and manufacturing and sales of seismic equipment.
The revenues, operating loss and net loss of the geophysical operations,
excluding the charge in 1993, change in accounting method and special charges in
1992 are as follows:



     In March 1993, the Company acquired the assets of Smith International,
Inc.'s Directional Drilling Systems and Services business for 6,857,000 shares
of Halliburton Company Common Stock previously held as treasury stock, valued at
approximately $247 million. The Company recorded $135.8 million as excess of
cost over net assets acquired. The excess of cost over net assets acquired will
be amortized over 40 years.
     In March 1992, a subsidiary of the Company completed the purchase of
substantially all of the business assets of a manufacturer of products to serve
the gas lift portion of the artificial lift market for $10.7 million in cash.
     The Company completed the sale of its subsidiary engaged in healthcare cost
management services, Health Economics Corporation, effective September 30, 1992.
The sales price was $24 million and resulted in a pretax gain of $13.6 million,
or 8 cents per share after tax, reflected in the Company's 1992 third quarter
earnings.





--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED

                         COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                               DECEMBER 31, 1994



        THESE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ARE PRESENTED IN POUNDS STERLING. THE
        EXCHANGE RATE FOR POUNDS STERLING WAS 1.56 TO THE U.S. DOLLAR AT
                  THE BALANCE SHEET DATE OF DECEMBER 31, 1994


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

INDEX

1 - 2   Directors' Report

3        Statement of Directors' Responsibilities in Respect of the Financial 
         Statements

4        Auditors' Report

5        Group Profit and Loss Account

6        Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses

7        Group and Company Balance Sheets

8        Group Statement of Cashflows

9 - 20   Notes to the Financial Statements

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DIRECTORS

F Nanotti         (Chairman)
R G Beveridge     (General Manager)
V Oliveri
S Cao
N Chambers
L E Farmer

SECRETARY

T R Field

REGISTRATION NO. 2150753

REGISTERED OFFICE

EMC House
Motspur Park
New Malden
Surrey   KT3 6JJ





EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED
DIRECTORS' REPORT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                 
The Directors' present their report and financial  statements for the year ended
31 December 1994.

RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS

The group profit for the year, after taxation, is shown on page 5.

A dividend of (pounds sterling)30 million was paid during the year.

PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES

The  principal  activity of the group  continued to be the provision of complete
pipelaying and marine construction  services for operations in the North Sea and
other waters.

BUSINESS REVIEW AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS

The  Directors  are pleased to report  that  turnover  increased  by 40% to
(pounds sterling)283  million during 1994.  Operations during the year consisted
primarily of pipelaying  services.  The majority of the work was executed in the
North Sea area,  although 36% of turnover  arose from services  performed in the
Mediterranean  areas under  operating  agreements with Saipem SpA, and the South
China Sea in a joint  venture  with Saipem SpA.  High levels of  utilisation  of
equipment have been achieved by obtaining winter work programmes in these areas.
Results  were  further  enhanced by  improvements  in  productivity  and reduced
operating costs.

The company has been successful in winning new contract awards during 1994. Work
under contract at 1994 year end remained good, at levels slightly lower than the
previous year end. This work will be performed during the next two years.

SHAREHOLDING

The shareholders of the company as at 31 December 1994 were as follows:



Each class of shares ranks pari passu with the other in all respects.

AGREEMENTS AND TRANSACTIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS

A number of staff employed by the  shareholders  are made available to the group
under secondment agreements.

The  occupancy  agreement  with Brown & Root  Limited for  provision of the main
administrative   office  was  terminated  in  June  1994  when  European  Marine
Contractors Limited moved to new premises at Motspur Park.

Certain  survey/diving  subcontracts  have been  awarded  to Brown & Root  Group
companies.

Engineering support and other advisory services are provided by the shareholders
on request.

During  the  year  projects  for  pipelaying  in the  Mediterranean  Straits  of
Gibraltar  and the South China Sea were carried out in  conjunction  with Saipem
Group companies.

EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED
DIRECTORS' REPORT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS

The Directors during the year were as follows:-

F Nanotti
R G Beveridge
V Oliveri
S Cao
L E Farmer
K N Henry                  resigned 23 February 1994
N Chambers                 appointed 23 February 1994


No director had any interest in the shares of the company.

MARKET VALUE OF LAND AND BUILDINGS

In the  opinion of the  directors,  the  market  value of the  group's  land and
buildings was not less than their net book value as at 31 December 1994.

FIXED ASSETS

Changes in fixed assets during the year are summarised in notes 9 and 10.

AUDITORS

Ernst & Young have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors
and a resolution  proposing their  re-appointment  will be put to the members at
the Annual General Meeting.

         By order of the board






         T R Field
         Secretary

         8 March 1995



EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                 
Company law requires  the  directors to prepare  financial  statements  for each
financial  year  which  give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
company and the group and of the profit or loss of the group for that period. In
preparing those financial statements the directors are required to:

o    select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

o    make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

o    state whether applicable  accounting standards have been followed,  subject
     to any  material  departures  disclosed  and  explained  in  the  financial
     statements; and

o    prepare the  financial  statements  on the going concern basis unless it is
     inappropriate to presume that the group will continue in business.

The  directors  confirm  that the  financial  statements  comply  with the above
requirements.

The  directors  are  responsible  for keeping  proper  accounting  records which
disclose  with  reasonable  accuracy at any time the  financial  position of the
group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the
group and hence for taking  reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of
fraud and other irregularities.


EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED
AUDITORS' REPORT
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED

We have audited the accompanying  consolidated balance sheets of European Marine
Contractors  Limited  as  of  December  31,  1994  and  1993,  and  the  related
consolidated  statements  of  income,  total  recognised  gains and  losses  and
cashflows for the each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1994.
These financial  statements are the responsibility of the company's  management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial  statements based
on our audit.



We conducted our audits in accordance  with United  Kingdom  auditing  standards
which do not differ in any  significant  respect  from United  States  generally
accepted  auditing  standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurances about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes  assessing the accounting  principles  used and  significant
estimates made by the  management,  as well as evaluating the overall  financial
statement  presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable  basis
for our opinion.



In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly,  in all  material  respects,  the  consolidated  financial  position  of
European  Marine  Contractors  Limited at December  31,  1994 and 1993,  and the
consolidated  results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period  ended  December  31,  1994 in  conformity  with  accounting
principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom








                                                                   ERNST & YOUNG
                                                           CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS

         London, England

         8 March 1995





EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED
GROUP PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 1994
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------




EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED
GROUP STATEMENT OF TOTAL RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES
 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 1994
                                                   




EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED
BALANCE SHEETS AT 31 DECEMBER 1994
                                                                                



EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED
GROUP STATEMENT OF CASHFLOWS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 1994
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 1994
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


1    ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     ACCOUNTING CONVENTION

     The financial  statements are prepared under the historical cost convention
     as modified  to include  the  revaluation  of certain  fixed  assets and in
     accordance with applicable accounting standards.

     BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION

     The group  financial  statements  consolidate  the financial  statements of
     European  Marine  Contractors  Limited and EMC  Nederland BV drawn up to 31
     December  each year.  No profit and loss account is present    for European
     Marine Contractors Limited as permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act
     1985.

     JOINT VENTURE

     The company's  share of the results of an  unincorporated  joint venture is
     proportionally  consolidated  in the  group  profit  and loss  account  and
     balance sheet.

     GOODWILL

     Purchased  goodwill is  amortised  through the profit and loss account over
     the directors' original estimate of its useful life.

     DEPRECIATION

     Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less the
     expected residual value of each fixed asset over its expected useful life.

      Marine floating equipment  - at 25% per annum  on a reducing balance basis
      Buildings and leasehold 
       improvements              - over 3-15 years   on a straight line basis
      Plant & Machinery:-
         Other marine equipment  - over 2-5 years    on a straight line basis
         Office equipment        - over 4-5 years    on a straight line basis

     Depreciation  on assets  under  construction  is  provided  when assets are
     partially brought into use during the year, at the appropriate rate above.

     EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE

     The marine  equipment is dry-dock    for major  repairs in accordance  with
     statutory requirements. Other maintenance works are carried out on a yearly
     basis. Provisions towards meeting both these costs are being made each year
     based on an  estimate of costs to be  incurred  and the future  utilisation
     programmes.

     STOCKS

     Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.

     FOREIGN CURRENCY

     COMPANY

     Transactions  denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in sterling at
     the  closing  exchange  rate of the  previous  month.  Monetary  assets and
     liabilities  are  translated  at the  rate of  exchange  prevailing  at the
     balance sheet date.

     All differences are taken to the profit and loss account.

EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 1994
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     FOREIGN CURRENCY (CONTINUED)

     GROUP

     The financial statements of consolidated undertakings are translated at the
     rate of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.

     The exchange  adjustments  arising on re-translating the opening net assets
     are taken directly to reserves.

     OPERATING LEASES

     Rentals paid in respect of  operating  leases are charged to the profit and
     loss account on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.

     PENSIONS

     Pension scheme  contributions  are made in accordance with actuarial advice
     and are charged to the profit and loss  account so as to spread the pension
     cost over the anticipated period of service of scheme members.

     GOVERNMENT GRANTS

     Government Grants on capital expenditure are credited to a deferral account
     and are released to revenue  over the expected  useful life of the relevant
     asset by equal annual amounts.

     LONG TERM CONTRACTS

     Profit on long term  contracts  is taken as the work is carried  out if the
     final  outcome  can be  assessed  with  reasonable  certainty.  The  profit
     included is  calculated  on a basis to reflect the  proportion  of the work
     carried out at the year end, by  recording  turnover  and related  costs as
     contract activity progresses.  Turnover is calculated on that proportion of
     total  contract  value which costs  incurred to date bear to total expected
     costs for that contract.  Revenues derived from variations on contracts are
     recognised  only  when  they  have  been  accept    by the  customer.  Full
     provision is made for losses on all contracts in the year in which they are
     first foreseen.

     DEFERRED TAXATION

     Deferred  taxation is  provided  under the  liability  method on all timing
     differences  which are  expected  to reverse in the  future  without  being
     replaced,  calculated at the rate at which it is estimated that tax will be
     payable.  Deferred  tax  assets  are  recognised  only  where  recovery  is
     reasonably certain.


EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 1994
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                                   
2    TURNOVER

     Turnover  comprises  that part of each contract  value  represented by work
     completed at the balance sheet date. Turnover excludes applicable VAT.

3    ANALYSIS OF TURNOVER AND GROSS PROFIT/(LOSS) BETWEEN ACTIVITIES AND 
     GEOGRAPHICAL MARKETS



     Included in turnover is 14,407,000 (1993: 29,346,000, 1992: 9,528,000) in 
     respect of sales to related undertakings which constitute the shareholders
     of European Marine Contractors Limited and their group undertakings.

     Turnover by destination is not materially different.

     The net assets of the group are substantially located in the North Sea, the
     Mediterranean Sea and South East Asia.

4    a)  OPERATING PROFIT



EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 1994
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4    b)  RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING PROFIT TO NET CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATING 
     ACTIVITIES


5    INTEREST PAYABLE AND SIMILAR CHARGES


6    TAX ON PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES

     The tax charge is made up as follows:-


EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 1994
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

7    EMOLUMENTS OF DIRECTORS


     The emoluments (excluding pension contributions) of the directors of the 
     company are detailed as follows:-




     Directors including above in scale:


8    STAFF COSTS

     The  average  number of persons  employed  by the group  (and their  costs)
during the year, including directors, was as follows:-



     In addition the group has used the  services on average of 601 (1993:  568,
     1992:  532)  persons  who were  directly  employed by the  shareholders  of
     European Marine  Contractors  Limited,  their group  undertakings and third
     party agencies.

EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 1994
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

9    TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS

     GROUP

 

EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 1994
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

9     TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS (continued)


 The assets  under  construction  mainly  consist of barge  enhancements  in
progress at the year end.

     The historical cost of the vessels included in marine floating equipment is
as follows:


     The vessels will be revalued in four years' time,  unless market conditions
     change to an extent that necessitates an earlier revaluation.

     The  increase  in the  depreciation  charge  in the  year  as a  result  of
     revaluation is 10.3m (pounds sterling).


EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 1994
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

10    INVESTMENTS


     The group  financial  statements  include the results of EMC  Nederland  BV
     which is incorporated in Holland. The company owns 100% of the issued share
     capital. EMC Nederland BV acts as a base for the North Sea operations.

     JOINT VENTURE

     The  company  has  a  49%   interest  in  Saipem   SpA/EMC  Ltd  J.V.,   an
     unincorporated  joint  venture,  which  is based in  Chiwan  Base,  Shekou,
     Shenzen Province, Peoples' Republic of China.

     The  company  has  a  50%   interest  in  Saipem   SpA/EMC  Ltd  J.V.,   an
     unincorporated joint venture, which is based in Bangkok, Thailand.

     The  remaining  interest in the above  joint  ventures is held by the other
     joint venture partner,  Saipem SpA, which is a fellow group  undertaking of
     Saipem UK Limited, a shareholder of the company.

     These  undertakings  are  managed  jointly  through  management  committees
     comprised of a representative from each joint venturer.

11   STOCKS


     In the directors'  opinion the replacement value of stocks is approximately
(pounds sterling)15.7m ((pounds sterling)15 million in 1993).

EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 1994
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                                                             
12   DEBTORS


     Included  in  prepayments  and  accrued  income is a deferred  tax asset of
     (pounds sterling)5,615,000  (1993:  (pounds sterling)1,675,000)  due after 
     more than one year.  Further details are disclosed in note 16.

13   CASH
     Analysis of balances as shown in the group balance sheet and changes during
the current and previous years:


14   CREDITORS:  AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR


EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 1994
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

15   PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES

     Provision  is  made  for  the  periodic   dry-docking  of  marine  floating
equipment.


16   DEFERRED TAXATION

     The deferred tax asset included under debtors represents:



     A potential tax charge of (pounds sterling)10.2m (1993: (pounds sterling)
     12m) which would arise on the sale of the revalued  vessels has not been 
     provided for as it is not the intention of the directors to dispose of 
     these assets.

17   SHARE CAPITAL


                                                    Number of Shares


EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 1994
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

18   RESERVES


19   PENSIONS

     One hundred and twenty two (1993: 92, 1992: 89) of the group's UK employees
     are members of a pension  scheme  operated by Brown & Root  Limited,  which
     controls the overall  administration  of the scheme.  This scheme is of the
     defined  benefit type.  Contributions  amounting to  (pounds sterling)
     315,524  (1993:(pounds sterling)248,698,  1992:  (pounds sterling)220,673) 
     were charged to the profit and loss account during the year. The scheme 
     includes  employee  contributions  at a percentage  of  pensionable  
     salaries.  The  pension  cost is  assessed  in accordance  with the  advice
     of  independent  qualified  actuaries  and the latest actuarial  assessment
     of the  scheme was 1 January 1993.  Further details of the Brown & Root 
     scheme are included in the Brown & Root Limited accounts.

     Eight (1993: 7, 1992: 6) other UK employees are members of the Merchant 
     Navy Officers' Pension Fund, which was set up in July 1992.  Contributions
     to this fund amounting to (pounds sterling)15,932 (1993: (pounds sterling)
     12,129, 1992: 6,207) were made during the year.

     A further 21 (1993: 21, 1992: 22) of the group's employees are members of 
     the EMC Nederland BV pension scheme.  The charge to the profit and loss 
     account of (pounds sterling)74,550 (1993: (pounds sterling)52,195, 1992: 
     (pounds sterling)83,810), in respect of this scheme has been determined in 
     accordance with best local practice.

20   CAPITAL COMMITMENTS

     The board of  directors  has  authorised  capital  expenditure  of  (pounds
     sterling)  12,816,000 (1993:  (pounds  sterling)9,264,000)  mainly in 
     connection with the modification of vessels.  Approximately (pounds 
     sterling)172,000 (1993:(pounds  sterling)  153,000) of this  authorised  
     expenditure  has already  been contracted.

21   CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

     There are no  contingent  liabilities  in existence as at the date on which
     the financial  statements  are approved  that would have a material  impact
     upon the  financial  position  of the  company  other than those  disclosed
     below.

     Performance  bonds have been issued in the  ordinary  course of business by
     bankers  and  supported  by the  shareholders  to the value of  (pounds 
     sterling)85.9 million (1993:  (pounds sterling)91.4  million). No 
     liabilities are expected to arise from these other than those provided for 
     in the financial statements.


EUROPEAN MARINE CONTRACTORS LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 1994
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

22   LEASING COMMITMENTS

     Amounts payable in the following year on operating leases which expire:




     Other leases relate primarily to the charter of support vessels.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     None.

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF REGISTRANT.

     The information required for the directors of the Registrant is
incorporated by reference to the Halliburton Company Proxy Statement dated March
21, 1995, under the caption "Election of Directors." The information required
for the executive officers of the Registrant is included under Part I, page 6 of
this Annual Report.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     This information is incorporated by reference to the Halliburton Company
Proxy Statement dated March 21, 1995, under the captions "Compensation Committee
Report on Executive Compensation," "Comparison of Five Year and Three Year
Cumulative Total Return," "Summary Compensation Table," "Option Grants in Last
Fiscal Year," "Aggregated Option Exercises in Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal
Year-End Option Values," "Retirement Plan" and "Directors' Compensation,
Restricted Stock Plan and Retirement Plan."

ITEM 12(A). SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS.

     This information is incorporated by reference to the Halliburton Company
Proxy Statement dated March 21, 1995, under the caption "Stock Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management."

ITEM 12(B). SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF MANAGEMENT.

     This information is incorporated by reference to the Halliburton Company
Proxy Statement dated March 21, 1995, under the caption "Stock Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management."

ITEM 12(C). CHANGES IN CONTROL.

     Not applicable.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     This information is incorporated by reference to the Halliburton Company
Proxy Statement dated March 21, 1995, under the caption "Certain Transactions."

PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
                                                                                
(a)  1.  Financial Statements:

          The report of Arthur Andersen LLP, Independent Public Accountants, and
          the financial statements of the Company as required by Part II, Item 
          8, are included on pages 16 through 45 of this Annual Report. See 
          index on page 7.

     2.  Financial Statement Schedules:

         The financial statements of European Marine Contractors, Limited, (EMC)
         the investment in which is accounted for on the equity method, follow 
         the Five Year Financial Record.
 
         The EMC financial statements were prepared in accordance with
         accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom. Certain
         parent company adjustments were included in the selected financial data
         presented in Note 6 to the Company's financial statements in order to
         conform with generally accepted accounting principles in the United
         States.

         Note: All schedules not filed herein for which provision is made under
         rules of Regulation S-X have been omitted as not applicable or not
         required or the information required therein has been included in the
         notes to financial statements.

3. Exhibits:

    EXHIBIT
    NUMBER                                      EXHIBITS

    3             By-laws of the Company, as amended through September 30,1992, 
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Second 
                  Amendment to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 
                  dated as of March 29, 1993.

    4(a)          Credit Agreement dated as of February 25, 1993 between Avalon
                  Financial Services, Ltd. and NationsBank of Texas, N.A.,
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to the Company's
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                  1992.

    4(b)          Form of debt security of Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated
                  Debentures due March 13, 2006 of the registrant incorporated
                  by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to the Company's Form 8-K dated
                  as of March 13, 1991.

    4(c)          Resolutions of the Board of Directors of the registrant
                  adopted at a meeting held on February 11, 1991 and of the
                  special pricing committee of the Board of Directors of the
                  registrant adopted at a meeting held on March 6, 1991
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to the Company's
                  Form 8-K dated as of March 13, 1991.

    4(d)          Subordinated Indenture dated as of January 2, 1991 between the
                  Company and Texas Commerce Bank National Association, as
                  Trustee, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to the
                  Company's Form 8-K dated as of March 13, 1991.

    4(e)          Form of debt security of 8.75% Debentures due February 15,
                  2021 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to the
                  Company's Form 8-K dated as of February 20, 1991.

    4(f)          Senior Indenture dated as of January 2, 1991 between the
                  Company and Texas Commerce Bank National Association, as
                  Trustee, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to the
                  Company's Form 8-K dated as of February 20, 1991.

    4(g)          Resolutions of the Company's Board of Directors adopted at a
                  meeting held on February 11, 1991 and of the special pricing
                  committee of the Board of Directors of the Registrant adopted
                  at a meeting held on February 11, 1991 and the special pricing
                  committee's consent in lieu of meeting dated February 12,
                  1991, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to the
                  Company's Form 8-K dated as of February 20, 1991.

    4(h)          Composite Certificate of Incorporation filed May 26, 1987 with
                  the Secretary of State of Delaware and that certain
                  Certificate of Designation, Rights and Preferences related to
                  the authorization of the Company's Junior Participating
                  Preferred Stock, Series A, incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 4(d) to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
                  S-3 dated as of December 21, 1990.

    4(i)          Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated as of February 15,
                  1990 between the Company and NCNB Texas National Bank, as
                  Rights Agent, which includes the form of Right Certificate as
                  Exhibit A, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to the
                  Company's Form 8 dated as of February 23, 1990.

    4(j)          Copies of instruments which define the rights of holders of
                  miscellaneous long-term notes of the Registrant and its
                  subsidiaries, totaling $0.4 million in the aggregate at
                  December 31, 1994, have not been filed with the Commission.
                  The Registrant agrees herewith to furnish copies of such
                  instruments upon request.

    4(k)          Copies of the instruments which define the rights of the 
                  holder of the 4.0% notes payable totaling $25.0 million at 
                  December 31, 1994, have not been filed with the Commission.  
                  The Registrant agrees herewith to furnish copies of such 
                  instruments upon request.

    10(a)         Halliburton Company Career Executive Incentive Stock Plan as
                  amended November 15, 1990, incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10(a) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                  the year ended December 31, 1992.

    10(b)         Halliburton Company Senior Executives' Deferred Compensation
                  Plan as amended and restated effective October 1, 1990,
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company's
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                  1992.

    10(c)         Retirement Plan for the Directors of Halliburton Company
                  adopted and effective January 1, 1990, incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company's Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.

    10(d)         Halliburton Company Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan as
                  amended and restated effective May 15, 1990, incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Company's Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.

    10(e)*        Halliburton Company Annual Incentive Compensation Plan as 
                  amended and restated December 9, 1994.

    10(f)         Form of criteria for determination of Brown and Root
                  recommendations for incentive awards to Brown and Root
                  management dated as of March 2, 1992, incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company's Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.

    10(g)         Summary Plan Description of the Executive Split-Dollar Life
                  Insurance Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to
                  the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1992.

    10(h)         Halliburton Company 1993 Stock and Long-Term Incentive Plan
                  incorporated by reference to Appendix A of the Company's proxy
                  statement dated March 23, 1993.

    10(i)         Asset acquisition agreement between Smith and the Company
                  dated as of January 14, 1993 incorporated by reference to the
                  Second Amendment of the Company's Registration Statement on
                  Form S-3 dated as of March 29, 1993.

    10(j)         Halliburton Company Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee
                  Directors, incorporated by reference to Appendix B of the
                  Company's proxy statement dated March 23, 1993.

    10(k)*        Halliburton Elective Deferral Plan effective January 1, 1995.

    11*           Computation of Earnings per share.

    21*           Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

    23*           Consent of Ernst & Young.

    24*           Form of power of attorney signed in May 1994, for the 
                  following directors:

                         Anne L. Armstrong
                         Robert W. Campbell
                         Lord Clitheroe
                         Robert L. Crandall
                         Thomas H. Cruikshank
                         W. R. Howell
                         Dale P. Jones
                         C. J. Silas
                         Roger T. Staubach
                         Richard J. Stegemeier
                         E. L. Williamson

    27*           Financial data schedules for the Registrant 
                  (filed electronically).

                * Filed with this Annual Report

     (b)  Reports on Form 8-K:

A Current Report was filed on Form 8-K dated October 19, 1994, reporting on Item
5. Other Events, regarding a press release dated October 18, 1994, announcing
the Company's definitive agreement for the sale of its natural gas compression
business unit.

A Current Report was filed on Form 8-K dated October 26, 1994, reporting on Item
5. Other Events, regarding a press release dated October 25, 1994, regarding a
discussion for a 50/50 Scottish joint venture to operate fabrication yards.

A Current Report was filed on Form 8-K dated October 28, 1994, reporting on Item
5. Other Events, regarding a press release dated October 27, 1994, announcing
the Company's earnings for the quarter and the nine months ended September 30,
1994.

A Current Report was filed on Form 8-K dated November 14, 1994, reporting on
Item 5. Other Events, regarding a press release dated November 8, 1994,
regarding a fourth quarter dividend declaration of 25 cents per share.

A Current Report was filed on Form 8-K dated November 22, 1994, reporting on
Item 5. Other Events, regarding a press release dated November 21, 1994,
announcing the Company's definitive agreement for the sale of its industrial
service business unit.

A Current Report was filed on Form 8-K dated November 30, 1994, reporting on
Item 5. Other Events, regarding a press release dated November 30, 1994,
announcing the Company's completion of the sale of its natural gas compression
business unit.

A Current Report was filed on Form 8-K dated January 9, 1995, reporting on Item
5. Other Events, regarding a press release dated January 9, 1995, announcing
that the Company entered into contracts with three firms to outsource
substantially all of its information technology requirements.

A Current Report was filed on Form 8-K dated January 12, 1995, reporting on Item
5. Other Events, regarding a press release dated January 11, 1995, announcing
the Company's completion of the sale of the assets of its industrial services
business unit.

A Current Report was filed on Form 8-K dated February 2, 1995, reporting on Item
5. Other Events, regarding a press release dated January 30, 1995, announcing a
business unit of Brown & Root, Inc., recently won a multi-million dollar
contract to construct a polypropylene plant.

A Current Report was filed on Form 8-K dated February 2, 1995, reporting on Item
5. Other Events, regarding a press release dated February 1, 1995, announcing
the Company's earnings for the quarter and the year ended December 31, 1994.

A Current Report was filed on Form 8-K dated February 16, 1995, reporting on
Item 5. Other Events, regarding a press release dated February 15, 1995,
announcing the formation of a Scottish joint venture.

A Current Report was filed on Form 8-K dated February 17, 1995, reporting on
Item 5. Other Events, regarding a press release dated February 16, 1995,
announcing the declaration of a first quarter dividend.

A Current Report was filed on Form 8-K dated February 27, 1995, reporting on
Item 5. Other Events, regarding a press release dated February 24, 1995,
announcing a joint venture agreement.




SIGNATURES

                                                                                
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on this 23rd day of
March, 1995.


                                                    HALLIBURTON COMPANY


                                                    BY  (THOMAS H. CRUIKSHANK)
                                                       -------------------------
                                                         Thomas H. Cruikshank,
                                                       Chairman of the Board and
                                                         Chief Executive Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons in the capacities
indicated on this 23rd day of March, 1995.


SIGNATURE                                           TITLE
---------                                           -----


  (THOMAS H. CRUIKSHANK)                            Chairman of the Board and
--------------------------                          Chief Executive Officer and
   Thomas H. Cruikshank                             Director                   
                                                                        


  (JERRY H. BLURTON)                                Vice President-Finance and
--------------------------                          Principal Financial Officer 
   Jerry H. Blurton                                  


  (SCOTT R. WILLIS)                                 Controller and Principal
--------------------------                          Accounting Officer
   Scott R. Willis                                                              


SIGNATURE                                           TITLE
---------                                           -----


*ANNE  L.  ARMSTRONG                                Director
--------------------------                                     
Anne L. Armstrong

*ROBERT W. CAMPBELL                                 Director
--------------------------
Robert W. Campbell

*LORD CLITHEROE                                     Director
--------------------------
Lord Clitheroe

*ROBERT L. CRANDALL                                 Director
--------------------------
Robert L. Crandall

*W. R. HOWELL                                       Director
--------------------------
W. R. Howell

*DALE P. JONES                                      President and Director
--------------------------
Dale P. Jones

*C. J. SILAS                                        Director
--------------------------
C. J. Silas

*ROGER T. STAUBACH                                  Director
--------------------------
Roger T. Staubach

*RICHARD J. STEGEMEIER                              Director
--------------------------
Richard J. Stegemeier

*E.  L.  WILLIAMSON                                 Director
--------------------------
E. L. Williamson



* SUSAN S. KEITH
--------------------------
Susan S. Keith, Attorney-in-fact




