
10-K
FORM 10-K DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.



                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                                  FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

/ X / ANNUAL  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO  SECTION 13  OR  15(d)  OF  THE  SECURITIES
      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

                    For the fiscal year ended May 26, 1996

/   / TRANSITION  REPORT  PURSUANT TO  SECTION 13  OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES
      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

                      For the transition period from to
                        Commission File Number 1-13666

                           DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                 Florida                              59-3305930
     (State or other jurisdiction of     (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
     incorporation or organization)

         5900 Lake Ellenor Drive                         32809
            Orlando, Florida                          (Zip Code)
(Address of principal executive offices)

                                (407) 245-4000
             (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                 Name of each exchange
 Title of each class                              on which registered
 Common Stock, without par value                New York Stock Exchange


       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

      Indicate by check mark  whether the  Registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
Registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No

      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by Reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ X ]


      Aggregate  market  value of Common  Stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant,  based on the  closing  price of $8.750 per share as reported on the
New York Stock Exchange on July 22, 1996: $1,371 million.

      Number   of  shares  of   Common   Stock   outstanding   as  of  July  22,
1996:157,723,887 (excluding 2,065,213 shares held in the treasury).


                     DOCUMENTS    INCORPORATED   BY   REFERENCE    Portions   of
        Registrant's Proxy Statement dated August 2, 1996
  are incorporated by reference into Part III, and portions of Registrant's
                        Annual Report to Stockholders
             are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV









                                     PART I


Item 1.     BUSINESS OF DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.

Introduction

      Darden Restaurants,  Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company" or "Darden")
is the world's  largest  full-service  restaurant  organization.*  In the United
States,  as of May 26, 1996,  it operated  1,156  restaurants  in 49 states (the
exception being Alaska),  including 677 Red Lobster, 471 The Olive Garden, seven
The Olive  Garden  Cafe and one Bahama  Breeze  restaurants.  In  addition,  the
Company operated 68 restaurants in Canada, including 52 Red Lobster units and 16
The  Olive  Garden  units.   All  of  its   restaurants  in  North  America  are
Company-operated.  In Japan, as of May 26, 1996, Red Lobster Japan  Partners,  a
Japanese retailer unaffiliated with Darden,  operated 42 Red Lobster restaurants
pursuant to an Area Development and Franchise Agreement.

      The Company, a Florida  corporation  incorporated in March of 1995, is the
parent company of GMRI,  Inc., a Florida  corporation,  which owns the operating
assets of the restaurants.  GMRI, Inc. was originally  incorporated on March 27,
1968, as Red Lobster Inns of America, Inc.

      The Company's principal executive offices are located at 5900 Lake Ellenor
Drive,  Orlando,  Florida 32809 (telephone  number (407)  245-4000).  Unless the
context  indicates  otherwise,  all references to Darden or the Company  include
Darden, GMRI and their subsidiaries.

Background

      The Company  opened its first  restaurant,  a Red  Lobster,  in  Lakeland,
Florida in January of 1968.  Red Lobster was founded by William B.  Darden,  for
whom the  Company is named.  The Company was  acquired  by General  Mills,  Inc.
("General Mills") in 1970 and became an independent publicly held company in May
of 1995 when General Mills  distributed all outstanding  Darden stock to General
Mills stockholders (the "Distribution").

      The  expansion  of  the  Company's  two  largest   restaurant  chains  has
historically  been  steady.  Red  Lobster  has grown from three  restaurants  in
operation in 1970 to 729 units in North  America by the end of fiscal year 1996.
The Olive Garden, an internally  developed concept,  opened its first restaurant
in December of 1982, and expanded to 471 restaurants in the United States and 16
restaurants in Canada by the end of fiscal year 1996.  Additionally,  at the end
of fiscal  year 1996,  The Olive  Garden  operated  seven  cafes in food  courts
located in regional shopping malls within the United States.

      The China Coast concept was also internally developed and opened its first
unit in February of 1990 in Orlando. In August of 1995, the Company approved the
closing  of  all  of  the  China  Coast   restaurants  and  recorded  a  pre-tax
restructuring  expense of $75 million ($45 million after tax or $0.28 per share)
in the first quarter of fiscal year 1996 to cover  associated  costs. See Note 3
of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  on page  20 and the  related
Management's  Discussion  of Results of Operations  and  Financial  Condition on
pages 12 to 13 in the Company's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders, incorporated
by reference into this report.

      The Company's newest  restaurant  concept is Bahama Breeze,  an internally
developed  concept with a Caribbean  theme.  The Company opened its first Bahama
Breeze in Orlando in February of 1996.

Strategy

      The  Company is a leader in the  casual-dining  segment of the  restaurant
industry. The Company is committed to the following key strategies:

      o Developing and operating distinctive restaurant concepts,  each with its
own culture,  operating  practices,  physical  environment,  menu and  marketing
approach.

*Source:  Restaurants & Institutions Magazine, July 1, 1996 edition.


      o Expanding its current portfolio of restaurant  concepts,  and internally
developing or acquiring additional concepts which can be expanded profitably.

      o  Attracting,   developing  and  retaining  experienced   management  and
personnel committed to providing customer satisfaction and business results.

      o  Achieving  operating  efficiencies  by  sharing  support  services  and
infrastructure among its restaurant concepts.

      o  Maintaining consumer awareness through advertising and consumer
promotions.

      The  following  table lists the number of  restaurants  by year of the Red
Lobster,  The Olive  Garden,  China Coast and Bahama  Breeze  concepts and total
sales:




Industry Overview

      In the United States, the restaurant  industry generates over $201 billion
in annual sales,  or roughly  one-third of total  consumer  food  expenditures.*
Expenditures for restaurant  dining and other meals prepared away from home have
increased  from 25% of the food dollar in 1955 to 44% in 1996.* Over the past 20
years, restaurant sales have grown at a rate one to two percentage points faster
than the growth of food-at-home.* The industry has two basic segments: fast-food
or  quick-service  restaurants,  and full-service  restaurants.  The industry is
highly  fragmented  and  is  characterized  by  the  presence  of  thousands  of
independent  operators and small chains.  While chain  restaurants  dominate the
fast-food segment with a combined market share of 62 percent, chains account for
less than 20 percent in the  full-service  segment.*  The Company  believes that
capable operators of strong multi-unit  concepts will continue to increase their
share of the full-service restaurant market.

      Casual  dining  is  the  fastest  growing  segment  of  the   full-service
restaurant  market,  with sales increasing at a 5.5% annual compound growth rate
since  1990.*  Today,  casual  dining  represents  33  percent  of  full-service
restaurant  sales,  or $31  billion.*  Darden is a leader  in the  casual-dining
segment,  with  approximately a ten percent market share.*  Management  believes
that casual-dining concepts will benefit from favorable demographic trends, most
notably the maturing population.  Forty-to-sixty-year olds are the most frequent
users of  casual-dining  restaurants,  and through this decade and the next, the
population aged forty-five or older is projected to increase by approximately 34
million. In addition,  "baby-boomers" (i.e., thirty-two to fifty year olds) tend
to eat out more than  generations  before  them so, as they  age,  their  casual
dining  frequency may become even higher.  Finally,  this group  includes a high
proportion of two-income families, which the Company believes could increase the
demand for food-away-from-home due to a combination of more discretionary income
and less discretionary time.

      Restaurants face growing  competition from the supermarket  industry which
is  offering   improved   entrees  and  side  dishes  from  the  deli   section.
Supermarkets'  renewed  emphasis  on such  "convenient  meals" may have the most
impact on  segments  of the  restaurant  industry  in which the meals  fulfill a
primarily physiological  objective,  such as in the "quick serve" and "midscale"
segments.  Casual dining offers a more  significant  social  component  with the
meal, a feature that the supermarkets' "convenient meals" do not readily confer.

Restaurant Concepts

 Red Lobster

      Red  Lobster  is the  largest  chain  of  full-service,  seafood-specialty
restaurants.  It offers an extensive menu featuring  fresh fish,  shrimp,  crab,
lobster, scallops, and other seafood in a casual atmosphere. The menu includes a
variety of specialty  seafood and non-seafood  appetizers and desserts.  For the
eighth  consecutive year, Red Lobster was named Best Seafood Chain in America in
the 1996 America's  Choice In Chains national  consumer survey  published in the
February 1, 1996 issue of Restaurants & Institutions magazine.

      Dinner  entree  prices  range from  $6.99 to  $18.99,  with fresh fish and
certain lobster items available at market price.  Lunch entree prices range from
$4.99 to $6.99.  During  fiscal  year  1996,  the  average  check per person was
between $13.50 to $14.50, with alcoholic beverages  accounting for approximately
seven percent of sales. Red Lobster also offers a lower-priced  children's menu.
The Company maintains  approximately  100 different menus to reflect  geographic
differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections in its trade areas.

      Red Lobster is currently  remodeling  its  restaurants  with a distinctive
wharfside look that uses weathered wood accented by nautical artifacts to create
an interesting,  warm and casual seaside atmosphere.  Research indicates strong,
positive  consumer  response.  As of May 26,  1996,  308  restaurants  have been

* Sources:  United States Department of Commerce Census of Retail Trade (1995);
  National Restaurant Association Annual Foodservice Forecast (December, 1995);
  and CREST Annual Household Summary (1995).



remodeled and 115 new  restaurants  have been opened with the  wharfside  decor.
Therefore,  approximately  58  percent  of  total  Red  Lobster  units  have the
wharfside look. Red Lobster plans to remodel the remaining  restaurants over the
next two years.

The Olive Garden

      The Olive  Garden is the  largest  chain of casual,  full-service  Italian
restaurants.  The moderately priced menu features recipes from both northern and
southern  Italy.  The Olive Garden  provides a garden  setting,  decorated  with
brightly-colored  furnishings and al fresco murals. For the seventh  consecutive
year, The Olive Garden was named Best  Dinnerhouse  Chain in America in the 1996
America's Choice In Chains national consumer survey published in the February 1,
1996 issue of Restaurants & Institutions magazine.

      Dinner entree  prices range from $6.95 to $13.95,  and lunch entree prices
range from $4.75 to $7.95. During fiscal year 1996, the average check per person
was  between  $10.00  and  $11.00,  with  alcoholic  beverages   accounting  for
approximately eight percent of sales.

      The Olive Garden places  importance on brand building and, as a result, is
one of the largest advertisers in the full-service restaurant industry. In seven
locations,  the Company is testing The Olive  Garden  Cafe  concept,  which is a
limited-menu  cafe in food court settings of regional shopping malls, with units
serviced from nearby full-size  restaurants.  The Company is also  experimenting
with new restaurant decor and additional menu improvements.

Expansion Strategy

      During  fiscal year 1996,  the Company  opened 39  restaurants  (excluding
subsequently closed China Coast units and pre-existing  restaurants relocated to
other sites).  It plans to open 14 new Red Lobster,  The Olive Garden and Bahama
Breeze  restaurants  during  fiscal  year  1997  (excluding  relocations).   The
Company's openings by concept (excluding relocations) are shown below:


      The Company's  objective is to continue to expand its current portfolio of
restaurant  concepts,  and to develop internally or acquire additional  concepts
which can be expanded.  It is currently working on test concepts,  including its
recently opened Bahama Breeze restaurant in Orlando.  The Company also regularly
evaluates potential acquisition  candidates as to whether they would satisfy the
Company's strategic and financial  objectives.  At present,  the Company has not
identified any specific acquisitions.

      The Company plans to open 21 new restaurants in fiscal year 1997. New unit
additions will occur predominantly  within the Company's two principal concepts.
The Company will  increase its focus on improving  operational  execution at The
Olive  Garden  and Red  Lobster,  and  limit  new  restaurant  expansion  to the
highest-potential sites. The specific number of openings will also depend upon a
number of factors,  including the Company's ability to locate appropriate sites,
negotiate   acceptable   purchase  or  lease  terms,   obtain   necessary  local
governmental permits,  complete  construction,  and recruit and train restaurant
management and hourly personnel.

      Darden  considers  location  to be a  critical  factor  in  determining  a
restaurant's  long-term  success  and  devotes  significant  effort  to the site
selection  process for new  locations.  Prior to  entering a market,  a thorough
study is conducted to determine the optimal number and placement of restaurants.
The Company's site selection process utilizes a variety of analytical techniques
to evaluate a number of important  factors.  These  factors  include  trade area
demographics,  such as target  population  density and household  income levels;
competitive influences in the trade area; the site's visibility,  accessibility,
and traffic  volume;  and proximity to activity  centers such as shopping malls,



hotel/motel  complexes,  offices and universities.  Members of senior management
evaluate,  inspect and approve each  restaurant  site prior to its  acquisition.
After site  acquisition  and receipt of permits,  it typically  takes 120 to 180
days to construct and open a new restaurant.

      The  following  table   illustrates   the   approximate   average  capital
investment,  size and dining  capacity  for the fiscal year 1996 Red Lobster and
The Olive Garden openings:



 ......The Red Lobster  figures  reflect the average of five building sizes which
the Company  utilizes to expand in trade areas of varying  sizes.  The buildings
range in size from 4,100 to 9,000  square  feet;  dining seats range from 135 to
300; and dining tables range from 38 to 61. During fiscal year 1996, Red Lobster
opened six large units with over 8,000  square  feet,  11 small units with 6,000
square feet, and eight micro units with 4,100 square feet.

 ......The Olive Garden figures reflect the average of three building sizes which
the Company  utilizes to expand in trade areas of various  sizes.  The buildings
range in size from 5,500 to 9,100  square  feet;  dining seats range from 180 to
326; and dining tables range from 38 to 60.  During fiscal year 1996,  The Olive
Garden opened seven large units with an average of 9,100 square feet, four small
units with an average of 6,281 square feet,  and two micro units with an average
of 5,500 square feet.

 ......The Company systematically reviews the performance of its restaurant sites
to ensure that each unit meets its  standards.  When a unit falls below  minimum
standards,  a thorough  analysis is  completed  to  determine  the  causes,  and
marketing  and  operational   plans  are  implemented  to  improve  that  unit's
performance.  If performance does not improve to acceptable  levels, the site is
evaluated for  relocation,  closing or conversion to one of the Company's  other
concepts.  In fiscal year 1996, the Company permanently closed eight Red Lobster
restaurants  in the United States and three Red Lobster  restaurants  in Canada.
During the same period,  The Olive Garden  permanently  closed one restaurant in
the  United  States  and two  restaurants  in  Canada.  The  Company  closed all
fifty-one China Coast restaurants in fiscal year 1996. Executive Officers

Restaurant Operations

 ......The Company believes that high-quality  restaurant  management is critical
to its long-term success. It also believes that its leadership position,  strong
success-oriented   culture  and  various  short-term  and  long-term   incentive
programs,  including  stock  options,  help attract and retain  highly-motivated
restaurant  managers committed to providing  superior customer  satisfaction and
outstanding business results.

 ......The  Company's  restaurant  management  structure  varies by  concept  and
restaurant  size.  Each  restaurant is led by a general  manager and one to four
additional  managers,  depending on the operating complexity and sales volume of
the  restaurant.  Each restaurant  also employs  approximately  65 to 115 hourly
employees,  most of whom work part-time.  The Company issues detailed operations
manuals  covering  all  aspects  of  restaurant  operations  as well as food and
beverage manuals which detail the preparation  procedures of  Company-formulated
recipes.  The restaurant  management  teams are  responsible  for the day-to-day
operation of each  restaurant  and for ensuring  compliance  with the  Company's
operating  standards.  Restaurant  general  managers  report to directors at Red
Lobster and The Olive Garden,  and each director is responsible  for seven to 14
restaurants.  Restaurants are visited  regularly by all levels of supervision to
ensure strict adherence to all aspects of the Company's standards.

 ......Each  concept's  vice  president  or director of training,  together  with
senior operations executives, is responsible for developing and maintaining that
concept's  operational training programs.  These efforts include a 12-to-15-week
training program for management  trainees,  and continuing  development programs
for  managers,  supervisors  and  directors.  The  emphasis of the  training and
development  programs  vary by  restaurant  concept but include  improvement  of
leadership, restaurant business management and culinary skills. The Company also
utilizes a highly structured training program to open new restaurants, including
training teams  consisting of groups of employees  experienced in all aspects of
restaurant  operations.  The opening  training  teams  typically  begin  on-site
training one week prior to opening and remain on location one week following the



opening.  They are phased out when appropriate to ensure a smooth  transition to
the restaurant's operating staff.

Quality Assurance

 ......The   Company's  Quality  Assurance   Department  helps  ensure  that  all
restaurants provide  high-quality food products in a clean and safe environment.
The  Company   ensures  that  all  seafood   purchased   meets  or  exceeds  its
specifications through rigorous physical evaluation and testing. Since 1976, the
Company has  maintained a  microbiological  laboratory to routinely test seafood
and commodity  products for quality.  In addition,  quality  assurance  managers
visit each restaurant location  periodically  throughout the year to ensure that
food is properly  handled,  and to provide education and training in food safety
and  sanitation.  The  quality  assurance  managers  also  serve as a liaison to
regulatory  agencies  on  issues  relating  to food  safety.  The  Company  uses
independent  third party  auditors to inspect and evaluate  vendors of commodity
food  products  to  ensure  that  its   suppliers   are  operating   under  good
manufacturing practices with the comprehensive industry standard Hazard Analysis
Critical Control Points programs in place.

Purchasing/Distribution

 ......The  Company's  ability to ensure a consistent supply of high-quality food
and supplies at  competitive  prices to all of its restaurant  concepts  depends
upon procurement from reliable sources.  The Company's purchasing staff sources,
negotiates  and buys  internally  specified  food and  supplies  from over 1,580
suppliers in 43 countries. To ensure the quality of all food products, suppliers
are  required to meet  strict  quality  control  standards  in the  development,
harvest,  catch and/or production of food products.  Competitive bids, long-term
contracts  and  long-term  vendor  relationships  are  routinely  used to ensure
availability of products and stability of costs.

 ......The  Company  believes  that its  seafood  purchasing  capabilities  are a
significant  competitive  advantage.  The Company's  purchasing  staff routinely
travels  within the U.S.  and  internationally  to source over 100  varieties of
top-quality  seafood at  competitive  prices.  Red Lobster is the single largest
buyer in the U.S. of many seafood  products.  The Company  believes  that it has
established  excellent  long-term  relationships  with key seafood vendors,  and
sources product directly when possible.  It employs an agent in South America to
provide timely information on local seafood market trends,  identify  purchasing
opportunities  and inspect product at the source. It also operates a procurement
office in Singapore to source products  directly from Asia.  While the supply of
certain  seafood  species  is  volatile,   the  Company  believes  that  it  has
demonstrated the ability to identify  alternative seafood products and to adjust
its menus as required.  All other essential food products are available,  or can
be made  available  upon short notice,  from  alternative  qualified  suppliers.
Because  of  the  relatively   rapid  turnover  of  perishable   food  products,
inventories in the restaurants  have a modest aggregate dollar value in relation
to revenues. Controlled inventories of specified products are distributed to all
restaurants through a national  distribution company. See Note 2 of Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 20 of the Company's 1996 Annual Report
to Stockholders.

Advertising and Marketing

 ......The  Company  believes that it has developed  significant  advertising and
marketing  capabilities.  The  Company's  size  enables  it to be  the  dominant
advertiser in the full-service segment of the restaurant industry.  It leverages
the efficiency of national  network  television  advertising  and supplements it
with local market television advertising.  The Company's restaurants appeal to a
broad spectrum of consumers and it uses  advertising  and product  promotions to
attract customers.  The Company implements periodic promotions as appropriate to
maintain  and  increase  its  sales  and  profits.  It also  relies on radio and
newspaper  advertising,  as well as newspaper and direct mail couponing programs
to attract  customers.  The  Company has  developed  and  consistently  utilizes
sophisticated   consumer  marketing  research  techniques  to  monitor  customer
satisfaction and customers' evolving expectations.

Employees

 ......At the end of fiscal year 1996, the Company employed approximately 119,123
persons: 1,052 corporate personnel; 93 seafood processing plant personnel; 5,552
restaurant management personnel; and the remainder, hourly restaurant personnel.



Of  the  1,052  corporate  employees,  569  were  in  management  and  483  were
administrative or office employees. The operating executives of the Company have
an  average  of more  than  16.3  years  of  experience  with the  Company.  The
restaurant  general  managers  average 8.6 years with the  Company.  The Company
believes  that it provides  working  conditions  and  compensation  that compare
favorably with those of its competition.  Most employees,  other than restaurant
management and corporate  management,  are paid on an hourly basis.  None of the
Company's  employees  are  covered by a  collective  bargaining  agreement.  The
Company considers its employee relations to be good.

Management Information Systems

 ......The Company strives for leadership in the restaurant business in utilizing
technology as a competitive advantage.  Since 1975, in-store computers have been
used to assist in the management of the restaurants. The Company has implemented
systems targeted at improved financial control, cost management,  enhanced guest
service and improved employee effectiveness.  Management information systems are
designed to be used across restaurant concepts,  yet are flexible enough to meet
the unique needs of each restaurant chain.  Restaurant  support is provided from
the  corporate  office,  seven  days a week,  24 hours a day.  A  communications
network sends and receives  critical  business data to and from the  restaurants
each night,  providing timely and extensive information each morning on business
activity in every  location.  The corporate  office  houses the  Company's  Data
Center,  which contains  sufficient  computing power to process information from
all restaurants quickly and efficiently.  The Company uses internally  developed
proprietary   software,   as   well  as   purchased   software,   with   proven,
non-proprietary  hardware. This allows processing power in terms of hardware and
software to be distributed  effectively  to each of its restaurant  locations in
the U.S. and Canada.

 ......The Company's management believes these systems have well positioned the
Company  to  support  current  needs as well as future growth.  The Company  is
committed  to  maintaining an industry leadership position in the information
systems  and  computing  technology.  A long range information systems plan is
prepared  and  reviewed  annually  with  all  levels of management.  This plan
prioritizes information systems projects based upon financial, regulatory and
other business advantage criteria.

Competition

 ......The  restaurant  industry is  intensely  competitive  with respect to food
quality,  price,  service,  restaurant location,  concept, the attractiveness of
facilities,  and the  effectiveness of advertising and marketing  programs.  The
restaurant  business is often affected by changes in consumer tastes;  national,
regional or local economic conditions; demographic trends; traffic patterns; the
type, number and location of competing  restaurants;  and disposable  purchasing
power. The Company competes within each market with national and regional chains
as well as  locally-owned  restaurants,  not  only  for  customers  but also for
management and hourly personnel and suitable real estate sites. Restaurants face
growing competition from the supermarket industry, which is offering "convenient
meals" in the form of improved  entrees  and side dishes from the deli  section.
The Company expects intense competition to continue in all of these areas.

Trademarks and Related Agreements

 ......The  Company  regards its Red Lobster and The Olive Garden  trademarks  as
having  significant  value and as being important in marketing the  restaurants.
The  Company's  policy is to pursue  registration  of its  important  trademarks
whenever possible and to oppose vigorously any infringement of its trademarks.

 ......The  only  restaurant  operations  outside  of  North  America  have  been
historically conducted through Red Lobster Japan Partners, a partnership venture
with the Japanese  retailer  JUSCO that was  established in 1982. The historical
financial results of Darden exclude the results of such operations. On April 26,
1995, the Darden  subsidiary,  GMRI, Inc.,  entered into an Area Development and
Franchise  Agreement  with Red Lobster  Japan  Partners,  which  operated 42 Red
Lobster  restaurants  in  Japan  as of May 26,  1996.  Darden  does  not have an
ownership interest in Red Lobster Japan Partners. Royalty income is not expected
to be material.


Seasonality

 ......The Company's sales volumes fluctuate seasonally, and are generally higher
in the spring and summer months,  and lower in the fall months.  Severe weather,
storms and  similar  conditions  may impact  sales  volumes  seasonally  in some
operating regions.

Government Regulation

 ......The Company is subject to various federal,  state and local laws affecting
its business.  Each of the Company's  restaurants must comply with licensing and
regulation  by a number  of  governmental  authorities,  which  include  health,
sanitation,  safety and fire agencies in the state or  municipality in which the
restaurant is located.  The development  and operation of restaurants  depend on
selecting and acquiring suitable sites,  which are subject to zoning,  land use,
environmental,  traffic and other regulations. To date, the Company has not been
significantly  affected by any  difficulty,  delay or failure to obtain required
licenses or approvals.

 ......Presently  about eight percent of restaurant  revenues are attributable to
the sale of  alcoholic  beverages.  Regulations  governing  their  sale  require
licensure by each site (in most cases,  on an annual  basis) and licenses may be
revoked or suspended  for cause at any time.  These  regulations  relate to many
aspects of  restaurant  operation,  including  the  minimum  age of patrons  and
employees,  hours of operation,  advertising,  wholesale  purchasing,  inventory
control and handling, storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. The failure
of a restaurant to obtain or retain these  licenses would  adversely  affect the
restaurant's operations.

 ......The  Company is subject in certain states to "dram-shop"  statutes,  which
generally  provide an injured party with recourse against an establishment  that
wrongfully  serves  alcoholic  beverages to an  intoxicated  person  causing the
injury.   The  Company  carries  liquor  liability   coverage  as  part  of  its
comprehensive general liability insurance.

 ......The  Company is also  subject to federal and state  minimum  wage laws and
other laws governing such matters as overtime, tip credits,  working conditions,
safety standards,  and hiring and employment practices. The federal minimum wage
increase, which recently passed Congress and is expected to be forwarded for the
President's  signature,  is not  expected to have a material  impact on Darden's
continuing operations.

 ......The Company is subject to federal and state environmental regulations, but
these  rules  have not had a material  effect on the  Company's  operations.  As
reported in the Company's 1995 Annual Report on Form 10-K, the State of Michigan
previously  advised  the  Company  that  it  was  one  of  several  "potentially
responsible  parties"  for  remedial  action  on an  owned  restaurant  site  in
Michigan.  The Michigan  Department of  Environmental  Quality has withdrawn its
earlier  request for  contribution  from the Company toward  remediation  costs.
Other parties are expected to bear the costs of clean-up,  and any residual cost
to the Company is expected to be immaterial.

 ......The  Company  continues to monitor its facilities for compliance  with the
Federal  Americans With  Disabilities  Act ("ADA") and related state statutes in
order to conform to their  requirements.  Under the ADA and related  state laws,
the  Company  could be  required to expend  funds to modify its  restaurants  to
better provide service to, or make reasonable  accommodation  for the employment
of, disabled persons.

 ......The  Company has entered  into a Tip Rate  Alternative  Commitment  (TRAC)
agreement  with the  Internal  Revenue  Service  which is expected to reduce the
likelihood of any future  chain-wide  employer-only  assessments  for previously
unreported  tips.  Without  this  agreement,  a  company  may be  more  open  to
substantial employer-only FICA assessments.

Executive Officers

 ......Joe R. Lee, age 55, is currently Chief  Executive  Officer and Chairman of
the Board of  Darden.  Mr.  Lee  joined  Red  Lobster in 1967 as a member of its
founding  team,  and was  named its  President  in 1975.  He was  elected a Vice
President of General Mills in 1976, a Group Vice President in 1979, an Executive
Vice  President  in  1981,   named   Executive  Vice   President,   Finance  and
International  Restaurants  in 1991 and was  elected a Vice  Chairman of General



Mills in 1992 with  responsibility  for various  consumer  foods  businesses and
corporate  staff  functions.  Mr. Lee was elected a director of General Mills in
1985. He was named as the Chief Executive Officer of Darden in December of 1994.

 ......Jeffrey  J. O'Hara,  age 48, is presently  President  and Chief  Operating
Officer and,  during  fiscal year 1995,  served as Vice Chairman of the Board of
Darden.  Mr. O'Hara  joined the Company in 1970 and was named Vice  President of
Marketing and Menu  Planning for Red Lobster in 1978. He was named  President of
The Good Earth in 1981,  Executive Vice  President of Marketing and  Development
for Restaurants in 1984,  President of Red Lobster in 1986, was elected a Senior
Vice  President  of General  Mills in 1989 and an  Executive  Vice  President of
General  Mills in 1993.  From 1986 to December of 1994,  he was President of Red
Lobster.  In  December  of  1994,  he  was  elected  Executive  Vice  President,
Established  Restaurant  Operations.  He was elected to his current positions in
July of 1995.

 ......Blaine  Sweatt,  age 48, is President,  New Business  Development,  and an
Executive Vice  President of Darden.  He joined General Mills in 1976 in the Red
Lobster   organization  and  was  named  Director  of  New  Restaurant   Concept
Development  in 1981.  Mr. Sweatt led the teams that  developed the concepts for
The Olive Garden,  China Coast and Bahama Breeze.  He was named a Vice President
in 1985 and a Senior Vice President in 1994.

 ......Edward L. Blood, age 50, is Senior Vice President,  Investor Relations and
Strategic Planning. Mr. Blood joined General Mills in 1981 as Manager, Strategic
Analysis.  From  June of 1987 to  February  of 1995 he was  Vice  President  and
Director of  Strategic  Planning  and  Analysis,  and  participated  in investor
relations activities.  He was named to his position with the Company in February
of 1995.

 ......Bradley  D. Blum,  age 42, is  President  of The Olive Garden and a Senior
Vice  President of the Company.  Mr. Blum joined  General  Mills in 1978. He was
named  Director of  Marketing  in 1984,  responsible  for Big G Cereals,  and he
became Vice  President of Big G New  Enterprises  in 1989. In 1990, he was named
Vice President of Marketing for Cereal Partners Worldwide,  General Mills' joint
venture with Nestle, headquartered in Switzerland. He joined the Company in 1994
as  Senior  Vice  President  of  Marketing  for The Olive  Garden  and was named
President  of The Olive  Garden in  December of 1994.  He was named  Senior Vice
President of Darden in September of 1995.

 ......Clarence  Otis,  Jr.,  age 40, is Vice  President  and  Treasurer  for the
Company. Mr. Otis came to the Company in 1995 from Chemical Securities,  Inc. in
New York where he had been Managing Director and Manager of Public Finance since
1991. Prior to his work at Chemical Securities, Mr. Otis was employed by Siebert
Municipal Capital Group as Managing Director and Principal.

 ......Frank E. Ruble,  age 57, is Senior Vice  President,  Personnel.  Mr. Ruble
joined  General  Mills in 1969.  He joined Red  Lobster in 1970 as  Director  of
Employee  Relations and was named Vice President of Employee  Relations in 1975.
He was promoted to Senior Vice President of the  restaurant  operations in 1986,
and was promoted to his current position in December of 1994.

 ......James  D.  Smith,  age  53,  is  Senior  Vice  President,   Finance,  with
responsibility for Financial Operations,  Treasury and Information Services. Mr.
Smith  joined  General  Mills in 1982 and was named  Senior Vice  President  and
Controller  of the  restaurant  operations  in 1988. He was named to his present
position in December of 1994.

 ......Kirk  L.  Spresser,  age 41, is President of Red Lobster and a Senior Vice
President of the Company. Mr. Spresser joined General Mills in 1979. In 1983, he
was  named  Marketing  Director  in the  Minnetonka  Division.  He  became  Vice
President of Marketing  for General  Mills Canada in 1986. He joined the Company
in 1992 as President, Red Lobster Canada. He was named Executive Vice President,
Marketing of Red Lobster in 1992 and named  President of Red Lobster in 1994. He
was named a Senior Vice President of Darden in September of 1995.

 ......Richard J. Walsh, age 44, is Senior Vice President,  Corporate  Relations,
with  responsibility  for all corporate  communications,  media, and government,
public and  community  relations,  including  the Darden  Foundation.  Mr. Walsh
joined  General Mills in 1984 as Manager of Government  Affairs for Red Lobster.
He was named Vice President of Government  Relations in 1987 and was promoted to
his present position in December of 1994.


 ......Clifford  L.  Whitehill,  age 65, was named a Senior Vice President of the
Company in December of 1994.  Mr.  Whitehill  joined General Mills in 1962 as an
attorney in the Law Department.  He was appointed  Assistant  General Counsel in
1968,  elected Vice President in 1971,  named General  Counsel in 1975,  elected
Senior Vice  President in 1981 and elected  Secretary of General  Mills in 1983.
Mr. Whitehill  retired from General Mills immediately prior to the Distribution,
and on that date he  assumed  his  responsibilities  at  Darden  as Senior  Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary.

Item 2......PROPERTIES

 ......As of May 26, 1996, the Company operated 1,224 restaurants,  including 729
Red Lobster,  487 The Olive  Garden,  seven The Olive Garden Cafe and one Bahama
Breeze restaurants in the following locations:


 ......Of the  Company's  1,224  restaurants  open on May 26,  1996,  768  were
on owned sites and 456 were on leased  sites.  The 456  leases  are  classified
as follows:

      The Company  owns its  executive  offices,  culinary  center and  training
facilities  in  Orlando,  Florida.  It also owns and  operates  a small  seafood
processing plant in St. Petersburg,  Florida.  Except in limited instances,  the
Company's  restaurant sites and other facilities are not subject to mortgages or
other encumbrances securing money borrowed by the Company.

      See also Notes 5 and 13 of Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements on
pages  21  and  24,  respectively,  of  the  Company's  1996  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders.

Item 3......LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

      The Company is from time to time made a party to legal proceedings arising
in the  ordinary  course of  business.  The Company  does not  believe  that the
results of such legal proceedings, even if unfavorable to the Company, will have
a materially  adverse  impact on its  financial  condition or the results of its
operations. See the section entitled "Government Regulation" for a discussion of
various federal, state and local regulatory matters.

Item 4......SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

      Not applicable.




                                     PART II

Item 5.     MARKET  FOR  REGISTRANT'S   COMMON  EQUITY  AND  RELATED  
            STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

      The  Company's  common  stock (no par  value) has been  registered  and is
traded on the New York Stock Exchange. As of July 22, 1996, the number of record
holders of common stock was 30,964.  Trading of the Company's common stock began
on a "when  issued"  basis on May 9, 1995,  at a price per share of $9.375.  The
following  table  sets  forth the high and low sales  prices  for the  Company's
common stock for each full quarterly  period from the Distribution to the end of
fiscal year 1996.



      During the first half of fiscal year 1996,  the Company  declared an eight
cents per share annual dividend paid in two installments.  The first half of the
dividend (four cents per share) was paid on November 1, 1995, to stockholders of
record on October 10,  1995.  The second half (four cents per share) was paid on
May 1, 1996, to stockholders of record on April 10, 1996.

Item 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION

      The  information  for fiscal  years 1992  through  1996,  contained in the
Five-Year  Financial  Summary on page 29 of the Company's  1996 Annual Report to
Stockholders, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
            RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

      The information set forth in the section entitled "Management's Discussion
of Results of Operations and Financial  Condition" on pages 12 through 13 of the
Company's  1996  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders  is  incorporated   herein  by
reference.

Item 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

      The information on pages 15 through 29 of the Company's 1996 Annual Report
to Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.     CHANGES IN AND  DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING  
            AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

      Not applicable.

                                    PART III

Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

      The information contained in the sections entitled "Information Concerning
Nominees" on pages 6 through 8,  "Committees of the Board" on pages 4 through 5,
and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting  Compliance" on page 24 of the
Company's  definitive  proxy  materials  dated August 2, 1996,  is  incorporated
herein by reference. Certain information regarding executive officers is
contained in Part I above.


Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

      The information  contained in the section entitled "Board Compensation and
Benefits" on page 4,  "Summary  Compensation  Table" on pages 17 through 18, and
"Option  Grants in Last  Fiscal  Year" on pages 18 through  19 of the  Company's
definitive  proxy  materials dated August 2, 1996, is incorporated by reference.
The  information  appearing in such proxy materials under the heading "Report of
Compensation Committee on Executive Compensation" is not incorporated herein.

Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

      The  information  contained in the sections  entitled  "Certain  Owners of
Common Stock" on page 3 and "Share Ownership of Directors and Officers" on pages
5 through 6 of the Company's definitive proxy materials dated August 2, 1996, is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

      The information  contained in the section entitled "Certain  Relationships
and Related Transactions" on page 6 of the Company's definitive proxy materials
dated August 2, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference.


                                     PART IV


Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)   1.  Financial Statements:

Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the fiscal years ended May 26, 1996, May
28, 1995 and May 29, 1994 (incorporated by reference to page 16 of the Company's
1996 Annual Report to Stockholders)

      Consolidated Balance Sheets at May 26, 1996 and May 28, 1995 (incorporated
by reference to page 17 of the Company's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders)

      Consolidated  Statements  of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended May 26,
1996, May 28, 1995 and May 29, 1994 (incorporated by reference to page 18 of the
Company's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders)

      Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements  (incorporated by reference to
pages 19 through 28 of the Company's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders)

      2.  Financial Statements Schedules:

      Not applicable.

      3.  Exhibits:

      Pursuant  to Item  601(b)(4)(iii)  of  Regulation  S-K,  copies of certain
instruments  defining  the rights of holders  of certain  long-term  debt of the
Company are not filed, and in lieu thereof, the Company agrees to furnish copies
thereof to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

      Exhibit Number                          Title

          3(a) Articles of  Incorporation  (incorporated  herein by reference to
               Exhibit 3(a) to  Registrant's  Registration  Statement on Form 10
               effective May 5, 1995)

          3(b) Bylaws  (incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit 3(b)  
               to Registrant's  Registration  Statement on Form 10  effective 
               May 5, 1995)

      Exhibit Number                          Title

          4 (a)Rights  Agreement  dated  as  of  May  28,  1995  between  Darden
               Restaurants,  Inc. and Norwest Bank  Minnesota,  N.A.,  as Rights
               Agent  (incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1  to
               Registrant's  Registration  Statement on Form 10 effective May 5,
               1995)

          4 (b)Indenture   dated  as  of  January  1,   1996,   between   Darden
               Restaurants,   Inc.   and  Norwest   Bank   Minnesota,   National
               Association,  as Trustee  (incorporated  herein by  reference  to
               Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 9, 1996)

        *10(a) Darden  Restaurants, Inc. Stock Option and Long-Term Incentive
               Plan of 1995, as amended

        *10(b) Darden  Restaurants, Inc. FlexComp Plan (incorporated herein by
               reference to Exhibit 10(b) to Registrant's Registration Statement
               on Form 10 effective May 5, 1995)

        *10(c) Darden  Restaurants, Inc. Stock Option and Long-Term Incentive
               Conversion Plan, as amended

        *10(d) Supplemental Pension Plan of Darden  Restaurants, Inc.
               (incorporated  herein  by  reference to Exhibit 10(d)to
               Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 10 effective May 5,
               1995)

        *10(e) Executive Health Plan of Darden Restaurants, Inc. (incorporated
               herein by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to Registrant's Registration
               Statement on Form 10 effective May 5, 1995)

        *10(f) Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Darden Restaurants, Inc.
               (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to
               Registrant's  Registration Statement on Form 10 effective May 5,
               1995)

        *10(g) Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors  of  Darden
               Restaurants, Inc. (incorporated herein by reference to
               Exhibit 10(g) to Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 10
               effective May 5, 1995)

        *10(h) Darden Restaurants, Inc. Management Incentive Plan, as amended

         11    Statement of Determination of Common Shares and  Common  Share
               Equivalents

         12    Computation of Ratio of Consolidated Earnings to Fixed  Charges
               (Historical and Pro Forma)

         13    Portions of 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders (incorporated  by
               reference herein)

         21    Subsidiaries of Darden Restaurants, Inc.

         23    Independent Accountant's Consent

         24    Powers of Attorney

         27    Financial Data Schedule


- -----------

* Items that are  management  contracts or  compensatory  plans or  arrangements
required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K.  During the last quarter  covered by this  Report,  the
Company filed the following report on Form 8-K:

      Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 9, 1996, filed with the Commission on
May 9, 1996, announcing revised earnings expectations for the fourth quarter and
for fiscal year 1996.



                                   SIGNATURES

      Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

    Dated: August 14, 1996                      DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
                                                  By: /s/ C.L. Whitehill
                                                      C.L. Whitehill
                                                  Senior Vice President,
                                              General Counsel and Secretary

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has been  signed  below  by the  following  person's  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

         Signature                  Title

      ____________________     Director
        H.B. Atwater, Jr.

      ____________________     Director
        John P. Birkelund


      /s/ Daniel B. Burke      Director
         Daniel B. Burke*


   /s/ Betty Southard Murphy   Director
      Betty Southard Murphy*


       /s/ Jack A. Smith       Director
          Jack A. Smith*

      /s/ Michael D. Rose      Director
         Michael D. Rose*


         /s/ Joe R. Lee        Director, Chairman of the         August 14, 1996
           Joe R. Lee          Board and Chief Executive
                               Officer (principal executive
                               officer)


      s/ Jeffrey J. O'Hara     Director, President and Chief     August 14, 1996
       Jeffrey J. O'Hara       Operating Officer


       /s/ Blaine Sweatt       Director and Executive
         Blaine Sweatt*        Vice President


       /s/ James D. Smith      Senior Vice President-Finance     August 14, 1996
         James D. Smith        (principal financial officer
                               and principal accounting
                               officer)

         *BY: C. L. Whitehill
           Attorney-In-Fact
           August 14, 1996




                                                                 EXHIBIT 10(a)

                            DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
                STOCK OPTION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN OF 1995
                            (as amended May 23, 1996)

1.    PURPOSE OF THE PLAN

      The purpose of the Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.  Stock Option and  Long-Term
      Incentive  Plan of  1995  (the  "Plan")  is to  attract  and  retain  able
      employees  by  rewarding  employees  of  Darden  Restaurants,   Inc.,  its
      subsidiaries   and  affiliates   (defined  as  entities  in  which  Darden
      Restaurants,  Inc. owns an equity interest of 25% or more)  (collectively,
      the "Company") who are responsible for the growth and sound development of
      the business of the Company,  and to align the  interests of all employees
      with those of the  stockholders  of the Company and to compensate  certain
      management  employees of the Company by granting  stock options in lieu of
      salary increases or other compensation or employee benefits.

2.    EFFECTIVE DATE, DURATION AND SUMMARY OF PLAN

      A. Effective Date and Duration

         This  Plan  shall become effective as of the effective date  of the
         distribution of Darden Restaurants,  Inc. Common Stock to the holders
         of General Mills, Inc. common stock.  Awards may be made under the
         Plan until September 30, 2000.

      B. Summary of Option Provisions for Participants

         The stock  option  that will be  awarded to  employees  under this Plan
         gives a right to an  employee  to  purchase  at a future date shares of
         Darden Restaurants, Inc. Common Stock at a fixed price. As an employee,
         you will  receive an "option  agreement"  in your own name,  which will
         contain the term and other  conditions of the option grant. In general,
         each  option  agreement  will  state  the  number  of  shares of Darden
         Restaurants,  Inc. Common Stock that you can purchase from the Company,
         the price at which you can purchase  the shares,  and the last date you
         can make your  purchase.  You will not have any taxable income when you
         receive the option agreement.

         The price at which you may buy the Darden Restaurants, Inc. shares will
         be equal to the  market  price of the  Company  shares  on the New York
         Stock  Exchange  as of the day the option was  awarded to you. If after
         the period  that you must hold the option (at least three  years),  the
         price of Darden  Restaurants,  Inc. Common Stock has risen, you will be
         able to make a gain on  exercising  the option equal to the  difference
         between the exercise price of the option and the market price of Darden
         Restaurants,  Inc. shares on the date you use your option to buy shares
         under the terms of the option certificate. This gain will be taxable to
         you.

         You will never be  obligated to buy shares of the Company if you do not
         wish  to do so.  After  the  required  holding  period  before  you can
         exercise the option, you can continue to hold the option certificate as
         an employee for up to seven years before making the decision whether or
         not to buy shares of the  Company.  Thereafter,  the  rights  under the
         option will lapse and cannot then be used by the employee.

         You  cannot  sell or assign  the  option to any other  person,  and the
         specific  provisions  which cover your rights in the option are covered
         in the full text of the Plan.








3.    ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN

         The Plan  shall be  administered  by the  Compensation  Committee  (the
         "Committee").  The Committee shall be comprised solely of non-employee,
         independent  members of the Board of Directors (the "Board")  appointed
         in accordance with the Company's Articles of Incorporation.  Subject to
         the  provisions  of Section 14, the Committee  shall have  authority to
         adopt rules and  regulations  for carrying out the purpose of the Plan,
         select the  employees  to whom  Awards  will be made  ("Participants"),
         determine  the number of shares to be awarded  and the other  terms and
         conditions  of  Awards  in  accordance  with  the Plan  provisions  and
         interpret,  construe and implement the provisions of the Plan; provided
         that if at any time Rule 16b-3 or any  successor  rule  ("Rule  16b-3")
         under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"),
         so  permits,  without  adversely  affecting  the ability of the Plan to
         comply with the  conditions  for exemption  from Section 16 of the 1934
         Act (or any successor provisions) provided by Rule 16b-3, the Committee
         may  delegate  its duties  under the Plan in whole or in part,  on such
         terms and  conditions,  to the  Chief  Executive  Officer  and to other
         senior  officers  of the  Company;  provided  further,  that  only  the
         Committee  may  select  and  make  other  decisions  as  to  Awards  to
         Participants who are subject to Section 16 of the 1934 Act and to other
         executives of the Company.  The  Committee (or its permitted  delegate)
         may  correct  any  defect or  supply  any  omission  or  reconcile  any
         inconsistency in any agreement  relating to any Award under the Plan in
         the  manner  and to the  extent it deems  necessary.  Decisions  of the
         Committee (or its permitted  delegate)  shall be final,  conclusive and
         binding  upon all parties,  including  the  Company,  stockholders  and
         Participants.

4.    COMMON STOCK SUBJECT TO THE PLAN

         The shares of common stock of the Company  (without par value) ("Common
         Stock")  to be issued  upon  exercise  of a Stock  Option,  awarded  as
         Restricted  Stock, or issued upon  expiration of the restricted  period
         for Restricted  Stock Units,  may be made available from the authorized
         but unissued Common Stock, shares of Common Stock held in the Company's
         treasury,  or Common Stock  purchased by the Company on the open market
         or  otherwise.  Approval  of the  Plan by the sole  shareholder  of the
         Company shall constitute authorization to use such shares for the Plan.

         The  Committee,  in its  discretion,  may require as a condition to the
         grant of Stock  Options,  Restricted  Stock or  Restricted  Stock Units
         (collectively,  "Awards"),  the  deposit of Common  Stock  owned by the
         Participant receiving such grant, and the forfeiture of such Awards, if
         such  deposit is not made or  maintained  during the  required  holding
         period or the applicable  restricted  period.  Such shares of deposited
         Common Stock may not be otherwise  sold,  pledged or disposed of during
         the applicable  holding period or restricted  period. The Committee may
         also  determine  whether  any shares  issued  upon  exercise of a Stock
         Option shall be restricted in any manner.

         The maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock authorized under
         the Plan for which Awards may be granted under the Plan is  15,000,000.
         Upon the expiration,  forfeiture, termination or cancellation, in whole
         or in part, of unexercised  Stock Options,  or forfeiture of Restricted
         Stock or  Restricted  Stock  Units on which no  dividends  or  dividend
         equivalents  have been paid, the shares of Common Stock subject thereto
         shall again be available for Awards under the Plan.

         The number of shares  subject to the Plan, the  outstanding  Awards and
         the  exercise  price  per share of  outstanding  Stock  Options  may be
         appropriately adjusted by the Committee in the event that:

            (i)  the  number  of  outstanding  shares of  Common  Stock  shall 
                 be changed  by  reason of  split-ups,  spin-offs,  combinations
                 or reclassifications of shares;

            (ii) any stock  dividends  are  distributed  to the holders of 
                 Common Stock;


            (iii)the  Common  Stock is  converted  into or  exchanged  for other
                 shares as a result of any merger or consolidation  (including a
                 sale of assets)  or other  recapitalization,  or other  similar
                 events occur which affect the value of the Common Stock; or

            (iv) whenever  the  Committee   determines   such   adjustments  are
                 appropriate to prevent  dilution or enlargement of the benefits
                 or potential  benefits  intended to be made available under the
                 Plan.

5.    ELIGIBLE PERSONS

         Only  persons who are  employees  of the  Company  shall be eligible to
         receive Awards under the Plan ("Participants").  No Award shall be made
         to any member of the  Committee or any other  non-employee  director of
         the Company.

6.    PURCHASE PRICE OF STOCK OPTIONS

         The  purchase  price for each share of Common  Stock  issuable  under a
         Stock  Option  shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market  Value of
         the shares of Common Stock on the date of grant. "Fair Market Value" as
         used in the Plan shall  equal the mean of the high and low price of the
         Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the applicable date.

7.    STOCK OPTION TERM AND TYPE

         The term of any Stock Option as determined  by the Committee  shall not
         exceed 10 years from the date of grant and shall expire as of the close
         of business on the last day of the designated term,  unless  terminated
         earlier under the provisions of the Plan. All Stock Option grants under
         the Plan shall be non-qualified stock options governed by Section 83 of
         the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") .

8.    EXERCISE OF STOCK OPTIONS

      A. Of the  15,000,000  shares  of Common  Stock  authorized  for  issuance
         hereunder,  not less  than  3,000,000  shall be  issued  only as salary
         replacement  Stock  Options  ("SRO's")  in  lieu of  salary  increases,
         compensation or other employee benefits. Except as provided in Sections
         12 and 13,  each  Stock  Option  issued as an SRO may be  exercised  as
         determined by the Committee in its discretion.

      B. Except as  provided  in  Sections  12 and 13  (Change  of  Control  and
         Termination of Employment),  each Stock Option,  other than an SRO, may
         be  exercised  no sooner  than  three  years from the date of grant and
         subject to the Participant's  continued employment with the Company and
         in accordance with the terms prescribed by the Committee.

      C. The number of shares of Common Stock subject to Stock  Options  granted
         under the Plan to any  single  Participant  shall not exceed 10% of the
         total  number of shares of Common  Stock which may be issued under this
         Plan.

      D. A  Participant  exercising  a Stock  Option  shall  give  notice to the
         Company  of such  exercise  and of the  number of shares  elected to be
         purchased prior to 5:00 P.M. EST/EDT on the day of exercise, which must
         be a business day at the executive offices of the Company.  At the time
         of purchase,  the  Participant  shall tender the full purchase price of
         the  shares  purchased.   Until  such  payment  has  been  made  and  a
         certificate or certificates for the shares purchased has been issued in
         the  Participant's  name, the Participant  shall possess no stockholder
         rights with  respect to such  shares.  Payment of such  purchase  price
         shall  be  made  to the  Company,  subject  to any  applicable  rule or
         regulation adopted by the Committee:

            (i)  in cash (including  check,  draft,  money order or wire 
                 transfer made payable to the order of the Company);




            (ii) through the delivery of shares of Common Stock owned by the
                 Participant; or

            (iii) by a combination of (i) and (ii) above.

For  determining the amount of the payment,  Common Stock delivered  pursuant to
(ii) or (iii) shall have a value  equal to the Fair  Market  Value of the Common
Stock on the date of exercise.

9.    RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS

         With respect to Awards of Restricted  Stock and Restricted Stock Units,
         the Committee shall:

            (i)  select  Participants to whom Awards will be made, provided that
                 Restricted  Stock Units may only be awarded to those  employees
                 of the  Company who are  employed  in a country  other than the
                 United States;

            (ii) determine the number of shares of Restricted Stock or the
                 number of Restricted Stock Units to be awarded;

            (iii)determine the length of the restricted period, which shall be 
                 no less than one year;

            (iv) determine the purchase price, if any, to be paid by the
                 Participant for Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units; and

            (v)  determine any restrictions other than those set forth in this
                 Section 9.

         Any shares of Restricted  Stock granted under the Plan may be evidenced
         in such manner as the Committee deems appropriate,  including,  without
         limitation,  book-entry registration or issuance of stock certificates,
         and may be held in escrow.

         Subject  to  the  restrictions  set  forth  in  this  Section  9,  each
         Participant  who receives  Restricted  Stock shall have all rights as a
         stockholder  with respect to such shares,  including  the right to vote
         the shares and receive dividends and other distributions.

         Each Participant who receives  Restricted Stock Units shall be eligible
         to receive, at the expiration of the applicable  restricted period, one
         share of Common Stock for each Restricted  Stock Unit awarded,  and the
         Company  shall  issue  to  and  register  in  the  name  of  each  such
         Participant  a  certificate  for that number of shares of Common Stock.
         Participants who receive Restricted Stock Units shall have no rights as
         stockholders  with  respect to such  Restricted  Stock Units until such
         time  as  share  certificates  for  Common  Stock  are  issued  to  the
         Participants;  provided,  however, that quarterly during the applicable
         restricted period for all Restricted Stock Units awarded hereunder, the
         Company shall pay to each such  Participant  an amount equal to the sum
         of all dividends and other distributions paid by the Company during the
         prior quarter on that equivalent number of shares of Common Stock.

         Subject to the provisions of Section 12, for awards of Restricted Stock
         or  Restricted  Stock  Units  which  have  a  deposit  requirement, a
         Participant will be eligible to vest only in those shares of Restricted
         Stock or Restricted Stock Units for which  personally-owned  shares are
         on deposit with the Company as of the date the Participant's employment
         with the Company terminates.

         The total number of shares of Common Stock issued upon vesting of
         Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted under the Plan shall
         not exceed 10% of the total  number of shares of Common Stock which may
         be issued under this Plan, and no single Participant shall receive
         under the Plan Restricted Stock or Restricted  Stock Units which,  upon
         vesting, would exceed 2% of the total number of shares of Common Stock
         which may be issued under the Plan.




10.   NON-TRANSFERABILITY

         Except as  otherwise  provided  in Section  9, no shares of  Restricted
         Stock  and  no  Restricted  Stock  Units  shall  be  sold,   exchanged,
         transferred,  pledged,  or otherwise  disposed of during the restricted
         period.  No Stock Options granted under this Plan shall be transferable
         by a Participant  otherwise than (i) by the Participant's last will and
         testament or (ii) by the applicable  laws of descent and  distribution,
         and such Stock  Options  shall be  exercised  during the  Participant's
         lifetime  only  by the  Participant  or his or her  guardian  or  legal
         representative. Other than as set forth herein, no Award under the Plan
         shall  be  subject  to  anticipation,   alienation,   sale,   transfer,
         assignment,  pledge,  encumbrance  or charge,  and any attempt to do so
         shall be void.

11.   WITHHOLDING TAXES

         It shall be a  condition  to the  obligation  of the Company to deliver
         shares upon the exercise of a Stock  Option,  the vesting of Restricted
         Stock or  Restricted  Stock  Units and the  corresponding  issuance  of
         shares of  unrestricted  Common Stock,  that the Participant pay to the
         Company  cash in an  amount  equal to all  federal,  state,  local  and
         foreign withholding taxes required to be collected in respect thereof.

         Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  to the  extent  permitted  by law and
         pursuant to such rules as the  Committee may adopt,  a Participant  may
         authorize the Company to satisfy any such  withholding  requirement  by
         directing the Company to withhold from any shares of Common Stock to be
         issued,  all or a  portion  of  such  number  of  shares  as  shall  be
         sufficient to satisfy the withholding obligation,  provided that in the
         case of the vesting of Restricted  Stock or Restricted Stock Units, the
         number of shares of Common Stock to be issued equals or exceeds 500.

12.   CHANGE OF CONTROL

         Each  outstanding  Stock  Option  shall  become  immediately  and fully
         exercisable  for a  period  of 6  months  following  the  date  of  the
         following occurrences, each constituting a "Change of Control":

            (i)  if any person (including a group as defined in Section 13(d)(3)
                 of  the  1934  Act)  becomes,   directly  or  indirectly,   the
                 beneficial  owner of 20% or more of the  shares of the  Company
                 entitled to vote for the election of directors;

            (ii) as a result of or in  connection  with any cash  tender  offer,
                 exchange offer, merger or other business  combination,  sale of
                 assets or contested election,  or combination of the foregoing,
                 the persons  who were  directors  of the Company  just prior to
                 such event  cease to  constitute  a majority  of the  Company's
                 Board of Directors; or

            (iii)the stockholders of the Company approve an agreement  providing
                 for a  transaction  in which the  Company  will  cease to be an
                 independent  publicly-owned  corporation  or a  sale  or  other
                 disposition  of all or  substantially  all of the assets of the
                 Company occurs.

         After such 6-month period the normal option exercise  provisions of the
         Plan shall  govern.  In the event a  Participant  is  terminated  as an
         employee  of the  Company  within  2  years  after  any  of the  events
         specified in (i), (ii) or (iii),  his or her outstanding  Stock Options
         at that date of termination shall become immediately  exercisable for a
         period of 3 months.

         With respect to Stock Option grants  outstanding  as of the date of any
         such Change of Control which require the deposit of owned Common Stock
         as a condition to obtaining rights: (a) said deposit requirement shall
         be  terminated as of the date of the Change of Control and any such
         deposited stock shall be promptly returned to the Participant;  and (b)
         any restrictions on the sale of shares issued in respect of any such
         Stock Option shall lapse.




         In the event of a Change of Control, a  Participant shall vest in all
         shares of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units, effective as of
         the date of such Change of Control, and any deposited shares of Common
         Stock shall be promptly returned to the Participant.

13.   TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT

      A. Termination of Employment

         If the Participant's employment by the Company terminates for any
         reason other than as specified  herein or in subsections B, C or D, the
         Participant's Stock Options shall terminate 3 months after such
         termination and all shares of Restricted Stock and all Restricted Stock
         Units which are subject to restriction as of said termination date
         shall be forfeited by the Participant to the Company.  In the event a
         Participant's employment with the Company is terminated for the
         convenience of the Company, as determined by the Committee, the
         Committee, in its sole discretion, may vest such Participant in all or
         any portion of outstanding Stock Options (which  shall  become
         exercisable) and/or shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock
         Units awarded to such Participant, effective as of the date of such
         termination.

      B. Death

         If a Participant should die while employed by the Company, any Stock
         Option previously  granted  under  this Plan may be exercised  by the
         person designated in such  Participant's last will and testament or, in
         the absence of such designation,  by the  Participant's  estate, to the
         full extent that such Stock  Option  could have been  exercised by such
         Participant  immediately  prior to  death.  Further,  with  respect  to
         outstanding Stock Option grants which, as of the date of death, are not
         yet   exercisable,   any  such  option  grant  shall  vest  and  become
         exercisable  in  a  pro-rata  amount,  based  on  the  full  months  of
         employment completed during the full vesting period of the Stock Option
         from the date of grant to the date of death.

         With respect to Stock Option  grants which require the deposit of owned
         Common Stock as a condition to obtaining  exercise rights, in the event
         a  Participant  should die while  employed by the  Company,  said Stock
         Options may be  exercised  as provided in the first  paragraph  of this
         Section 13B, subject to the following special conditions:

            (i)  any restrictions on the sale of shares issued in respect of
                 any such Stock Option shall cease; and

            (ii) any owned Common Stock deposited by the Participant pursuant to
                 said grant shall be promptly  returned to the person designated
                 in such Participant's last will and testament or, in the
                 absence of such designation, to the Participant's estate, and
                 all requirements regarding deposit by the Participant shall be
                 terminated.

         A Participant who dies during any applicable restricted period shall
         vest in a proportionate  number  of  shares  of  Restricted  Stock  or
         Restricted Stock  Units, effective as of the date of death.  Such
         proportionate vesting shall be pro-rata, based on the number of full
         months of employment completed during the restricted period prior to
         the date of death, as a percentage of the applicable restricted period.

      C. Retirement

         The Committee shall determine, at the time of grant, the treatment of
         the Stock Option upon the retirement of the Participant.  Unless other
         terms are specified in the original Stock Option grant, if the
         termination of employment is due to a Participant's retirement on or
         after age 55 with 10 years of service with the Company, the Participant
         may exercise a Stock Option, subject to the original terms and
         conditions of the Stock Option.  With respect to Stock Option grants
         which require the deposit of owned Common Stock as a condition  to
         obtaining rights, any restrictions on the sale of shares issued in
         respect of any such Stock Option shall lapse at the date of any such
         retirement.


         A Participant who retires on or after the date he or she attains age 65
         shall fully vest in all shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock
         Units, effective as of the date of retirement (unless any such award
         specifically provides otherwise).

         A Participant who takes early  retirement (after age 55, but prior to
         age 65) during any applicable restricted period may elect either of the
         following alternatives with respect to Restricted Stock or Restricted
         Stock Units (unless any such award specifically provides otherwise):

            (a)  Leave owned shares on deposit with the Company and vest in all
                 shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, effective
                 as of the earlier of the date the Participant attains age 65 or
                 the termination date of the applicable restricted period; or

            (b)  Withdraw owned shares and vest in a proportionate number of
                 shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, effective
                 as of the  date the  shares  on  deposit  are  withdrawn.  Such
                 proportionate vesting shall be pro-rata, based on the number of
                 full  months of  employment  completed  during  the  restricted
                 period prior to the date of early  retirement,  as a percentage
                 of the applicable restricted period.

      D. Spin-offs

         If the termination of employment is due to the cessation,  transfer, or
         spin-off of a complete line of business of the Company,  the Committee,
         in  its sole discretion, shall determine the treatment of all
         outstanding Awards under the Plan.

14.   AMENDMENTS OF THE PLAN

         The Plan may be terminated, modified, or amended by the Board of
         Directors of the Company.  The Committee may from time to time
         prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the
         Plan. Subject to the approval of the Board of Directors, the Committee
         may at any time terminate, modify, or suspend the operation of the
         Plan, provided that no action shall be taken by the Board of Directors
         or the Committee without the approval of the stockholders of the
         Company which would:

            (i)  materially increase the number of shares which may be
                 issued under the Plan;

            (ii) materially increase the benefits accruing to
                 Participants under the Plan; or

            (iii) materially modify the requirements as to eligibility
                 for participating in the Plan.

         The Board of Directors shall have authority to cause the Company to
         take any action related to the Plan which may be required to comply
         with the provisions of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the 1934
         Act, and the rules and regulations prescribed by the Securities and
         Exchange Commission.  Any such action shall be at the expense of the
         Company.

         No termination, modification, suspension, or amendment of the Plan
         shall alter or impair the rights of any Participant pursuant to a prior
         Award without the consent of the Participant.  There is no obligation
         for uniformity of treatment of Participants under the Plan.

15.   FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS

         The Committee may adopt, amend, and terminate such arrangements, not
         inconsistent with the intent of the Plan, as it may deem necessary or
         desirable to make available tax or other benefits of the laws of any
         foreign jurisdiction, to employees of the Company who are subject to
         such laws and who receive Awards under the Plan.


16.   NOTICE

         All notices to the Company regarding the Plan shall be in writing,
         effective as of actual receipt by the Company, and shall be sent to:

         Darden Restaurants, Inc.
         5900 Lake Ellenor Dr.
         Orlando, FL 32809
         Attn: General Counsel

Effective May 28, 1995






                                                                   EXHIBIT 10(c)

                            DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
              STOCK OPTION AND LONG-TERM INCENTIVE CONVERSION PLAN
                            (as amended May 23, 1996)

1.    PURPOSE OF THE PLAN

         The purpose of the GM  Restaurants, Inc. Stock Option and Long-Term
         Incentive Conversion Plan (the "Plan") is to provide for the issuance
         and administration of certain awards relating to Common Stock of Darden
         Restaurants, Inc. (the "Company") issued to employees and officers of
         General Mills, Inc. ("GMI"), the Company, and other GMI Subsidiaries,
         in connection with the  Distribution by GMI to its stockholders of all
         of the Common Stock of the Company.

2.    DEFINITIONS

         As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set
         forth below:

         "Adjusted GMI Stock  Option" shall mean a GMI Stock Option which, as a
         result of the  Distribution, has been adjusted by the GMI Compensation
         Committee as to its exercise price and/or the number of shares of GMI
         Common Stock it covers, such adjustment to each GMI Stock Option being
         dependent on the number of corresponding Company Stock Options granted
         by the Company, if any.

         "Award" shall mean any Stock Option, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock
         Unit or Performance Unit Account granted under this Plan.

         "Award Agreement" shall mean any written agreement, contract or other
         instrument or document evidencing any Award, which may, but need not,
         be executed or acknowledged by a Participant.

         "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.

         "Bridge  Grant" shall mean a GMI Stock Option granted on June 1, 1994
         under the General Mills, Inc. 1990 Salary Replacement Stock Option Plan
         in  the  award  known as  "90-S10"  in  GMI's  internal  stock  option
         management system.

         "Code"  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from
         time to time.

         "Committee" shall mean a committee of the Board designated by the Board
         to  administer the Plan and composed of not fewer than two  directors,
         each of which directors,  to the extent necessary to comply with Rule
         16b-3  only, is a "disinterested  person"  within the meaning of Rule
         16b-3. Until otherwise determined by the Board, the Committee shall be
         the Compensation Committee of the Board.

         "Common  Stock"  shall mean the common stock of the Company
         (without par value).

         "Company" shall mean Darden Restaurants,  Inc., a  Florida
         corporation.

         "Company Conversion Ratio" shall mean the factor where the numerator is
         the Per Share Company Stock Price and the denominator is the Per Share
         Pre-Split GMI Stock Price.

         "Distribution" shall mean the  transfer by GMI of all the then
         outstanding Shares owned by GMI to the distribution agent for the
         benefit of, and ultimate distribution to, the holders of GMI common
         stock as of the Record Date, as described in the Information Statement.

         "Distribution  Date" shall mean the effective date of the
         Distribution.


         "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,  as
         amended from time to time.

         "Fair Market Value" shall mean the mean of the high and low price of
         the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the applicable date.

         "Food Retirees" shall mean persons retiring from GMI on or prior to the
         Distribution Date who are not Restaurant Retirees.

         "GMI" shall mean General Mills, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

         "GMI Award" shall mean any of the GMI Stock Options, GMI Restricted
         Stock or Restricted Stock Units or GMI Performance Units.

         "GMI Compensation Committee" shall mean the Compensation Committee of
         the Board of Directors of GMI.

         "GMI Performance Unit" shall mean a performance unit granted by GMI and
         outstanding on the Record Date.

         "GMI Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit" shall mean a share of
         GMI common stock or the right to receive a share of GMI common stock
         which is subject to certain restrictions on the last trading day on the
         New York Stock Exchange immediately prior to the Record Date.

         "GMI Stock  Option" shall mean an option to purchase GMI common stock
         granted by GMI to a present or former officer or employee of GMI that
         is outstanding and unexercised on the Record Date.

         "Information Statement" shall mean the information statement dated May
         5,  1995  distributed to GMI stockholders in connection with the
         transactions relating to the Distribution.

         "Participant" shall mean an individual eligible to receive a Company
         Award who is granted an Award under the Plan.

         "Per Share Company Stock Price" shall mean the composite volume
         weighted average price of the Company's Common Stock as published by
         Bloomberg L.P. for the period beginning on the later of (i) the second
         trading day on which "when issued" trading in Company Common Stock
         takes place on the New York Stock Exchange and (ii) the twentieth
         trading day prior to the Distribution Date and ending on the
         Distribution Date.

         "Per Share Post-Split GMI Stock Price" shall mean the composite volume
         weighted average price of GMI common stock trading without due bills as
         published by Bloomberg  L.P. for the period  beginning on the later of
         (i) the second trading day on which "when issued" trading in Company
         Common Stock takes place on the New York Stock Exchange and (ii) the
         twentieth trading day prior to the Distribution Date and ending on the
         Distribution Date.

         "Per Share Pre-Split GMI Stock Price" shall mean the composite  volume
         weighted average  price as of GMI common stock trading with due bills
         published  by Bloomberg  L.P. for the period  beginning on the later of
         (i) the second  trading day on which "when  issued"  trading in Company
         Common Stock takes place on the New York Stock Exchange and (ii) the
         twentieth trading day prior to the Distribution Date and ending on the
         Distribution Date.

         "PUP Account" shall mean any account established by GMI in connection
         with the granting of a GMI Performance Unit.




         "Person" shall mean any individual, corporation,  partnership,
         association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization,
         government or political subdivision thereof or other entity.

         "Record Date" shall mean May 5, 1995.

         "Restaurant Retirees" shall mean persons retiring from the Company on
         or prior to the Distribution Date.

         "Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Unit" shall mean any award of
         restricted stock or restricted stock units granted under Section 9 of
         the Plan.

         "Retiree Split Option Grant" shall have the  meaning set forth in
         Section 7(a)(iii) of the Plan.

         "Retiree Split Stock Grant" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
         9(b) of the Plan.

         "Rule  16b-3"  shall mean Rule 16b-3 promulgated by the SEC under the
         Exchange Act, or any successor rule or regulation  thereto as in effect
         from time to time.

         "SEC" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission,  including the
         staff thereof, or any successor thereto.

         "Shares" shall mean the shares of Common Stock (without par value) of
         the Company and such other securities of the Company or a Subsidiary as
         the Committee may from time to time designate.

         "Special Grant" shall mean a GMI Stock Option granted on September 20,
         1993 and September 19, 1994 under the General Mills, Inc. Stock Option
         and Long-Term Incentive Plan of 1993.

         "Split Grant Conversion Ratio" shall  mean  the  factor  where  the
         numerator is the Per  Share  Pre-Split GMI Stock Price and the
         denominator is the sum of the Per Share Post-Split GMI Stock Price and
         the Per Share Company Stock Price.

         "Stock Option" shall mean a stock option granted under Section 7 of the
         Plan.

         "Subsidiary"  shall mean any corporation or other entity in which the
         Company possesses directly or indirectly equity interests representing
         at least 25% of the total ordinary voting power or at least 25% of the
         total value of all classes of equity interests of such corporation or
         other entity.

3.    EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION

      Effective Date

         This Plan shall become effective as of the Distribution Date.  Subject
         to paragraph  6(b), no Award shall be granted under the Plan except the
         Awards  provided for in Sections 7, 9 and 10. Awards granted  hereunder
         shall continue until their respective expiration dates.

4.    ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN

         The Plan shall be administered  by the Committee.  Subject to the terms
         of the Plan and applicable law, and in addition to other express powers
         and  authorizations conferred  on  the  Committee  by  the  Plan,  the
         Committee shall  have full power and authority to interpret and
         administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement relating to, or
         Award made under, the Plan; establish, amend, suspend or waive such
         rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it shall deem
         appropriate  for the proper  administration  of the Plan; and make any
         other determination and take any other action that the Committee deems
         necessary or desirable for the  administration  of the Plan.  The



         Committee shall have no discretion relating to the timing, price and
         size of Awards granted under the Plan,  which shall be  determined in
         accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Sections  7,  9 and  10.  Unless
         otherwise  expressly  provided in  the Plan, all designations,
         determination, interpretations and other  decisions under or with
         respect to the Plan or any Award shall be within the sole discretion of
         the Committee,  may be made at any time and shall be final,  conclusive
         and binding upon all Persons,  including the Company,  any  Subsidiary,
         any   Participant, any holder or beneficiary of any Award, any
         stockholder of the Company and any Participant.  The authority of the
         Committee to administer,  interpret,  amend,  alter,  adjust,  suspend,
         discontinue, or terminate, in accordance  with the  provisions of the
         Plan,  any Award or to waive any  conditions or rights under any Award
         shall extend until the expiration date of such Award.

5.    ELIGIBLE PERSONS

         Only persons employed  by the Company or a Subsidiary  on  the
         Distribution Date and Food Retirees and Restaurant Retirees who, on the
         Distribution  Date, hold an outstanding GMI Stock Option or on the
         Record Date have issued and  outstanding in their name GMI  Restricted
         Stock or Restricted  Stock Units shall be eligible to receive Awards
         under the Plan.  Each  Participant shall be granted an Award in
         accordance with the provisions of the Plan.

6.    SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN

            (a)  Shares Available for Awards.  Subject to adjustment as
                 provided in Section 6(b):

                 (i) Calculation of Number of Shares Available.  The number of
                     Shares with respect to which  Awards may be granted  under
                     the Plan shall be such number of Shares as results from the
                     application of the award formulas set forth in Sections 7,
                     9 and 10.  If, after the effective date of the Plan,  an
                     Award granted under the Plan expires or is  exercised,
                     forfeited, cancelled or terminated without the delivery of
                     Shares, then the Shares covered by such Award or to which
                     such Award  relates, or the number of Shares otherwise to
                     which Awards may be granted, to the extent of any such
                     expiration, exercise, forfeiture, cancellation  or
                     termination,  shall not  thereafter be available for grants
                     or Awards under the Plan.

                 (ii)Sources of Shares Deliverable Under Awards.  Any Shares
                     delivered  pursuant to an Award may  consist of  authorized
                     and unissued Shares, Shares held in the Company's treasury
                     and Shares acquired in the open market or otherwise
                     obtained by the Company or a Subsidiary.

            (b)  Adjustments.  In the event that the Committee determines that
                 any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of
                 cash, Shares, Subsidiary securities, other securities or other
                 property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split,
                 reorganization,  merger, consolidation,  split-up, spin-off,
                 combination, repurchase or exchange of Shares or other
                 securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other
                 rights to purchase Shares or other securities of the Company,
                 or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the
                 Shares such that an adjustment is  determined by the Committee
                 to be  appropriate to prevent dilution or enlargement of the
                 benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available
                 under the Plan, then the Committee may, in its sole discretion
                 and in such manner as it may deem equitable, adjust any or all
                 of (i) the number and type of Shares subject to outstanding
                 Awards, and (ii) the grantor exercise price with respect to
                 any Award and, if deemed appropriate, make provision for a
                 cash payment to the holder of an outstanding Award; provided,
                 that the number of Shares subject to any Award denominated in
                 Shares shall always be a whole number.


7.    STOCK OPTIONS

            (a)  Number of Stock Options.  Each holder of a GMI Stock Option who
                 is a Company employee, a Food Retiree or a Restaurant Retiree
                 on the Distribution  Date shall receive either a Company Stock
                 Option, an Adjusted GMI Stock Option or an election to receive
                 either a Company Stock Option or a Company Stock Option and an
                 Adjusted GMI Stock Option in accordance with the following:

                 (i) Active employees of the Company on the  Distribution  Date
                     who hold GMI Stock Options, except Bridge Grants or Special
                     Grants shall receive, in addition to an Adjusted GMI Stock
                     Option, a Company Stock Option with an exercise  price for
                     the shares of Common Stock equal to the exercise price of
                     the GMI Stock Option prior to the Distribution multiplied
                     by the Company Conversion Ratio and for a number of shares
                     of Common Stock equal to the number of shares subject to
                     the GMI Stock Option prior to the Distribution multiplied
                     by .33 divided by the Company Conversion Ratio.

                 (ii)Active  employees of the Company on the  Distribution Date
                     holding Bridge Grants or Special Grants and Restaurant
                     Retirees holding Bridge Grants shall, as to such options,
                     receive a Company Stock Option with an exercise price for
                     the shares of Common Stock equal to the  exercise  price of
                     the GMI Stock Option prior to the  Distribution  multiplied
                     by the Company Conversion Ratio and for a number of shares
                     of Common Stock equal to the number of shares subject to
                     the GMI Stock Option prior to the Distribution  divided by
                     the Company Conversion Ratio.

                 (iii)Restaurant Retirees holding GMI Stock Options, other than
                     Bridge Grants, shall be given, as to such GMI Stock
                     Options, an election, prior to the Record Date, to receive
                     either (a) a Company  Stock  Option as  described  in (ii)
                     above or (b) a Retiree Split Option  Grant.  The  Retiree
                     Split Option Grant shall mean an Adjusted GMI Stock Option,
                     as determined  by the GMI  Compensation  Committee, plus a
                     Company Stock Option with an exercise price for the shares
                     of  Common Stock equal to the  exercise  price of the GMI
                     Stock Option prior to the Distribution multiplied by the
                     Company Conversion Ratio and for a number of shares of
                     Common Stock equal to the number of shares subject to the
                     GMI Stock Option prior to the Distribution multiplied  by
                     the Split Grant Conversion Ratio.

                 (iv)Food Retirees holding GMI Stock Options shall be given an
                     election, prior to the Record Date, either to receive a
                     Retiree Split Option Grant as described in (iii) above or
                     receive an Adjusted GMI Stock Option, as determined by the
                     GMI Compensation Committee.

                 (v) Each Company Stock Option shall have the same  remaining
                     term and other terms and conditions (whether such terms and
                     conditions are contained in the related GMI Stock Option
                     agreement or in the plan under which such GMI Stock Option
                     was granted, subject that a "Change of Control" as defined
                     in such related agreement or plan shall be amended to
                     provide that a "beneficial owner" is an owner of 20% or
                     more of the shares of the Company entitled to vote for the
                     election of directors) and shall be exercisable to the same
                     extent as the GMI Stock  Option from which it was derived,
                     with such changes and  modifications as necessary to
                     substitute the Company for GMI, as the issuer of the Stock
                     Option.

8.    EXERCISE OF STOCK OPTIONS

         A  Participant exercising a Company  Stock Option shall give notice to
         the Company of such exercise and of the number of shares  elected to be



         purchased prior to 5:00 P.M. EST/EDT on the day of exercise, which must
         be a business day at the executive offices of the Company.  At the time
         of purchase, the Participant shall tender the full purchase price of
         the shares purchased.   Until such payment has been made and a
         certificate or certificates for the shares purchased has been issued in
         the Participant's name, the Participant shall possess no stockholder
         rights with respect to such shares.  Payment of such purchase price
         shall be made to the Company, subject to any applicable rule or
         regulation adopted by the Committee:

            (i)  in cash (including check, draft, money order or wire transfer
                 made payable to the order of the Company);

            (ii) through the delivery of shares of Common Stock owned by
                 the Participant; or

            (iii) by a combination of (i) and (ii) above.

         For  determining the amount of the payment, Common Stock delivered
         pursuant to (ii) or (iii) shall have a value equal to the Fair Market
         Value of the Common Stock on the date of exercise.

9.    RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS

            (a)  Holders of unvested GMI Restricted Stock or Restricted  Stock
                 Units who are employees of the Company on the Distribution
                 Date shall have issued in their  name, or in book entry form as
                 reflected  on the  master  stockholder record of the Company
                 immediately following the Distribution Date, a number of
                 shares of Company Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units
                 equal to the  number of shares of GMI Restricted Stock or
                 Restricted Stock Units issued and outstanding in their name on
                 the last trading day on the New York Stock Exchange prior to
                 the Record Date divided by the Company Stock Conversion Ratio.

            (b)  Holders of unvested GMI Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock
                 Units and who are Restaurant  Retirees shall be given a choice,
                 prior to the Record Date,  to elect to have issued in their
                 name, or in book entry form as reflected on the master
                 stockholder record of the Company immediately following the
                 Distribution Date either (i) a Retiree  Split Stock Grant or
                 (ii) the number of shares of Company Restricted Stock or
                 Restricted Stock Units described in (a) above.  The Retiree
                 Split Stock Grant shall consist of GMI  Restricted Stock or
                 Restricted Stock Units, as determined by the GMI Compensation
                 Committee, and Company Restricted Stock or Restricted  Stock
                 Units covering the number of shares  which were subject to the
                 GMI Restricted  Stock or Restricted Stock Units on the last
                 trading day on the New York Stock Exchange prior to the Record
                 Date.

            (c)  Holders of unvested GMI  Restricted  Stock or Restricted Stock
                 Units who are Food Retirees shall be given a choice, prior to
                 the Record Date, to elect to have issued in their name, or in
                 book entry form as reflected on the master stockholder record
                 of the Company,  either (i)  a Retiree Split Stock Grant
                 described in (b) above or (ii) a modified grant of GMI
                 Restricted  Stock or Restricted Stock Units as determined by
                 the GMI Compensation Committee.

            (d)  Each share of Restricted  Stock or Rstricted Stock Unit shall
                 have the same remaining vesting period and other terms and
                 conditions (whether such terms and conditions are contained in
                 the  related  GMI  Restricted  Stock or  Restricted Stock Unit
                 agreement or in the plan under which such GMI  Restricted Stock
                 or  Restricted Stock  Unit was  granted) and shall vest to the
                 same extent and at the  rate as the  share  of GMI  Restricted
                 Stock or Restricted  Stock Unit from which it was derived, with
                 such changes and  modifications as necessary to substitute the
                 Company  for  GMI as the issuer of the Restricted Stock or
                 Restricted  Stock Unit; provided, however,  that as to  Stock
                 Options, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units which
                 require a deposit  of  Participant-owned shares as a condition
                 to vesting, the Committee may, in its discretion, make such
                 adjustments to the deposit requirements as it deems
                 appropriate.


10.   PERFORMANCE UNITS

         The value on the Distribution Date of PUP Accounts shall be transferred
         to the Company in the proportion that the Company Stock Options, having
         a related PUP  Account,  bear to the  corresponding  Adjusted GMI Stock
         Options,  if any. If no  corresponding  Adjusted GMI Stock  Options are
         issued, the entire value of the PUP Account shall be transferred to the
         Company.  Withdrawals of PUP Account amounts transferred to the Company
         shall  reduce  the   outstanding   Company  Stock  Options  held  by  a
         Participant; exercises of Company Stock Options shall reduce the amount
         of the  corresponding  transferred  PUP  Account to the same  extent as
         provided in the grant of the GMI Performance Unit.

11.   AMENDMENTS TO PLAN AND AWARDS

            (a)  Amendments to the  Plan.  The Board may amend, suspend or
                 terminate the Plan or any portion thereof at any time,
                 provided that no amendment shall be made without stockholder
                 approval if such approval is necessary to comply with any tax
                 or regulatory  requirement, including for these purposes any
                 approval requirement  that is a  prerequisite  for  exemptive
                 relief from Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act or any successor
                 provision  thereto.  Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary
                 contained  herein,  i) the Committee may amend the Plan in such
                 manner as may be  necessary for the Plan to conform  with local
                 rules and regulations in any jurisdiction outside the United
                 States, and (ii) any amendment, suspension or termination made
                 in accordance with this paragraph 11(a) that would adversely
                 affect a Participant's rights under an Award  made  under the
                 Plan may not be made without such  Participant's  consent  and
                 (iii) no  amendment to the provisions  of Sections 7, 9 and 10
                 of the Plan  relating to the amount, price and timing of Awards
                 under the Plan may be made  more  often  than  once  every  six
                 months, except to comport  with the  provisions  of the Code or
                 the regulations thereunder.

            (b)  Amendments  to  Awards.  The  Committee  may  amend,  modify or
                 terminate any outstanding Award with the Participant's  consent
                 at any time  prior to  payment  or  exercise  in any manner not
                 inconsistent  with the  terms of the  Plan,  including  without
                 limitation  to  change  the  date or dates as of which an Award
                 becomes exercisable.

            (c)  Adjustment of Awards Upon the Occurrence of Certain  Unusual or
                 Nonrecurring  Events.  The  Committee  is hereby  authorized
                 to make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the
                 criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or
                 nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, the events
                 described in paragraph 6(b) hereof) affecting the Company, or
                 the financial statements of the Company or any Subsidiary, or
                 of  changes  in  applicable  laws,  regulations, or accounting
                 principles, whenever the Committee determines that such
                 adjustments are appropriate to prevent dilution or enlargement
                 of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made
                 available under the Plan.

            (d)  Cancellation. Any provision of this Plan or any Award Agreement
                 to the contrary  notwithstanding,  the  Committee may cause any
                 Award granted  hereunder to be cancelled in  consideration of a
                 cash  payment or  alternative  Award made to the holder of such
                 cancelled  Award.  The   determinations  of  value  under  this
                 subparagraph  shall  be  made  by the  Committee  in  its  sole
                 discretion.

12.   MISCELLANEOUS

            (a)  Award  Agreements.  Awards  hereunder  may  be  evidenced  by a
                 writing  delivered to the  Participant  that shall  specify the
                 terms and conditions  thereof and any rules applicable  thereto
                 and that shall,  in accordance with the provisions of the Plan,
                 replicate  as closely as  possible  the terms,  conditions  and
                 other  contractual  attributes  of the GMI Award from which the
                 Award is derived, as in effect on the Distribution Date.


            (b)  Share  Certificates.  All certificates for Shares or other
                 securities delivered under the Plan pursuant to any Award or
                 the exercise thereof shall be subject to such stop transfer
                 orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem
                 advisable  under the Plan or the rules, regulations, and other
                 requirements of the SEC, any stock exchange upon which such
                 Shares or other securities are then listed, and any applicable
                 federal or state laws, and the Committee may cause a legend or
                 legends to be put on any such certificates to make appropriate
                 reference to such restrictions.

            (c)  No   Limit   on   Other   Compensation   Arrangements.  Nothing
                 contained in the Plan shall  prevent the Company  from adopting
                 or continuing in effect other compensation  arrangements, which
                 may,  but need  not,  provide  for the grant of  options, stock
                 appreciation  rights  and  other  types of Awards provided for
                 hereunder  (subject to  stockholder  approval of  any  such
                 arrangement if approval is  required), and such arrangements
                 may be either generally applicable or applicable only in
                 specific cases.

           (d)   No Right to  Employment.  The  grant of any  Award shall not be
                 construed as giving a Participant the right to be engaged or
                 employed by or retained in the employ of the Company or any
                 Subsidiary.  The  Company or any  Subsidiary may at any  time
                 dismiss a Participant from engagement or employment, free from
                 any  liability or any claim  under the Plan,  unless otherwise
                 expressly  provided  in the Plan or in any  Award  Agreement or
                 any agreement relating to the engagement or employment of the
                 Participant by the Company or any Subsidiary.

            (e)  Governing  Law. The validity,  construction,  and effect of the
                 Plan,  any rules and  regulations  relating to the Plan and any
                 Award  Agreement  shall,  to the extent not governed by federal
                 law, be determined in accordance  with the laws of the State of
                 Florida.

            (f)  Severability. If any provision of the Plan or any Award is or
                 becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable
                 in any jurisdiction or as to any Person or Award, or would
                 disqualify the Plan or any Award under any law deemed
                 applicable by the Committee, such provision shall be construed
                 or deemed amended to conform to applicable laws, or if it
                 cannot be construed or deemed amended  without,  in the
                 determination of the Committee, materially altering the intent
                 of the Plan or the Award, such  provision shall be stricken as
                 to such jurisdiction, Person or Award and the remainder of the
                 Plan and any such Award shall remain in full force and effect.

            (g)  No  Trust  or Fund  Created.  Neither the Plan nor any Award
                                             
                 shall create or be construed  to create a trust or separate
                 fund of  any kind or a  fiduciary  relationship between the
                 Company and a Participant or any other Person.  To the extent
                 that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the
                 Company pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater
                 than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the
                 Company.

            (h)  No Fractional  Shares.  No fractional Shares shall be issued or
                 delivered  pursuant to the Plan or any Award, and the Committee
                 shall  determine,  in accordance with the terms of the Plan, as
                 applicable,  whether cash,  other  securities or other property
                 shall be paid or transferred  in lieu of any fractional  Shares
                 or whether such  fractional  Shares or any rights thereto shall
                 be cancelled, terminated, or otherwise eliminated.

            (i)  Headings.  Headings  are given to the  subsections  of the Plan
                 solely as a convenience to facilitate reference.  Such headings
                 shall not be  deemed in any way  material  or  relevant  to the
                 construction  or  interpretation  of the Plan or any  provision
                 thereof.



13.   NON-TRANSFERABILITY

         No shares of Restricted  Stock and no  Restricted  Stock Units shall be
         sold, exchanged,  transferred, pledged, or otherwise disposed of during
         the restricted  period.  No Stock Options granted under this Plan shall
         be   transferable   by  a  Participant   otherwise   than  (i)  by  the
         Participant's last will and testament or (ii) by the applicable laws of
         descent and  distribution,  and such Stock  Options  shall be exercised
         during the Participant's lifetime only by the Participant or his or her
         guardian or legal  representative.  Other than as set forth herein,  no
         Award  under the Plan  shall be subject  to  anticipation,  alienation,
         sale,  transfer,  assignment,  pledge,  encumbrance or charge,  and any
         attempt to do so shall be void.

14.   WITHHOLDING TAXES

         It shall be a  condition  to the  obligation  of the Company to deliver
         shares upon the exercise of a Stock  Option,  the vesting of Restricted
         Stock or  Restricted  Stock  Units and the  corresponding  issuance  of
         shares of  unrestricted  Common Stock,  that the Participant pay to the
         Company  cash in an  amount  equal to all  federal,  state,  local  and
         foreign withholding taxes required to be collected in respect thereof.

         Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  to the  extent  permitted  by law and
         pursuant to such rules as the  Committee may adopt,  a Participant  may
         authorize the Company to satisfy any such  withholding  requirement  by
         directing the Company to withhold from any shares of Common Stock to be
         issued,  all or a  portion  of  such  number  of  shares  as  shall  be
         sufficient to satisfy the withholding obligation,  provided that in the
         case of the vesting of Restricted  Stock or Restricted Stock Units, the
         number of shares of Common Stock to be issued equals or exceeds 500.

15.   FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS

         The Committee may adopt,  amend, and terminate such  arrangements,  not
         inconsistent  with the intent of the Plan, as it may deem  necessary or
         desirable to make  available  tax or other  benefits of the laws of any
         foreign  jurisdiction,  to  employees of the Company who are subject to
         such laws and who receive Awards under the Plan.

16.   NOTICE

      All  notices  to the  Company  regarding  the Plan  shall  be in  writing,
      effective as of actual receipt by the Company, and shall be sent to:

            GM Restaurants, Inc.
            5900 Lake Ellenor Dr.
            Orlando, FL 32809
            Attn:  General Counsel

Effective May 28, 1995







                                                                 EXHIBIT 10(h)
                                                                 
                            DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
                            MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN
                            (as amended May 23, 1996)

                                     PART I

                               GENERAL PROVISIONS

A.    OBJECTIVE OF THE PLAN

         It is the intent of Darden Restaurants, Inc. (the "Company") to provide
         financial  rewards  to key  executives  in  recognition  of  individual
         contributions  to the success of the Company  under the  provisions  of
         this Management Incentive Plan (the "Plan").

         Participant  awards  shall be based on the  comparative  impact  of the
         position to the overall  corporate  results as measured by the position
         level,  salary  of  the  Participant,  and  the  degree  to  which  the
         individual is able to affect  division/subsidiary,  group and corporate
         results.

B.    ELIGIBILITY

         Any  active  key  management  employee  of  the  Company  or any of its
         subsidiaries,  including  such members of the Board and the Chairman as
         are  actively  employed  by the Company or its  subsidiaries,  shall be
         eligible to  participate in the Plan.  Eligibility  shall not carry any
         rights to participation nor to any fixed awards under the Plan.

         Employees  on a  commission  basis,  those who are members of any other
         company  incentive  compensation  plan,  except  the Stock  Option  and
         Long-Term  Incentive  Plans of the  Company,  and  persons  acting in a
         consulting capacity shall not be eligible.

C.    PARTICIPATION

         As early as possible in each fiscal year (the "Plan Year"),  management
         shall recommend from those eligible a list of proposed  Participants in
         the Plan, and the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the
         "Committee")  thereupon  shall determine and cause to be notified those
         who have been  selected  as  Participants  for the  current  Plan Year.
         Participants  shall be  those  persons  holding  positions  which  most
         significantly   affect  operating  results  and  provide  the  greatest
         opportunity to contribute to current earnings and the future success of
         the Company.  During the year, other  Participants may be added because
         of  promotion  or for other  reasons  warranting  their  inclusion,  or
         Participants  may be  excluded  from  active  participation  because of
         demotion or other reasons warranting their exclusion.

                                     PART II

                                BASE CASH AWARDS

        The size of a  Participant's  base  cash  incentive  award  ("Base  Cash
        Award")  under  this  Plan  shall  be  preliminarily  determined  by the
        following formula:

         (Eligible Base Salary Earnings) x (Target Incentive Percent) x
      (Individual Performance Rating) x (Corporate/Unit Composite Rating) =
                                (Base Cash Award)





A.    ELIGIBLE BASE SALARY EARNINGS

         The Eligible  Base Salary  Earnings is the total amount of regular base
         pay actually paid to a Plan Participant  during the portion of the year
         the Participant is covered by the Plan.

B.    TARGET INCENTIVE PERCENT

         The Target  Incentive  Percent  shall be  determined by the Senior Vice
         President-Personnel using the following guidelines:

         The Target  Incentive  Percent will be determined based on job level at
         the time participation in the Plan commences.  Persons transferred to a
         higher  or lower job level  during a Plan Year will have  their  Target
         Incentive  Percent  revised as of the  effective  date of the change in
         position.

C.    INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCE RATING

         Individual performance for the Plan Year will be determined as follows:

            1.   At the  beginning  of each Plan  Year,  each  Participant  will
                 develop  written  objectives  for the year  which are  directly
                 related to specific job accountabilities.

            2.   The   individual   objectives   will  be  reviewed   with  each
                 Participant's  supervisor  for  acceptance  and will become the
                 primary  basis  for  establishing  the  Individual  Performance
                 Rating  for the year.  For the Chief  Executive  Officer,  such
                 objectives will be reviewed and approved by the Committee.

            3.   Near the end of each Plan Year, each Participant will submit to
                 his or her supervisor,  a Summary of Accomplishments related to
                 individual   performance   during  the  year.   Based  on  this
                 information  and  other   information   related  to  individual
                 performance or job accountabilities, the supervisor will assign
                 an individual rating from the following range:

                 0.00  -   .50             Unsatisfactory Performance
                  .50  -   .90             Objectives Partially Met
                  .90  -  1.20             Objectives Met
                 1.20  -  1.40             Superior Performance
                 1.40  -  1.80             Outstanding & Exceptional Performance
                
D.    UNIT/CORPORATE PERFORMANCE RATING

      1. Unit Rating

         Near the end of the Plan Year, each  Participant  will submit to his or
         her  supervisor,   a  Unit  Achievement  Summary,  which  outlines  the
         performance  of his or her  respective  unit  during  the Plan Year and
         relates directly to annual program,  the Company's long-range plans and
         other key operating  objectives.  This Unit Achievement Summary will be
         used,  along with other  information  related to unit  performance,  in
         establishing a unit rating with a range of .0  (Unsatisfactory)  to 1.8
         (Outstanding and Exceptional Performance) in the same manner or ratings
         for Individual Performance Ratings.

      2. Corporate Rating

         At the  beginning of each Plan Year,  the Committee  shall  establish a
         rating  schedule based upon the Company's  growth in Earnings Per Share
         (Pre-LIFO) and the Company's Return on Capital for the Plan Year. Based
         on this  schedule,  the  Committee  will, at the end of each Plan Year,
         establish a corporate rating for the year.  Individual and unit ratings
         will be  recommended by the  Participant's  manager and reviewed by one



         additional  level of  management.  All  individual and unit ratings for
         Plan  Participants  will  be  submitted  to  the  Company's   Incentive
         Committee for review and approval.

      3. Unit/Corporate Weightings

         The ratings established in 1. and 2. above shall be weighted based on
         job level according to the following schedule:


E.    REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF RATINGS

         All individual and unit ratings will be determined by the Participant's
         manager  and  reviewed  and  approved  by  one   additional   level  of
         management.  In  addition,  the  Incentive  Committee  shall review and
         approve all ratings prior to their submissions to the Committee.

         The final  ratings and  incentive  award  amounts shall be reviewed and
         approved  by  the  Committee   which  shall  have  full  authority  and
         discretion to set all final Base Cash Awards.


                                    PART III

                            STOCK MATCHING PROVISIONS

A.    ALTERNATIVES FOR PARTICIPATION IN STOCK MATCHING

         Subject  to  the  provisions  set  forth  below  (the  "Stock  Matching
         Provisions"),  Participants  under  age  55  are  eligible  to  receive
         additional  incentive  compensation  in the form of common stock of the
         Company ("Common Stock")  contributed by the Company ("Stock Matching")
         under the terms of the Company's  Stock Option and Long-Term  Incentive
         Plans,  and  Participants  age 55 or over may elect to receive all or a
         portion of their additional incentive compensation in the form of Stock
         Matching and/or an "Additional Cash Award."

            1. Participants under age 55 as of the last day of the Plan Year are
               eligible to participate  in the Stock Matching  Provisions of the
               Plan by  depositing  shares of Common  Stock  with a Fair  Market
               Value  equal to  either  15% or 25% of  their  Base  Cash  Award,
               depending on job level.

            2. Participants  age 55 or over as of the last day of the Plan  Year
               may  elect  full,  partial,  or no  participation  in  the  Stock
               Matching Provisions according to the following schedule:






            3. On or before the December 31 immediately preceding the end of the
               Plan Year, Participants must notify the Company in writing of the
               applicable  participation  alternatives  elected  under the Stock
               Matching   Provisions.   Elections   regarding   Stock   Matching
               participation are effective for the current Plan Year.

B.    PARTICIPATION IN STOCK MATCHING

            1. The Company shall notify each Participant who participates in the
               Stock  Matching  Provisions  of the  maximum  number of shares of
               Common Stock which they are  permitted to deposit under the Plan,
               and  Participants may choose to deposit all or any portion of the
               number of shares so  permitted  to be  deposited  (the  "Original
               Deposit").  Participants  can make their Original  Deposit at any
               time after they receive their Base Cash Award,  but  Participants
               must deposit such shares with the Company (the  "Agent") no later
               than the  December 1  immediately  following  the end of the Plan
               Year.

            2. Any  Participant  who dies,  retires  on or after age 65,  elects
               early  retirement  after age 55, or is  permanently  disabled and
               unable to work as  determined by the  Committee,  either during a
               Plan Year or prior to the final date for  depositing the Original
               Deposit  shares  for such Plan Year  (December  1),  shall not be
               eligible to  participate in the Stock  Matching  Provisions,  but
               instead,   such   Participant,   or   the   Participant's   legal
               representative,  shall receive an  Additional  Cash Award for the
               Plan  Year  in an  amount  equal  to  fifteen  percent  (15%)  or
               twenty-five  percent (25%) of any Base Cash Award paid or payable
               for that Plan Year.

C.    DISTRIBUTIONS AND WITHDRAWALS

      1. Restricted Stock

         As soon as practical  following the Original  Deposit by a Participant,
         the Company  shall,  under the terms of the Company's  Stock Option and
         Long Term Incentive  Plans,  match these shares and either deposit with
         the Agent for the  Participant's  account one share of Common Stock for
         each share of the Original Deposit or evidence issuance of one share of
         Common Stock for each share of the Original  Deposit in book entry form
         as reflected  on the master  stockholder  records of the  Company.  The
         Company  matching  shares (the  "Restricted  Stock")  shall vest and be
         delivered to the  Participant in accordance  with the terms of the plan
         under which they are issued and as determined by the Committee.

      2. Temporary Withdrawal for Option Exercise

         A Participant may  temporarily  withdraw all or a portion of the shares
         on deposit for all Plan Years (other than Restricted Stock) in order to
         exercise Company stock options, subject to an equal number of shares of
         Common  Stock  being  promptly  redeposited  with the Agent  after such
         exercise.

D.    DEFINITION OF PLAN YEAR

      For stock matching purposes, the Plan Year shall be defined as the
Company's fiscal year.


                                     PART IV

                  DEFERRAL OF PAYMENT OF CASH INCENTIVE AWARDS

Subject to rules adopted by the Committee,  a Participant may elect to defer all
or a  portion  of a Base Cash  Award  and any  additional  cash  award  received
(collectively  "Cash Award")  during each  calendar year in accordance  with the
terms and conditions of the Company's FlexComp Plan.

In order to defer all or a portion of the Cash Award for a  particular  calendar
year,  a  Participant  must make a valid  election  by  executing  and  filing a
Deferral Election Form with the Company on or before the December 31 immediately
preceding the end of the Plan Year.


                                     PART V

                               PLAN ADMINISTRATION

This Plan shall be  effective  in each  fiscal  year of the Company and shall be
administered  by the Committee and the  Committee  shall have full  authority to
interpret the Plan.  Such  interpretations  of the Committee  shall be final and
binding  on  all  parties,   including  the   Participants,   survivors  of  the
Participant, and the Company.

The   Committee   shall  have  the   authority   to  delegate   the  duties  and
responsibilities of administering the Plan,  maintaining  records,  issuing such
rules and regulations as it deems appropriate, and making the payments hereunder
to such employees or agents of the Company as it deems proper.

The Board,  or if specifically  delegated,  its delegate,  may amend,  modify or
terminate  the Plan at any  time,  provided,  however,  that no such  amendment,
modification or termination shall adversely affect any accrued benefit under the
Plan to which a Participant, or the Participant's beneficiary, is entitled prior
to the date of such amendment or  termination,  unless the  Participant,  or the
Participant's  beneficiary,  becomes entitled to an amount equal to the value of
such benefit  under another  plan,  program or practice  adopted by the Company.
Notwithstanding  the above,  no amendment,  modification,  or termination  which
would  affect  benefits  accrued  under  this  Plan  prior  to  such  amendment,
modification  or  termination  may occur  after a Change of Control  without the
written  consent  of a majority  of the  Participants  determined  as of the day
before such Change of Control.


A Change of Control shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events:

            (a)  any person (including a group as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of
                 the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934)  becoming,  directly or
                 indirectly,  the  beneficial  owner of twenty  percent (20%) or
                 more of the shares of stock of the Company entitled to vote for
                 the election of directors;

            (b)  as a result of or in  connection  with any cash  tender  offer,
                 exchange offer, merger or other business  combination,  sale of



                 assets or contested election,  or combination of the foregoing,
                 the persons  who were  directors  of the Company  just prior to
                 such  event  shall  cease  to  constitute  a  majority  of  the
                 Company's Board of Directors; or

            (c)  the stockholders of the Company approve an agreement  providing
                 for a  transaction  in which the  Company  will  cease to be an
                 independent  publicly-owned  corporation  or a  sale  or  other
                 disposition  of all or  substantially  all of the assets of the
                 Company occurs.

In the  event  the  Company  shall  effect  one or more  changes,  split-ups  or
combinations  of shares of Common Stock or one or more other like  transactions,
the Board or the Committee may make such adjustment,  upward or downward, in the
number of shares of Common Stock to be deposited  by the  Participants  as shall
appropriately reflect the effect of such transactions.

In the event the Company shall distribute  shares of a subsidiary of the Company
to its  stockholders  in a  spin-off  transaction,  the  shares  of stock of the
subsidiary  distributed to  Participants  which are  attributable  to Restricted
Stock shall be vested and delivered to the Participants  subject to any specific
instructions of the Committee.

Neither  any  benefit  payable  hereunder  nor the right to  receive  any future
benefit  under  the  Plan  may be  anticipated,  alienated,  sold,  transferred,
assigned, pledged,  encumbered, or subjected to any charge or legal process, and
if any attempt is made to do so, or a person  eligible for any benefits  becomes
bankrupt,  the interest under the Plan of the person  affected may be terminated
by the Committee which, in its sole discretion, may cause the same to be held or
applied for the benefit of one or more of the  dependents of such person or make
any other disposition of such benefits that it deems appropriate.

All questions  pertaining to the  construction,  validity and effect of the Plan
shall be  determined  in  accordance  with the laws of the United States and the
laws of the State of Florida.

Effective as of May 28, 1995





                                                                    EXHIBIT 11






                                                               EXHIBIT 12




For purposes of computing the ratio of  consolidated  earnings to fixed charges,
earnings represent  consolidated pretax earnings from continuing operations plus
fixed charges (net of capitalized  interest).  Fixed charges represent  interest
(whether   expensed  or   capitalized)   and  40  percent  (the  percent  deemed
representative of the interest factor) of minimum  restaurant lease payments for
continuing operations.


The pro forma adjustments to the historical  consolidated statements of earnings
for each of the four fiscal years ended May 28, 1995  consist of (a)  additional
annual  general  and  administrative  expenses  of $5,370  which would have been
incurred by Darden as a separate  publicly-held  company,  based on estimates by
the  management of Darden and General  Mills,  and (b) the estimated  income tax
benefit  associated with the pro forma adjustment  described in clause (a) above
at an assumed combined state and federal income tax rate of 39.8%.







                                                            EXHIBIT 13

                             MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION
                OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

Darden  Restaurants  was created as an independent  publicly held company in May
1995 through the spin-off of all of General Mills' restaurant  operations to its
shareholders.  Darden  operates  1,217 Red Lobster,  The Olive Garden and Bahama
Breeze  restaurants in the U.S. and Canada.  All the restaurants are operated by
the Company with no franchising.

This discussion should be read in conjunction with the business  information and
the Consolidated  Financial Statements and related notes found elsewhere in this
report. For comparison in this discussion,  fiscal years prior to 1996 include a
pro forma  annual  pretax  cost  adjustment  of $5.37  million  to  reflect  the
estimated  additional general and administrative  expenses which would have been
incurred by Darden as a separate publicly held company.

REVENUES
Total  revenues  in fiscal 1996 were $3.2  billion,  a 1 percent  increase  from
fiscal 1995 which  included $71.1 million of sales from the  discontinued  China
Coast.  Total revenues  increased 7 percent between fiscal 1995 and fiscal 1994.
The  increases  in sales  were  attributable  to the  opening  of new  units and
increases in  same-store  sales.  Same-store  sales gains were  primarily due to
increased  sales  of  appetizers,  beverages  and  desserts,  and  modest  price
increases.

COSTS AND EXPENSES
Food and beverage costs for fiscal 1996 were 33.3 percent of sales, a decline of
1.3  percentage  points from fiscal  1995 and 0.9  percentage  points from 1994.
These favorable  declines were caused by reduced food waste at The Olive Garden,
modest price increases at both Red Lobster and The Olive Garden, and an improved
menu mix.

Restaurant  labor was  slightly  higher for fiscal 1996 at 29.9 percent of sales
against  29.5  percent for fiscal 1995 and 29.3  percent in fiscal  1994.  These
increases  were due to wage  rate  inflation,  reduced  same-store  sales at Red
Lobster and higher training costs to implement  cost-saving systems at The Olive
Garden.

Restaurant  expenses  (primarily  lease  expenses,  new unit  opening  expenses,
utilities  and  workers'  compensation  costs)  declined  in fiscal 1996 to 14.3
percent of sales  compared to 14.8  percent in fiscal  1995 and 14.9  percent in
fiscal 1994.  These  favorable  decreases  were due  primarily to the closing of
China Coast, a reduced number of new restaurant  openings and an increased focus
on store-level costs at The Olive Garden.

Selling,  general and  administrative  expenses for the fiscal year increased to
11.7  percent of sales  compared to a pro forma 11.1  percent in fiscal 1995 and
10.3  percent  of sales in fiscal  1994.  The  increases  were  caused by higher
marketing expense.

Depreciation and amortization expense of 4.2 percent of sales in fiscal 1996 was
down  slightly  from the 4.3  percent in fiscal  1995 and was flat  compared  to
fiscal  1994.  Interest  expense of 0.7 percent of sales in fiscal 1996 was flat
compared to fiscal 1995 and 0.1 percentage points higher than fiscal 1994.


INCOME FROM OPERATIONS
Pretax earnings before restructuring rose by almost 19 percent in fiscal 1996 to
$188.7  million,  compared to the pro forma $159.1  million in fiscal 1995,  and
were  approximately the same as the pro forma $188.3 million in fiscal 1994. The
increase  in  fiscal  1996 was  primarily  a result of the  decline  in food and
beverage costs and restaurant expenses as mentioned above.

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
The effective tax rate after restructuring  charges increased to 34.6 percent in
fiscal  1996  compared  to the pro forma 17.7  percent  in fiscal  1995 and 36.4
percent in fiscal 1994. The higher effective rate in 1996, compared to 1995, was
primarily  attributable  to  higher  operating  earnings  and a lower  amount of
federal income tax credits.

EARNINGS  AFTER TAX AND EARNINGS PER SHARE BEFORE  RESTRUCTURING  Earnings after
tax before restructuring  charges for fiscal 1996 increased 10 percent to $119.2
million or 75 cents per share,  compared with the pro forma $108.3 million or 68
cents per share earned in fiscal 1995.  Pro forma net income  before  accounting
changes was $119.9 million or 75 cents per share in fiscal 1994.

NET INCOME AND EARNINGS PER SHARE
During fiscal 1996, an after-tax restructuring charge of $44.8 million (28 cents
per share) was taken in the first  quarter to close all China Coast  operations.
The pretax restructuring charge includes approximately $60.4 million of non-cash
charges  primarily  related to the  write-down of buildings and equipment to net
realizable  value and  approximately  $14.6  million of charges to be settled in
cash  related  to  carrying  costs of  buildings  and  equipment  prior to their
disposal,  lease buy-out  provisions,  employee  severance and other costs. Cash
required  to  carry  out  the  restructuring  activities  will  be  provided  by
operations.  (See Note 3 of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements.)  Net
earnings  after  restructuring  expenses were $74.4 million (47 cents per share)
compared with the pro forma $49.2 million (31 cents per share) in fiscal 1995.

In fiscal 1995, an after-tax restructuring charge of $59.1 million (37 cents per
share) was taken to position the Company for its spin-off from General Mills and
to close  low-performing  restaurants.  The  pretax  1995  restructuring  charge
included   approximately   $65.4  million  of  non-cash  asset  write-downs  and
approximately  $33.9 million of charges to be settled in cash. No  restructuring
charges were incurred in fiscal 1994.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
The Company  intends to manage its  business and its  financial  ratios so as to
maintain an  investment  grade bond rating,  which allows access to financing at
reasonable  costs.  Currently,  the Company's  publicly  issued  long-term  debt
carries  "A3"  (Moody's  Investor  Services,  Inc.),  "BBB+"  (Standard & Poor's
Corporation) and "A-" (Duff & Phelps Corporation)  ratings. Our commercial paper
has  ratings of "P-2"  (Moody's),  "A-2"  (Standard  & Poor's) and "D-1" (Duff &
Phelps).

Darden  completed  its  long-term  capital  structure  in January  1996 with the
issuance of $150 million of 6.375  percent notes due in 2006 and $100 million of
7.125 percent debentures due in 2016. The effective annual interest rate is 7.57
percent for the notes and 7.82 percent for the debentures,  after  consideration
of loan costs,  issuance  discounts and cost to terminate an interest-rate  swap
that was established  prior to the distribution  from General Mills. The Company
is also the guarantor  under a $50 million  variable rate loan agreement for the
benefit of the Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP). The ESOP loan, which is due
during 2007, is included as a component of long-term  debt with a related offset
in stockholders'  equity.  Also,  Darden's shelf registration  statement permits
issuance of an additional $250 million of unsecured debt securities.




Commercial  paper is the primary  source of  short-term  financing.  Bank credit
lines are maintained to ensure  availability of short-term funds on an as-needed
basis.  In May 1996, the fee-paid credit lines were reduced from $500 million to
$350 million.

The Company's  adjusted  debt-to-total  capital ratio (which includes 6.25 times
the  total  annual  restaurant  minimum  rent as a  component  of debt and total
capital) was 34 percent at May 26, 1996.  The  Company's  fixed-charge  coverage
ratio,  which  measures  the  number of times each year that the  Company  earns
enough to cover its fixed charges, amounted to 5.6 times. Based on these ratios,
the  Company's  financial  condition  remains  strong.  The  composition  of the
Company's capital structure is shown in the following table.


In September 1995, the Company  declared an 8 cents per share annual dividend to
be paid in two  installments.  In December 1995, the Company's  Board approved a
stock  repurchase plan whereby the Company may purchase on the open market up to
6.5 million common shares to offset shares issued through  employee stock option
and restricted stock programs. In fiscal 1996, 1.9 million shares were purchased
under this program.

The Company typically  carries current  liabilities in excess of current assets,
because the restaurant  business  receives  substantially  immediate payment for
sales,  (nominal  receivables),  while inventories and other current liabilities
normally  carry  longer  payment  terms,  (usually 15 to 30 days).  The seasonal
variation in net working capital is typically in the $30 to $50 million range.

The Company requires capital principally for building new restaurants, replacing
equipment and remodeling existing units.  Capital expenditures were $214 million
in fiscal 1996, down from $358 million in fiscal 1995 and $335 million in fiscal
1994  because  of  decisions  to slow the growth in new Olive  Garden  units and
discontinue China Coast operations. Fiscal 1996 capital expenditure and dividend
requirements  were financed  primarily through  internally  generated funds. The
Company  generated  $294  million,  $274  million and $262 million in funds from
operating activities during fiscal years 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.





                           INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Darden Restaurants, Inc.

We  have  audited  the  accompanying   consolidated  balance  sheets  of  Darden
Restaurants, Inc. and subsidiaries as of May 26, 1996, and May 28, 1995, and the
related  consolidated  statements  of  earnings  and cash  flows for each of the
fiscal years in the  three-year  period ended May 26, 1996.  These  consolidated
financial  statements are the  responsibility of the Company's  management.  Our
responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  these  consolidated  financial
statements based on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects,  the financial position of Darden Restaurants,
Inc. and  subsidiaries  as of May 26, 1996, and May 28, 1995, and the results of
their  operations  and  their  cash  flows for each of the  fiscal  years in the
three-year  period ended May 26, 1996, in  conformity  with  generally  accepted
accounting principles.



Orlando, Florida                                KPMG Peat Marwick  LLP
June 18, 1996




















- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
              (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data.)


NOTE 1-SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
A. Principles of Consolidation
The accompanying fiscal year 1996 consolidated  financial statements include the
operations  of  Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.  and its  wholly  owned  subsidiaries
("Darden" or "the Company").  The  consolidated  financial  statements  prior to
fiscal year 1996 represent the former combined restaurant  operations of General
Mills, Inc. ("General Mills" or "former parent") in the United States and Canada
that now  comprise  Darden.  The common  shares of Darden  were  distributed  by
General Mills to its stockholders as of May 28, 1995.

The  consolidated  financial  statements  prior to fiscal  year 1996  include an
allocation of certain general corporate  expenses of General Mills which are not
directly  related to Darden,  as well as an allocation  of interest  expense and
income  taxes that  approximate  the  amounts  Darden  would have  incurred on a
stand-alone  basis.   Management   believes  the  allocation  methods  used  are
reasonable.

Darden's fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in May. Fiscal years 1996, 1995 and
1994 each consisted of 52 weeks.

B. Land, Buildings and Equipment
All land,  buildings and equipment are recorded at cost. Building components are
depreciated  over  estimated  useful lives  ranging from 7 to 40 years using the
straight-line  method.  Equipment is  depreciated  over  estimated  useful lives
ranging  from 3 to 10 years also  using the  straight-line  method.  Accelerated
depreciation methods are generally used for income tax purposes.

In fiscal year 1996,  the Company  adopted  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting
Standards  No. 121 (SFAS 121),  "Accounting  for the  Impairment  of  Long-Lived
Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of." The effect of adopting SFAS
121  on  the  Company's   financial  position  and  results  of  operations  was
insignificant.  In accordance  with SFAS 121, the Company  periodically  reviews
restaurant sites and certain  identifiable  intangibles for impairment  whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset
may not be  recoverable.  Measurement  of an impairment  loss for such assets is
based on the fair value of the asset.  Restaurant sites and certain identifiable
intangibles  to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying  amount
or fair value, less estimated cost to sell.

C. Inventories
Inventories  are  valued  at the  lower  of  cost or  market  value,  using  the
"first-in, first-out" method.

D. Intangible Assets
The cost of intangible  assets is amortized  evenly over their estimated  useful
lives.  Most of these costs were  incurred  through the  purchase of leases with
favorable  rent terms.  The Audit  Committee of the Board of Directors  annually
reviews  intangible  assets.  At its  meeting  on May 23,  1996,  the  Board  of
Directors  affirmed that the remaining  amounts of these assets have  continuing
value.





NOTE 1 - SUMMARY  OF  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  (CONTINUED)  E.  Liquor
Licenses  The  costs of  obtaining  non-transferable  liquor  licenses  that are
directly  issued by local  government  agencies for nominal fees are expensed in
the year incurred. The costs of purchasing  transferable liquor licenses through
open  markets  in  jurisdictions  with a  limited  number of  authorized  liquor
licenses  for fees in excess of nominal  amounts  are  capitalized.  If there is
permanent impairment in the value of a liquor license due to market changes, the
asset is written down to its net realizable value. Annual liquor license renewal
fees are expensed.

F. Foreign Currency Translation
The Canadian  dollar is the  functional  currency  for the  Canadian  restaurant
operations.  Assets and liabilities  are translated  using the exchange rates in
effect at the balance sheet date. Results of operations are translated using the
average exchange rates prevailing  throughout the period.  Translation gains and
losses are  accumulated  in a cumulative  foreign  currency  adjustment  account
included as a separate component of stockholders'  equity. Gains and losses from
foreign  currency  transactions  are  generally  included  in  the  consolidated
statements of earnings for each period.

G. Pre-Opening Costs
Capitalized   pre-opening   costs  include  the  direct  and  incremental  costs
associated  with  the  opening  of a new  restaurant  and are  amortized  over a
one-year period from the restaurant opening date.

H. Advertising
Production costs of commercials and programming are charged to operations in the
year  first  aired.  The costs of other  advertising,  promotion  and  marketing
programs are charged to operations in the year incurred. Advertising expense was
$239,526,   $211,904  and  $173,053  in  fiscal  years  1996,   1995  and  1994,
respectively.

I. Statements of Cash Flows
For purpose of the  consolidated  statements of cash flows,  amounts  receivable
from credit card  companies and  investments  purchased with a maturity of three
months or less are considered cash equivalents.

J. Earnings Per Share
Earnings per share for 1996 has been  determined by dividing net earnings by the
weighted  average  number of common shares  outstanding  during the year, net of
common  shares held in  treasury.  Earnings per share for 1995 and 1994 has been
determined  by dividing the  appropriate  net  earnings by the weighted  average
number of common shares outstanding during the year, based on the average number
of General Mills' common shares presumed to be outstanding during the applicable
fiscal year. Common share equivalents were not material.

K. Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial  statements in conformity  with generally  accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect  the  reported  amounts  of assets  and  liabilities  and  disclosure  of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial  statements,  and
the  reported  amounts of revenues  and expenses  during the  reporting  period.
Actual results could differ from those estimated.

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUTING POLICIES (CONTINUED) L. Accounting for
Stock Options Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 123, "Accounting
for  Stock-Based  Compensation,"  is effective for fiscal years  beginning after
December  15,  1995.  The Company  will adopt this  statement  in fiscal 1997 by
providing pro forma equivalent footnote disclosure  information,  and will elect
to continue  applying APB Opinion No. 25 to account for stock options granted to
employees. Adoption of this new standard will not affect the Company's financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

M. Reclassifications
Certain  reclassifications  have  been  made in the  prior  years'  consolidated
statements  of  earnings  and cash  flows to conform  with the fiscal  year 1996
presentation.


NOTE 2 - ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
Darden  contracts with a national  storage and  distribution  company to provide
services  which are billed to Darden on a per-case  basis.  In  connection  with
these  services,  certain Darden  inventory  items are sold to the  distribution
company  at a  predetermined  price when they are  shipped  to the  distribution
company's storage  facilities.  These items are repurchased at the same price by
Darden  when  the  inventory  is  delivered  to  Company   restaurants   by  the
distribution  company.  The receivable from the distribution company was $20,083
and $23,119 at May 26, 1996, and May 28, 1995, respectively.


NOTE 3 - RESTRUCTURING EXPENSE
Darden  recorded  restructuring  expense in 1996  related to the  closing of all
China Coast restaurants and in 1995 primarily related to restaurant  closings in
the U.S. and Canada.  These expenses  resulted in a reduction in net earnings of
$44,849  ($0.28 per share) in 1996 and  $59,085  ($0.37 per share) in 1995.  All
restructuring actions are expected to be substantially  completed in 1997. As of
May 26, 1996, approximately $5,927 and $19,185 of costs associated with the 1996
and 1995  restructurings,  respectively,  had been paid and charged  against the
restructuring  liability.  The restructuring liability included in other current
liabilities  was  $37,773  and  $61,213 as of May 26,  1996,  and May 28,  1995,
respectively.

The components of the restructuring expense are as follows:




NOTE 4 - INCOME TAXES
Darden adopted Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting
for  Income  Taxes"  (SFAS 109) as of May 31,  1993.  The  adoption  of SFAS 109
changed the method of  accounting  for income taxes from the deferred  method to
the asset and liability  method.  Deferred  income taxes reflect the differences
between assets and liabilities  recognized for financial  reporting purposes and
amounts  recognized  for tax  purposes  measured  using the current  enacted tax
rates.  The  cumulative  effect of adoption  was an increase in net  earnings of
approximately $6,300 ($.04 per share).

The components of earnings  (loss) from  operations  before income taxes and the
provision for income taxes thereon are as follows on the next page:


- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------


During 1996,  1995 and 1994,  Darden paid income  taxes of $25,777,  $31,469 and
$74,270,  respectively.  1995 and 1994  income  taxes  were  paid as part of the
General Mills consolidated tax returns.

The following table is a reconciliation of the U.S. statutory income tax rate to
the  effective  income  tax  rate  included  in  the  accompanying  consolidated
statements of earnings:





NOTE 4 - INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
The tax effects of temporary  differences  that give rise to deferred tax assets
and liabilities are as follows:



NOTE 5 - LAND, BUILDINGS AND EQUIPMENT
The components of land, buildings and equipment are as follows:


NOTE 6 - OTHER ASSETS
The components of other assets are as follows:


NOTE 7 - SHORT-TERM DEBT
Short-term  debt at May 26, 1996,  consisted of $72,600 of unsecured  commercial
paper  borrowings  with  original  maturities  of one month or less and interest
rates  ranging  from  5.30% to  5.53%.  The  Company  also  maintains  a 364-day
revolving loan agreement under which the Company can borrow up to $100,000.  The
loan agreement allows the Company to borrow at




NOTE 7 - SHORT-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)
interest rates which vary based on the federal funds rate, the prime rate, LIBOR
or acompetitively  bid rate among the members of the lender  consortium,  at the
option of the  Company.  The Company is required to pay a facility  fee of seven
basis points per annum on the average  daily amount of loan  commitments  by the
consortium.  The amount of interest  and the annual  facility  fee is subject to
change based on the Company's  achievement of certain  financial ratios and debt
ratings.  Advances under the loan  agreement are unsecured.  At May 26, 1996, no
borrowings were outstanding  under this agreement.  At May 28, 1995,  $98,000 in
borrowings were outstanding  under this agreement at interest rates which ranged
from 6.16% to 6.24%.

NOTE 8 - LONG-TERM DEBT
The components of long-term debt are as follows:



In January  1996,  the Company  issued  $150,000 of 6.375% notes due in 2006 and
$100,000 of 7.125%  debentures  due in 2016. The proceeds from the issuance were
used to refinance  commercial paper borrowings.  Concurrent with the issuance of
the  notes  and  debentures,  the  Company  terminated,  and  settled  for cash,
interest-rate  swap agreements  with notional  amounts  totaling  $200,000 which
hedged the  movement  of interest  rates prior to the  issuance of the notes and
debentures.  The cash paid in terminating the  interest-rate  swap agreements is
being  amortized to interest  expense over the life of the notes and debentures.
The  effective  annual  interest  rate is 7.57%  for the notes and 7.82% for the
debentures,  after consideration of loan costs, issuance discounts, and interest
rate swap termination costs.

The Company also  maintains a revolving  loan  agreement  expiring May 19, 2000,
with a  consortium  of banks under which the Company can borrow up to  $250,000.
The terms and  conditions  of this loan  agreement  are similar to the Company's
364-day  revolving loan agreement  which is discussed in Note 7, except that the
required  facility  fee is nine  basis  points per annum.  At May 26,  1996,  no
borrowings were outstanding under this agreement.  At May 28, 1995,  $250,000 in
borrowings were outstanding at interest rates which ranged from 6.16% to 6.22%.

The aggregate maturities of long-term debt for each of the five years subsequent
to May 26, 1996, and thereafter  are $54 in 1997,  1998 and 1999,  $155 in 2000,
$206 in 2001 and $302,359 thereafter.


NOTE 9 - FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Company has participated in the financial  derivatives markets to manage its
exposure  to  interest  rate  fluctuations.  At May 28,  1995,  the  Company had
interest rate swaps with a notional  amount of $200,000 which it used to convert
variable rates on its long-term debt to fixed rates  effective May 30, 1995. The
Company  received  the  one-month   commercial  paper  interest  rate  and  paid
fixed-rate  interest  ranging from 7.51% to 7.89%.  The interest rate swaps were
settled during January 1996 at a cost to the Company of $27,670.  This cost will
be  recognized  as an  adjustment  to  interest  expense  over  the  term of the
Company's  10-year  notes and  20-year  debentures  (see Note 8). The  following
methods were used in estimating fair value disclosures for significant financial
instruments: Cash equivalents approximate their carrying amount due to the short
duration of those items.  Short-term  debt  approximates  its  carrying  amount.
Long-term  debt is based on quoted  market  prices or, if market  prices are not
available,  the present  value of the  underlying  cash flows  discounted at the
Company's  incremental  borrowing  rates.  Interest  rate swaps are based on the
difference in the present value of variable-rate  future receipts and fixed-rate
future  payments.  The  carrying  amounts  and  fair  values  of  the  Company's
significant financial instruments are as follows:







NOTE 10 - STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
The following  table  summarizes the changes in the components of  stockholder's
equity:



NOTE 11 - STOCKHOLDERS' RIGHTS PLAN
The Company has a stockholders' rights plan that entitles each holder of Company
common stock to purchase  one-hundredth  of one share of Darden  preferred stock
for each common share owned at a purchase price of $62.50 per share,  subject to
adjustment to prevent  dilution.  The rights are  exercisable  when, and are not
transferable  apart from the Company's common stock until, a person or group has
acquired 20% or more,  or makes a tender offer for 20% or more, of the Company's
common stock. If the specified  percentage of the Company's common stock is then
acquired,  each right will entitle the holder (other than the acquiring company)
to receive,  upon exercise,  common stock of either the Company or the acquiring
company having a value equal to two times the exercise  price of the right.  The
rights are redeemable by the Company's Board in certain circumstances and expire
on May 24, 2005.

NOTE 12 - INTEREST, NET
As explained in Note 1-A,  the interest  expense  appearing in the 1995 and 1994
consolidated  statements  of  earnings  includes an  allocation  of a portion of
General Mills' consolidated interest expense assuming a debt-to-capital ratio of
approximately  25% for  Darden.  Long-term  rates of 8.56% and 8.5% were used to
calculate interest expense on non-ESOP debt averaging $307,500




NOTE 12 - INTEREST, NET (CONTINUED)
and $265,800 in fiscal years 1995 and 1994, respectively.  These long-term rates
approximate  the prevailing  cost of long-term debt for companies with financial
characteristics  similar to those of Darden during the fiscal periods presented.
Interest expense on average ESOP debt of $67,075,  $69,570 and $72,300 in fiscal
years 1996, 1995 and 1994,  respectively,  was included in compensation expense.
Capitalized  interest was computed  using the Company's  borrowing rate for 1996
and General  Mills'  borrowing  rate for 1995 and 1994. The Company paid $14,657
for interest in fiscal 1996.

The components of interest, net are as follows:



NOTE 13 - LEASES
An  analysis  of rent by  property  leased  (all of which are  accounted  for as
operating leases) is as follows:


Minimum rental  obligations are accounted for on a straight-line  basis over the
term of the lease. Some leases require payment of property taxes,  insurance and
maintenance costs in addition to the rent payments.  The annual  non-cancellable
future lease  commitments for each of the five years  subsequent to May 26, 1996
and thereafter are $44,640 in 1997, $44,079 in 1998, $42,192 in 1999, $39,041 in
2000,  $35,323  in 2001  and  $174,785  thereafter,  for a  cumulative  total of
$380,060.

NOTE 14 - RETIREMENT PLANS
The Company has a defined  benefit plan covering  most salaried  employees and a
group of hourly employees with a frozen level of benefits. Benefits for salaried
employees  are based on length of service and final  average  compensation.  The
hourly plan  provides a monthly  amount for each year of credited  service.  The
Company's funding policy is consistent with the funding





NOTE 14 - RETIREMENT PLANS (CONTINUED)
requirements  of  federal  law  and  regulations.  Plan  assets  consist
principally of listed equity securities,  corporate obligations and U.S.
government securities.

Components of net pension expense (income) are as follows:


The  weighted-average  discount rate and rate of increase in future compensation
levels  used  in  determining  the  actuarial   present  value  of  the  benefit
obligations  were  7.75% and 6.0% in 1996,  8.0% and 5.9% in 1995,  and 8.8% and
6.4% in 1994, respectively. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets
was 10.4%.

The funded  status of the plan and the  amount  recognized  on the  consolidated
balance sheets is as follows:


The Company has a defined  contribution  plan covering most employees age 21 and
older  with at least  one  year of  service.  Employees  classified  as  "highly
compensated" under the Internal Revenue Code are ineligible to participate.  The
Company matches participant  contributions up to 6% of compensation on the basis
of $0.50 for each dollar contributed by the participant. The plan had net assets
of $160,291 at May 26, 1996, and $142,916 at May 28, 1995. Expense recognized in
1996, 1995 and 1994 was $2,505, $1,562, and $1,290, respectively.







NOTE 14 - RETIREMENT PLANS (CONTINUED)
The defined  contribution plan includes an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP).
This ESOP  borrowed  $50,000 from third  parties  guaranteed  by the Company and
borrowed  $25,000  from the Company at a variable  interest  rate.  Compensation
expense is recognized as contributions  are accrued.  Contributions to the plan,
plus the dividends accumulated on the common stock held by the ESOP, are used to
pay  principal,  interest and expenses of the plan.  As loan  payments are made,
common stock is allocated to ESOP  participants.  In 1996,  1995,  and 1994, the
ESOP incurred interest expense of $3,431,  $3,318, and $2,244 respectively,  and
used dividends received of $1,735, $2,884, and $3,477 and contributions received
from the Company of $2,397, $2,098, and $2,580,  respectively,  to pay principal
and interest on its debt.

Company  shares  owned  by the  ESOP  are  included  in  average  common  shares
outstanding  for purposes of  calculating  earnings per share.  The ESOP's third
party debt is  described  in Note 8. At May 26,  1996,  the  ESOP's  debt to the
Company had a balance of $16,900 with a variable rate of interest of 5.61%.  The
principal  balance is due to be repaid in December  2014.  The number of Company
common  shares  within  the  ESOP  at  May  26,  1996,  approximates  10,621,000
representing  8,675,000 unreleased shares, 9,000 shares committed to be released
and 1,937,000 shares allocated to participants.

At May 26, 1996,  384,958  unreleased common shares of General Mills remained in
the ESOP.  It is the ESOP's  intention  to sell the General  Mills shares in the
open market, with the proceeds to be used to acquire Company common shares.

NOTE 15 - OTHER POSTRETIREMENT AND POSTEMPLOYMENT  BENEFITS The Company sponsors
a plan that provides health care benefits to its salaried retirees.  The plan is
contributory with retiree contributions based on years of service.

Components of the postretirement health-care expense are as follows:


The plan is not funded. The amounts included in the consolidated  balance sheets
are as follows:





- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
NOTE 15 - OTHER POSTRETIREMENT AND POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS (CONTINUED)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
The  discount  rates used in  determining  the  actuarial  present  value of the
benefit obligations were 8.75% in 1996 and 8.0% in 1995.

The health-care  cost trend rate increase in the per capita charges for benefits
ranged from 7.1% to 7.8% for 1997,  depending on the medical  service  category.
The rates gradually decrease from 4.6% to 5.5% for 2007 and remain at that level
thereafter. If the health-care cost trend rate increased by one percentage point
in each future year,  the aggregate of the service and interest cost  components
of  postretirement  expense would increase for 1996 by $119, and the accumulated
benefit obligation at May 26, 1996, would increase by $921.

In  fiscal  1994,  Darden  adopted  SFAS No.  112,  "Employers'  Accounting  for
Postemployment  Benefits." The cumulative effect as of May 31, 1993, of changing
to the accrual basis for severance  and  disability  costs was a decrease in net
earnings of approximately $2,600 ($.01 per share).


NOTE 16 - STOCK PLANS
The  Darden  Restaurants  Stock  Option  and  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan of 1995
provides for the granting of stock  options to key employees at a price equal to
the fair  market  value of the shares at the date of the grant and are for terms
not exceeding 10 years.  15,000,000  shares of common stock are  authorized  for
issuance  under the plan;  3,000,000  of these shares are  available  solely for
issuance  in  connection  with the  granting  of stock  options in lieu of merit
salary increases or other compensation or employee  benefits.  Such options vest
at the discretion of the Compensation Committee. The plan also allows for grants
of  restricted  stock and  restricted  stock  units  (RSUs) for up to 10% of the
shares under the plan.

No  individual  may  receive  in  excess  of 2% of the  total  number  of shares
authorized under the plan in restricted stock or RSUs. Restricted stock and RSUs
granted  under the plan vest no sooner than one year from the date of grant.  No
individual  may  receive  awards  covering  in excess of 10 percent of the total
number of shares authorized for issuance under the plan.

The Darden  Restaurants  Stock Plan for  Non-Employee  Directors  provides for a
one-time  grant to each  non-employee  director of an option to purchase  12,500
shares of common  stock at a price equal to the fair market  value of the shares
at the date of grant. The plan also provides for an annual grant of 3,000 shares
of  restricted  stock to each  non-employee  director.  Up to 250,000  shares of
common stock may be issued under this plan. The Darden Restaurants  Compensation
Plan for Non-Employee  Directors provides that non-employee  directors may elect
to receive  their annual  retainer and meeting  fees in cash,  deferred  cash or
shares of common stock.  The common stock  issuable  under the plan shall have a
fair market value  equivalent to the value of the foregone  retainer and meeting
fees. 50,000 shares of common stock are available for issuance under the plan.





NOTE 16 - STOCK PLANS (CONTINUED)
Option transactions, commencing as of the distribution date, are as follows:


NOTE 17 - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Darden makes normal trade commitments in the course of regular operations and is
subject to litigation  incident to the conduct of its ongoing  business.  In the
opinion of management,  there are no unusual commitments or contingencies at May
26,  1996,  that would  materially  affect the  financial  position or operating
results of Darden.

NOTE 18 - QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)
Summarized quarterly data for 1996 and 1995 are as follows:














                                                              EXHIBIT 21


                SUBSIDIARIES OF DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.


As of May 26, 1996, the Registrant had one "significant subsidiary", as defined
in Regulation S-X, Rule 1-02(w), identified as follows:

      GMRI,  Inc., a Florida  corporation,  doing  business as Red Lobster,  The
      Olive Garden and Bahama Breeze.

In order to comply with certain state laws, the  Registrant,  either directly or
indirectly  through GMRI, Inc., had 58 other subsidiaries as of May 26, 1996. If
considered  in the aggregate as a single  subsidiary as of May 26, 1996,  the 58
other subsidiaries would not constitute a "significant subsidiary" as defined in
Regulation S-X, Rule 1-02(w).







                                                              EXHIBIT 23

                    INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS' CONSENT


The Board of Directors
Darden Restaurants, Inc.:

      We consent to  incorporation  by reference in the  Registration  Statement
(No.  33-93854)  on Form S-3 and  Registration  Statements  (Nos.  33-92702  and
33-92704) on Form S-8 of Darden  Restaurants,  Inc. of our report dated June 18,
1996, relating to the consolidated  balance sheets of Darden  Restaurants,  Inc.
and  subsidiaries  as of  May  26,  1996  and  May  28,  1995  and  the  related
consolidated  statements of earnings and cash flows for each of the fiscal years
in the three-year  period ended May 26, 1996,  which report is  incorporated  by
reference to page 15 of the  Registrant's  1996 Annual Report to Stockholders in
the May 26, 1996 annual report on Form 10-K of Darden Restaurants, Inc.

                         KPMG Peat Marwick LLP


Orlando, Florida
August 13, 1996









EXHIBIT 24

                           POWER OF ATTORNEY

      KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS,  that the undersigned constitutes and appoints
C.L. Whitehill, Joe R. Lee and James D. Smith, and each of them, his or her true
and lawful  attorneys-in-fact  and agents,  with full power of substitution  and
resubstitution,  for and in his or her  name,  place and  stead,  in any and all
capacities, to sign the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May
26,  1996,  and any and all  amendments  thereto and to file the same,  with all
exhibits  thereto,  and  other  documents  in  connection  therewith,  with  the
Securities and Exchange  Commission,  granting unto said  attorneys-in-fact  and
agents,  and each of them,  full power and  authority to do and perform each and
every  act and  thing  requisite  and  necessary  to be done  in and  about  the
premises,  as fully to all  intents  and  purposes  as might or could be done in
person,  hereby  ratifying and  confirming all that said  attorneys-in-fact  and
agents or any of them,  or their  substitute or  substitutes  may lawfully do or
cause to be done by virtue hereof.


                                          /s/ Betty Southard Murphy
                                          Betty Southard Murphy

Date: August 8, 1996












                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

      KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS,  that the undersigned constitutes and appoints
C.L. Whitehill, Joe R. Lee and James D. Smith, and each of them, his or her true
and lawful  attorneys-in-fact  and agents,  with full power of substitution  and
resubstitution,  for and in his or her  name,  place and  stead,  in any and all
capacities, to sign the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May
26,  1996,  and any and all  amendments  thereto and to file the same,  with all
exhibits  thereto,  and  other  documents  in  connection  therewith,  with  the
Securities and Exchange  Commission,  granting unto said  attorneys-in-fact  and
agents,  and each of them,  full power and  authority to do and perform each and
every  act and  thing  requisite  and  necessary  to be done  in and  about  the
premises,  as fully to all  intents  and  purposes  as might or could be done in
person,  hereby  ratifying and  confirming all that said  attorneys-in-fact  and
agents or any of them,  or their  substitute or  substitutes  may lawfully do or
cause to be done by virtue hereof.


                                             /s/ Michael D. Rose
                                             Michael D. Rose

Date: August 9, 1996










                           POWER OF ATTORNEY

      KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS,  that the undersigned constitutes and appoints
C.L. Whitehill, Joe R. Lee and James D. Smith, and each of them, his or her true
and lawful  attorneys-in-fact  and agents,  with full power of substitution  and
resubstitution,  for and in his or her  name,  place and  stead,  in any and all
capacities, to sign the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May
26,  1996,  and any and all  amendments  thereto and to file the same,  with all
exhibits  thereto,  and  other  documents  in  connection  therewith,  with  the
Securities and Exchange  Commission,  granting unto said  attorneys-in-fact  and
agents,  and each of them,  full power and  authority to do and perform each and
every  act and  thing  requisite  and  necessary  to be done  in and  about  the
premises,  as fully to all  intents  and  purposes  as might or could be done in
person,  hereby  ratifying and  confirming all that said  attorneys-in-fact  and
agents or any of them,  or their  substitute or  substitutes  may lawfully do or
cause to be done by virtue hereof.


                                          /s/ Jack A. Smith
                                          Jack A. Smith

Date: August 8, 1996











                           POWER OF ATTORNEY

      KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS,  that the undersigned constitutes and appoints
C.L. Whitehill, Joe R. Lee and James D. Smith, and each of them, his or her true
and lawful  attorneys-in-fact  and agents,  with full power of substitution  and
resubstitution,  for and in his or her  name,  place and  stead,  in any and all
capacities, to sign the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May
26,  1996,  and any and all  amendments  thereto and to file the same,  with all
exhibits  thereto,  and  other  documents  in  connection  therewith,  with  the
Securities and Exchange  Commission,  granting unto said  attorneys-in-fact  and
agents,  and each of them,  full power and  authority to do and perform each and
every  act and  thing  requisite  and  necessary  to be done  in and  about  the
premises,  as fully to all  intents  and  purposes  as might or could be done in
person,  hereby  ratifying and  confirming all that said  attorneys-in-fact  and
agents or any of them,  or their  substitute or  substitutes  may lawfully do or
cause to be done by virtue hereof.


                                          /s/ Blaine Sweatt
                                          Blaine Sweatt

Date: August 8, 1996









                           POWER OF ATTORNEY

      KNOW ALL BY THESE PRESENTS,  that the undersigned constitutes and appoints
C.L. Whitehill, Joe R. Lee and James D. Smith, and each of them, his or her true
and lawful  attorneys-in-fact  and agents,  with full power of substitution  and
resubstitution,  for and in his or her  name,  place and  stead,  in any and all
capacities, to sign the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May
26,  1996,  and any and all  amendments  thereto and to file the same,  with all
exhibits  thereto,  and  other  documents  in  connection  therewith,  with  the
Securities and Exchange  Commission,  granting unto said  attorneys-in-fact  and
agents,  and each of them,  full power and  authority to do and perform each and
every  act and  thing  requisite  and  necessary  to be done  in and  about  the
premises,  as fully to all  intents  and  purposes  as might or could be done in
person,  hereby  ratifying and  confirming all that said  attorneys-in-fact  and
agents or any of them,  or their  substitute or  substitutes  may lawfully do or
cause to be done by virtue hereof.


                                   /s/ Daniel B. Burke
                                   Daniel B. Burke

Date: August 12, 1996











                                                              EXHIBIT 27

                        DARDEN RESTAURANTS, INC.
                        FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
                (In Thousands, Except per Share Amounts)


This  schedule  contains  summary  financial   information  extracted  from  the
consolidated  financial statements of Darden Restaurants,  Inc. and subsidiaries
and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such financial statements.


