
10-K
completek.txt
LOEWS CORPORATION 2002 10-K

==============================================================================

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549


                                  FORM 10-K


[X]             ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2002

                                       OR

[ ]             TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Transition Period From               to
                                ------------    -------------

Commission File Number 1-6541

                               LOEWS CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           Delaware                                            13-2646102
(State or other jurisdiction of                             (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                             Identification No.)

                 667 Madison Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10021-8087
               (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

                                 (212) 521-2000
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                      Name of each exchange on
         Title of each class                               which registered
         -------------------                          ------------------------

Loews Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share          New York Stock Exchange
Carolina Group Stock, par value $0.01 per share        New York Stock Exchange
3 1/8% Exchangeable Subordinated Notes Due 2007        New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                      Yes   X                          No
                          -----                           -----

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ X ].

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).

                      Yes   X                          No
                          -----                           -----

  The aggregate market value of voting and non-voting common equity held by
non-affiliates as of the last business day of the registrant's most recently
completed second fiscal quarter was approximately $8,375,100,000.

  As of March 14, 2003, 185,441,200 shares of Loews common stock and
39,910,000 shares of Carolina Group stock were outstanding.

                       Documents Incorporated by Reference:

  Portions of the definitive Loews Corporation Notice of Annual Meeting of
Stockholders and Proxy Statement intended to be filed by Registrant with the
Commission prior to April 30, 2003 are incorporated by reference into Part
III.

==============================================================================


                               LOEWS CORPORATION

                          INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT ON
                           FORM 10-K FILED WITH THE
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                     For the Year Ended December 31, 2002




                                   PART I

Item 1. Business.

  Loews Corporation is a holding company. Its subsidiaries are engaged in the
following lines of business: property, casualty and life insurance (CNA
Financial Corporation, a 90% owned subsidiary); the production and sale of
cigarettes (Lorillard, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary); the operation of
hotels (Loews Hotels Holding Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary); the
operation of offshore oil and gas drilling rigs (Diamond Offshore Drilling,
Inc., a 54% owned subsidiary); and the distribution and sale of watches and
clocks (Bulova Corporation, a 97% owned subsidiary).

  Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms "Company" and "Registrant"
as used herein mean Loews Corporation excluding its subsidiaries.

  Information relating to the major business segments from which the Company's
consolidated revenues and income are derived is contained in Note 22 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8.

                        CAROLINA GROUP TRACKING STOCK

  On February 6, 2002 the Company sold 40,250,000 shares of a new class of its
common stock, referred to as Carolina Group Stock, for net proceeds of $1.1
billion. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
included in Item 8.

  The Carolina Group stock, commonly called a tracking stock, is designed to
reflect the economic performance of a defined group of assets and liabilities
of the Company referred to as the Carolina Group. The Company has attributed
the following assets and liabilities to the Carolina Group:

  (a)  the Company's 100% stock ownership interest in Lorillard, Inc.;

  (b)  notional, intergroup debt owed by the Carolina Group to the Loews
Group, bearing interest at the annual rate of 8.0% and, subject to optional
prepayment, due December 31, 2021 (as of March 14, 2003, $2.4 billion was
outstanding);

  (c)  any and all liabilities, costs and expenses of the Company and
Lorillard, Inc. and the subsidiaries and predecessors of Lorillard, Inc.,
arising out of or related to tobacco or otherwise arising out of the past,
present or future business of Lorillard, Inc. or its subsidiaries or
predecessors, or claims arising out of or related to the sale of any
businesses previously sold by Lorillard, Inc. or its subsidiaries or
predecessors, in each case, whether grounded in tort, contract, statute or
otherwise, whether pending or asserted in the future;

  (d)  all net income or net losses arising from the assets and liabilities
that are reflected in the Carolina Group and all net proceeds from any
disposition of those assets, in each case, after deductions to reflect
dividends paid to holders of Carolina Group stock or credited to the Loews
Group in respect of its intergroup interest; and

  (e)  any acquisitions or investments made from assets reflected in the
Carolina Group.

  As of March 14, 2003, 39,910,000 shares of Carolina Group stock are
outstanding reflecting an approximately 23.01% economic interest in the
Carolina Group.

  The Loews Group consists of all of the Company's assets and liabilities
other than the 23.01% economic interest in the Carolina Group represented by
the outstanding Carolina Group stock, and includes as an asset the notional
intergroup debt of the Carolina Group referred to above.

  The creation of the Carolina Group and the issuance of Carolina Group stock
does not change the Company's ownership of Lorillard, Inc. or Lorillard,
Inc.'s status as a separate legal entity. The Carolina Group and the Loews
Group are notional groups that are intended to reflect the performance of the
defined sets of assets and liabilities of each such group as described above.
The Carolina Group and the Loews Group are not separate legal entities and the


attribution of assets and liabilities of the Company to the Loews Group or the
Carolina Group does not affect title to the assets or responsibility for the
liabilities so attributed.

  Each outstanding share of Carolina Group Stock has 1/10 of a vote per share.
Holders of the Company's common stock and of Carolina Group stock are
shareholders of Loews Corporation and are subject to the risks related to an
equity investment in Loews Corporation.

                         CNA FINANCIAL CORPORATION

  CNA Financial Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, "CNA") was
incorporated in 1967 and is an insurance holding company whose primary
subsidiaries consist of property and casualty and life and group insurance
companies. CNA's property and casualty insurance operations are conducted by
Continental Casualty Company ("CCC"), incorporated in 1897, and its
affiliates, and The Continental Insurance Company ("CIC"), organized in 1853,
and its affiliates. Life and group insurance operations are conducted by
Continental Assurance Company ("CAC"), incorporated in 1911, and its
affiliates, Valley Forge Life Insurance Company ("VFL"), incorporated in 1956,
and CNA Group Life Assurance Company ("CNAGLA"), incorporated in 2000. CIC
became an affiliate of CNA in 1995 as a result of the acquisition of The
Continental Corporation ("Continental"). CNA's principal market is the United
States with a continued focus on expanding globally to serve those with
growing worldwide interests. CNA accounted for 70.23%, 69.73% and 74.49% of
the Company's consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31,
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

  CNA conducts its operations through five operating groups: Standard Lines,
Specialty Lines and CNA Re (these groups comprise the Company's property and
casualty segment), Group Operations and Life Operations. In addition to these
five operating segments, certain other activities are reported in the Other
Insurance segment.

  During 2002, CNA underwent management changes and strategic realignment.
These events have changed the way CNA manages its operations and makes
business decisions and, therefore, necessitated a change in the Company's
reportable segments. CNA Trust, a limited-operations bank specializing in 401
(k) plan administration, and Institutional Markets, which provides guaranteed
return investment products for qualified and non-qualified institutional
buyers, was transferred from Life Operations to Group Operations. Group
reinsurance, the business which assumes reinsurance from unaffiliated entities
on group life, accident and health products as well as excess medical risk
coverages for self-funded employers, was transferred from Group Operations to
Other Operations to be included as part of run-off insurance operations. The
Environmental Pollution and Mass Tort and Asbestos ("APMT") Reserves related
to assumed reinsurance, along with the assumed business underwritten through a
managing general agent, IOA Global, which consists primarily of certain
accident and health coverages, was transferred from CNA Re to Other
Operations. The U.S. zone of Global business, which primarily offers
international insurance to U.S. based corporations and U.S. insurance to
foreign corporations, was transferred from Specialty Lines to Standard Lines.
A more detailed description of each segment follows.

Property and Casualty Operations

  Standard Lines

  Standard Lines works with an independent agency distribution system and
network of brokers to market a broad range of property and casualty insurance
products and services to small, middle-market and large businesses. The
Standard Lines operating model focuses on underwriting performance, exposure
based pricing and relationships with selected distribution sources and
customers.

Standard Lines includes Property and Casualty and Excess & Surplus.

  Property and Casualty ("P&C"): P&C provides standard property and casualty
insurance products such as workers compensation, general and product
liability, property and commercial auto coverages through traditional and
innovative advanced financial risk products to a wide range of businesses. The
majority of P&C customers are small and middle-market businesses, with less
than $1 million in annual insurance premiums. Most insurance programs are
provided on a guaranteed cost basis; however, P&C has the capability to offer
specialized, loss-sensitive insurance programs to those risks viewed as higher
risk and less predictable in exposure.


  P&C's field structure consists of 68 branch locations in 63 cities. Each
branch provides the marketing, underwriting and risk control expertise on the
entire portfolio of products. In addition, these branches provide streamlined
claim services utilizing the same regional structure. A centralized processing
center for small and middle-market customers, located in Maitland, Florida,
handles policy processing and accounting, and also acts as a call center to
optimize customer service. The branches and processing center are all located
in the United States.

  Also, Standard Lines, primarily through RSKCo, provides total risk
management services relating to claim services, risk control, cost management
and information services to the commercial insurance marketplace.

  Excess & Surplus ("E&S"): E&S provides specialized insurance and other
financial products for selected commercial risks on both an individual
customer and program basis. Risks insured by E&S are generally viewed as
higher risk and less predictable in exposure than those covered by standard
insurance markets. E&S's products are distributed throughout the United States
through specialist producers, program agents, and P&C's agents and brokers.
The target market for these specialized programs is large accounts within
Fortune 1000 businesses. E&S has specialized underwriting and claim resources
in Chicago, New York, Denver and Columbus.

  Specialty Lines

  Specialty Lines provides professional, financial and specialty domestic and
international property and casualty products and services through a network of
brokers, managing general agencies and independent agencies. Specialty Lines
provides solutions for managing the risks of its clients including architects,
engineers, lawyers, healthcare professionals, financial intermediaries and
corporate directors and officers. Product offerings also include surety and
fidelity bonds and vehicle and equipment warranty services.

  Specialty Lines includes the following business groups: Professional
Liability Insurance, CNA Guaranty and Credit, Surety, CNA Global and Warranty.

  Professional Liability Insurance ("CNA Pro"): CNA Pro provides management
and professional liability insurance and risk management services, primarily
in the United States. This unit provides professional liability coverage for
architects and engineers, realtors, non-Big Four accounting firms and law
firms. CNA Pro also has market positions in directors and officers, employment
practices, fiduciary and fidelity coverages. Specific areas of focus include
privately held firms and not-for-profit organizations where CNA offers
products. Products within CNA Pro are distributed through brokers, agents and
managing general underwriters.

  CNA Pro, through CNA HealthPro, also offers insurance products to serve the
healthcare delivery system. Products are distributed on a national basis
through a variety of channels including brokers, agents and managing general
underwriters. Key customer segments include long term care facilities, allied
healthcare providers, dental professionals and mid-size and large healthcare
facilities and delivery systems. Additionally, CNA HealthPro offers risk
management consulting services to assist customers in managing quality of care
risks associated with the delivery of healthcare. Claim services are provided
to manage and resolve claims. In addition, Caronia Corporation, an affiliate
of CNA HealthPro, provides third-party claims administration for healthcare
providers and facilities.

  CNA Guaranty and Credit: CNA Guaranty and Credit provides credit insurance
on short-term trade receivables for domestic and international clients as well
as reinsurance to insurers who provide financial guarantees to issuers of
asset-backed securities, money market funds and investment-grade corporate
debt securities. The Guaranty business underwritten by CNA's insurance
affiliates excluding CNA's ownership interest in R.V.I. Guaranty Co. Ltd.
("RVI"), an unconsolidated affiliate, is currently in run-off. The Credit
business underwritten by CNA's insurance affiliates was sold on December 31,
2002; however, all in-force business and reserves at the date of sale were
retained by CNA. The run-off of these businesses will occur over several
years.

  RVI is a monoline residual value insurer offering coverages to protect the
insured against a decrease in the market value of a properly maintained asset
at the termination of a lease.

  Surety: Surety consists primarily of CNA Surety Corporation ("CNA Surety"),
and its insurance subsidiaries. CNA Surety is traded on the New York Stock
Exchange (SUR). CNA Surety provides surety and fidelity bonds in all 50 states


through a combined network of approximately 35,000 independent agencies. CNA
owns approximately 64% of CNA Surety.

CNA Global consists of Marine and Global Standard Lines.

  Marine: Marine serves domestic and global ocean marine needs, with markets
extending across North America, Europe and throughout the world. Marine offers
hull, cargo, primary and excess marine liability, marine claims and recovery
products and services. Business is sold through national brokers, regional
marine specialty brokers and independent agencies.

  Global Standard Lines: Global Standard Lines is responsible for coordinating
and managing the direct business of CNA's overseas property and casualty
operations. This business currently has operations in Hawaii, Europe, Latin
America and Canada.

  Warranty: Warranty provides warranty services that protect individuals and
businesses from the financial burden associated with breakdown, under-
performance or maintenance of a product. Products are distributed via a sales
force employed or contracted through a program administrator. Warranty
consists primarily of CNA National Warranty Corporation, which sells vehicle
warranty services in the United States and Canada.

  CNA Re

  CNA Re offers treaty, facultative, and financial reinsurance, and operates
primarily in the U.S. and select global markets as a reinsurer in the broker
market for Treaty products and in the direct market for Facultative products.

  Both Treaty and Facultative operations are headquartered in Chicago. CNA Re
also operates Facultative branch offices in Atlanta, Chicago, Cleveland,
Dallas, Hartford, New York, Philadelphia and Phoenix.

  CNA Re's operations also included the business of CNA Re U.K., a United
Kingdom reinsurance company. On October 31, 2002, CNA completed the sale of
CNA Re U.K. to Tawa U.K. Limited, a subsidiary of the Artemis Group, a
diversified French-based holding company. The sale includes business
underwritten since inception by CNA Re U.K., except for certain risks retained
by CCC. See the Investment section of Management's Discussion and Analysis in
Item 7, for further details of the sale of CNA Re U.K. CNA Re's U.K.
subsidiaries ceased new underwriting activities in the third quarter of 2001.
This sale does not impact CNA Re's on-going U.S.-based operations.

  CNA Re markets products in the following treaty business segments: standard
lines, global catastrophe, specialty lines, surplus lines and financial
reinsurance. In addition, CNA Re markets property and casualty facultative
products directly to clients through its facultative offices, as well as
through smartfac.com, CNA Re's online facultative submission site.

Group Operations

  Group Operations provides group life, group health insurance and investment
products and services to employers, affinity groups and other entities that
purchase insurance as a group.

  Group Operations includes three principal business units: Group Benefits,
Federal Markets and Institutional Markets and Other, which also includes
results from businesses that CNA has exited; retail variable life and
annuities and life reinsurance.

  Group Benefits: Group Benefits is in the employee benefit market place and
offers group term life and accident insurance, short term and long term
disability, statutory disability, long-term care and specialty medical
products and related services. Target employers range from small private
companies to large public corporations. Products are marketed through a
nationwide operation of 31 sales offices, third-party administrators, managing
general agents and insurance consultants.

  Federal Markets: Federal Markets provided health insurance benefits to
federal employees, retirees and their families, insuring nearly one million
members under the National Postal Mail Handlers Union group benefits plan (the
"Mail Handlers Plan"). On July 1, 2002, CNA sold its federal health plan
administrator, Claims Administration Corporation,


and transferred the Mail Handlers Plan to First Health Group. As a result of
this transaction, CNA recognized a $7.0 million pretax realized loss on the
sale of Claims Administration Corporation and $15.0 million of pretax non-
recurring fee income related to the transfer of the Mail Handlers Plan.

  Institutional Markets and Other: Institutional Markets and Other is a
provider of annuities and investment products to pension plan sponsors and
other institutional customers. The products include traditional and synthetic
guaranteed investment contract ("GICs"), indexed contracts, group annuities
and funding agreements. CNA offers an index 500 product, which is a guaranteed
investment contract that is indexed to the performance of the Standard &
Poor's 500 ("S&P 500") index.

  Also within Group Operations is CNA Trust, a limited operations bank located
in Costa Mesa, California, which provides full trustee and pension third-party
administrative services to the under 500-life employer markets. Products
include qualified and non-qualified plans and IRAs. Products are marketed
through life insurers and mutual fund companies.

  The variable products business was exited in the fourth quarter of 2001.
During July 2002, CNA entered into an agreement, whereby the Phoenix
Companies, Inc. acquired the variable life and annuity business of VFL through
a coinsurance arrangement, with modified coinsurance on the separate accounts.
The life reinsurance business was sold on December 31, 2000.

Life Operations

  Life Operations provides financial protection to individuals through term
life insurance, universal life insurance, individual long-term care insurance,
annuities and other products. Life Operations has several distribution
relationships and partnerships including managing general agencies, other
independent agencies working with CNA life sales offices, a network of brokers
and dealers, and other independent insurance consultants.

  Individual life primarily offers level premium term life insurance,
universal life insurance and related products. Single premium immediate
annuities as well as structured settlement annuities are also offered.
Individual long term care products provide reimbursement for covered nursing
home and home health care expenses incurred due to physical or mental
disability.

  Other operations include operations in certain international markets and the
life settlements contract business. CNA decided to cease purchasing new life
settlement policies indefinitely beginning in 2001 and ceased sale of new
policies in its international operations in 2002.

Other

  The Other Insurance segment is principally comprised of losses and expenses
related to the centralized adjusting and settlement of APMT claims, certain
run-off insurance operations and other operations.

  APMT consists of the losses and expenses related to the centralized
adjusting and settlement of APMT claims that were formerly included in the
property and casualty segments. See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in Item 8 for a discussion of APMT reserves.

  Run-off insurance operations consists of personal insurance, entertainment
insurance, agriculture insurance, group reinsurance and other financial lines
as well as the direct financial guarantee business underwritten by CNA's
insurance affiliates and other insurance run-off operations. Run-off insurance
operations also includes assumed business underwritten through a managing
general agent, IOA Global, which consists primarily of certain accident and
health coverage ("IGI Program").

  On October 1, 1999, certain CNA subsidiaries completed a transaction with
The Allstate Corporation ("Allstate") to transfer substantially all of CNA's
personal insurance lines of business.

  Other operations include interest expense on CNA's borrowings, asbestos
claims related to Fibreboard Corporation, eBusiness initiatives, CNA UniSource
and inter-company eliminations. CNA UniSource provided human resources,


information technology, payroll processing and professional employer
organization services. During 2002, CNA decided to exit the lines of business
provided by CNA UniSource. Effective March 31, 2002, CNA UniSource ceased
providing professional employer organization services. Effective December 31,
2002, CNA UniSource ceased payroll processing services.

Supplementary Insurance Data

  The following table sets forth supplementary insurance data:



- ------------

* Restated to reflect an adjustment to the Company's historical accounting for
CNA's investment in life settlement contracts and the related revenue
recognition. See Notes 1 and 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Item 8.

  (a)  Trade ratios reflect the results of CNA's property and casualty
insurance subsidiaries. Trade ratios are industry measures of property and
casualty underwriting results. The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio is
the percentage of net incurred loss and loss adjustment expenses to net earned
premiums. The primary difference in this ratio between accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and statutory
accounting principles ("SAP") is related to the treatment of active life
reserves ("ALR") related to long term care insurance products written in
property and casualty insurance subsidiaries. For GAAP, ALR is classified as
claim and claim adjustment expense reserves whereas for SAP, ALR is classified
as unearned premium reserves. The expense ratio, using amounts determined in
accordance with GAAP, is the percentage of underwriting and acquisition
expenses, including the amortization of deferred acquisition expenses to net
earned premiums. The expense ratio, using amounts determined in accordance
with SAP, is the percentage of acquisition and underwriting expenses (with no
deferral of acquisition expenses) to net written premiums. The dividend ratio,
using amounts determined in accordance with GAAP, is the ratio of dividends
incurred to net earned premiums. The dividend ratio, using amounts determined
in accordance with SAP, is the ratio of dividends paid to net earned premiums.
The combined ratio is the sum of the loss and loss adjustment expense, expense
and dividend ratios.


  (b)  Lapse ratios for individual life insurance, as measured by surrenders
and withdrawals as a percentage of average ordinary life insurance in-force,
were 34.7%, 8.7% and 12.7% in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. (The 2002
lapse ratio includes the novation of CNA's individual life insurance business.
Excluding the novation, the 2002 lapse ratio was 7.6%. See Note 14 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 for further
discussion).

  (c)  Other data is determined in accordance with SAP. Life and group
statutory capital and surplus as a percent of total liabilities is determined
after excluding separate account liabilities and reclassifying the statutorily
required Asset Valuation Reserve to surplus.

  (d)  Surplus includes the property and casualty companies' equity ownership
of the life and group insurance subsidiaries.

  The following table displays the distribution of gross written premiums for
CNA's operations by geographic concentration:



- ------------
(a) No other individual state, country or political subdivision accounts for
    more than 3.0% of gross written premium.

  Approximately 3.5%, 4.8% and 8.2% of CNA's gross written premiums were
derived from outside of the United States for the years ended December 31,
2002, 2001 and 2000. Premiums from any individual foreign country excluding
the United Kingdom, which is stated in the table above, were not significant.

Property and Casualty Claim and Claim Adjustment Expenses

  The following loss reserve development table illustrates the change over
time of reserves established for property and casualty claim and claim
adjustment expenses at the end of the preceding ten calendar years for CNA's
property and casualty insurance operations. The first section shows the
reserves as originally reported at the end of the stated year. The second
section, reading down, shows the cumulative amounts paid as of the end of
successive years with respect to the originally reported reserve liability.
The third section, reading down, shows re-estimates of the originally recorded
reserves as of the end of each successive year, which is the result of CNA's
property and casualty insurance subsidiaries' expanded awareness of additional
facts and circumstances that pertain to the unsettled claims. The last section
compares the latest re-estimated reserves to the reserves originally
established, and indicates whether the original reserves were adequate or
inadequate to cover the estimated costs of unsettled claims. This table is
cumulative and, therefore, ending balances should not be added since the
amount at the end of each calendar year includes activity for both the current
and prior years.



- ------------

(a)  Reflects reserves of CNA's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries,
excluding CIC reserves which were acquired on May 10, 1995. Accordingly, the
reserve development (net reserves recorded at the end of the year, as
initially estimated, less net reserves re-estimated as of subsequent years)
does not include CIC.
(b)  Includes CIC gross reserves of $9,713.0 million and net reserves of
$6,063.0 million acquired on May 10, 1995 and subsequent development thereon.
(c)  Ceded recoverable includes reserves transferred under retroactive
reinsurance agreements of $784.0 million, as of December 31, 1999.
(d)  Effective January 1, 2001, CNA established a new life insurance company,
CNAGLA. Further, on January 1, 2001 approximately $1,055.0 million of reserves
were transferred from CCC to CNAGLA.
(e)  Effective October 31, 2002, CNA sold CNA Reinsurance Company Limited "CNA
Re U.K." As a result of the sale, net reserves were reduced by approximately
$1,316.0 million. See Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Item 8 for further discussion of the sale.


  Additional information as to CNA's property and casualty claim and claim
adjustment expense reserves and reserve development is set forth in Item 7,
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations, and in Notes 1 and 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, included in Item 8.

Investments

  See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations -Investments and Notes 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, incorporated by reference to Item 8, for
information regarding CNA's investment portfolio.

Other

  Competition: The property and casualty and life and health insurance
industry is highly competitive both as to rate and service. CNA's consolidated
property and casualty subsidiaries compete not only with other stock insurance
companies, but also with mutual insurance companies, reinsurance companies and
other entities for both producers and customers. CNA must continuously
allocate resources to refine and improve its insurance and reinsurance
products and services.

  Rates among insurers vary according to the types of insurers and methods of
operation. CNA competes for business not only on the basis of rate, but also
on the basis of availability of coverage desired by customers and quality of
service, including claim adjustment services.

  There are approximately 2,400 individual companies that sell property and
casualty insurance in the United States. CNA's consolidated property and
casualty subsidiaries ranked as the ninth largest property and casualty
insurance organization in the United States based upon 2001 statutory net
written premiums. CNA Re, CNA's principal property and casualty assumed
reinsurance operation, ranked as the 14th largest property and casualty
reinsurance organization in the United States based upon 2001 statutory net
written premiums.

  There are approximately 990 companies selling life and health insurance in
the United States. CNA's consolidated life insurance companies are ranked as
the 51st largest life-health insurance organization in the United States based
on 2001 statutory net written premiums.

  Regulation: The insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed
regulation and supervision throughout the United States. Each state has
established supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers relative to
licensing insurers and agents, approving policy forms, establishing reserve
requirements, fixing minimum interest rates for accumulation of surrender
values and maximum interest rates of policy loans, prescribing the form and
content of statutory financial reports and regulating solvency and the type
and amount of investments permitted. Such regulatory powers also extend to
premium rate regulations, which require that rates not be excessive,
inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. In addition to regulation of dividends
by insurance subsidiaries, intercompany transfers of assets may be subject to
prior notice or approval by the state insurance regulator, depending on the
size of such transfers and payments in relation to the financial position of
the insurance affiliates making the transfer or payments.

  Insurers are also required by the states to provide coverage to insureds who
would not otherwise be considered eligible by the insurers. Each state
dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be
provided to such involuntary risks. CNA's share of these involuntary risks is
mandatory and generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary
market by line of insurance in each state.

  Insurance companies are subject to state guaranty fund and other insurance-
related assessments. Guaranty fund and other insurance-related assessments are
levied by the state departments of insurance to cover claims of insolvent
insurers.

  Reform of the U.S. tort liability system is another issue facing the
insurance industry. Over the last decade, many states have passed some type of
reform, but more recently, a number of state courts have modified or
overturned these reforms. Additionally, new causes of action and theories of
damages continue to be proposed in state court actions or by legislatures.
Continued unpredictability in the law means that insurance underwriting and
rating is expected to continue to be difficult in commercial lines,
professional liability and some specialty coverages.


  Although the federal government and its regulatory agencies do not directly
regulate the business of insurance, federal legislative and regulatory
initiatives can impact the insurance business in a variety of ways. These
initiatives and legislation include tort reform proposals; proposals to
overhaul the Superfund hazardous waste removal and liability statutes; and
various tax proposals affecting insurance companies. In 1999, Congress passed
the Financial Services Modernization or "Gramm-Leach-Bliley" Act ("GLB Act"),
which repealed portions of the Glass-Steagall Act and enabled closer
relationships between banks and insurers. Although "functional regulation" was
preserved by the GLB Act for state oversight of insurance, additional
financial services modernization legislation could include provisions for an
alternate federal system of regulation for insurance companies.

  CNA and the insurance industry incurred substantial losses related to the
September 11, 2001 World Trade Center disaster and related events. For the
most part, CNA believes the industry was able to absorb the loss of capital
from these losses, but the capacity to withstand the effect of any additional
terrorism events was significantly diminished.

  CNA's domestic insurance subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital
requirements. Risk-based capital is a method developed by the National
Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") to determine the minimum
amount of statutory capital appropriate for an insurance company to support
its overall business operations in consideration of its size and risk profile.
The formula for determining the amount of risk-based capital specifies various
factors, weighted based on the perceived degree of risk, that are applied to
certain financial balances and financial activity. The adequacy of a company's
actual capital is evaluated by a comparison to the risk-based capital results,
as determined by the formula. Companies below minimum risk-based capital
requirements are classified within certain levels, each of which determines a
specified level of regulatory attention applicable to a company. As of
December 31, 2002 and 2001, all of CNA's domestic insurance subsidiaries
exceeded the minimum risk-based capital requirements.

  Subsidiaries with insurance operations outside the United States are also
subject to regulation in the countries in which they operate. CNA has
operations in the United Kingdom, Canada, and other countries.

Terrorism

  On November 26, 2002, the President of the United States of America signed
into law the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (the "Act"), which
establishes a program within the Department of the Treasury under which the
federal government will share the risk of loss from future terrorist attacks
with the insurance industry. The Act terminates on December 31, 2005. Each
participating insurance company must pay a deductible before federal
government assistance becomes available. This deductible is based on a
percentage of direct earned premiums for commercial insurance lines from the
previous calendar year, and rises from 1.0% from date of enactment to December
31, 2002 (the "Transition Period") to 7.0% during the first subsequent
calendar year, 10.0% in year two and 15.0% in year three. For losses in excess
of a company's deductible, the federal government will cover 90.0% of the
excess losses, while companies retain the remaining 10.0%. Losses covered by
the program will be capped annually at $100.0 billion; above this amount,
insurers are not liable for covered losses and Congress is to determine the
procedures for and the source of any payments. Amounts paid by the federal
government under the program over certain phased limits are to be recouped by
the Department of the Treasury through policy surcharges, which cannot exceed
3.0% of annual premium.

  Insurance companies providing commercial property and casualty insurance are
required to participate in the program, but it does not cover life or health
insurance products. State law limitations applying to premiums and policies
for terrorism coverage are not generally affected under the program, but they
are pre-empted in relation to prior approval requirements for rates and forms.
The Act has policyholder notice requirements in order for insurers to be
reimbursed for terrorism-related losses and, from the date of enactment until
December 31, 2004, a mandatory offer requirement for terrorism coverage,
although it may be rejected by insureds. The Secretary of the Department of
the Treasury has discretion to extend this offer requirement until December
31, 2005.

  While the Act provides the property and casualty industry with an increased
ability to withstand the effect of a terrorist event during the next three
years, given the unpredictability of the nature, targets, severity or
frequency of potential terrorist events, the Company's results of operations
or equity could nevertheless be materially adversely impacted by them. CNA is
attempting to mitigate this exposure through its underwriting practices,
policy terms and conditions (where applicable) and the use of reinsurance. In
addition, under state laws CNA is generally prohibited from excluding
terrorism exposure from its primary workers compensation, individual life and
group life and health policies and is also prohibited from excluding coverage
for fire losses following a terrorist event in a number of states.


  Reinsurers' obligations for terrorism-related losses under reinsurance
agreements are not covered by the Act. CNA's current reinsurance arrangements
either exclude terrorism coverage or significantly limit the level of
coverage.

  Reinsurance: See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations, and Notes 1 and 18 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, for information related
to CNA's reinsurance activities.

  Properties: CNA Plaza serves as the executive office for CNA and its
insurance subsidiaries. CNA owns or leases office space in various cities
throughout the United States and in other countries. The following table sets
forth certain information with respect to the principal office buildings owned
or leased by CNA:



                                LORILLARD, INC.

  The Company's wholly owned subsidiary, Lorillard, Inc. ("Lorillard"), is
engaged, through its subsidiaries, in the production and sale of cigarettes.
The principal cigarette brand names of Lorillard are Newport, Kent, True,
Maverick and Old Gold. Lorillard's largest selling brand is Newport, the
second largest selling cigarette brand in the United States and the largest
selling brand in the menthol segment of the U.S. cigarette market in 2002.
Newport accounted for approximately 88% of Lorillard's sales in 2002.

  Substantially all of Lorillard's sales are in the United States, Puerto Rico
and certain U.S. territories. Lorillard's major trademarks outside of the
United States were sold in 1977. Lorillard accounted for 22.18%, 21.08% and
18.71% of the Company's consolidated total revenue for the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

  The tobacco industry in the United States, including Lorillard, continues to
be faced with a number of issues that have or may adversely impact the
business, results of operations and financial condition of Lorillard and the
Company, including a substantial volume of litigation seeking compensatory and
punitive damages ranging into the billions of dollars, as well as equitable
and injunctive relief; a $16.3 billion punitive damage judgment, currently
under appeal, against Lorillard in Engle vs. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et
al; substantial annual payment obligations, continuing in perpetuity, under
the terms of the settlement agreements entered into between the major
cigarette manufacturers, including Lorillard, and each of the 50 states, the
District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and certain other U.S.
territories (together, the "State Settlement Agreements"); increasing actual
and proposed regulation of the tobacco industry and restrictions on smoking in
public places; a continuing decline in the volume of cigarette sales in the
United States; continuing and substantial increases in excise taxes; the
diminishing social acceptability of smoking; increases in industry-wide
promotional expenses and sales incentives implemented in reaction to
continuing intense


competition among the four largest cigarette manufacturers
and competition from discount and deep-discount cigarette brands; and
increasing sales of counterfeit cigarettes in the United States.

  See Item 3 of this Report and Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Item 8 of this Report for information with respect to
litigation against or affecting Lorillard, including among others the Engle
class action and the State Settlement Agreements. See also, Management's
Discussion and Analysis-Results of Operations-Lorillard, and-Liquidity and
Capital Resources-Lorillard included in Item 7 of this Report.

  Legislation and Regulation: Lorillard's business operations are subject to a
variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among
other things, publication of health warnings on cigarette packaging,
advertising and sales of tobacco products, restrictions on smoking in public
places and fire safety standards. Further, from time to time new legislation
or regulations are proposed and reports are published by government sponsored
committees and others recommending additional regulations of tobacco products.

  Federal Regulation: The Federal Comprehensive Smoking Education Act, which
became effective in 1985, requires that cigarette packaging and advertising
display one of the following four warning statements, on a rotating basis: (1)
"SURGEON GENERAL'S WARNING: Smoking Causes Lung Cancer, Heart Disease,
Emphysema, And May Complicate Pregnancy." (2) "SURGEON GENERAL'S WARNING:
Quitting Smoking Now Greatly Reduces Serious Risks to Your Health." (3)
"SURGEON GENERAL'S WARNING: Smoking By Pregnant Women May Result in Fetal
Injury, Premature Birth, and Low Birth Weight." (4) "SURGEON GENERAL'S
WARNING: Cigarette Smoke Contains Carbon Monoxide." This law also requires
that each person who manufactures, packages or imports cigarettes shall
annually provide to the Secretary of Health and Human Services a list of the
ingredients added to tobacco in the manufacture of cigarettes. This list of
ingredients may be submitted in a manner that does not identify the company
that uses the ingredients or the brand of cigarettes that contain the
ingredients.

  In addition, from time to time, bills have been introduced in Congress,
among other things, to end or limit the price supports for leaf tobacco; to
prohibit all tobacco advertising and promotion; to require new health warnings
on cigarette packages and advertising; to authorize the establishment of
various anti-smoking education programs; to provide that current federal law
should not be construed to relieve any person of liability under common or
state law; to permit state and local governments to restrict the sale and
distribution of cigarettes; concerning the placement of advertising of tobacco
products; to provide that cigarette advertising not be deductible as a
business expense; to prohibit the mailing of unsolicited samples of cigarettes
and otherwise to restrict the sale or distribution of cigarettes in retail
stores and over the internet; to impose an additional, or to increase
existing, excise taxes on cigarettes; to require that cigarettes be
manufactured in a manner that will cause them, under certain circumstances, to
be self-extinguishing; and to subject cigarettes to regulation in various ways
by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services or other regulatory
agencies.

  In addition, in 1996 the U.S. Food and Drug Administration published
regulations that would have extensively regulated the distribution, marketing
and advertising of cigarettes, including the imposition of a wide range of
labeling, reporting, record keeping, manufacturing and other requirements.
Challenges to the FDA's assertion of jurisdiction over cigarettes made by
Lorillard and other manufacturers were upheld by the Supreme Court in March
2000 when that Court ruled that Congress did not give the FDA authority to
regulate tobacco products under the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.

  Since the Supreme Court decision, various proposals and recommendations have
been made for additional federal and state legislation to regulate cigarette
manufacturers. Congressional advocates of FDA regulation have introduced
legislation that would give the FDA authority to regulate the manufacture,
sale, distribution and labeling of tobacco products to protect public health,
thereby allowing the FDA to reinstate its prior regulations or adopt new or
additional regulations.

  In December 1999, the FDA requested the Institute of Medicine, a private,
non-profit organization which advises the federal government on medical
issues, to convene a committee of experts to formulate scientific methods and
standards for the assessment of potentially reduced-exposure products
("PREPs"), including conventional and alternative cigarettes. In February
2001, the committee issued a report recommending that Congress enact
legislation enabling a suitable agency to regulate tobacco-related products
that purport to reduce exposure to one or more tobacco toxicants or


to reduce risk of disease, and to implement other policies designed to reduce
the harm from tobacco use. The report recommended regulation of all tobacco
products, including PREPs.

  In 2002 certain public health groups petitioned the FDA to assert
jurisdiction over several PREP type products that have been introduced into
the marketplace. These groups assert that claims made by manufacturers of
these products allow the FDA to regulate the manufacture, advertising and sale
of these products as drugs or medical devices under the Food Drug and Cosmetic
Act. The agency has received comments on these petitions but has taken no
action.

  In late 2002 Philip Morris U.S.A., the largest U.S. manufacturer of
cigarettes, filed a request for rulemaking petition with the Federal Trade
Commission ("FTC") seeking changes in the existing FTC regulatory scheme for
measuring and reporting tar and nicotine to the federal government and for
inclusion in cigarette advertising. The agency procedures allow for interested
parties to submit comments on this proposal. The agency has received comments
on these petitions but has taken no action.

  In 1986, the Surgeon General of the United States and the National Academy
of Sciences reported that environmental tobacco smoke ("ETS") exposes
nonsmokers to an increased risk of lung cancer and respiratory illness. In
addition, in 1993, the United States Environmental Protection Agency released
a report (the "EPA Risk Assessment") concluding that ETS is a human lung
carcinogen in adults, and causes respiratory effects in children, including
increased risk of lower respiratory tract infections, increased prevalence of
fluid in the middle ear and additional episodes and increased severity and
frequency of asthma. In July 1998, a federal district court judge struck down
the lung cancer related portions of the EPA's scientific risk assessment. In
an opinion issued in December 2002, the federal Fourth Circuit Court of Appeal
overturned the District Court's decision on procedural grounds, and vacated
the decision. The time in which an appeal may be lodged has not yet expired.
In May 2000, the Department of Health and Human Service's National Toxicology
Program listed ETS as "known to be a human carcinogen." Various public health
organizations have also issued statements on environmental tobacco smoke and
its health effects and many scientific papers on ETS have been published since
the EPA Risk Assessment, with varying conclusions.

  Lorillard cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these proposals, reports
and recommendations, though if enacted, certain of these proposals could have
a material adverse effect on Lorillard's business and the Company's financial
position or results of operations in the future.

  State and Local Regulation: In recent years, many state, local and municipal
governments and agencies, as well as private businesses, have adopted
legislation, regulations or policies which prohibit or restrict, or are
intended to discourage, smoking, including legislation, regulations or
policies prohibiting or restricting smoking in various places such as public
buildings and facilities, stores, restaurants and bars and on airline flights
and in the workplace. This trend has increased significantly since the release
of the EPA Risk Assessment. The following are examples of some of the more
significant state and local regulations affecting Lorillard's business:

  In September 1997, the California Environmental Protection Agency released a
report (the "Cal/EPA Report") concluding that ETS causes specified
development, respiratory, carcinogenic, and cardiovascular effects including
lung and nasal sinus cancer, heart disease, sudden infant death syndrome,
respiratory infections and asthma induction and exacerbation in children. The
Cal/EPA Report was subsequently released as a monograph by the National Cancer
Institute in November of 1999.

  The California Air Resources Board is in the early stages of the process of
determining whether to identify ETS as a toxic air contaminant, or "TAC,"
under the Toxic Air Contaminant Identification and Control Act, a California
statute referred to as the "Tanner Act." The Children's Environmental Health
Protection Act amended the Tanner Act to require a review of TACs for the
purpose of ensuring adequate protection of children's health, and to tighten
existing controls as needed. If California, on the basis of its assessments of
risk and exposure, identifies ETS as a TAC, California could initiate the
control phase of the Tanner Act, which involves adoption of measures to reduce
or eliminate emissions. These measures could include further restrictions
regarding venues where smoking is permitted or controls on product emissions.

  The Commonwealth of Massachusetts has enacted legislation requiring each
manufacturer of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco sold in Massachusetts to
submit to the state's Department of Public Health ("DPH") an annual report
identifying for each brand sold certain "added constituents," and providing
nicotine yield ratings and other information for certain


brands based on regulations promulgated by the DPH. The provisions of the
legislation that provide for the public release of this information, which
includes trade secret ingredients used in cigarettes, were challenged by
several cigarette manufacturers, and were found unconstitutional by a federal
district court in Boston and that ruling was upheld by the U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals for the First Circuit. The Commonwealth has decided that it will
not seek to appeal this decision to the U.S. Supreme Court.

  The State of Texas has implemented legislation similar to the Massachusetts
law described above. However, the Texas legislation does not allow for the
public release of trade secret information.

  New York State has enacted legislation that requires the State's Office of
Fire Prevention and Control ("OFPC") to promulgate fire-safety standards for
cigarettes sold in New York and that cigarettes sold in New York meet ignition
propensity performance standards established by that agency. The law states
that the effective date of regulations implementing the legislation is to be
within 180 days after final adoption of the standards. On December 31, 2002,
OFPC issued Proposed Fire Safety Standards For Cigarettes proposing
performance and testing standards pursuant to the legislation. Under
applicable state administrative law, interested parties may submit comments to
the agency. The time within which to submit comments has not yet expired.
Similar legislation is being considered in other states and at the federal
level.

  Other similar laws and regulations have been enacted or considered by other
state and local governments. Lorillard cannot predict the impact which these
regulations may have on Lorillard's business, though if enacted, they could
have a material adverse effect on Lorillard's business and the Company's
financial position or results of operations in the future.

  Excise Taxes: Cigarettes are subject to substantial federal, state and local
excise taxes in the United States and, in general, such taxes have been
increasing. On January 1, 2002, the federal excise tax on cigarettes increased
by $2.50 per thousand cigarettes and is now $19.50 per thousand cigarettes (or
$0.39 per pack of 20 cigarettes). State excise taxes, which are levied upon
and paid by the distributors, are also in effect in the fifty states, the
District of Columbia and many municipalities. Increases in state excise taxes
on cigarette sales in 2002 ranged from $0.18 per pack to $0.69 per pack in 21
states, and excise tax increases were implemented by several municipalities
such as New York City where the local tax increased from $0.08 to $1.50 per
pack in 2002. Proposals for additional increases in federal, state and local
excise taxes continue to be considered. The state and municipal taxes
generally range from $0.025 to $3.00 per pack of cigarettes.

  Advertising and Marketing: Lorillard advertises its products to adult
smokers in magazines, newspapers, direct mail and point-of-sale display
materials. In addition, Lorillard promotes its cigarette brands to adult
smokers through distribution of store coupons, retail price promotions, and
personal contact with distributors and retailers. Although Lorillard's sales
are made primarily to wholesale distributors rather than retailers,
Lorillard's sales personnel monitor retail and wholesale inventories, work
with retailers on displays and signs, and enter into promotional arrangements
with retailers from time to time.

  As a general matter, Lorillard allocates its marketing expenditures among
brands on the basis of marketplace opportunity and profitable return. In
particular, Lorillard focuses its marketing efforts on the premium segment of
the U.S. cigarette industry, with a specific focus on Newport.

  Advertising of tobacco products through television and radio has been
prohibited since 1971. In addition, on November 23, 1998, Lorillard and the
three other largest major cigarette manufacturers entered into a Master
Settlement Agreement ("MSA") with 46 states, the District of Columbia, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and certain other U.S. territories to settle
certain health care cost recovery and other claims. These manufacturers had
previously settled similar claims brought by the four remaining states which
together with the MSA are generally referred to as the "State Settlement
Agreements." Under the State Settlement Agreements the participating cigarette
manufacturers agreed to severe restrictions on their advertising and promotion
activities. Among other things, the MSA prohibits the targeting of youth in
the advertising, promotion or marketing of tobacco products; bans the use of
cartoon characters in all tobacco advertising and promotion; limits each
tobacco manufacturer to one event sponsorship during any twelve-month period,
which may not include major team sports or events in which the intended
audience includes a significant percentage of youth; bans all outdoor
advertising of tobacco products with the exception of small signs at retail
establishments that sell tobacco products; bans tobacco manufacturers from
offering or selling apparel and other merchandise that bears a tobacco brand
name, subject to specified exceptions; prohibits the distribution of free
samples of tobacco products except


within adult-only facilities; prohibits payments for tobacco product placement
in various media; and bans gift offers
based on the purchase of tobacco products without sufficient proof that the
intended gift recipient is an adult.

  Many states, cities and counties have enacted legislation or regulations
further restricting tobacco advertising. There may be additional local, state
and federal legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to the advertising
and promotion of cigarettes in the future. Lorillard cannot predict the impact
of such initiatives on its marketing and sales efforts.

  Lorillard has funded and plans to continue to fund a Youth Smoking
Prevention Program, which is designed to discourage youth from smoking. The
program addresses not only youth, but also parents and, through the "We Card"
program, retailers, to prevent purchase of cigarettes by underage purchasers.
Lorillard has determined not to advertise its cigarettes in magazines with
large readership among people under the age of 18.

  Distribution Methods: Lorillard sells its products primarily to
distributors, who in turn service retail outlets; chain store organizations;
and government agencies, including the U.S. Armed Forces. Upon completion of
the manufacturing process, Lorillard ships cigarettes to public distributing
warehouse facilities for rapid order fulfillment to wholesalers and other
direct buying customers. Lorillard retains a portion of its manufactured
cigarettes at its Greensboro central distribution center and Greensboro cold-
storage facility for future finished goods replenishment.

  As of December 31, 2002, Lorillard had approximately 774 direct buying
customers servicing more than 400,000 retail accounts. Lorillard does not sell
cigarettes directly to consumers. During 2002, 2001 and 2000, sales made by
Lorillard to McLane Company, Inc., a wholesale distributor wholly owned by
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., comprised 17%, 15% and 15%, respectively, of
Lorillard's revenues. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of 2002,
2001 or 2000 sales. Lorillard does not have any backlog orders.

  Most of Lorillard's customers buy cigarettes on a next-day-delivery basis.
Approximately 90% of Lorillard's customers purchase cigarettes using
electronic funds transfer, which provides immediate payment to Lorillard.

  Raw Materials and Manufacturing: In its production of cigarettes, Lorillard
uses burley leaf tobacco, and flue-cured leaf tobacco grown in the United
States and abroad, and aromatic tobacco grown primarily in Turkey and other
Near Eastern countries. A domestic supplier manufactures all of Lorillard's
reconstituted tobacco.

  Lorillard purchases more than 90% of its domestic leaf tobacco from Dimon
International, Inc. Lorillard directs Dimon in the purchase of tobacco
according to Lorillard's specifications for quality, grade, yield, particle
size, moisture content and other characteristics. Dimon purchases and
processes the whole leaf and then dries and packages it for shipment to and
storage at Lorillard's Danville, Virginia facility. Dimon historically has
procured most of Lorillard's leaf tobacco requirements through commission
buyers at tobacco auctions. However, the tobacco industry is currently
shifting to direct contract purchasing from tobacco farmers. Dimon has stated
in its public filings that it believes it is well prepared to participate in
direct contracting with tobacco farmers in the United States and that it does
not expect any material economic effect from the progressive shift from the
auction system to direct contract buying. Lorillard entered into a new
contract with Dimon to reflect the transition from auction to direct contract
purchasing. In the event that Dimon becomes unwilling or unable to supply leaf
tobacco to Lorillard, Lorillard believes that it can readily obtain high-
quality leaf tobacco from well-established, alternative industry sources.

  Due to the varying size and quality of annual crops and other economic
factors, including U.S. tobacco production controls administered by the United
States Department of Agriculture, tobacco prices have historically fluctuated.
The U.S. price supports that accompany production controls have inflated the
market price of tobacco. In addition, the transition in tobacco purchasing
from auction markets to direct farmer contracting may increase the market
price of domestically grown tobacco. However, Lorillard does not believe that
this increase, if any, will have a material effect on its business

  Lorillard stores its tobacco in 29 storage warehouses on its 130-acre
Danville facility. To protect against loss, amounts of all types and grades of
tobacco are stored in separate warehouses. Because the process of aging
tobacco normally requires approximately two years, Lorillard maintains large
quantities of leaf tobacco at all times. Lorillard believes its current
tobacco supplies are adequately balanced for its present production
requirements. If necessary, Lorillard can purchase aged tobacco in the open
markets to supplement existing inventories.


  Lorillard produces cigarettes at its Greensboro, North Carolina
manufacturing plant, which has a production capacity of approximately 193
million cigarettes per day and approximately 55 billion cigarettes per year.
Through various automated systems and sensors, Lorillard actively monitors all
phases of production to promote quality and compliance with applicable
regulations.

  Prices: Lorillard believes that the volume of U.S. cigarette sales is
sensitive to price changes. Changes in pricing by Lorillard or other cigarette
manufacturers could have an adverse impact on Lorillard's volume of units
sold, which in turn could have an adverse impact on Lorillard's profits and
earnings. Lorillard makes independent pricing decisions based on a number of
factors. Lorillard cannot predict the potential adverse impact of price
changes on industry volume or Lorillard volume, on the mix between premium and
discount sales, on Lorillard's market share or on Lorillard's profits and
earnings. During 2002, Lorillard increased its net wholesale price of its
cigarettes by an aggregate of $6.71 per thousand cigarettes ($0.13 per pack of
20 cigarettes).

  Properties: Lorillard's manufacturing facility is located on approximately
80 acres in Greensboro, North Carolina. This 942,600 square-foot plant
contains modern high-speed cigarette manufacturing machinery. The Greensboro
facility also includes a warehouse with shipping and receiving areas totaling
54,800 square feet. In addition, Lorillard owns tobacco receiving and storage
facilities totaling approximately 1,500,000 square feet in Danville, Virginia.
Lorillard's executive offices are located in a 130,000 square-foot, four-story
office building in Greensboro, North Carolina. Its 79,000 square-foot research
facility is also located in Greensboro.

  Lorillard's principal properties are owned in fee. With minor exceptions,
Lorillard owns all of the machinery it uses. Lorillard believes that its
properties and machinery are in generally good condition. Lorillard leases
sales offices in major cities throughout the United States, a cold-storage
facility in Greensboro and warehousing space in 34 public distributing
warehouses located throughout the United States.

  Competition: The domestic U.S. market for cigarettes is highly competitive.
Competition is primarily based on a brand's price, positioning, consumer
loyalty, retail display, promotion, quality and taste. Lorillard's principal
competitors are the three other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers, Philip
Morris, R.J. Reynolds and Brown & Williamson.

  Lorillard believes its ability to compete even more effectively has been
restrained by the Philip Morris Retail Leaders program. The terms of Philip
Morris' merchandising contracts preclude Lorillard from obtaining visible
space in the retail store to effectively promote its brands. As a result in a
large number of retail locations, Lorillard either has a severely limited or
no opportunity to competitively support its promotion programs thereby
limiting its sales potential.

  Lorillard's 9.05% market share of the 2002 U.S. domestic cigarette industry
was fourth highest overall. Philip Morris, R.J. Reynolds and Brown &
Williamson accounted for approximately 48.9%, 23.1% and 11.2%, respectively,
of wholesale shipments in 2002. Among the four major manufacturers, Lorillard
ranked third behind Philip Morris and R.J. Reynolds with an 11.8% share of the
premium segment in 2002.

  The following table sets forth cigarette sales data provided by the industry
and by Lorillard to Management Science Associates. For reporting purposes,
unit sales by small manufacturers, selling deep-discounted brands, many of
whom are not currently affected to a significant degree by payment obligations
under the State Settlement Agreements, are estimated by Management Science
Associates. The table below indicates the relative position of Lorillard in
the U.S. Each of these years has been restated to reflect Management Science
Associates' estimates for the small manufacturers' shipments.



- ------------
  Management Science Associates divides the cigarette market into two price
segments, the premium price segment and the discount or reduced price segment.
According to Management Science Associates, the discount segment share of


market increased from approximately 26.0% in 2001 to 27.2% in 2002. Virtually
all of Lorillard's sales are in the full price segment where Lorillard's share
amounted to approximately 11.8% in 2002 and 11.5% in 2001, as reported by
Management Science Associates.

                        LOEWS HOTELS HOLDING CORPORATION

  The subsidiaries of Loews Hotels Holding Corporation ("Loews Hotels"), a
wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, presently operate the following 18
hotels. Loews Hotels accounted for 1.75%, 1.71% and 1.64% of the Company's
consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and
2000, respectively.


- ------------

(a)  These management contracts are subject to termination rights.
(b)  A Loews Hotels subsidiary is a 50% owner of these hotels located at the
Universal Orlando theme park, through a joint venture with Universal Studios
and the Rank Group. The hotels are constructed on land leased by the joint
venture from the resort's owners and are being operated by Loews Hotels
pursuant to a management contract.


  The hotels which are operated by Loews Hotels contain shops, a variety of
restaurants and lounges, and some contain parking facilities, swimming pools,
tennis courts and access to golf courses.

  The hotels owned by Loews Hotels are subject to mortgage indebtedness
aggregating approximately $145.8 million at December 31, 2002 with interest
rates ranging from 3.8% to 8.9% and maturing between 2003 and 2028. In
addition, certain hotels are held under leases which are subject to formula
derived rental increases, with rentals aggregating approximately $8.0 million
for the year ended December 31, 2002.

  Competition from other hotels, motor hotels and inns, including facilities
owned by local interests and by national and international chains, is vigorous
in all areas in which Loews Hotels operates. The demand for hotel rooms in
many areas is seasonal and dependent on general and local economic conditions.
Loews Hotels properties also compete with facilities offering similar services
in locations other than those in which its hotels are located. Competition
among luxury hotels is based primarily on location and service. Competition
among resort and commercial hotels is based on price as well as location and
service. Because of the competitive nature of the industry, hotels must
continually make expenditures for updating, refurnishing and repairs and
maintenance, in order to prevent competitive obsolescence.

                       DIAMOND OFFSHORE DRILLING, INC.

  Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc. ("Diamond Offshore"), is engaged, through its
subsidiaries, in the business of owning and operating drilling rigs that are
used primarily in the drilling of offshore oil and gas wells on a contract
basis for companies engaged in exploration and production of hydrocarbons.
Diamond Offshore operates 47 offshore rigs. Diamond Offshore accounted for
4.69%, 5.37% and 3.62% of the Company's consolidated total revenue for the
years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

  Drilling Units and Equipment: Diamond Offshore currently owns and operates
47 mobile offshore drilling rigs (32 semisubmersible rigs, 14 jack-up rigs and
one drillship) and related equipment, including the March of 2003 acquisition
of a third generation semisubmersible drilling rig for $65.0 million. Offshore
rigs are mobile units that can be relocated via either self-propulsion or the
use of tugs enabling them to be repositioned based on market demand.

  Semisubmersible rigs are supported by large pontoons and are partially
submerged during drilling for greater stability. They are generally designed
for water depths of up to 7,500 feet. Semisubmersibles are typically anchored
in position and remain stable for drilling in the semi-submerged floating
position due in part to their wave transparency characteristics at the water
line. Semisubmersibles can also be held in position through the use of a
computer controlled thruster (dynamic-positioning) system to maintain the
rig's position over a drillsite. Diamond Offshore has three such
semisubmersible rigs.

  Diamond Offshore owns and operates eight high specification semisubmersible
rigs. These semisubmersibles are larger than many other semisubmersibles, are
capable of working in deep water or harsh environments, and have other
advanced features. Diamond Offshore's 32 semisubmersible rigs are currently
located as follows: 16 in the Gulf of Mexico, four in the North Sea and four
in Brazil, with the remaining rigs located in various foreign markets.

  Diamond Offshore owns and operates 14 jack-up rigs. These rigs stand on the
ocean floor with their drilling platforms "jacked up" on support legs above
the water. They are used extensively for drilling in water depths from 20 feet
to 350 feet. Eleven of Diamond Offshore's jack-up rigs are cantilevered rigs
capable of over platform development drilling and workover as well as
exploratory drilling. Twelve of Diamond Offshore's jack-up rigs are currently
located in the Gulf of Mexico.

  Diamond Offshore's drillship is self-propelled and designed to drill in deep
water. Shaped like a conventional vessel, it is the most mobile of the major
rig types. Diamond Offshore's drillship has dynamic-positioning capabilities
and is currently operating in Brazil.

  Markets: Diamond Offshore's principal markets for its offshore contract
drilling services are the Gulf of Mexico, Europe, including principally the
U.K. and Norwegian sectors of the North Sea, South America, Africa, and
Australia/Southeast Asia. Diamond Offshore actively markets its rigs
worldwide.


  Diamond Offshore contracts to provide offshore drilling services vary in
their terms and provisions. Diamond Offshore often obtains its contracts
through competitive bidding, although it is not unusual for Diamond Offshore
to be awarded drilling contracts without competitive bidding. Drilling
contracts generally provide for a basic drilling rate on a fixed dayrate basis
regardless of whether such drilling results in a productive well. Drilling
contracts may also provide for lower rates during periods when the rig is
being moved or when drilling operations are interrupted or restricted by
equipment breakdowns, adverse weather or water conditions or other conditions
beyond the control of Diamond Offshore. Under dayrate contracts, Diamond
Offshore generally pays the operating expenses of the rig, including wages and
the cost of incidental supplies. Dayrate contracts have historically accounted
for a substantial portion of Diamond Offshore's revenues. In addition, Diamond
Offshore has worked some of its rigs under dayrate contracts pursuant to which
the customer also agrees to pay Diamond Offshore an incentive bonus based upon
performance.

  A dayrate drilling contract generally extends over a period of time covering
either the drilling of a single well, a group of wells (a "well-to-well
contract") or a stated term (a "term contract") and may be terminated by the
customer in the event the drilling unit is destroyed or lost or if drilling
operations are suspended for a specified period of time as a result of a
breakdown of equipment or, in some cases, due to other events beyond the
control of either party. In addition, certain of Diamond Offshore's contracts
permit the customer to terminate the contract early by giving notice and in
some circumstances may require the payment of an early termination fee by the
customer. The contract term in many instances may be extended by the customer
exercising options for the drilling of additional wells at fixed or mutually
agreed terms, including dayrates.

  The duration of offshore drilling contracts is generally determined by
market demand and the respective management strategies of the offshore
drilling contractor and its customers. In periods of rising demand for
offshore rigs, contractors typically prefer well-to-well contracts that allow
contractors to profit from increasing dayrates. In contrast, during these
periods customers with reasonably definite drilling programs typically prefer
longer term contracts to maintain dayrate prices at a consistent level.
Conversely, in periods of decreasing demand for offshore rigs, contractors
generally prefer longer term contracts to preserve dayrates at existing levels
and ensure utilization, while customers prefer well-to-well contracts that
allow them to obtain the benefit of lower dayrates. If possible, Diamond
Offshore seeks to have a foundation of long-term contracts with a reasonable
balance of single-well, well-to-well and short-term contracts to minimize the
downside impact of a decline in the market while still participating in the
benefit of increasing dayrates in a rising market.

  Customers: Diamond Offshore provides offshore drilling services to a
customer base that includes major and independent oil and gas companies and
government-owned oil companies. Several customers have accounted for 10.0% or
more of Diamond Offshore's annual consolidated revenues, although the specific
customers may vary from year to year. During 2002, Diamond Offshore performed
services for 46 different customers with BP, Petrobraspetroleo Brasileiro SA
("Petrobras") and Murphy Exploration and Production Company accounting for
20.5%, 17.4% and 10.4% of Diamond Offshore's annual total consolidated
revenues, respectively. During 2001, Diamond Offshore performed services for
44 different customers with BP and Petrobras accounting for 21.8% and 17.3% of
Diamond Offshore's annual total consolidated revenues, respectively. During
2000, Diamond Offshore performed services for approximately 48 different
customers with Petrobras and BP accounting for 24.6% and 20.3% of Diamond
Offshore's annual total consolidated revenues, respectively. During periods of
low demand for offshore drilling rigs, the loss of a single significant
customer could have a material adverse effect on Diamond Offshore's results of
operations.

  Competition: The contract drilling industry is highly competitive and is
influenced by a number of factors, including the current and anticipated
prices of oil and natural gas, the expenditures by oil and gas companies for
exploration and development of oil and natural gas and the availability of
drilling rigs. In addition, demand for drilling services remains dependent on
a variety of political and economic factors beyond Diamond Offshore's control,
including worldwide demand for oil and natural gas, the ability of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ("OPEC") to set and maintain
production levels and pricing, the level of production of non-OPEC countries
and the policies of the various governments regarding exploration and
development of their oil and natural gas reserves.

  Customers often award contracts on a competitive bid basis, and although a
customer selecting a rig may consider, among other things, a contractor's
safety record, crew quality, rig location, and quality of service and
equipment, the historical oversupply of rigs has created an intensely
competitive market in which price is the primary factor in determining the
selection of a drilling contractor. In periods of increased drilling activity,
rig availability has, in some cases, also become a consideration, particularly
with respect to technologically advanced units. Diamond Offshore


believes that competition for drilling contracts will continue to be intense
in the foreseeable future. Contractors are also able to adjust localized
supply and demand imbalances by moving rigs from areas of low utilization and
dayrates to areas of greater activity and relatively higher dayrates. Such
movements, reactivations or a decrease in drilling activity in any major
market could depress dayrates and could adversely affect utilization of
Diamond Offshore's rigs.

  Governmental Regulation: Diamond Offshore's operations are subject to
numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that relate directly or
indirectly to its operations, including certain regulations controlling the
discharge of materials into the environment, requiring removal and clean-up
under certain circumstances, or otherwise relating to the protection of the
environment. For example, Diamond Offshore may be liable for damages and costs
incurred in connection with oil spills for which it is held responsible. Laws
and regulations protecting the environment have become increasingly stringent
in recent years and may, in certain circumstances, impose "strict liability"
rendering a company liable for environmental damage without regard to
negligence or fault on the part of such company. Liability under such laws and
regulations may result from either governmental or citizen prosecution. Such
laws and regulations may expose Diamond Offshore to liability for the conduct
of or conditions caused by others, or for acts of Diamond Offshore that were
in compliance with all applicable laws at the time such acts were performed.
The application of these requirements or the adoption of new requirements
could have a material adverse effect on Diamond Offshore.

  The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 ("OPAk'90"), and similar
legislation enacted in Texas, Louisiana and other coastal states, addresses
oil spill prevention and control and significantly expands liability exposure
across all segments of the oil and gas industry. OPAk'90, such similar
legislation and related regulations impose a variety of obligations on Diamond
Offshore related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages
resulting from such spills. OPAk'90 imposes strict and, with limited
exceptions, joint and several liability upon each responsible party for oil
removal costs and a variety of public and private damages.

  Indemnification and Insurance: Diamond Offshore's operations are subject to
hazards inherent in the drilling of oil and gas wells such as blowouts,
reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, cratering or
fires, the occurrence of which could result in the suspension of drilling
operations, injury to or death of rig and other personnel and damage to or
destruction of Diamond Offshore's, Diamond Offshore's customers' or a third
party's property or equipment. Damage to the environment could also result
from Diamond Offshore's operations, particularly through oil spillage or
uncontrolled fires. In addition, offshore drilling operations are subject to
perils peculiar to marine operations, including capsizing, grounding,
collision and loss or damage from severe weather. Diamond Offshore has
insurance coverage and contractual indemnification for certain risks, but
there can be no assurance that such coverage or indemnification will
adequately cover Diamond Offshore's loss or liability in many circumstances or
that Diamond Offshore will continue to carry such insurance or receive such
indemnification.

  In December of 2002, Diamond Offshore renewed its Hull and Machinery
insurance policy. Diamond Offshore's retention of liability for property
damage increased at the time of renewal from approximately $0.2 million per
incident to between $1.0 and $2.5 million per incident, depending on the value
of the equipment, with an aggregate annual deductible of $5.0 million. In
addition, Diamond Offshore retained 10% of its insured liability.

  Operations Outside the United States: Operations outside the United States
accounted for approximately 55.5%, 37.3% and 45.4% of Diamond Offshore's total
consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. Diamond Offshore's non-U.S. operations are subject to certain
political, economic and other uncertainties not encountered in U.S.
operations, including risks of war and civil disturbances (or other risks that
may limit or disrupt markets), expropriation and the general hazards
associated with the assertion of national sovereignty over certain areas in
which operations are conducted. No prediction can be made as to what
governmental regulations may be enacted in the future that could adversely
affect the international drilling industry. Diamond Offshore's operations
outside the United States may also face the additional risk of fluctuating
currency values, hard currency shortages, controls of currency exchange and
repatriation of income or capital.

  Properties: Diamond Offshore owns an eight-story office building located in
Houston, Texas containing approximately 182,000 net rentable square feet,
which is used for its corporate headquarters. Diamond Offshore also owns an
18,000 square foot building and 20 acres of land in New Iberia, Louisiana for
its offshore drilling warehouse and storage facility, and a 13,000 square foot
building and five acres of land in Aberdeen, Scotland for its North Sea
operations. In addition, Diamond Offshore leases various office, warehouse and
storage facilities in Louisiana, Australia,


Brazil, Indonesia, Scotland, Vietnam, Singapore, the Netherlands, Norway and
New Zealand to support its offshore drilling operations.

                          BULOVA CORPORATION

  Bulova Corporation ("Bulova") is engaged in the distribution and sale of
watches, clocks and timepiece parts for consumer use. Bulova accounted for
0.95%, 0.78% and 0.78% of the Company's consolidated total revenue for the
years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

  Bulova's principal watch brands are Bulova, Caravelle, Wittnauer and
Accutron. Clocks are principally sold under the Bulova brand name. All watches
and clocks are purchased from foreign suppliers. Bulova's principal markets
are the United States, Canada and Mexico. In most other areas of the world
Bulova has appointed licensees who market watches under Bulova's trademarks in
return for a royalty. Bulova's product breakdown includes luxury watch lines
represented by Wittnauer and Accutron, a mid-priced watch line represented by
Bulova, and a lower-priced watch line represented by Caravelle. Bulova's
principal Far East license agreement expired at the end of 2001 and its
principal European license agreement expired at the end of 2002. In
anticipation of the expiration of the European license agreement, Bulova
established a Swiss subsidiary, Bulova Swiss SA, in the third quarter of 2002
to distribute product throughout Europe. Bulova Swiss SA began selling Bulova
products in Italy, Greece and the Netherlands during the first quarter of
2003. Bulova entered the grandfather clock market in the United States and
Canada with the purchase in July of 2002 of select assets of a grandfather
clock manufacturer and distributor of high quality grandfather clocks.

  Properties: Bulova owns an 80,000 square foot facility in Woodside, New York
which it uses for executive and sales offices, watch distribution, service and
warehouse purposes and also owns a 91,000 square foot facility in Brooklyn,
New York, which it uses for clock service and warehouse purposes. Bulova also
owns 6,100 square feet of office space in Hong Kong which it uses for quality
control and sourcing purposes. Bulova leases an approximately 31,000 square
foot facility in Toronto, Canada, which it uses for watch and clock sales and
service; an approximately 27,000 square foot office and manufacturing facility
in Ontario, Canada which it uses for its grandfather clock operations;
approximately 5,400 square feet of office space in Mexico, Federal District,
and approximately 6,000 square feet of office space in Fribourg, Switzerland.

                            OTHER INTERESTS

  A subsidiary of the Company, Majestic Shipping Corporation ("Majestic"),
owns a 49% common stock interest in Hellespont Shipping Corporation
("Hellespont"). Hellespont is engaged in the business of owning and operating
six ultra large crude oil tankers that are used primarily to transport crude
oil from the Persian Gulf to a limited number of ports in the Far East,
Northern Europe and the United States. A subsidiary of Hellespont has entered
into an agreement for the new building of an additional ultra large crude oil
tanker which is expected to be delivered in the second quarter of 2003. The
cost of this additional tanker is estimated to amount to approximately $93.0
million.

                          EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

  The Company, inclusive of its operating subsidiaries as described below,
employed approximately 25,800 persons at December 31, 2002 and considers its
employee relations to be satisfactory.

  Lorillard employed approximately 3,200 persons at December 31, 2002.
Approximately 1,200 of these employees are represented by labor unions covered
by three collective bargaining agreements.

  Lorillard has collective bargaining agreements covering hourly rated
production and service employees at various Lorillard plants with the Bakery,
Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union, and the
National Conference of Fireman and Oilers/SEIU. Lorillard has experienced
satisfactory labor relations and provides a retirement plan, a deferred profit
sharing plan, and other benefits for its hourly paid employees who are
represented by the foregoing unions. In addition, Lorillard provides to its
salaried employees a retirement plan, group life, disability and health
insurance program and a savings plan.


  Loews Hotels employed approximately 2,500 persons at December 31, 2002,
approximately 1,100 of whom are union members covered under collective
bargaining agreements. Loews Hotels has experienced satisfactory labor
relations and provides comprehensive benefit plans for its hourly paid
employees.

  The Company maintains a retirement plan, group life, disability and health
insurance program and a savings plan for salaried employees. Loews Hotels
salaried employees also participate in these benefit plans.

  CNA employed approximately 15,500 full-time equivalent employees at December
31, 2002 and has experienced satisfactory labor relations. CNA and its
subsidiaries have comprehensive benefit plans for substantially all of their
employees, including retirement plans, savings plans, disability programs,
group life programs and group health care programs.

  Diamond Offshore employed approximately 3,800 persons at December 31, 2002
including international crew personnel furnished through independent labor
contractors. Diamond Offshore has experienced satisfactory labor relations and
provides comprehensive benefit plans for its employees. Diamond Offshore does
not currently consider the possibility of a shortage of qualified personnel to
be material factor in its business.

  Bulova and its subsidiaries employed approximately 560 persons at December
31, 2002, approximately 190 of whom are union members. Bulova and its
subsidiaries have experienced satisfactory labor relations. Bulova has
comprehensive benefit plans for substantially all employees.

                          AVAILABLE INFORMATION

  The Company's website address is www.loews.com. The Company makes available,
                                   -------------
free of charge, through its website its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable
after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The Company has made these reports
available in this manner since March of 2003. Prior to that time the Company
made such reports available at no charge upon request.

Item 2. Properties.

  Information relating to the properties of Registrant and its subsidiaries is
contained under Item 1.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

  1. Insurance Related.  Information with respect to insurance related legal
     -----------------
proceedings is incorporated by reference to Note 20, "Legal Proceedings -
Insurance Related" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included
in Item 8.

  2. Tobacco Related.  Approximately 4,500 product liability cases are pending
     ---------------
against cigarette manufacturers in the United States. Lorillard is a defendant
in approximately 4,075 of these cases. The Company is a defendant in fewer
than 35 of the pending cases. Information with respect to tobacco related
legal proceedings is incorporated by reference to Note 20, "Legal Proceedings
- - Tobacco Related" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included
in Item 8. Additional information regarding tobacco related legal proceedings
is contained below and in Exhibit 99.01.

  The pending product liability cases are comprised of the following types of
cases:

  "Conventional product liability cases" are brought by individuals who allege
cancer or other health effects caused by smoking cigarettes, by using
smokeless tobacco products, by addiction to tobacco, or by exposure to
environmental tobacco smoke. Approximately 1,600 cases are pending, including
approximately 1,185 cases against Lorillard. Included in this group are
approximately 1,100 cases pending in a single West Virginia court in which a
consolidated trial is scheduled. Lorillard is a defendant in approximately
1,000 of the 1,100 consolidated West Virginia cases. The Company is a
defendant in five of the conventional product liability cases and is not a
party to any of the consolidated West Virginia Cases.


  "Class action cases" are purported to be brought on behalf of large numbers
of individuals for damages allegedly caused by smoking. Approximately 40 of
these cases are pending against Lorillard. The Company is a defendant in two
of the class action cases. An additional group of approximately 20 class
action cases are pending against other cigarette manufacturers and assert
claims on behalf of smokers of "light" cigarettes. In Price v. Philip Morris
USA, a "light" cigarette class action pending only against Philip Morris, an
Illinois judge issued a verdict during March of 2003 in favor of a class of
Illinois smokers and awarded $7.1 billion in actual damages to the class
members, $3.0 billion in punitive damages to the State of Illinois (which was
not a plaintiff in this matter), and approximately $1.8 billion in attorney's
fees and costs. Entry of judgment has been stayed. Press reports have quoted
Philip Morris officials as stating the company plans to appeal the verdict.
Reference is made to Exhibit 99.01 to this Report for a list of pending Class
Action Cases in which Lorillard is a party.

  "Reimbursement cases" are brought by or on behalf of entities who seek
reimbursement of expenses incurred in providing health care to individuals who
allegedly were injured by smoking. Plaintiffs in these cases have included the
U.S. federal government, U.S. state and local governments, foreign
governmental entities, hospitals or hospital districts, American Indian
tribes, labor unions, private companies, and private citizens suing on behalf
of taxpayers. Lorillard is a defendant in most of the approximately 40 pending
Reimbursement cases. The Company is a defendant in 26 of the pending
Reimbursement cases. Reference is made to Exhibit 99.01 to this Report for a
list of pending Reimbursement Cases in which Lorillard is a party.

  "Contribution cases" are brought by private companies, such as asbestos
manufacturers or their insurers, who are seeking contribution or indemnity for
court claims they incurred on behalf of individuals injured by their products
but who also allegedly were injured by smoking cigarettes. Lorillard is a
defendant in each of the approximately 10 pending Contribution cases. The
Company is a defendant in one of the pending Contribution cases. Reference is
made to Exhibit 99.01 to this Report for a list of pending Contribution cases
in which Lorillard is a party.

  "Flight Attendant cases" are brought by non-smoking flight attendants
alleging injury from exposure to environmental smoke in the cabins of
aircraft. Plaintiffs in these cases may not seek punitive damages for injuries
that arose prior to January 15, 1997. Lorillard is a defendant in each of the
approximately 2,800 pending Flight Attendant cases. The Company is not a
defendant in any of the Flight Attendant cases.

  Excluding the flight attendant and the consolidated West Virginia suits,
approximately 600 product liability cases are pending against U.S. cigarette
manufacturers. Lorillard is a defendant in approximately 275 of the 600 cases.
The Company, which is not a defendant in any of the flight attendant or the
consolidated West Virginia matters, is a defendant in fewer than 35 of the
actions.

  Other tobacco-related litigation includes "Tobacco Related Anti-Trust
Cases." Reference is made to Exhibit 99.01 to this Report for a list of
pending Tobacco Related Anti-Trust Cases in which Lorillard is a party.


Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

  None




  Laurence A. Tisch and Preston R. Tisch are brothers. Andrew H. Tisch and
James S. Tisch are sons of Laurence A. Tisch and Jonathan M. Tisch is a son of
Preston R. Tisch. None of the other officers or directors of Registrant is
related to any other.

  All executive officers of Registrant, except Arthur L. Rebell, have been
engaged actively and continuously in the business of Registrant for more than
the past five years. Arthur L. Rebell has been a senior vice president of the
Company since June of 1998. Prior to joining Loews, during 1997 and 1998 he
was an associate professor of Mergers and Acquisitions at New York University,
a Managing Director of Highview Capital and a Partner in Strategic Investors.

  Officers are elected and hold office until their successors are elected and
qualified, and are subject to removal by the Board of Directors.

                                   PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder
Matters.

Price Range of Common Stock

Loews common stock

  Loews Corporation's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The following table sets forth the reported high and low sales prices in each
calendar quarter of 2002 and 2001:




Carolina Group stock

  Carolina Group stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and trading of
the stock started on February 1, 2002. The following table sets forth the
reported high and low sales prices in each calendar quarter of 2002:



Dividend Information

  The Company has paid quarterly cash dividends on Loews common stock in each
year since 1967. Regular dividends of $0.13 per share of Loews common stock
were paid in the first calendar quarter of 2001. The Company increased its
dividend to $0.15 per share beginning in the second quarter of 2001.

  The Company has paid a quarterly cash dividend on Carolina Group stock of
$0.445 per share beginning in the second quarter of 2002.

Approximate Number of Equity Security Holders

  The Company has approximately 2,035 holders of record of Loews common stock
and 40 holders of record of Carolina Group stock.

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans

  The following table provides certain information as of December 31, 2002
with respect to the Company's equity compensation plans under which equity
securities of the Company are authorized for issuance.



- ------------

(a)  Consists of the Loews Corporation 2000 Stock Option Plan.
(b)  The Company has no equity compensation plan that has not been authorized
by its stockholders.
(c)  Consists of the Carolina Group 2002 Stock Option Plan.


Item 6.  Selected Financial Data.



* Restated to reflect an adjustment to the Company's historical accounting for
CNA's investment in life settlement contracts and the related revenue
recognition. See Notes 1 and 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Item 8.


Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.

OVERVIEW

  Consolidated net income (including both the Loews Group and Carolina Group)
for the year ended December 31, 2002, was $912.0 million, compared to a net
loss of $587.1 million in 2001. The 2001 results include a restatement of
previously reported financial results related to the life settlement business
of CNA, as described below.

  Net income for 2002 included a loss from discontinued operations at CNA of
$31.0 million or $0.17 per share of Loews common stock, compared to income
from discontinued operations of $9.4 million or $0.05 per share of Loews
common stock in the comparable period of the prior year. Results for 2002 also
included a charge for accounting changes of $39.6 million or $0.21 per share
of Loews common stock, related to accounting for goodwill and other intangible
assets, compared to a charge of $53.3 million or $0.27 per share of Loews
common stock in the comparable period of the prior year, related to accounting
for derivative instruments at CNA.

  Consolidated net operating income for the year ended December 31, 2002,
which excludes net investment gains (losses), discontinued operations and the
effects of accounting changes, was $1,099.3 million, compared to a loss of
$1,333.1 million in the comparable period of the prior year.

  Net operating income (loss) is calculated by deducting net investment gains
or losses, discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of a change in
accounting principle (after deduction of related income taxes and minority
interests), from net income (loss). Analysts following the Company's stock
have advised the Company that such information is meaningful in assisting them
in measuring the performance of its insurance subsidiaries. In addition, it is
used in management's discussion of the results of operations for the insurance
related segments due to the significance of the amount of net investment gains
or losses. Net operating income (losses) is also a common measure throughout
the insurance industry. Net realized investment gains (losses) are excluded
from this operating measure because investment gains or losses related to
CNA's available-for-sale investment portfolio are largely discretionary, are
generally driven by economic factors that are not necessarily consistent with
key drivers of underwriting performance, and are therefore not an indication
of trends in operations.

  Net operating income attributable to Loews common stock for the year ended
December 31, 2002, which excludes net investment (losses) gains, discontinued
operations and the effects of accounting changes, was $963.9 million, compared
to a loss of $1,333.1 million in the comparable period of the prior year.

  Net income attributable to Carolina Group stock for the year ended December
31, 2002 was $140.7 million or $3.50 per share.

  Consolidated net income for the quarter ended December 31, 2002 was $261.3
million, compared to $191.0 million in 2001. Consolidated net operating income
for the 2002 fourth quarter, which excludes net investment losses and
discontinued operations, was $285.0 million, compared to a net operating loss
of $47.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2001.

  Net income attributable to Loews common stock for the 2002 fourth quarter
was $224.4 million or $1.21 per share, compared to $191.0 million or $0.99 per
share in the comparable period of the prior year. Net income in the 2002
fourth quarter includes net investment losses attributable to Loews common
stock of $24.2 million, compared to gains of $235.5 million in the comparable
period of the prior year.

  Net operating income attributable to Loews common stock for the 2002 fourth
quarter, which excludes net investment losses and discontinued operations, was
$248.6 million, compared to a net operating loss of $47.2 million in the
comparable period of the prior year.

  Net income attributable to Carolina Group Stock for the 2002 fourth quarter
was $36.9 million or $0.92 per share.


CNA's Life Settlement Contract Accounting

  As a result of a routine review of CNA's periodic filings by the Division of
Corporation Finance of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), the
Company has restated its financial statements as of and for the years ended
December 31, 2001 and 2000 as well as its interim financial statements for the
first three quarters of 2002 and all interim periods of 2001. The restated
financial statements reflect an adjustment to the Company's historical
accounting for CNA's investment in life settlement contracts and the related
revenue recognition.

  CNA's historical accounting was to record an asset for the amount paid to
acquire the life settlement contract along with other direct acquisition
costs, and to recognize revenue over the period the contract was held. The SEC
concluded that the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Technical
Bulletin ("FTB") 85-4 "Accounting for Purchases of Life Insurance" should have
been applied to CNA's investment in life settlement contracts. Under FTB 85-4,
the carrying value of each contract at purchase and at the end of each
reporting period is equal to the cash surrender value of the policy. Amounts
paid to purchase these contracts that are in excess of the cash surrender
value, at the date of purchase, are expensed immediately. Periodic maintenance
costs, such as premiums, necessary to keep the underlying policy in-force are
expensed as incurred and included in other operating expense. Revenue is
recognized and included in other revenue in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations when the life insurance policy underlying the life settlement
contract matures.

  The adjustment related to life settlement contracts increased (decreased)
previously reported results of operations by $2.0 and $(28.1) million for the
years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Additionally, the
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity reflects a decrease in
earnings retained in the business of $193.9 million as of January 1, 2000.

Classes of Common Stock

  The issuance of Carolina Group Stock has resulted in a two class common
stock structure for Loews Corporation. Carolina Group Stock, commonly called a
tracking stock, is intended to reflect the economic performance of a defined
group of assets and liabilities of the Company referred to as the Carolina
Group. The principal assets and liabilities attributed to the Carolina Group
are (a) the Company's 100% stock ownership interest in Lorillard, Inc.; (b)
notional, intergroup debt owed by the Carolina Group to the Loews Group ($2.4
billion outstanding at December 31, 2002), bearing interest at the annual rate
of 8.0% and, subject to optional prepayment, due December 31, 2021; and (c)
any and all liabilities, costs and expenses arising out of or related to
tobacco or tobacco-related businesses.

  As of December 31, 2002, the outstanding Carolina Group Stock represents a
23.01% economic interest in the economic performance of the Carolina Group.
The Loews Group consists of all the Company's assets and liabilities other
than the 23.01% economic interest represented by the outstanding Carolina
Group Stock, and includes as an asset the notional, intergroup debt of the
Carolina Group.

  The existence of separate classes of common stock could give rise to
occasions where the interests of the holders of Loews common stock and
Carolina Group stock diverge or conflict or appear to diverge or conflict.
Subject to its fiduciary duties, the Company's board of directors could, in
its sole discretion, from time to time, make determinations or implement
policies that affect disproportionately the groups or the different classes of
stock. For example, Loews's board of directors may decide to reallocate
assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flows between groups, without
the consent of shareholders. The board of directors would not be required to
select the option that would result in the highest value for holders of
Carolina Group Stock.

  As a result of the flexibility provided to Loews's board of directors, it
might be difficult for investors to assess the future prospects of the
Carolina Group based on the Carolina Group's past performance.

  The creation of the Carolina Group and the issuance of Carolina Group Stock
does not change the Company's ownership of Lorillard, Inc. or Lorillard,
Inc.'s status as a separate legal entity. The Carolina Group and the Loews
Group are notional groups that are intended to reflect the performance of the
defined sets of assets and liabilities of each such group as described above.
The Carolina Group and the Loews Group are not separate legal entities and the
attribution of assets and liabilities to the Loews Group or the Carolina Group
does not affect title to the assets or responsibility for the liabilities.


  Holders of the Company's common stock and of Carolina Group stock are
shareholders of Loews Corporation and are subject to the risks related to an
equity investment in Loews Corporation.

Parent Company

  The Company is a holding company and derives substantially all of its cash
flow from its subsidiaries, principally Lorillard. The Company relies upon its
invested cash balances and distributions from its subsidiaries to generate the
funds necessary to meet its obligations and to declare and pay any dividends
to its stockholders. The ability of the Company's subsidiaries to pay
dividends is subject to, among other things, the availability of sufficient
funds in such subsidiaries, applicable state laws, including in the case of
the insurance subsidiaries of CNA (see Liquidity and Capital Resources -CNA,
below), laws and rules governing the payment of dividends by regulated
insurance companies. Claims of creditors of the Company's subsidiaries will
generally have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries over the claims
of the Company and its creditors and stockholders.

  At December 31, 2002, the book value per share of Loews Common Stock was
$61.68, compared to $49.24 at December 31, 2001. The increase in book value
per share of Loews Common Stock is primarily due to proceeds from the issuance
of the Carolina Group Stock in February 2002 and the net economic interest
attributable to the Loews Common Stock in the notional intergroup debt
receivable from the Carolina Group, net income for 2002 and an increase in the
Company's unrealized gains on available-for-sale investments.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP")
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts
reported in the consolidated financial statements and the related notes.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

  The consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been
prepared in accordance with GAAP, applied on a consistent basis. The Company
continually evaluates the accounting policies and estimates used to prepare
the consolidated financial statements. In general, management's estimates are
based on historical experience, evaluation of current trends, information from
third party professionals and various other assumptions that are believed to
be reasonable under the known facts and circumstances.

  The accounting policies discussed below are considered by management to be
critical to an understanding of the Company's financial statements as their
application places the most significant demands on management's judgment. Due
to the inherent uncertainties involved with this type of judgment, actual
results could differ significantly from estimates and have a material adverse
impact on the Company's results of operations or equity.

Insurance Reserves

  Insurance reserves are established for both short and long-duration
insurance contracts. Short-duration contracts are primarily related to
property and casualty policies where the reserving process is based on
actuarial estimates of the amount of loss, including amounts for known and
unknown claims. Long-duration contracts typically include traditional life
insurance and long term care products and are estimated using actuarial
estimates about mortality and morbidity as well as assumptions about expected
investment returns. The inherent risks associated with the reserving process
are discussed below, in Reserves - Estimates and Uncertainties. Additionally,
a review of Results of Operations for CNA's segment results, Environmental
Pollution and Mass Tort and Asbestos Reserves and Second Quarter 2001 Reserve
Strengthening sections that follow is necessary to understand the sensitivity
of management's estimate.

Reinsurance

  Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent
with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefits
reserves and are reported as a receivable in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The cost of reinsurance related to long-duration contracts is accounted for
over the life of the underlying reinsured policies using assumptions
consistent with those used to account for the underlying policies. The ceding
of insurance does not discharge the primary liability of CNA. An estimated
allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded on the basis of


periodic evaluations of balances due from reinsurers, reinsurer solvency,
management's experience and current economic conditions. Further information
on reinsurance is provided in the Reinsurance section that follows.

Tobacco Litigation

  Lorillard and other cigarette manufacturers continue to be confronted with
substantial litigation. Plaintiffs in most of the cases seek unspecified
amounts of compensatory damages and punitive damages, although some seek
damages ranging into the billions of dollars. Plaintiffs in some of the cases
seek treble damages, statutory damages, disgorgement of profits, equitable and
injunctive relief, and medical monitoring, among other damages.

  On July 14, 2000, the jury in Engle v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al.
awarded a total of $145.0 billion in punitive damages against all defendants,
including $16.3 billion against Lorillard. The judgment also provides that the
jury's awards bear interest at the rate of 10% per year. Lorillard remains of
the view that the Engle case should not have been certified as a class action.
Lorillard believes that class certification in the Engle case is inconsistent
with the majority of federal and state court decisions which have held that
mass smoking and health claims are inappropriate for class treatment.
Lorillard has challenged the class certification, as well as numerous other
legal errors that it believes occurred during the trial. The Florida Third
District Court of Appeal heard argument in defendants' appeal on November 6,
2002. The Court of Appeal took the appeal under advisement. The Company and
Lorillard believe that an appeal of these issues on the merits should prevail.

  Lorillard believes that it has valid defenses to the cases pending against
it. Lorillard also believes it has valid bases for appeal of the adverse
verdicts against it. To the extent the Company is a defendant in any of the
lawsuits, the Company believes that it is not a proper defendant in these
matters and has moved or plans to move for dismissal of all such claims
against it. While Lorillard intends to defend vigorously all tobacco products
liability litigation, it is not possible to predict the outcome of any of this
litigation. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and it is possible
that some of these actions could be decided unfavorably. Lorillard may enter
into discussions in an attempt to settle particular cases if it believes it is
appropriate to do so.

  Except for the impact of the State Settlement Agreements as described in
Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8
of this Report, management is unable to make a meaningful estimate of the
amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of
pending litigation and, therefore, no provision has been made in the
consolidated financial statements for any unfavorable outcome. It is possible
that the Company's results of operations, cash flows and its financial
position could be materially affected by an unfavorable outcome of certain
pending litigation.

Valuation of Investments and Impairment of Securities

  The Company classifies its holdings of fixed maturity securities (bonds and
redeemable preferred stocks) and equity securities, which are held principally
by insurance subsidiaries, as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair
value. Changes in fair value are recorded as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income in shareholders' equity, net of applicable deferred
income taxes and participating policyholders' and minority interest. The
amortized cost of fixed maturity securities is adjusted for amortization of
premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity, which are included in
investment income.

  The Company's investment portfolio is subject to market declines below book
value that may be other-than-temporary. CNA has an Impairment Committee, which
reviews its investment portfolio on a quarterly basis with ongoing analysis as
new information becomes available. Any decline that is determined to be other-
than-temporary is recorded as an impairment loss in the period in which the
determination occurred. See "Investments - CNA" and Note 2 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 for information related
to the Company's impairment charges.

  Securities in the parent company's investment portfolio that are not part of
its cash management activities are classified as trading securities in order
to reflect the Company's investment philosophy. These investments are carried
at fair value with the net unrealized gain or loss included in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations.


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY BUSINESS SEGMENT

CNA

  Insurance operations are conducted by subsidiaries of CNA Financial
Corporation ("CNA"). CNA is a 90% owned subsidiary of the Company.

  CNA conducts its operations through five operating groups: Standard Lines,
Specialty Lines and CNA Re (these groups comprise the Company's property and
casualty segment); Group Operations and Life Operations. In addition to these
five operating segments, certain other activities are reported in the Other
Insurance segment. The Other Insurance segment consists of losses and expenses
related to centralized adjusting and settlement of asbestos, pollution and
mass tort claims ("APMT"), certain run-off insurance operations, interest
expense on corporate debt, e-Business initiatives, and intercompany
eliminations. These segments reflect the way CNA manages its operations and
makes business decisions.

  Run-off insurance operations consist of personal insurance, entertainment
insurance, agriculture insurance, group reinsurance and other financial lines
as well as the direct financial guarantee business underwritten by CNA's
insurance affiliates and other insurance run-off operations. Run-off insurance
operations also include assumed business underwritten through a managing
general agent, IOA Global, which consists primarily of certain accident and
health coverages ("IGI Program").

  During 2002, CNA underwent management changes and strategic realignment.
These events have changed the way CNA manages its operations and makes
business decisions and, therefore, necessitated a change in CNA's reportable
segments.

  CNA Trust, a limited-operations bank specializing in 401(k) plan
administration, and Institutional Markets, which provides guaranteed return
investment products for qualified and non-qualified institutional buyers, was
transferred from Life Operations to Group Operations. Group Reinsurance, the
business which assumes reinsurance from unaffiliated entities on group life,
accident and health products and excess medical risk coverages for self-funded
employers, was transferred from Group Operations to Other Insurance to be
included as part of run-off insurance operations. The Environmental Pollution
and Mass Tort and Asbestos ("APMT") Reserves related to assumed reinsurance,
along with the assumed business underwritten through a managing general agent,
IOA Global, which consists primarily of certain accident and health coverages,
was transferred from CNA Re to Other Insurance. The U.S. zone of Global
business, which primarily offers international insurance to U.S. based
corporations and U.S. insurance to foreign corporations, was transferred from
Specialty Lines to Standard Lines.

  The consolidated operations for the year ended December 31, 2001 were
significantly impacted by the second quarter 2001 prior year reserve
strengthening, WTC event, and restructuring and other related charges. A
discussion of these items, along with CNA's current terrorism exposure and
description of reserves is presented below.

World Trade Center Event

  During the third quarter of 2001, CNA recorded estimated incurred losses of
$468.0 million pretax, net of reinsurance, related to the World Trade Center
disaster and related events  ("WTC event"). The loss estimate was based on a
total industry loss of $50.0 billion and included all lines of insurance. This
estimate took into account CNA's substantial reinsurance agreements, including
its catastrophe reinsurance program and corporate reinsurance programs. CNA
has closely monitored reported losses as well as the collection of reinsurance
on WTC event claims. As of December 31, 2002, CNA believes its recorded
reserves, net of reinsurance, for the WTC event are adequate.


  The following table provides management's estimate of losses related to the
WTC event on a gross basis (before reinsurance) and a net basis (after
reinsurance) on CNA's operating segments:



(a)  Pretax impact of the WTC event before the corporate aggregate reinsurance
treaties. The pretax net impact includes $85.0 of reinstatement and additional
premiums.

Second Quarter 2001 Prior Year Reserve Strengthening

  During the second quarter of 2001, CNA noted the continued emergence of
adverse loss experience across several lines of business related to prior
years, which are discussed in further detail below. CNA completed a number of
reserve studies during the second quarter of 2001 for many of its lines of
business, including those in which these adverse trends were noted.

  The second quarter 2001 prior year reserve strengthening and related items
comprising the amounts noted above are detailed by segment in the following
table:



*  $500.0 of ceded losses reduced by $230.0 of ceded premiums and $47.0 of
interest charges.


  With respect to environmental and mass tort reserves, commencing in 2000 and
continuing into the first and second quarters of 2001, CNA received a number
of new reported claims, some of which involved declaratory judgment actions
premised on court decisions purporting to expand insurance coverage for
pollution claims. In these decisions, several courts adopted rules of
insurance policy interpretation which established joint and several liability
for insurers consecutively on a risk during a period of alleged property
damage; and in other instances adopted interpretations of the "absolute
pollution exclusion," which weakened its effectiveness in most circumstances.
In addition to receiving new claims and declaratory judgment actions premised
upon these unfavorable legal precedents, these court decisions also impacted
CNA's pending pollution and mass tort claims and coverage litigation. During
the spring of 2001, CNA reviewed specific claims and litigation, as well as
general trends, and concluded reserve strengthening in this area was
necessary.

  In the area of mass torts, several well-publicized verdicts arising out of
bodily injury cases related to allegedly toxic mold led to a significant
increase in mold-related claims in 2000 and the first half of 2001. CNA's
reserve increase in the second quarter of 2001 was caused in part by this
increased area of exposure.

  With respect to other court cases and how they might affect CNA's reserves
and reasonable possible losses, the following should be noted. State and
federal courts issue numerous decisions each year, which potentially impact
losses and reserves in both a favorable and unfavorable manner.  Examples of
favorable developments include decisions to allocate defense and indemnity
payments in a manner so as to limit carriers' obligations to damages taking
place during the effective dates of their policies; decisions holding that
injuries occurring after asbestos operations are completed are subject to the
completed operations aggregate limits of the policies; and decisions ruling
that carriers' loss control inspections of their insured's premises do not
give rise to a duty to warn third parties to the dangers of asbestos.

  Examples of unfavorable developments include decisions limiting the
application of the "absolute pollution" exclusion; and decisions holding
carriers liable for defense and indemnity of asbestos and pollution claims on
a joint and several basis.

  Throughout 2000 and into 2001, CNA experienced significant increases in new
asbestos bodily injury claims. In light of this development, CNA formed the
view that payments for asbestos claims could be higher in future years than
previously estimated. Moreover, in late 2000 through mid-2001, industry
sources such as rating agencies and actuarial firms released analyses and
studies commenting on the increase in claim volumes and other asbestos
liability developments. For example, A.M. Best Company ("A.M. Best") released
a study in May 2001 increasing its ultimate asbestos reserve estimate 62.5%
from $40.0 to $65.0 billion, citing an unfunded insurance industry reserve
shortfall of $33.0 billion. In June 2001, Tillinghast raised its asbestos
ultimate exposure from $55.0 to $65.0 billion for the insurance industry and
its estimate of the ultimate/remaining asbestos liability for all industries
was raised to $200.0 billion.

  Also in the 2000 to 2001 time period, a number of significant asbestos
defendants filed for bankruptcy, increasing the likelihood that excess layers
of insurance coverage could be called upon to indemnify policyholders and
creating the potential that novel legal doctrines could be employed, which
could accelerate the time when such indemnification payments could be due.

  These developments led CNA to the conclusion that its asbestos reserves
required strengthening.

  The non-APMT adverse reserve development in 2001 was the result of analyses
of several lines of business. This development related principally to
commercial insurance coverages including automobile liability and multiple-
peril, as well as assumed reinsurance and healthcare-related coverages. A
brief summary of these lines of business and the associated reserve
development is discussed below.

  Approximately $600.0 million of the adverse loss development was a result of
several coverages provided to commercial entities. The gross and net carried
claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for Standard Lines at the
beginning of 2001 was $12,070.0 and $9,129.0 million. Reserve analyses
performed during 2001 showed unexpected increases in the size of claims for
several lines, including commercial automobile liability, general liability
and the liability portion of commercial multiple-peril coverages. In addition,
the number of commercial automobile liability claims was higher than expected
and several state-specific factors resulted in higher than anticipated losses,
including developments associated with commercial automobile liability
coverage in Ohio and general liability coverage provided to contractors in New
York. The unfavorable development was driven principally by accident years
1997 through 2000.


The remaining development affecting years prior to 1997 was driven principally
by construction defect claims as described below.

  The commercial automobile liability analysis indicated increased ultimate
claim and claim adjustment expense across several accident years due to higher
paid and reported claim and claim adjustment expense resulting from several
factors. These factors include uninsured/underinsured motorists coverage in
Ohio, a change in the rate at which the average claim size was increasing and
a lack of improvement in the ratio of the number of claims per exposure unit,
the frequency. First, Ohio courts had significantly broadened the population
covered through the uninsured/underinsured motorists' coverage. The broadening
of the population covered by this portion of the policy, and the retrospective
nature of this broadening of coverage, resulted in additional claims for older
years. Second, in recent years, the average claim size had been increasing at
less than a 2.0% annual rate. The available data indicated that the rate of
increase was closer to 8.0% with only a portion of this increase explainable
by a change in mix of business. Finally, the review completed during the
second quarter of 2001 indicated that the frequency for the 2000 accident year
was 6.0% higher than 1999. Expectations were that the 2000 frequency would
show an improvement from the 1999 level.

  The analyses of general liability and the liability portion of commercial
multiple-peril coverages showed several factors affecting these lines.
Construction defect claims in California and a limited number of other states
have had a significant impact. It was expected that the number of claims being
reported and the average size of those claims would fall quickly due to the
decrease in business exposed to those losses. However, the number of claims
reported during the first six months of 2001 increased from the number of
claims reported during the last six months of 2000. In addition to the effects
of construction defect claims, the average claim associated with New York
labor law has risen to more than $125,000 from less than $100,000, which was
significantly greater than previously expected.

  An analysis of assumed reinsurance business written by CNA Re showed that
the paid and reported losses for recent accident years were higher than
expectations, which resulted in management recording net unfavorable
development on prior year loss reserves of approximately $560.0 million. The
gross and net claim and claim adjustment expense reserves at the beginning of
2001 for CNA Re was $4,238.0 and $2,735.0 million. Because of the long and
variable reporting pattern associated with assumed reinsurance as well as
uncertainty regarding possible changes in the reporting methods of the ceding
companies, the carried reserves for assumed reinsurance was based mainly on
the pricing assumptions until experience emerges to show that the pricing
assumptions are no longer valid. The reviews completed during the second
quarter of 2001, including analysis at the individual treaty level, showed
that the pricing assumptions were no longer appropriate. The classes of
business with the most significant changes included excess of loss liability,
professional liability and proportional and retrocessional property. The
unfavorable reserve development was driven principally by accident years 1996
through 2000.

  Approximately $320.0 million of adverse loss development was due to adverse
experience in all other lines, primarily in coverages provided to healthcare-
related entities written by CNA HealthPro. The gross and net claim and claim
adjustment expense reserves at the beginning of 2001 for Specialty Lines was
approximately $4,813.0 and $3,429.0 million. The level of paid and reported
losses associated with coverages provided to national long-term care
facilities were higher than expected. The long-term care facility business had
traditionally been limited to local facilities. In recent years, CNA began to
provide coverage to large chains of long-term care facilities. Original
assumptions were that these chains would exhibit loss ratios similar to the
local facilities. The most recent review of these large chains indicated an
overall loss ratio in excess of 500.0% versus approximately 100.0% for the
remaining business. In addition, the average size of claims resulting from
coverages provided to physicians and institutions providing healthcare related
services increased more than expected. The review indicated that the average
loss had increased to over $330,000. Prior to this review, the expectation for
the average loss was approximately $250,000. Unfavorable reserve development
of $240.0 million was recorded for accident years 1997 through 2000. The
remaining unfavorable reserve development was attributable to accident years
prior to 1997.

  Concurrent with CNA's review of loss reserves, CNA completed comprehensive
studies of estimated premium receivable accruals on retrospectively rated
insurance policies and involuntary market facilities. These studies included
ground-up reviews of retrospective premium accruals utilizing a more
comprehensive database of retrospectively rated contracts. This review
included application of the policy retrospective rating parameters to the
revised estimate of ultimate loss ratio and consideration of actual interim
cash settlement. This study resulted in a change in the estimated
retrospective premiums receivable balances.


  As a result of this review and changes in premiums associated with the
change in estimates for loss reserves, CNA recorded a pretax reduction in
premium accruals of $566.0 million. The effect on net earned premiums was
$616.0 million offset by a reduction of accrued commissions of $50.0 million.
The studies included the review of all such retrospectively rated insurance
policies and the estimate of ultimate losses.

  Approximately $188.0 million of this amount resulted from a change in
estimate in premiums related to involuntary market facilities, which had an
offsetting impact on net losses and therefore had no impact on the net
operating results. More than one-half of the change in estimate in premiums
was attributable to accident years 1997 through 1999 with the remainder
attributable to years prior to 1992. Accruals for ceded premiums related to
other reinsurance treaties increased $83.0 million due to the reserve
strengthening. This increase in accruals for ceded premiums were principally
recorded in accident year 2000. The remainder of the decrease in premium
accruals relates to the change in estimate of the amount of retrospective
premium receivables as discussed above, which were principally recorded in
accident years prior to 1999.

Reinsurance

  CNA assumes and cedes reinsurance with other insurers, reinsurers and
members of various reinsurance pools and associations. CNA utilizes
reinsurance arrangements to limit its maximum loss, provide greater
diversification of risk, minimize exposures on larger risks and to exit
certain lines of business. Reinsurance coverages are tailored to the specific
risk characteristics of each product line and CNA's retained amount varies by
type of coverage. Generally, property risks are reinsured on an excess of
loss, per risk basis. Liability coverages are generally reinsured on a quota
share basis in excess of CNA's retained risk. CNA's ceded life reinsurance
includes utilization of coinsurance, yearly renewable term and facultative
programs. A majority of the reinsurance utilized by CNA's life insurance
operations relates to term life insurance policies. Term life insurance
policies issued from 1994 onward are generally ceded at 60%-90% of the face
value. Universal Life policies issued from 1998 onward are generally ceded at
75% of the face value.

  CNA's overall reinsurance program includes certain property and casualty
contracts, such as the corporate aggregate reinsurance treaties discussed in
more detail later in this section, that are entered into and accounted for on
a "funds withheld" basis. Under the funds withheld basis, CNA records the cash
remitted to the reinsurer for the reinsurer's margin, or cost of the
reinsurance contract, as ceded premiums. The remainder of the premiums ceded
under the reinsurance contract is recorded as funds withheld liabilities. CNA
is required to increase the funds withheld balance at stated interest
crediting rates applied to the funds withheld balance or as otherwise
specified under the terms of the contract. The funds withheld liability is
reduced by any cumulative claim payments made by CNA in excess of CNA's
retention under the reinsurance contract. If the funds withheld liability is
exhausted, interest crediting will cease and additional claim payments are
recoverable from the reinsurer. The funds withheld liability is recorded in
reinsurance balances payable in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

  Interest cost on these contracts is credited during all periods in which a
funds withheld liability exists. Interest cost, which is included in
investment income, net was $239.6, $241.4 and $86.9 million in 2002, 2001 and
2000. The amount subject to interest crediting rates on such contracts was
$2,766.0 and $2,724.0 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001.

  The amount subject to interest crediting on these funds withheld contracts
will vary over time based on a number of factors, including the timing of loss
payments and ultimate gross losses incurred. CNA expects that it will continue
to incur significant interest costs on these contracts for several years.

  The ceding of insurance does not discharge the primary liability of CNA.
Therefore, a credit exposure exists with respect to property and casualty and
life reinsurance ceded to the extent that any reinsurer is unable to meet the
obligations assumed under reinsurance agreements.

  Amounts receivable from reinsurers were $12,695.3 and $13,823.4 million at
December 31, 2002 and 2001. Of these amounts, $957.0 and $838.0 million were
billed to reinsurers as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, as reinsurance
contracts generally require payment of claims by the ceding company before the
amount can be billed to the reinsurer. The remaining receivable relates to the
estimated case and incurred but not reported losses ("IBNR") reserves and
future policyholder benefits ceded under reinsurance contracts.

  CNA attempts to mitigate its credit risk related to reinsurance by entering
into reinsurance arrangements only with reinsurers that have credit ratings
above certain levels and by obtaining substantial amounts of collateral. The
primary


methods of obtaining collateral are through reinsurance trusts, letters of
credit and funds withheld balances. Such collateral was approximately $4,825.0
and $3,696.0 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001.

  CNA's largest recoverables from a single reinsurer at December 31, 2002,
including prepaid reinsurance premiums, were approximately $2,090.0, $1,456.0,
$890.0, $616.0, $598.0, and $541.0 million from subsidiaries of Allstate,
subsidiaries of Hannover Reinsurance (Ireland) Ltd., American Reinsurance
Company, European Reinsurance Company of Zurich, subsidiaries of Gerling
Global Reinsurance Corporation, and Lloyd's Underwriters.

  CNA has reinsurance receivables from several reinsurers who have recently
experienced multiple downgrades of their financial strength ratings, have
announced that they will no longer accept new business and are placing their
books of business into run-off. CNA's principal credit exposures from these
recent events arise from reinsurance receivables from Gerling Global
("Gerling"), Trenwick and Commercial Risk insurance groups. At December 31,
2002, CNA had approximately $926.0 million of reinsurance receivables from
these reinsurers, of which $384.0 million was not supported by collateral. The
majority of the uncollateralized receivables were due from U.S.-domiciled
insurers. Of the $384.0 million of reinsurance recoverables unsupported by
collateral, $170.0 million relates to Gerling. Gerling has stated that CNA
transfer approximately $204.0 million of funds withheld balances on three
treaties relating to CNA HealthPro to a trust established by Gerling for the
benefit of CNA, or in the absence of such transfer, that these treaties be
commuted. CNA has taken Gerling's statement under advisement.

  In certain circumstances, including significant deterioration of a
reinsurer's financial strength ratings, CNA may engage in commutation
discussions with an individual reinsurer. The outcome of such discussions may
result in a lump sum settlement that is less than the recorded receivable, net
of any applicable allowance for doubtful accounts. Losses arising from
commutations, including any related to Gerling, could have an adverse material
impact on the Company's results of operations or equity.

  CNA has established an allowance for doubtful accounts to provide for
estimated uncollectible reinsurance receivables. The allowance for doubtful
accounts was $195.7 and $170.0 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001. While
CNA believes the allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate based on current
collateral and information currently available, failure of reinsurers to meet
their obligations could have a material adverse impact on the Company's
results of operations or equity.

  For 2002, CNA entered into a corporate aggregate reinsurance treaty covering
substantially all of CNA's property and casualty lines of business (the "2002
Cover"). Ceded premium related to the reinsurer's margin of $10.0 million was
recorded in 2002. No losses were ceded during 2002 under this contract, and
the 2002 Cover was commuted as of December 31, 2002.

  In 1999, CNA entered into an aggregate reinsurance treaty related to the
1999 through 2001 accident years covering substantially all of CNA's property
and casualty lines of business (the "Aggregate Cover"). CNA has two sections
of coverage under the terms of the Aggregate Cover. These coverages attach at
defined loss ratios for each accident year. Coverage under the first section
of the Aggregate Cover, which is available for all accident years covered by
the contract, has annual limits of $500.0 million of ceded losses with an
aggregate limit of $1.0 billion of ceded losses for the three year period. The
ceded premiums are a percentage of ceded losses and for each $500.0 million of
limit the ceded premium is $230.0 million. The second section of the Aggregate
Cover, which was only utilized for accident year 2001, provides additional
coverage of up to $510.0 million of ceded losses for a maximum ceded premium
of $310.0 million. Under the Aggregate Cover, interest charges on the funds
withheld liability accrue at 8.0% per annum. If the aggregate loss ratio for
the three-year period exceeds certain thresholds, additional premiums may be
payable and the rate at which interest charges are accrued would increase to
8.25% per annum commencing in 2006.

  The coverage under the second section of the Aggregate Cover was triggered
for the 2001 accident year. As a result of losses related to the WTC event,
the limit under this section was exhausted. Additionally, as a result of the
significant reserve additions recorded in the second quarter of 2001, the
$500.0 million limit on the 1999 accident year under the first section was
also fully utilized. No losses have been ceded to the remaining $500.0 million
of aggregate limit on accident years 2000 and 2001 under the first section of
the Aggregate Cover.


  The impact of the Aggregate Cover on pretax operating results was as
follows:



  In 2001, CNA entered into a one-year aggregate reinsurance treaty related to
the 2001 accident year covering substantially all property and casualty lines
of business in the Continental Casualty Company pool (the "CCC Cover"). The
loss protection provided by the CCC Cover has an aggregate limit of
approximately $760.0 million of ceded losses. The ceded premiums are a
percentage of ceded losses. The ceded premium related to full utilization of
the $760.0 million of limit is $456.0 million. The CCC Cover provides
continuous coverage in excess of the second section of the Aggregate Cover
discussed above. Under the CCC Cover, interest charges on the funds withheld
generally accrue at 8.0% per annum. The interest rate increases to 10.0% per
annum if the aggregate loss ratio exceeds certain thresholds. Losses of $618.0
million have been ceded under the CCC Cover through December 31, 2002.

  The impact of the CCC Cover on pretax operating results was as follows:



  The impact by operating segment of the Aggregate Cover and the CCC Cover on
pretax operating results was as follows:





2001 Restructuring

  In 2001, CNA finalized and approved two separate restructuring plans. The
first plan related to CNA's Information Technology operations (the "IT Plan").
The second plan related to restructuring the property and casualty segments
and Life Operations, discontinuation of the variable life and annuity business
and consolidation of real estate locations (the "2001 Plan").

IT Plan

  The overall goal of the IT Plan was to improve technology for the
underwriting function and throughout CNA and to eliminate inefficiencies in
the deployment of IT resources. The changes facilitated a strong focus on
enterprise-wide system initiatives. The IT Plan had two main components, which
included the reorganization of IT resources into the Technology and Operations
Group with a structure based on centralized, functional roles and the
implementation of an


integrated technology roadmap that included common architecture and platform
standards that directly support CNA's strategies.

  As summarized in the following table, during 2001, CNA incurred $62.0
million pretax, or $35.0 million after tax and minority interest, of
restructuring and other related charges for the IT Plan. During 2002, $4.0
million pretax, or $2.6 million after tax and minority interest, of this
accrual was reduced.





  In connection with the IT Plan after the write-off of impaired assets, CNA
accrued $30.0 million of restructuring and other related charges in 2001 (the
"IT Plan Initial Accrual"). These charges primarily related to $29.0 million
of workforce reductions of approximately 260 positions gross and net and $1.0
million of other costs.

  The following table summarizes the IT Plan Initial Accrual and the activity
in that accrual during 2002 and 2001.



  Through December 31, 2002, 249 employees were released due to the IT Plan,
nearly all of whom were technology support staff. In December of 2002, the
accrual was reduced by $4.0 million in the Other Insurance segment primarily
related to employee termination costs. The remaining $5.0 million of the
accrual relating to employee termination and related benefit costs is expected
to be paid through 2005.

2001 Plan

  The overall goal of the 2001 Plan was to create a simplified and leaner
organization for customers and business partners. The major components of the
plan included a reduction in the number of strategic business units ("SBUs")
in the property and casualty operations, changes in the strategic focus of the
Life Operations and Group Operations and consolidation of real estate
locations. The reduction in the number of property and casualty SBUs resulted
in consolidation of SBU functions, including underwriting, claims, marketing
and finance. The strategic changes in Group Operations included a decision to
discontinue the variable life and annuity business.


  As summarized in the following table, during 2001, CNA incurred $189.0
million pretax, or $109.4 million after tax and minority interest, of
restructuring and other related charges for the 2001 Plan. During 2002, $32.0
million pretax, or $18.4 million after tax and minority interest, of this
accrual was reduced.



  All lease termination costs and impaired asset charges, except lease
termination costs incurred by operations in the United Kingdom and software
write-offs incurred by Life Operations, were charged to the Other Insurance
segment because office closure and consolidation decisions were not within the
control of the other segments affected. Lease termination costs incurred in
the United Kingdom relate solely to the operations of CNA Re. All other
charges were recorded in the segment benefiting from the services or existence
of an employee or an asset.

  In connection with the 2001 Plan, CNA accrued $189.0 million of these
restructuring and other related charges (the "2001 Plan Initial Accrual").
These charges include employee termination and related benefit costs, lease
termination costs, impaired asset charges and other costs.

  The following table summarizes the 2001 Plan Initial Accrual and the
activity in that accrual during 2001 and 2002.




  The following table summarizes the reduction of the 2001 Plan Initial
Accrual by segment in 2002.



  The 2001 Plan charges incurred and accrued by Standard Lines were $40.0
million in 2001, related entirely to employee termination and related benefit
costs for planned reductions in the workforce of 1,063 positions gross and
net, of which $27.0 million related to severance and outplacement costs and
$13.0 million related to other salary costs. Through December 31, 2002,
approximately 882 employees net were released due to the 2001 Plan.
Approximately 39.0% of these employees were administrative, technology or
financial support staff; approximately 52.0% of these employees were
underwriters, claim adjusters and related insurance services staff; and
approximately 9.0% of these employees were in various other positions. During
December of 2002, $8.0 million of the accrual was reduced primarily due to
successful redeployment of employees to other positions within the
organization. An accrual of $1.0 million remained at December 31 2002 relating
to employee termination costs which will be paid in 2003.

  The 2001 Plan charges incurred and accrued by Specialty Lines were $7.0
million in 2001, related entirely to employee termination and related benefit
costs for planned reductions in the workforce of 177 positions gross and net,
of which $5.0 million related to severance and outplacement costs and $2.0
million related to other salary costs. Through December 31, 2002,
approximately 126 employees net were released due to the 2001 Plan.
Approximately 26.0% of these employees were administrative, technology or
financial support staff; approximately 63.0% of these employees were
underwriters, claim adjusters and related insurance services staff; and
approximately 11.0% of these employees were in various other positions. During
December of 2002, the accrual was reduced by $1.0 million. An accrual of $1.0
million remained at December 31, 2002 relating to employee termination costs
which will be paid in 2003.

  The 2001 Plan charges incurred and accrued by CNA Re were $6.0 million.
Costs related to employee termination and related benefit costs for planned
reductions in the workforce of 33 positions gross and net, amounted to $2.0
million, all of which related to severance and outplacement costs. Payments of
$1.0 million were made in 2002 for approximately 15 employees net released
through December 31, 2002 due to the 2001 Plan. The remaining $4.0 million of
charges incurred by CNA Re related to lease termination costs. Approximately
$1.0 million was paid in 2002 related to lease termination costs. As a result
of the sale of CNA Re U.K., the remaining accrual related to CNA Re of $4.0
million was reduced. See "Investments - Insurance" that follows for further
information.

  The 2001 Plan charges incurred and accrued by Group Operations were $42.0
million. Costs related to employee termination and related benefit costs for
planned reductions in the workforce of 187 positions, gross and net, amounted
to $7.0 million. Through December 31, 2002, 82 employees net in Group
Operations were released due to the 2001 Plan. Approximately 28.0% of these
employees were administrative, technology or financial support staff; and
approximately 72.0% of these employees were underwriters, claim adjusters and
related insurance services staff. Other costs of $35.0 million in Group
Operations relate to a write-off of deferred acquisition costs on in-force
variable life and annuity contracts, as CNA believes that the decision to
discontinue these products will negatively impact the persistency of the
business.

  The 2001 Plan charges incurred and accrued by Life Operations were $12.0
million. Costs related to employee termination and related benefit costs for
planned reductions in workforce of 207 positions gross and net, amounted to
$3.0 million, which related primarily to severance and outplacement costs.
Through December 31, 2002, approximately 144 employees net were released due
to the 2001 Plan. Approximately 23.0% of these employees were administrative,
technology or financial support staff; approximately 65.0% of these employees
were underwriters, claim adjusters and


related insurance services staff; and approximately 12.0% of these employees
were in various other positions. Life Operations incurred and accrued $9.0
million of impaired asset charges related to software in 2001. In December of
2002, the remaining $1.0 million of this accrual was reduced.

  The 2001 Plan charges incurred and accrued by the Other Insurance segment
were $82.0 million. Costs related to employee termination and related benefit
costs for planned reductions in the workforce of 194 positions gross and net,
amounted to $9.0 million, of which $6.0 million related to severance and
outplacement costs and $3.0 million related to other salary costs. Through
December 31, 2002, 157 employees net were released due to the 2001 Plan.
Approximately 63.0% of these employees were administrative, technology or
financial support staff; approximately 28.0% of these employees were
underwriters, claim adjusters and related insurance services staff; and
approximately 9.0% of these employees were in various other positions. In
December of 2002, $1.0 million of the accrual was reduced for employee
termination and related benefit cost. The Other Insurance segment also
incurred $73.0 million of lease termination and asset impairment charges
related to office closure and consolidation decisions not within the control
of the other segments affected. Additionally, $7.0 million was reversed and
included in 2002 income relating to lease obligations and $14.0 million
relating to impaired asset charges. CNA's original plan contained a timeline
to consolidate and reduce the number of office locations. Due to unfavorable
conditions in the commercial real estate market, certain office relocations
and consolidations occurred later than planned. As a result of such delays, a
portion of the planned leasehold write-offs and vacant office space were
expensed as period costs, resulting in an excess initial accrual. Of the
remaining $36.0 million accrual relating to lease termination costs and
impaired asset charges, approximately $18.0 million is expected to be paid in
2003.

  At December 31, 2001, an accrual of $1.0 million for lease termination costs
remained related to the August 1998 restructuring ("1998 Plan"). In December
of 2002, this accrual was reduced.

Reserves - Estimates and Uncertainties

  CNA maintains reserves  to cover its estimated ultimate unpaid liability for
claim and claim adjustment expenses and future policy benefits, including the
estimated cost of the claims adjudication process, for claims that have been
reported but not yet settled and claims that have been incurred but not
reported. Claim and claim adjustment expense and future policy benefit
reserves are reflected as liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets under
the heading "Insurance Reserves." Changes in estimates of Insurance Reserves
are reflected in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations, in the
period in which the change arises.

  The level of Insurance Reserves maintained by CNA represents management's
best estimate, as of a particular point in time, of what the ultimate
settlement and administration of claims will cost based on its assessment of
facts and circumstances known at that time. Insurance Reserves are not an
exact calculation of liability but instead are estimates that are derived by
CNA, generally utilizing a variety of actuarial reserve estimation techniques,
from numerous assumptions and expectations about future events, both internal
and external, many of which are highly uncertain. Some of the many uncertain
future events about which CNA makes assumptions and estimates are claims
severity, frequency of claims, mortality, morbidity, expected interest rates,
economic inflation, the impact of underwriting policy and claims handling
practices and the lag time between the occurrence of an insured event and the
time it is ultimately settled (referred to in the insurance industry as the
"tail").

  CNA's experience has been that the inherent uncertainties of estimating
Insurance Reserves are generally greater for casualty coverages (particularly
long-tail casualty risks such as APMT losses) than for property coverages.
Estimates of the cost of future APMT claims are highly complex and include an
assessment of, among other things, whether certain costs are covered under the
policies and whether recovery limits apply, allocation of liability among
numerous parties, some of whom are in bankruptcy proceedings, inconsistent
court decisions and developing legal theories and tactics of plaintiffs'
lawyers. Reserves for property-related catastrophes, both natural disasters
and man-made catastrophes such as terrorist acts, are also difficult to
estimate. See the discussion of the Second Quarter 2001 Prior Year Reserve
Strengthening, the WTC Event, and Environmental Pollution and Mass Tort and
Asbestos Reserves for further information.

  In addition to the uncertainties inherent in estimating APMT and catastrophe
losses, CNA is subject to the uncertain effects of emerging or potential
claims and coverage issues, which arise as industry practices and legal,
judicial, social, and other environmental conditions change. These issues can
have a negative effect on CNA's business by either


extending coverage beyond the original underwriting intent or by increasing
the number or size of claims. Either development could require material
increases in claim and claim adjustment expense reserves. Examples of emerging
or potential claims and coverage issues include: (i) increases in the number
and size of water damage claims related to expenses for testing and
remediation of mold conditions; (ii) increases in the number and size of
claims relating to injuries from medical products, and exposure to lead and
radiation related to cellular phone usage; (iii) expected increases in the
number and size of claims relating to accounting and financial reporting,
including director and officer and errors and omissions insurance claims, in
an environment of major corporate bankruptcies; and (iv) a growing trend of
plaintiffs targeting insurers in class action litigation relating to claims-
handling and other practices. The future impact of these and other unforeseen
emerging or potential claims and coverage issues is extremely hard to predict
and could materially adversely affect the adequacy of CNA's claim and claim
adjustment expense reserves and could lead to future reserve additions.

  CNA's current Insurance Reserve levels reflect management's best estimate of
CNA's ultimate claims and claim adjustment expenses and future policy benefits
at December 31, 2002, based upon known facts and current law. However, in
light of the many uncertainties associated with making the estimates and
assumptions necessary to establish reserve levels, CNA reviews its reserve
estimates on a regular and ongoing basis and makes changes as experience
develops. CNA may in the future determine that its recorded Insurance Reserves
are not sufficient and may increase its reserves by amounts that may be
material, which could materially adversely affect the Company's business and
financial condition. Any such increase in reserves would be recorded as a
charge against the Company's earnings for the period in which the change in
estimate arises.

  The following table presents estimated volatility in carried claim and claim
adjustment loss reserves for the property and casualty segments.



  The estimated volatility noted above does not represent a range around the
actuarial point estimate of CNA's gross loss reserves, and it does not
represent the range of all possible outcomes. The volatility represents an
estimate of the inherent volatility associated with estimating loss reserves
for the specific type of business written by each segment. The primary
characteristics influencing the estimated level of volatility are the length
of the claim settlement period, changes in medical and other claim costs,
changes in the level of litigation or other dispute resolution processes,
changes in the legal environment and the potential for different types of
injuries emerging. Ceded reinsurance arrangements may reduce the volatility.
Since ceded reinsurance arrangements vary by year, volatility in gross
reserves may not result in comparable impacts to underwriting income or
equity.

  CNA's insurance loss reserves are recorded at management's best estimate
which is based on the reviews and analyses performed by CNA's actuaries and
management's judgment as to the responsiveness of these reviews and analyses
to the factors affecting CNA's loss and loss adjustment expense loss reserves.
Management considers factors such as changes in inflation, changes in claim
handling and case reserving, changes in underwriting and pricing, and changes
in the legal environment. Management considers different specific factors for
each situation since the factors affect each type of business differently.

Terrorism Exposure

  CNA and the insurance industry incurred substantial losses related to the
WTC event. For the most part, CNA believes the industry was able to absorb the
loss of capital from these losses, but the capacity to withstand the effect of
any additional terrorism events was significantly diminished.


  On November 26, 2002, the President of the United States of America signed
into law the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (the "Act"), which
establishes a program within the Department of the Treasury under which the
federal government will share the risk of loss from future terrorist attacks
with the insurance industry. The Act terminates on December 31, 2005. Each
participating insurance company must pay a deductible before federal
government assistance becomes available. This deductible is based on a
percentage of direct earned premiums for commercial insurance lines from the
previous calendar year, and rises from 1.0% from date of enactment to December
31, 2002 (the "Transition Period") to 7.0% during the first subsequent
calendar year, 10.0% in year two and 15.0% in year three. For losses in excess
of a company's deductible, the federal government will cover 90.0% of the
excess losses, while companies retain the remaining 10.0%. Losses covered by
the program will be capped annually at $100.0 billion; above this amount,
insurers are not liable for covered losses and Congress is to determine the
procedures for and the source of any payments. Amounts paid by the federal
government under the program over certain phased limits are to be recouped by
the Department of the Treasury through policy surcharges, which cannot exceed
3.0% of annual premium.

  Insurance companies providing commercial property and casualty insurance are
required to participate in the program, but it does not cover life or health
insurance products. State law limitations applying to premiums and policies
for terrorism coverage are not generally affected under the program, but they
are pre-empted in relation to prior approval requirements for rates and forms.
The Act has policyholder notice requirements in order for insurers to be
reimbursed for terrorism-related losses and, from the date of enactment until
December 31, 2004, a mandatory offer requirement for terrorism coverage,
although it may be rejected by insureds. The Secretary of the Department of
the Treasury has discretion to extend this offer requirement until December
31, 2005.

  While the Act provides the property and casualty industry with an increased
ability to withstand the effect of a terrorist event during the next three
years, given the unpredictability of the nature, targets, severity or
frequency of potential terrorist events, CNA's results of operations or equity
could nevertheless be materially adversely impacted by them. CNA is attempting
to mitigate this exposure through its underwriting practices, policy terms and
conditions (where applicable) and the use of reinsurance. In addition, under
state laws, CNA is generally prohibited from excluding terrorism exposure from
its primary workers compensation, individual life and group life and health
policies, and is also prohibited from excluding coverage for fire losses
following a terrorist event in a number of states.

  Reinsurers' obligations for terrorism-related losses under reinsurance
agreements are not covered by the Act. CNA's current reinsurance arrangements
either exclude terrorism coverage or significantly limit the level of
coverage.

Property and Casualty

  CNA conducts its property and casualty operations through the following
operating segments: Standard Lines, Specialty Lines, and CNA Re. The
discussion of underwriting results and ratios reflect the underlying business
results of CNA's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries. Underwriting
ratios are industry measures of property and casualty underwriting results.
The loss ratio is the percentage of net incurred claim and claim adjustment
expenses to net earned premiums. The expense ratio is the percentage of
underwriting and acquisition expenses, including the amortization of deferred
acquisition costs, to net earned premiums. The dividend ratio is the ratio of
dividends incurred to net earned premiums.


  The following table summarizes key components of the property and casualty
segment operating results for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and
2000.



  *  The 2001 adjusted underwriting loss and adjusted ratios exclude the
impact of the second quarter 2001 reserve strengthening, the WTC event, both
net of the related benefit of corporate aggregate reinsurance treaties, and
restructuring and other related charges.

2002 Compared with 2001

  Net operating income for the property and casualty segment was $258.4
million in 2002 as compared with a net operating loss of $1,224.8 million in
2001. The 2001 operating results include prior year reserve strengthening of
$1,086.8 million recorded in the second quarter of 2001 related to a change in
estimate of prior year net loss reserves and retrospective premium accruals,
net of the related corporate aggregate reinsurance treaty benefit, estimated
losses related to the WTC event of $209.0 million, net of the related
corporate aggregate reinsurance treaties benefit, and restructuring and other
related charges of $36.8 million recorded in 2001.

  Excluding these 2001 significant items, 2002 net operating results increased
$150.6 million. This increase was due primarily to improved underwriting
results and a reduction in the accrual for restructuring and other related
charges of $5.4 million after tax and minority interest. The 2001 operating
results include a $141.8 million charge, after tax and minority interest, to
strengthen prior underwriting year loss reserves for CNA Re U.K., unfavorable
2001 underwriting results for the London-based primary commercial and marine
operations, $46.1 million related to the bankruptcy filing by certain Enron
entities and $52.5 million benefit related to core corporate aggregate
reinsurance treaties. Partially offsetting these improvements was a decline in
investment income, including a $48.3 million decrease in limited partnership
income.

  The combined ratio decreased 7.0 points in 2002 as compared with 2001 and
the underwriting results for the property and casualty segment improved $366.0
million. This change was due to decreases in the loss expense and dividend
ratios. The loss ratio decreased 0.1 points as a result of improved current
accident year results related to rate increases and new business across
property and casualty operations and favorable prior year reserve development
in Standard Lines in 2002. Partially offsetting these improvements was
unfavorable prior year reserve development in Specialty Lines and CNA Re
recorded in 2002. The property and casualty segment recorded $26.0 million of
unfavorable reserve


development in 2002 as compared with $284.0 million of unfavorable reserve
development in 2001. The gross carried claim and claim adjustment expense
reserve was $19,714.0 and $23,166.0 million for the years ended December 31,
2002 and 2001. The net carried claim and claim adjustment expense reserve was
$11,997.0 and $14,262.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2002 and
2001.

  Specialty Lines recorded unfavorable prior year reserve development of
approximately $180.0 million for CNA HealthPro in 2002, which was driven
principally by medical malpractice excess products provided to hospitals and
physicians and coverages provided to long term care facilities, principally
national for-profit nursing homes. Approximately $100.0 million of the prior
year unfavorable reserve development was related to assumed excess products
and loss portfolio transfers, and was primarily driven by unexpected increases
in the number of excess claims in accident years 1999 and 2000. The percentage
of total claims greater than $1.0 million has increased by 33.0%, from less
than 3.0% of all claims to more than 4.0% of all claims. CNA HealthPro no
longer writes assumed excess products and loss portfolio transfers.

  Approximately $50.0 million of the prior year unfavorable reserve
development was related to long term care facilities. The development was
principally recorded for accident years 1997 through 2000. The average value
of claims closed during the first several months of 2002 increased by more
than 50.0% when compared to claims closed during 2001. In response to those
trends, CNA HealthPro has reduced its writings of national for-profit nursing
home chains. Excess products provided to healthcare institutions and physician
coverages in a limited number of states were responsible for the remaining
development in CNA HealthPro. The unfavorable reserve development on excess
products provided to institutions for accident years 1996 through 1999
resulted from increases in the size of claims experienced by these
institutions. Due to the increase in the size of claims, more claims were
exceeding the point at which these excess products apply. The unfavorable
reserve development on physician coverages was recorded for accident years
1999 through 2001 in Oregon, California, Arizona and Nevada. The average claim
size in these states has increased by 20.0%, driving the change in losses.

  The Marine business recorded unfavorable reserve development of
approximately $65.0 million during 2002. Approximately $50.0 million of this
unfavorable reserve development was due to participation in voluntary pools.
About half of the reserve development was recorded in accident years 1999 and
2000 with the remainder attributable to accident years prior to 1999. The
reserves were based on recommendations provided by the pools. Participation in
many of these pools has been discontinued. The remaining reserve development
for the Marine business was due principally to unfavorable reserve development
on hull and liability coverages from accident years 1999 and 2000 offset by
favorable reserve development on cargo coverages recorded for accident year
2001. Reviews completed during 2002 showed additional reported losses on
individual large accounts and other bluewater business that drove the
unfavorable hull and liability reserve development. These additional losses
during 2002 for accident years 1999 and 2000 were almost 75.0% higher than the
provision that had been established at the end of 2001.

  Offsetting the unfavorable reserve development was favorable development in
CNA Pro and for Enron related exposures. Programs providing professional
liability coverage to accountants, lawyers and realtors primarily drove
favorable prior year reserve development of approximately $110.0 million in
CNA Pro. Reviews of this business completed during 2002 have shown little
activity for older accident years (principally prior to 1999), which reduced
the need for reserves on these years. The reported losses on these programs
for accident years prior to 1999 increased by approximately $5.0 million
during 2002. This increase compared to the total reserve at the beginning of
2002 of approximately $180.0 million, net of reinsurance. Additionally,
favorable reserve development of $20.0 million was associated with the Enron
settlement. CNA had established a $20.0 million reserve for accident year 2001
for an excess layer associated with Enron related surety losses; however, the
case has settled for less than the attachment point of this excess layer. Also
recorded in 2001 was reserve strengthening for the London-based commercial and
marine operations and losses related to Enron entities as discussed above.

  CNA Re recorded prior year reserve strengthening as a result of an actuarial
review completed during 2002 and was primarily recorded in the directors and
officers, professional liability errors and omissions, and surety lines of
business. Several large losses, as well as continued increases in the overall
average size of claims for these lines, have resulted in higher than expected
loss ratios.

  Standard Lines recorded approximately $140.0 million of favorable prior year
reserve development attributable to participation in the Workers Compensation
Reinsurance Bureau ("WCRB"), a reinsurance pool, and residual market. The
favorable prior year reserve development for WCRB was the result of
information received from the WCRB that


reported the results of a recent actuarial review. This information indicated
that CNA's net required reserves for accident years 1970 through 1996 were
$60.0 million less than the carried reserves. In addition, during 2002, CNA
commuted accident years 1965 through 1969 for a payment of approximately $5.0
million to cover carried reserves of approximately $13.0 million, resulting in
further favorable reserve development of $8.0 million. The favorable residual
market prior year reserve development was the result of lower than expected
paid loss activity during recent periods for accident years dating back to
1984. The paid losses during 2002 on prior accident years were approximately
60.0% of the previously expected amount.

  In addition, Standard Lines had favorable prior year reserve development,
primarily in the package liability and auto liability lines of business due to
new claims initiatives. These new claims initiatives, which included
specialized training on specific areas of the claims adjudication process,
enhanced claims litigation management, enhanced adjuster-level metrics to
monitor performance and more focused metric-based claim file review and
oversight, are expected to produce significant reductions in ultimate claim
costs. Based on management's best estimate of the reduction in ultimate claim
costs, approximately $100.0 million of favorable prior year reserve
development was recorded in 2002. Approximately one-half of this favorable
reserve development was recorded in accident years prior to 1999, with the
remainder of the favorable reserve development recorded in accident years 1999
to 2001. Additional favorable reserve development may be recorded in the
future as management continues to monitor these estimates and as additional
evidence becomes available to measure the effectiveness of the claim cost
containment initiatives and management's corresponding estimate of such
expected ultimate claim cost reductions. While management believes that the
estimate of ultimate claim cost reductions as a result of the claim cost
containment initiatives is reasonable, there can be no assurance that the
ultimate expected claim cost reductions will be achieved, or that any
additional favorable development will be recorded as a result of the claim
cost containment initiatives described above.

  Approximately $50.0 million of favorable prior year reserve development
during 2002 was recorded in commercial automobile liability. Most of the
favorable development was from accident year 2000. The most recent actuarial
review showed that underwriting actions have resulted in reducing the number
of commercial automobile liability claims for recent accident years,
especially the number of large losses.

  Approximately $45.0 million of favorable reserve development was recorded in
property lines during 2002. The favorable reserve development was principally
from accident years 1999 through 2001, and was the result of the low number of
large losses in recent years. Although property claims are generally reported
relatively quickly, determining the ultimate cost of the claim can involve a
significant amount of time between the occurrence of the claim and settlement.

  Offsetting these favorable reserve developments were approximately $100.0
million of unfavorable reserve development in middle market workers
compensation, approximately $70.0 million of unfavorable reserve development
in programs written in CNA E&S, approximately $30.0 million of unfavorable
reserve development on a contractors account package policy program, and
approximately $20.0 million of unfavorable development on middle market
general liability coverages.

  The unfavorable reserve development on workers compensation was principally
due to additional reinsurance premiums for accident years 1999 through 2001.

  A CNA E&S program covering facilities that provide services to
developmentally disabled individuals, accounts for approximately $50.0 million
of the unfavorable reserve development. The development is due to an increase
in the size of known claims and increases in policyholder defense costs. These
increases became apparent as the result of a review completed during 2002,
with most of the development from accident years 1999 and 2000. The other
program, which contributed to the CNA E&S development, covers tow truck and
ambulance operators in the 2000 and 2001 accident years. This program was
started in 1999. CNA expected that loss ratios for this business would be
similar to its middle market commercial automobile liability business. Reviews
completed during the year resulted in estimated loss ratios on the tow truck
and ambulance business that are 25 points higher than the middle market
commercial automobile liability loss ratios.

  The unfavorable reserve development on contractors account package policies
was the result of an actuarial review completed during 2002. Since this
program is no longer being written, CNA expected that the change in reported
losses


would decrease each quarterly period. However, in recent quarterly periods,
the change in reported losses has been higher than prior quarters, resulting
in the unfavorable reserve development.

  The expense ratio decreased 6.1 points primarily as a result of reduced
underwriting expenses resulting from decreased head count as a result of the
2001 Plan and other expense reduction initiatives and an increase in the net
earned premium base. The dividend ratio decreased 0.8 points due primarily to
favorable current accident year dividends in Standard Lines.

  Net written premiums for the property and casualty segment increased
$1,549.0 million for 2002 compared with 2001. Included in 2001 net written
premium was $957.0 million of ceded premiums related to the corporate
aggregate reinsurance treaties, additional ceded premiums arising from both
the reserve strengthening and WTC event, and a change in estimate for
involuntary market premium accruals. Excluding these 2001 significant items,
net written premium increased $592.0 million primarily as a result of strong
rate increases, increased new business and lower ceded premiums across the
property and casualty segment.

  Net earned premiums for the property and casualty segment increased $1,828.0
million for 2002 compared with 2001. Included in 2001 net earned premium was
$1,336.0 million of ceded premiums related to the corporate aggregate
reinsurance treaties, additional ceded premiums arising from both the reserve
strengthening and WTC event, and a change in estimate for involuntary market
premium accruals. Excluding these 2001 significant items, net earned premium
increased $492.0 million due primarily to the increases in net written
premiums noted above.

  Specialty Lines achieved average rate increases of 26.0%, 13.0% and 5.0% in
2002, 2001 and 2000 for the contracts that renewed during these years and had
retention rates of 76.0%, 78.0% and 78.0% for those contracts that were up for
renewal. The retention rates above apply to Specialty Lines excluding the CNA
Guaranty and Credit, Surety and Warranty businesses.

  Standard Lines achieved average rate increases of 27.0%, 17.0% and 13.0% in
2002, 2001 and 2000 for the contracts that renewed during these years and had
retention rates of 68.0%, 76.0% and 68.0% for those contracts that were up for
renewal.

2001 Compared with 2000

  The net operating loss for the property and casualty segment was $1,224.8
million in 2001 as compared with net operating income of $428.2 million in
2000. The 2001 operating results include prior year reserve strengthening of
$1,086.8 million recorded in the second quarter of 2001 related to a change in
estimate of prior year net loss reserves and retrospective premium accruals,
net of the related corporate aggregate reinsurance treaty benefit, estimated
losses related to the WTC event of $209.0 million, net of the related
corporate aggregate reinsurance treaties benefit, and restructuring and other
related charges of $36.8 million recorded in 2001.

  Excluding these 2001 significant items, 2001 net operating results declined
$320.4 million. Net operating results for 2001 declined due to a $97.1 million
decline in limited partnership income, unfavorable 2001 underwriting results
for the London-based primary commercial and marine operations and $46.1
million related to the bankruptcy filing by certain Enron entities. These
declines were partially offset by lower prior year adverse loss reserve
development (excluding the second quarter 2001 reserve development) and a
$52.5 million benefit related to corporate aggregate reinsurance treaties for
core operations. Net operating results in 2000 benefited from a change in
estimate for certain insurance-related assessments of $52.0 million in 2000.

  The combined ratio increased 4.1 points in 2001 as compared with 2000 and
the underwriting results for the property and casualty segment declined $161.0
million. This change was due to a decrease in the loss ratio, more than offset
by increases in the expense and dividend ratios. The loss ratio decreased 2.3
points as a result of the improved underwriting results across most standard
lines, particularly the automobile and package lines, due to earned rate
achievement and re-underwriting efforts undertaken last year, and lower prior
year adverse loss development (excluding the second quarter 2001 reserve
strengthening). These improvements were partially offset by reduced net earned
premium base, losses related to Enron, favorable loss development recorded in
2000 for the architects and engineers business not present in 2001, declined
underwriting results in global and marine lines related to current accident
year reserve strengthening as discussed above, and the prior underwriting year
reserve strengthening of CNA Re U.K. The expense ratio increased 5.7


points primarily due to the decrease in the net earned premium base, the
write-off of unrecoverable deferred acquisition costs in the vehicle warranty
line of business, an increase in the accrual for guaranty fund assessments
related to the Reliance insolvency, and the decreased impact of the change in
estimate for certain insurance-related assessments. The dividend ratio
increased 0.7 points primarily due to adverse development in dividend reserves
in Standard Lines in 2001 compared with favorable development taken in 2000.

  Net written premiums for the property and casualty segment decreased
$1,314.0 million for 2001 compared with 2000. Included in 2001 net written
premium was $957.0 million of ceded premiums related to the corporate
aggregate reinsurance treaties, additional ceded premiums arising from both
the reserve strengthening and WTC event, and a change in estimate for
involuntary market premium accruals. Excluding these 2001 significant items,
net written premium decreased $357.0 million primarily as a result of a change
in the timing of recording written premiums for policies with future effective
dates in Standard Lines of $119.0 million and in Specialty Lines of $23.0
million and additional ceded premiums related to the corporate aggregate
reinsurance treaties of $77.0 million in Specialty Lines and $161.0 million in
CNA Re. Partially offsetting these decreases was $89.0 million of
reinstatement and additional premiums related to the WTC event recorded in CNA
Re.

  Net earned premiums for the property and casualty segment decreased $1,917.0
million for 2001 compared with 2000. Included in 2001 net earned premium was
$1,336.0 million of ceded premiums related to the corporate aggregate
reinsurance treaties, additional ceded premiums arising from both the reserve
strengthening and WTC event, and a change in estimate for involuntary market
premium accruals. Excluding these 2001 significant items, net earned premium
decreased $581.0 million due primarily to the decreases in net written premium
noted above.

Group

  Group Operations provides group life and group health insurance and
investment products and services to employers, affinity groups and other
entities that purchase insurance as a group.

  Group Operations includes three principal business units: Group Benefits,
Federal Markets and Institutional Markets and Other, which also includes
results from businesses that CNA has exited; retail variable life and
annuities, and life reinsurance.

2002 Compared with 2001

  Net operating income increased by $74.2 million in 2002 as compared with
2001. Included in the 2001 results were $30.6 million related to the WTC event
and $23.6 million related to restructuring and other related charges.
Excluding these 2001 significant items, net operating results improved $20.0
million due primarily to growth in the disability and long term care products,
increased investment income and diminished losses due to the exit of
unprofitable variable life and annuity lines of business. Net operating
results also improved due to favorable reserve development relating to the WTC
event of $3.6 million after tax and minority interest recorded in 2002.
Partially offsetting these improvements was net unfavorable reserve
strengthening in Group Benefits due to unfavorable mortality trends.

  Net earned premiums for Group Operations decreased $1,051.0 million for 2002
as compared with 2001. This decline was due primarily to the transfer of the
Mail Handlers Plan partially offset by an increase in premiums in the
disability and long term care products within Group Benefits. Net earned
premiums for the Mail Handlers Plan was $1,151.0 million as compared with
$2,218.0 million in 2001. Deposits for Group Operations decreased $41.0
million for 2002 as compared with 2001 primarily due to reduced sales of S&P
500 contracts in Institutional Markets.

  Group Operations achieved rate increases that averaged approximately 5.0%,
6.0% and 3.0% in 2002, 2001 and 2000 for the disability, accident and life
lines of business within Group Benefits. Premium persistency rates were
approximately 81.0%, 81.0% and 84.0% in 2002, 2001 and 2000.


2001 Compared with 2000

  Net operating income decreased by $55.0 million in 2001 as compared with
2000. Included in the 2001 results were $30.6 million related to the WTC event
and $23.6 million related to restructuring and other related charges. Included
in the restructuring and other related charges was a $20.1 million write-off
of deferred acquisition costs on in-force variable life and annuity contracts
as CNA believes that its decision to discontinue these products would
negatively impact the persistency of the business. Excluding these 2001
significant items, net operating results decreased $0.8 million primarily as a
result of the sale of life reinsurance and a decrease in limited partnership
income of $13.1 million. Life reinsurance contributed net operating income of
$19.1 million in 2000. Partially offsetting these declines were improvements
realized by exiting unprofitable lines of approximately $15.8 million and
increased income in other product lines, primarily the single premium
guaranteed annuity, GIC and disability and group long-term care lines, of
$15.8 million.

  Net earned premiums for Group Operations decreased $66.0 million for 2001 as
compared with 2000. Net earned premiums declined $228.0 million as a result of
the sale of life reinsurance. This decline was partially offset by increases
in Federal Markets of $138.0 million due to increased medical cost trends and
growth in Group Benefits of $36.0 million, particularly in the disability and
group long-term care lines of business. Deposits for Group Operations
decreased $296.0 million in 2001 as compared to 2000 due to reduced sales of
GIC and S&P 500 contracts in Institutional Markets.

Life

  Life Operations provides financial protection to individuals through term
life insurance, universal life insurance, individual long term care insurance,
annuities and other products. Life Operations has several distribution
relationships and partnerships including managing general agencies, other
independent agencies working with CNA life sales offices, a network of brokers
and dealers, and other independent insurance consultants.

2002 Compared with 2001

  Net operating income increased by $29.0 million in 2002 as compared with
2001. Included in the 2001 results were $16.6 million related to restructuring
and other related charges and $12.3 million related to the WTC event.
Excluding these 2001 significant items, net operating results decreased $1.8
million due primarily to net reserve strengthening for individual long term
care, unfavorable individual long term care morbidity and increased costs
related to the life settlement business in 2002. These decreases were
partially offset by higher investment income, a decrease in reinsurance
charges, favorable reserve development relating to the WTC event of $8.9
million after tax and minority interest recorded in 2002 as compared with
2001, and a $0.9 million after tax and minority interest reduction of the
accrual for restructuring and other related charges recorded in 2002.

  Sales volume for Life Operations decreased by $13.0 million in 2002 as
compared with 2001. This decrease was attributable primarily to lower sales of
structured settlement annuities, partially offset by increased sales in the
individual long term care product. Net earned premiums increased $57.0 million
in 2002 as compared with 2001 attributable primarily to growth in the
individual long term care product partially offset by sales declines in
structured settlement annuities.

  As a result of recent experience and the fourth quarter reserve
strengthening of $35.0 million pretax for individual long term care, CNA is
undertaking a full review of its product offerings in this line. The focus is
to determine whether the current products provide adequate pricing flexibility
under the range of reasonably possible claims experience levels. Until this
review is completed, CNA intends to significantly reduce new sales of this
product. Premium will continue to be received on in-force business, but the
actions to reduce new business will lower the rate of overall premium growth
for this line. The outcome of CNA's review and potential actions could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.

2001 Compared with 2000

  Net operating income decreased by $48.2 million in 2001 as compared with
2000. Included in the 2001 results were $16.6 million related to restructuring
and other related charges and $12.3 million related to the WTC event.
Excluding


these 2001 significant items, net operating results decreased $19.3 million
due primarily to decreased investment income from limited partnerships of
$18.4 million.

  Sales volume for Life Operations increased by $133.0 million in 2001 as
compared with 2000. This increase was driven primarily by improved sales in
structured settlements and increased renewals and new sales in individual long
term care products. Net earned premiums increased $100.0 million in 2001 as
compared with 2000. This improvement is attributable primarily to improved
sales of structured settlement annuities due to favorable pricing conditions
and individual long term care products, partially offset by a decrease in new
individual life business.

Other Insurance

  The Other Insurance segment contains CNA's corporate interest expense,
certain run-off insurance operations, including personal insurance, losses and
expenses related to the centralized adjusting and settlement of APMT claims,
direct financial guarantee business underwritten by CNA's insurance
affiliates, certain non-insurance operations, including eBusiness initiatives
and CNA UniSource, and inter-company eliminations.

2002 Compared with 2001

  Net operating results increased by $865.7 million in 2002 as compared with
2001. The impact of the second quarter 2001 reserve strengthening on the Other
Insurance segment was $732.4 million after tax and minority interest,
including $680.8 million for APMT. See the Environmental Pollution and Mass
Tort and Asbestos Reserves section following for a discussion of this charge.
Net operating income in 2001 also decreased by $67.4 million of restructuring
and other related charges and $14.9 million related to the WTC event for group
reinsurance.

  Excluding these 2001 significant items, net operating results improved $51.0
million in 2002 as compared with 2001. Reduced expenses for e-Business
initiatives and improved results for group reinsurance were offset by lower
investment income, principally resulting from a $5.4 million decline in
limited partnership income, higher losses related to the run-off of CNA
UniSource and severance and other costs related to changes in senior
management in 2002. Also contributing to the improvement was a $15.2 million
reduction, after tax and minority interest, in the accrual for restructuring
and other related charges recorded in 2002.

  During 2002, favorable net reserve development, including premium
development, of $23.0 million was recorded in the Other Insurance segment as
compared with unfavorable net reserve development of $63.0 million recorded in
2001, excluding the second quarter 2001 reserve strengthening. The gross
carried claim and claim adjustment expense reserve was $4,847.0 and $5,043.0
million at December 31, 2002 and 2001. The net carried claim and claim
adjustment expense reserve was $2,002.0 and $2,110.0 million at December 31,
2002 and 2001.

  Personal insurance recorded unfavorable reserve development of $35.0 million
on accident years 1997 through 1999. These losses were subject to retroactive
reinsurance agreements with Allstate that cover losses occurring prior to
October 1, 1999. These reinsurance agreements were entered into as part of the
sale of CNA's personal insurance business to Allstate. CNA shares in indemnity
and claim and allocated claim adjustment expenses if payments related to
losses incurred prior to October 1, 1999 on the CNA policies transferred to
Allstate exceed the claim and allocated claim adjustment expense reserves of
approximately $1.0 billion at the date of sale. CNA must begin to reimburse
Allstate for claim and allocated claim adjustment expense payments when
cumulative claim payments after October 1, 1999 on losses occurring prior to
that date exceed the $1.0 billion. CNA's remaining obligation valued under
this loss sharing provision as of October 1, 2003, will be settled by
agreement of the parties or by an independent actuarial review of the unpaid
claim liabilities as of that date. Cumulative payments of indemnity and
allocated loss adjustment expenses on such policies are expected to exceed
$1.0 billion during 2003. CNA has established reserves for its estimated
liability under this loss sharing arrangement. The unfavorable reserve
development was principally due to continuing policyholder defense costs
associated with remaining open claims. At the end of 2002, approximately 4,800
claims remain open. It was anticipated these claims would be closed more
quickly, eliminating further defense coverage costs.

  The unfavorable reserve development on personal insurance was offset by
favorable reserve development on other run-off business, driven principally by
financial and mortgage guarantee coverages from accident years 1997 and prior.
The favorable reserve development on financial and mortgage guarantee
coverages resulted from a review of the


underlying exposures and the outstanding losses. This review showed that
salvage and subrogation continues to be collected on these types of claims,
thereby reducing estimated future losses net of anticipated reinsurance
recoveries.

  Total operating revenues decreased $31.0 million in 2002 as compared with
2001. This decrease was due primarily to reduced revenues for CNA UniSource,
due to the exit of this business, and reduced investment income partially
offset by increased net earned premiums in group reinsurance.

2001 Compared with 2000

  Net operating results declined $786.3 million in 2001 as compared with 2000.
The impact of the second quarter 2001 reserve strengthening on the Other
Insurance segment was $732.4 million after tax and minority interest,
including $680.8 million for APMT. See the Environmental Pollution and Mass
Tort and Asbestos Reserves section following for a discussion of this charge.
Net operating income for 2001 also decreased by $67.4 million for
restructuring and other related charges and $14.9 million related to the WTC
event for group reinsurance.

  Excluding these 2001 significant items, net operating results increased
$28.4 million primarily as a result of lower interest expense on corporate
borrowings in 2001 as compared with 2000 and a non-recurring favorable
adjustment of expense recoveries under a service contract related to personal
insurance. These increases were partially offset by $39.1 million for non-
recurring ceding commissions included in 2000 results related to the transfer
of the personal insurance line of business to Allstate in 1999, $30.6 million
related to increased eBusiness initiatives in 2001 and $10.5 million due to
decreased limited partnership income.

  Total operating revenues decreased $254.0 million in 2001 as compared with
2000. This decline was due to a decrease in investment income and net earned
premiums from run-off insurance operations, particularly the entertainment and
agriculture insurance lines.

Environmental Pollution and Mass Tort and Asbestos ("APMT") Reserves

  CNA's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries have actual and potential
exposures related to environmental pollution and mass tort and asbestos
claims.

  The following table provides data related to CNA's environmental pollution
and mass tort and asbestos claim and claim adjustment expense reserves.



  There was no asbestos or environmental pollution and mass tort-related net
claim and claim adjustment expense reserve development for the year ended
December 31, 2002. As a result of a change in estimate resulting from CNA's
semi-annual ground-up review of APMT accounts gross and ceded APMT reserves
were increased. The settlement scenarios that supported higher estimated gross
and higher estimated ceded reserves were judged to be the most appropriate.
However, net reserves remained unchanged. The estimation of reinsurance
recoverables on accounts is highly dependent on the allocation of each
account's estimated ultimate losses to their available historical insurance
coverage. This allocation becomes more refined as accounts and their insurers
enter more serious settlement negotiations.

  During 2002, net reserves were identified relating to APMT related claim and
claim adjustment expense reserves for assumed reinsurance pools, which
reflects improvements in the identification of APMT activity from assumed
reinsurance and pools. The inclusion of these additional APMT reserves
increased the APMT reserves and decreased other reserves, resulting in no net
change in CNA's overall carried claim and claim adjustment expense reserves.


Environmental Pollution and Mass Tort

  Environmental pollution cleanup is the subject of both federal and state
regulation. By some estimates, there are thousands of potential waste sites
subject to cleanup. The insurance industry is involved in extensive litigation
regarding coverage issues. Judicial interpretations in many cases have
expanded the scope of coverage and liability beyond the original intent of the
policies. The Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability
Act of 1980 ("Superfund") and comparable state statutes ("mini-Superfunds")
govern the cleanup and restoration of toxic waste sites and formalize the
concept of legal liability for cleanup and restoration by Potentially
Responsible Parties ("PRPs"). Superfund and the mini-Superfunds establish
mechanisms to pay for cleanup of waste sites if PRPs fail to do so, and to
assign liability to PRPs. The extent of liability to be allocated to a PRP is
dependent upon a variety of factors. Further, the number of waste sites
subject to cleanup is unknown. To date, approximately 1,200 cleanup sites have
been identified by the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and included on
its National Priorities List ("NPL"). State authorities have designated many
cleanup sites as well.

  Many policyholders have made claims against various CNA insurance
subsidiaries for defense costs and indemnification in connection with
environmental pollution matters. The vast majority of these claims relate to
accident years 1989 and prior, which coincides with CNA's adoption of the
Simplified Commercial General Liability coverage form, which includes what is
referred to in the industry as an "absolute pollution exclusion." CNA and the
insurance industry are disputing coverage for many such claims. Key coverage
issues include whether cleanup costs are considered damages under the
policies, trigger of coverage, allocation of liability among triggered
policies, applicability of pollution exclusions and owned property exclusions,
the potential for joint and several liability and the definition of an
occurrence. To date, courts have been inconsistent in their rulings on these
issues.

  A number of proposals to reform Superfund have been made by various parties.
In 2002, no reforms were enacted by Congress. If there is legislation, and in
some circumstances even if there is no legislation, the federal role in
environmental cleanup may be significantly reduced in favor of state action.
Substantial changes in the federal statute or the activity of the EPA may
cause states to reconsider their environmental cleanup statutes and
regulations. There can be no meaningful prediction of the pattern of
regulation that would result or the possible impact upon the Company's results
of operations or equity.

  CNA's ultimate liability for its environmental pollution and mass tort
claims is impacted by several factors including ongoing disputes with
policyholders over scope and meaning of coverage terms and in the area of
environmental, court decisions that continue to restrict the scope and
applicability of the absolute pollution exclusion contained in policies issued
by CNA post 1989. Due to the inherent uncertainties described above, including
the inconsistency of court decisions, the number of waste sites subject to
cleanup, and in the area of environmental, the standards for cleanup and
liability, the ultimate liability of CNA for environmental pollution and mass
tort claims may vary substantially from the amount currently recorded.

  As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, CNA carried approximately $517.0 and
$633.0 million of claim and claim adjustment expense reserves, net of
reinsurance recoverables, for reported and unreported environmental pollution
and mass tort claims. There was no environmental and mass tort net claim and
claim adjustment expense reserve development for the year ended December 31,
2002. Unfavorable environmental pollution and mass tort net claim and claim
adjustment expense reserve development for the years ended December 31, 2001
and 2000 amounted to $468.0 and $15.0 million, respectively. CNA paid
environmental pollution-related claims and mass tort related claims, net of
reinsurance recoveries, of $116.0, $203.0 and $135.0 million during the years
ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

Asbestos

  CNA's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries also have exposure to
asbestos-related claims. Estimation of asbestos-related claim and claim
adjustment expense reserves involves many of the same limitations discussed
above for environmental pollution claims, such as inconsistency of court
decisions, specific policy provisions, allocation of liability among insurers
and insureds, and additional factors such as missing policies and proof of
coverage. Furthermore, estimation of asbestos-related claims is difficult due
to, among other reasons, the proliferation of bankruptcy proceedings and
attendant uncertainties, the targeting of a broader range of businesses and
entities as


defendants, the uncertainty as to which other insureds may be targeted in the
future and the uncertainties inherent in predicting the number of future
claims.

  In the past several years, CNA has experienced significant increases in
claim counts for asbestos-related claims. The factors that led to these
increases included, among other things, intensive advertising campaigns by
lawyers for asbestos claimants, mass medical screening programs sponsored by
plaintiff lawyers, and the addition of new defendants such as the distributors
and installers of products containing asbestos. Currently, the majority of
asbestos bodily injury claims are filed by persons exhibiting few, if any,
disease symptoms. It is estimated that approximately 90.0% of the current non-
malignant asbestos claimants do not meet the American Medical Association's
definition of impairment. Some courts, including the federal district court
responsible for pre-trial proceedings in all federal asbestos bodily injury
actions, have ordered that so-called "unimpaired" claimants may not recover
unless at some point the claimant's condition worsens to the point of
impairment.

  As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, CNA carried approximately $1,231.0 and
$1,252.0 million of net claim and claim adjustment expense reserves, net of
reinsurance recoverables, for reported and unreported asbestos-related claims.

  There was no asbestos-related net claim and claim adjustment expense reserve
development for the year ended December 31, 2002. Unfavorable asbestos-related
net claim and claim adjustment expense reserve development for the years ended
December 31, 2001 and 2000 amounted to $773.0 and $65.0 million. CNA paid
asbestos-related claims, net of reinsurance, of $20.0, $171.0 and $126.0
million during the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, excluding
payments made in connection with the 1993 settlement of litigation related to
Fibreboard Corporation.

  CNA has structured settlement agreements with four of its policyholders for
which it has future payment obligations. Structured settlement agreements
provide for payments of sums certain over multiple years as set forth in each
individual agreement. As to the four structured settlement agreements existing
at December 31, 2002, payment obligations under those settlement agreements
are projected to terminate in 2016. For these four structured settlement
agreements, CNA has reserved $118.0 million, net of reinsurance.

  CNA, through its acquisition of CIC in 1995, acquired obligations under the
Wellington Agreement. In 1985, 47 asbestos producers and their insurers,
including CIC, executed the Wellington Agreement. The agreement intended to
resolve all issues and litigation related to coverage for asbestos exposures.
Under this agreement, signatory insurers committed scheduled policy limits and
made the limits available to pay asbestos claims based upon coverage blocks
designated by the policyholders in 1985, subject to extension by
policyholders. CIC was a signatory insurer to the Wellington Agreement. At
December 31, 2002, CNA had fulfilled its Wellington Agreement obligations as
to all but five accounts. With respect to the five remaining unpaid Wellington
obligations, CNA has evaluated its exposure under these agreements and has
established a $28.0 million reserve, net of reinsurance, for Wellington
obligations.

  CNA has also used coverage in place agreements to resolve large asbestos
exposures. Coverage in place agreements are typically agreements between CNA
and its policyholders identifying the policies and the terms for payment of
asbestos related liabilities. Claims payments are contingent on presentation
of adequate documentation showing exposure during the policy periods and other
documentation supporting the demand for claims payment. Coverage in place
agreements may have annual payment caps. At December 31, 2002, CNA had
negotiated 23 such agreements in which CNA committed coverage for payment of
claims and claim related adjustment expenses subject to documentation
requirements as set forth in the terms of each specific agreement. CNA has
evaluated these commitments and has established a $66.0 million reserve, net
of reinsurance, to fund coverage in place agreements based on current
projections of claims volumes and severities.

  At December 31, 2002, CNA's total IBNR reserve for asbestos was $729.0
million, net of reinsurance. For asbestos exposures, CNA classifies its IBNR
reserve as assigned or unassigned. In circumstances where CNA has executed a
settlement agreement with its policyholder, CNA assigns IBNR reserve to that
account to cover the projected value of the settlement. At December 31, 2002,
the assigned IBNR reserve was $166.0 million, net of reinsurance. The
unassigned IBNR reserve relates to potential development on accounts that have
not settled and potential future claims for unidentified policyholders. At
December 31, 2002, CNA's unassigned IBNR reserve was $563.0 million, net of
reinsurance.


  At December 31, 2002, CNA categorized active accounts as large or small
accounts. CNA defined a large account as an active account with more than
$100,000 cumulative paid losses through December 31, 2002. CNA had 150 large
accounts with a collective reserve of $220.0 million, net of reinsurance. CNA
made closing large accounts a significant management priority. Small accounts
were defined as active accounts with $100,000 or less cumulative paid losses
through December 31, 2002. CNA had 939 small accounts with a collective
reserve of $90.0 million, net of reinsurance.

  The chart below depicts CNA's overall pending asbestos accounts and
associated reserves:



  In 2002, at least fifteen companies filed for bankruptcy protection citing
costs associated with asbestos claims litigation as a basis for filing. Since
1982, at least sixty-seven companies, including the fifteen companies that
filed in 2002, that mined asbestos, or manufactured or used asbestos-
containing products, have filed for bankruptcy. This phenomenon has prompted
plaintiff attorneys to file claims against companies that had only peripheral
involvement with asbestos. Many of these defendants were users or distributors
of asbestos-containing products, or manufacturers of products in which
asbestos was encapsulated. These defendants include equipment manufacturers,
brake, gasket, and sealant manufacturers, and general construction
contractors. According to a comprehensive report on asbestos litigation
recently released by the Rand Corporation, over 6,000 companies have been
named as defendants in asbestos lawsuits, with 75 out of 83 different types of
industries in the United States impacted by asbestos litigation. The study
found that a typical claimant names 70 to 80 defendants, up from an average of
20 in the early years of asbestos litigation.

  Some asbestos-related defendants have asserted that their claims for
insurance are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. CNA has such claims
from a number of insureds. Some of these claims involve insureds facing
exhaustion of products liability aggregate limits in their policies, who have
asserted that their asbestos-related claims fall within so-called "non-
products" liability coverage contained within their policies rather than
products liability coverage, and that the claimed "non-products" coverage is
not subject to any aggregate limit. It is difficult to predict the ultimate
size of any of the claims for coverage purportedly not subject to aggregate
limits or predict to what extent, if any, the attempts to assert "non-
products" claims outside the products liability aggregate will succeed. CNA
has attempted to manage such exposures by aggressive settlement strategies.
Nevertheless, there can be no assurance any of these settlement efforts will
be successful, or that any such claims can be settled on terms acceptable to
CNA. Adverse developments with respect to such matters discussed in this
paragraph could have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of
operations or equity.

  On February 13, 2003, CNA announced it had resolved asbestos-related
coverage litigation and claims involving A.P. Green Industries, A.P. Green
Services and Bigelow - Liptak Corporation. Under the agreement, CNA will be
required to pay $74.0 million, net of reinsurance recoveries, over a ten-year
period. The settlement resolves CNA's liabilities for all pending and future
asbestos claims involving A.P. Green Industries, Bigelow - Liptak Corporation
and related


subsidiaries, including alleged "non-products" exposure. The settlement is
subject to bankruptcy court approval and confirmation of a bankruptcy plan
containing a channeling injunction to protect CNA from any future claims.
CNA's recorded reserves as of December 31, 2002, included reserves for this
exposure.

  CNA is engaged in insurance coverage litigation with Robert A. Keasbey
Company ("Keasbey") and associated claimants in New York state court.
(Continental Casualty Company v. Robert A. Keasbey Company et al., Supreme
Court State of New York - County of New York, No. 401621/02). Keasbey was a
seller and installer of asbestos products in the New York and New Jersey area.
CNA paid its full product liability limits to Keasbey in prior years.
Claimants against Keasbey now claim CNA owes additional coverage under the
operations section of policies issued to it by CNA. CNA is also a party to
insurance coverage litigation between Burns & Roe Enterprises, Inc. ("Burns &
Roe") and its insurance carriers related to asbestos bodily injury and
wrongful death claims. (In re: Burns & Roe Enterprises, Inc., pending in the
U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of New Jersey, No. 00-41610). Burns &
Roe provided various engineering and related services in connection with
construction projects. Burns & Roe is currently in bankruptcy. There are
numerous factual and legal issues to be resolved in connection with these
cases and it is difficult to predict the outcome or financial exposure
represented by these matters in light of the novel theories asserted by
policyholders and their counsel.

  Policyholders have also initiated litigation directly against CNA and other
insurers. CNA has been named in Adams v. Aetna, Inc., et al. (Circuit Court of
Kanhwha County, West Virginia), a purported class action against CNA and other
insurers, alleging that the defendants violated West Virginia's Unfair Trade
Practices Act in handling and resolving asbestos claims against their
policyholders. In addition, lawsuits have been filed in Texas against CNA, and
other insurers and non-insurer corporate defendants asserting liability for
failing to warn of the dangers of asbestos. (Boson v. Union Carbide Corp., et
al. (District Court of Nueces County, Texas)). It is difficult to predict the
outcome or financial exposure represented by this type of litigation in light
of the broad nature of the relief requested and the novel theories asserted.

  CNA reviews each active asbestos account every six months to determine
whether changes in reserve estimates may be necessary. CNA considers input
from its analyst professionals with direct responsibility for the claims,
inside and outside counsel with responsibility for representation of CNA, and
its actuarial staff. These professionals review, among many factors, the
policyholder's present and future exposures (including such factors as claims
volume, disease mix, trial conditions, settlement demands and defense costs);
the policies issued by CNA (including such factors as aggregate or per
occurrence limits, whether the policy is primary, umbrella or excess, and the
existence of policyholder retentions and/or deductibles); the existence of
other insurance; and reinsurance arrangements.

  Due to the uncertainties created by volatility in claim numbers and
settlement demands, the effect of bankruptcies, the extent to which non-
impaired claimants can be precluded from making claims and the efforts by
insureds to obtain coverage not subject to aggregate limits, the ultimate
liability of CNA for asbestos-related claims may vary substantially from the
amount currently recorded. Other variables that will influence CNA's ultimate
exposure to asbestos-related claims will be medical inflation trends, jury
attitudes, the strategies of plaintiff attorneys to broaden the scope of
defendants, the mix of asbestos-related diseases presented, CNA's abilities to
recover reinsurance, future court decisions and the possibility of legislative
reform. Adverse developments with respect to such matters discussed in this
paragraph could have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of
operations or equity.

  With respect to environmental and mass tort reserves, commencing in 2000 and
continuing into the first and second quarters of 2001, CNA received a number
of new reported claims, some of which involved declaratory judgment actions
premised on court decisions purporting to expand insurance coverage for
pollution claims. In these decisions, several courts adopted rules of
insurance policy interpretation which established joint and several liability
for insurers consecutively on a risk during a period of alleged property
damage; and in other instances adopted interpretations of the "absolute
pollution exclusion," which weakened its effectiveness in most circumstances.
In addition to receiving new claims and declaratory judgment actions premised
upon these unfavorable legal precedents, these court decisions also impacted
CNA's pending pollution and mass tort claims and coverage litigation. During
the spring of 2001, CNA reviewed specific claims and litigation, as well as
general trends, and concluded reserve strengthening in this area was
necessary.


  In the area of mass torts, several well-publicized verdicts arising out of
bodily injury cases related to allegedly toxic mold led to a significant
increase in mold-related claims in 2000 and the first half of 2001. CNA's
reserve increase in the second quarter of 2001 was caused in part by this
increased area of exposure.

  With respect to other court cases and how they might affect CNA's reserves
and reasonable possible losses, the following should be noted. State and
federal courts issue numerous decisions each year, which potentially impact
losses and reserves in both a favorable and unfavorable manner. Examples of
favorable developments include decisions to allocate defense and indemnity
payments in a manner so as to limit carriers' obligations to damages taking
place during the effective dates of their policies; decisions holding that
injuries occurring after asbestos operations are completed are subject to the
completed operations aggregate limits of the policies; and decisions ruling
that carriers' loss control inspections of their insured's premises do not
give rise to a duty to warn third parties to the dangers of asbestos.

  Examples of unfavorable developments include decisions limiting the
application of the "absolute pollution" exclusion; and decisions holding
carriers liable for defense and indemnity of asbestos and pollution claims on
a joint and several basis.

  Throughout 2000, and into 2001, CNA experienced significant increases in new
asbestos bodily injury claims. In light of this development, CNA formed the
view that payments for asbestos claims could be higher in future years than
previously estimated. Moreover, in late 2000 through mid-2001, industry
sources such as rating agencies and actuarial firms released analyses and
studies commenting on the increase in claim volumes and other asbestos
liability developments. For example, A.M. Best released a study in May of 2001
increasing its ultimate asbestos reserve estimate 63.0% from $40.0 to $65.0
billion, citing an unfunded insurance industry reserve shortfall of $33.0
billion. In June of 2001, Tillinghast raised its asbestos ultimate exposure
from $55.0 to $65.0 billion for the insurance industry and its estimate of the
ultimate remaining asbestos liability for all industries was raised to $200.0
billion.

  Also in the 2000 to 2001 time period, a number of significant asbestos
defendants filed for bankruptcy, increasing the likelihood that excess layers
of insurance coverage could be called upon to indemnify policyholders and
creating the potential that novel legal doctrines could be employed which
could accelerate the time when such indemnification payments could be due.

  These developments led CNA to the conclusion that its asbestos reserves
required strengthening.

  The results of operations or equity of the Company in future years may be
adversely impacted by environmental pollution and mass tort and asbestos claim
and claim adjustment expenses. Management will continue to review and monitor
these liabilities and make further adjustments, including the potential for
further reserve strengthening, as necessary.

Lorillard

  Lorillard, Inc. and subsidiaries ("Lorillard"). Lorillard, Inc. is a wholly
owned subsidiary of the Company.

  The tobacco industry in the United States, including Lorillard, continues to
be faced with a number of issues that have or may adversely impact the
business, results of operations and financial condition of Lorillard and the
Company, including the following:

..  A substantial volume of litigation seeking compensatory and punitive
   damages ranging into the billions of dollars, as well as equitable and
   injunctive relief, arising out of allegations of cancer and other health
   effects resulting from the use of cigarettes, addiction to smoking or
   exposure to environmental tobacco smoke, including claims for reimbursement
   of health care costs allegedly incurred as a result of smoking, as well as
   other alleged damages.

..  A $16.3 billion punitive damage judgment against Lorillard in Engle v. R.J.
   Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al., a class action case in state court in
   Florida in which the jury awarded a total of $145.0 billion in punitive
   damages against all the defendants and which is currently on appeal.


..  Substantial annual payments by Lorillard, continuing in perpetuity, and
   restrictions on marketing and advertising agreed to under the terms of the
   settlement agreements entered into between the major cigarette
   manufacturers, including Lorillard, and each of the 50 states, the District
   of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and certain other U.S.
   territories (together, the "State Settlement Agreements").

..  A continuing decline in the volume of wholesale cigarette sales in the
   United States, including 2002 volume declines of 3.7% for the domestic U.S.
   cigarette industry and 6.3% for Lorillard, according to information
   provided by Management Science Associates.

..  Increases in industry-wide promotional expenses and sales incentives
   implemented in reaction to the volume declines and impact of the price
   increases, and continuing intense competition among the four largest
   cigarette manufacturers, including Lorillard, and many smaller participants
   who have gained market share in recent years, principally in the discount
   and deep-discount cigarette segment. Market share for the deep discount
   brands increased by an estimated 1.19 share points from 5.98% to 7.17% in
   2002.

..  Continuing and substantial increases in state excise taxes on cigarette
   sales in 2002 ranging from $0.18 per pack to $0.69 per pack in 21 states,
   as well as excise tax increases by several municipalities such as New York
   City where the local tax increased from $0.08 to $1.50 in 2002, and
   proposals for additional increases in federal, state and local excise
   taxes. Lorillard believes that increases in excise and similar taxes have
   had an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes and that any future increases,
   the extent of which cannot be predicted, could result in further volume
   declines for the cigarette industry, including Lorillard, and an increased
   sales shift toward lower priced discount cigarettes rather than premium
   brands.

..  Increasing sales of counterfeit cigarettes in the United States which
   adversely impact sales by the manufacturer of the counterfeited brands and
   potentially damage the value and reputation of those brands.

..  Increases in actual and proposed federal, state and local regulation of the
   tobacco industry and governmental restrictions on smoking.

  See Item 3 -Legal Proceedings and Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report for information with
respect to the Engle action and other litigation against cigarette
manufacturers and the State Settlement Agreements.

2002 Compared with 2001

  Revenues decreased by $111.5 million, or 2.8%, and net income increased by
$93.6 million, or 13.9%, in 2002 as compared to 2001. Net income for the year
ended December 31, 2001, included a charge of $121.0 million related to an
agreement with the class in the Engle case. See Note 20 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report for
information with respect to the Engle action. Excluding this charge, net
income decreased by $27.3 million, or 3.4%, due to lower sales volume,
increased sales promotion costs and reduced investment income reflecting lower
invested cash balances and reduced yields on investments, partially offset by
increased unit prices and decreased tobacco settlement and legal expenses.

  Revenues decreased due to lower net sales and reduced investment income. Net
sales decreased by $70.3 million in 2002 as compared to 2001, due to lower
unit sales volume of approximately $257.0 million, or 6.6%, assuming prices
were unchanged from the prior year. The decline in unit sales volume was
partially offset by higher average unit prices which increased revenues by
approximately $186.7 million, or 4.8%, including $93.0 million from an
increase in federal excise taxes effective January 1, 2002.

  During 2002, Lorillard increased its net wholesale price of cigarettes by an
average of $6.71 per thousand cigarettes ($0.13 per pack of 20 cigarettes), or
5.6%, before the impact of any promotional activities. Federal excise taxes
are included in the price of cigarettes and on January 1, 2002, the federal
excise tax on cigarettes increased by $2.50 per thousand cigarettes ($0.05 per
pack of 20 cigarettes) to $19.50 per thousand cigarettes.


  The increased unit prices reflect the increase in net wholesale prices,
partially offset by promotional expenses, mostly in the form of coupons and
other discounts provided to retailers and passed through to the consumer.
Increased promotional expenses in 2002, as compared to 2001, partially offset
the higher average unit prices in 2002.

  Lorillard's overall unit sales volume decreased 6.3% in 2002 as compared to
2001. Newport's unit sales volume decreased by 2.8% in 2002. Continued
decreases in unit volume for Old Gold and Maverick in the discount segment
were also contributing factors. Old Gold and Maverick declines were due to
severe competitive price pressure from deep discount brands produced by
manufacturers who do not have the same financial payment obligations related
to the State Settlement Agreements as does Lorillard and other major tobacco
companies. Additionally, volume in 2002 was affected by generally weak
economic conditions and ongoing limitations imposed by Philip Morris' retail
merchandising arrangements.

  Deep discount price brands produced by manufacturers who are not obligated
by the same payment terms of the State Settlement Agreements have continued to
increase their market share by approximately one share point during 2002 to
7.17% of the U.S. domestic market. As a result of lower payments, these
companies can price their brands at a significant advantage, by as much as
60%, as compared with offerings from the major cigarette manufacturers.

  Lorillard's share of domestic U.S. wholesale cigarette shipments was 9.05%
in 2002 as compared to 9.26% in 2001. Newport, a premium brand, accounted for
approximately 88% of Lorillard's unit sales and 89% of net sales revenue in
2002, compared to 85% and 86%, respectively, in 2001. Newport's share of the
premium segment was 10.9% in 2002 as compared to 10.6% in 2001. Newport had
the highest share of the menthol segment of the market with an approximately
31% share of the category. Menthol comprised approximately 26% of total
domestic U.S. industry sales in 2002. Premium priced cigarette sales accounted
for 94.7% and 92.4% of Lorillard's total sales in 2002 and 2001.

  Overall, industry unit sales volume decreased by 3.7% in 2002. Industry
sales for premium brands declined to 72.8% in 2002 as compared to 74.0% in
2001.

  Lorillard recorded pretax charges of $1,062.2 and $1,140.4 million ($646.1
and $694.2 million after taxes), for the years ended December 31, 2002 and
2001, respectively, to record its obligations under various settlement
agreements. Lorillard's portion of ongoing adjusted settlement payments and
related legal fees are based on its share of domestic cigarette shipments in
the year preceding that in which the payment is due. Accordingly, Lorillard
records its portions of ongoing settlement payments as part of cost of
manufactured products sold as the related sales occur.

  The State Settlement Agreements impose a stream of future payment
obligations on Lorillard and the other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers and
place significant restrictions on their ability to market and sell cigarettes.
The Company believes that the implementation of the State Settlement
Agreements will materially adversely affect its consolidated results of
operations and cash flows in future periods. The degree of the adverse impact
will depend, among other things, on the rates of decline in U.S. cigarette
sales in the premium and discount segments, Lorillard's share of the domestic
premium and discount segments, and the effect of any resulting cost advantage
of manufacturers not subject to all of the payments of the State Settlement
Agreements.

  During the first quarter of 2002, Lorillard adopted Emerging Issues Task
Force ("EITF") No. 00-25 and No. 00-14 relating to the classification of
vendor consideration and certain sales incentives. As a result, promotional
expenses historically included in other operating expenses have been
reclassified primarily as reductions of revenues from manufactured products,
or to cost of manufactured products sold. Prior period amounts have been
reclassified for comparative purposes. Adoption of the EITF issues had no
impact on the results of operations and cash flows of Lorillard.

2001 Compared with 2000

  Revenues increased by $85.1 million, or 2.2% and net income decreased $81.7
million, or 10.8%, in 2001 as compared to 2000. Net income for the year ended
December 31, 2001, included a charge of $121.0 million to record the effect of
the Engle agreement. Excluding this charge, net income would have increased by
$39.3 million, or 5.2%, for the year ended December 31, 2001, as compared to
2000, due to the impact of wholesale price increases, partially offset by
lower unit sales volume and increased sales promotional expenses, mostly in
the form of coupons and other discounts provided to retailers and passed
through to the consumer.


  Revenues increased due to higher net sales, partially offset by reduced
investment income. Net sales increased by $106.5 million in 2001 as compared
to 2000, due to higher average unit prices which would have resulted in an
aggregate increase of approximately $399.2 million, or 10.6%, partially offset
by a decrease of approximately $292.7 million, or 7.8%, reflecting lower unit
sales volume. During 2001, Lorillard increased its net wholesale price of
cigarettes by an average of $13.58 per thousand cigarettes ($0.27 per pack of
20 cigarettes), or 12.8%, before the impact of any promotional activities.
Federal excise taxes are included in the price of cigarettes and remained
constant during 2001 at $17.00 per thousand units, or $0.34 per pack of 20
cigarettes.

  Lorillard's overall unit sales volume decreased by 6.5% in 2001, as compared
to 2000. Newport's unit sales volume increased by 0.4% for 2001, primarily as
a result of the introduction of the Newport Medium line extension and
strengthened promotional support, as compared to 2000. The decrease in
Lorillard's overall unit sales volume reflects lower unit sales of its
Maverick and Old Gold brands in the discount market segment due primarily to
increased competition in the discount segment and continued limitations
imposed by Philip Morris's merchandising arrangements and general competitive
conditions. Overall, industry unit sales volume decreased by 3.2% for the year
ended December 31, 2001.

  Lorillard's share of domestic U.S. wholesale cigarette shipments was 9.26%
in 2001, as compared to 9.63% for 2000. Newport, a premium brand, accounted
for approximately 85% of Lorillard's unit sales and 86% of net sales revenue
for the year ended December 31, 2001 compared to 79% and 82%, respectively, in
2000. Newport's market share of the premium segment was 10.6% for the year
ended December 31, 2001 compared to 10.3% in 2000.

  Lorillard recorded pretax charges of $1,140.4 and $1,076.5 million ($694.2
and $642.3 million after taxes), for the years ended December 31, 2001 and
2000, respectively, to record its obligations under various settlement
agreements.

Loews Hotels

  Loews Hotels Holding Corporation and subsidiaries ("Loews Hotels"). Loews
Hotels Holding Corporation is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.

2002 Compared with 2001

  Revenues and net income decreased by $16.5 and $6.8 million, or 5.1% and
34.9%, respectively, in 2002 as compared to 2001.

  Revenues decreased in 2002 as compared to 2001, due primarily to a decline
in revenue per available room, reduced investment income, and lower other
hotel operating revenues. Revenue per available room decreased by $5.41, or
4.4%, to $117.62 due primarily to lower average room rates and reflects the
continued economic weakness and its impact on the travel industry.

  Revenue per available room is an industry measure of the combined effect of
occupancy rates and average room rates on room revenues. Other hotel operating
revenues include, among other items, guest charges for food and beverages,
telecommunication services, garage and parking fees.

  Net income decreased in 2002 due to the lower revenues and pre-opening costs
incurred related to the Royal Pacific Hotel at Universal Orlando, partially
offset by improved operating results at the Universal Orlando properties and
lower interest expense.

2001 Compared with 2000

  Revenues and net income decreased by $16.7 and $7.3 million, or 4.9% and
27.2%, respectively, in 2001 as compared to 2000.

  Revenues decreased primarily due to lower occupancy rates and lower average
room rates, partially offset by the addition of the Philadelphia Hotel, which
commenced operations in spring of 2000. The decline in revenues reflects the
continued economic weakness and the impact that the September 11, 2001 World
Trade Center attack had on the travel


industry. Net income decreased due primarily to lower revenues and increased
depreciation expenses related to the Philadelphia Hotel, partially offset by
lower advertising and administrative expenses and lower pre-opening costs.

Diamond Offshore

  Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. and subsidiaries ("Diamond Offshore").
Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. is a 54% owned subsidiary of the Company.

  Diamond Offshore's revenues vary based upon demand, which affects the number
of days the fleet is utilized and the dayrates earned. When a rig is idle,
generally no dayrate is earned and revenues will decrease. Revenues can also
increase or decrease as a result of the acquisition or disposal of rigs. In
order to improve utilization or realize higher dayrates, Diamond Offshore may
mobilize its rigs from one market to another. During periods of mobilization,
however, revenues may be adversely affected. In response to changes in demand,
Diamond Offshore may withdraw a rig from the market by stacking it or may
reactivate a rig stacked previously, which may decrease or increase revenues,
respectively.

  Revenues from offshore turnkey drilling contracts are accrued to the extent
of costs until the specified turnkey depth and other contract requirements are
met.  Income is recognized on the completed contract method.  Provisions for
future losses on turnkey contracts are recognized when it becomes apparent
that expenses to be incurred on a specific contract will exceed the revenue
from that contract.

  Operating income is primarily affected by revenue factors, but is also a
function of varying levels of operating expenses. Operating expenses generally
are not affected by changes in dayrates and may not be significantly affected
by fluctuations in utilization. For instance, if a rig is to be idle for a
short period of time, Diamond Offshore may realize few decreases in operating
expenses since the rig is typically maintained in a prepared state with a full
crew. In addition, when a rig is idle, Diamond Offshore is responsible for
certain operating expenses such as rig fuel and supply boat costs, which are
typically a cost of the operator under drilling contracts. However, if the rig
is to be idle for an extended period of time, Diamond Offshore may reduce the
size of a rig's crew and take steps to "cold stack" the rig, which lowers
expenses and partially offsets the impact on operating income.

2002 Compared with 2001

  Revenues decreased by $197.2 million, or 20.1% and net income decreased by
$56.9 million, or 80.1%, respectively, in 2002 as compared to 2001. Revenues
decreased due primarily to lower contract drilling revenue of $161.1 million,
reduced investment income of $18.9 million, and lower revenues from
reimbursable expenses.

  Revenues from high specification floaters and other semisubmersible rigs
decreased by $95.4 million, or 9.7% in 2002 as compared to 2001. The decrease
reflects lower dayrates ($60.7 million) and lower utilization ($70.4 million)
partially offset by revenues generated by the Ocean Baroness ($35.7 million),
which completed a conversion to a high specification semisubmersible drilling
unit and commenced operations in March of 2002.

  Revenues from jack-up rigs decreased by $75.1 million, or 7.7%, due
primarily to decreased dayrates ($48.6 million) and lower utilization ($26.5
million) in 2002. Interest income decreased by $18.9 million, or 1.9%, in 2002
primarily due to a reduction in marketable securities held and lower interest
rates earned on cash and marketable securities in 2002 compared to 2001.

  Net income decreased due primarily to the reduced revenues in 2002 as
discussed above, partially offset by lower interest expenses related to a
premium paid on early extinguishment of debt in 2001.

  In 2002 Diamond Offshore implemented EITF 01-14, "Income Statement
Characterization of Reimbursements Received for 'Out-of-Pocket' Expense
Incurred." EITF 01-14 requires a company to record the gross amount billed to
its customers as revenue as opposed to a reduction of expenses. Diamond
Offshore has reclassified its prior periods for comparative purposes.


2001 Compared with 2000

  Revenues increased by $232.7 million, or 31.1%, and net income increased by
$39.0 million, in 2001 as compared to 2000. Revenues and net income included a
gain from the sale of a drilling rig of $13.9 and $4.7 million, respectively,
for the year ended December 31, 2000.

  Revenues from high specification floaters and other semisubmersible rigs
increased by $179.3 million, or 24.0%, in 2001 as compared to 2000. These
increases reflect higher utilization ($23.6 million) and dayrates ($94.2
million) for 2001 as compared 2000. Revenue generated by the Ocean Confidence
($61.5 million), which began a five-year drilling program in the Gulf of
Mexico on January 5, 2001 after completion of a conversion to a high
specification semisubmersible drilling unit, also contributed to the increase
in revenues.

  Revenues from jack-up rigs increased by $55.6 million, or 7.4%, due
primarily to increased dayrates ($63.6 million) for 2001, partially offset by
lower utilization in 2001.

  Net income increased due primarily to the increased revenues discussed
above, partially offset by increased interest and depreciation expenses.
Depreciation expenses increased in 2001 primarily due to the Ocean Confidence,
which completed its conversion from an accommodation vessel to a high
specification semisubmersible drilling unit and commenced operations in
January 2001. In addition, interest expense increased due to a premium paid on
early extinguishment of debt and increased interest expense due to the Ocean
Confidence, as a result of less interest capitalized.

Bulova

  Bulova Corporation and subsidiaries ("Bulova"). Bulova Corporation is a 97%
owned subsidiary of the Company.

2002 Compared with 2001

  Revenues and net income increased by $19.5 and $1.7 million, or 13.3% and
16.8%, respectively, in 2002 compared to 2001. Revenues and net income
increased primarily as a result of the addition of the Wittnauer watch brand,
acquired in 2001, and the commencement in 2002 of the Harley Davidson watch
line resulting from a licensing agreement signed in 2001. An increase in clock
unit volume sales, partially offset by a decrease in Bulova's watch brand unit
volume, also contributed to the increase in revenues and net income. These
increases were partially offset by lower royalty income of $0.7 million and
decreased interest income of $0.7 million in 2002.

2001 Compared with 2000

  Revenues and net income decreased by $14.0 and $4.9 million, or 8.7% and
32.7%, respectively, in 2001 compared to 2000. Revenues and net income
decreased due primarily to royalty income of $5.5 and $3.0 million,
respectively, reported in 2000 related to the settlement of a contract
dispute. The remaining decline in revenues for 2001 reflects lower watch and
clock unit sales volume due primarily to the continued economic downturn,
partially offset by higher watch unit prices.

  Net income decreased due to the lower revenues and costs incurred during
business process reengineering of Bulova's information systems, partially
offset by improved gross margins attributable to Bulova's product sales mix.

Corporate

  Corporate operations consist primarily of investment income, including
investment gains (losses) from non-insurance subsidiaries, as well as equity
earnings from Majestic Shipping Corporation ("Majestic"), corporate interest
expenses and other corporate administrative costs. Majestic, a wholly owned
subsidiary, owns a 49% common stock interest in Hellespont Shipping
Corporation ("Hellespont"). Hellespont is engaged in the business of owning
and operating six ultra large crude oil tankers that are used primarily to
transport crude oil from the Persian Gulf to a limited number of ports in the
Far East, Northern Europe and the United States.


  The components of investment gains (losses) included in Corporate operations
are as follows:



2002 Compared with 2001

  Exclusive of investment gains (losses), revenues decreased $81.6 million and
net loss increased $51.3 million in 2002 compared to 2001. Revenues declined
due primarily to lower results from Majestic of $41.7 million reflecting
reduced demand and charter rates in the crude oil tanker markets, and lower
investment income of $41.6 million relating to reduced yields from invested
assets. The impact of the lower results from shipping operations and
investment income increased the net loss by $35.4 and $21.9 million,
respectively.

2001 Compared with 2000

  Exclusive of investment gains (losses), revenues decreased $19.1 million and
net loss increased $3.0 million, or 11.5% and 21.1%, respectively, in 2001
compared to 2000, due primarily to lower investment income. This change was
partially offset by increased operating results from Majestic reflecting
increased demand and charter rates in the crude oil tanker markets.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

  The Company's contractual cash payment obligations are as follows:



  In addition, as previously discussed, Lorillard has entered into the State
Settlement Agreements which impose a stream of future payment obligations on
Lorillard and the other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers. Lorillard's
portion of ongoing adjusted settlement payments and related legal fees are
based on its share of domestic cigarette shipments in the year preceding that
in which the payment is due. Payment obligations are not incurred until the
related sales occur.

CNA

  The principal operating cash flow sources of CNA's property and casualty and
life insurance subsidiaries are premiums and investment income. The primary
operating cash flow uses are payments for claims, policy benefits and
operating expenses.


  For the year ended December 31, 2002, net cash provided by operating
activities was $1,039.9 million as compared with net cash used in operating
activities of $599.0 million in 2001. The improvement related primarily to
federal tax refunds received in 2002 as compared to taxes paid in 2001 and
decreased net payments for insurance claims.

  For the year ended December 31, 2001, net cash used for operating activities
was $599.0 million as compared with net cash used of $1,345.5 million in 2000.
The improvement related primarily to decreased paid claims.

  Cash flows from investing activities include purchases and sales of
financial instruments, as well as the purchase and sale of land, buildings,
equipment and other assets not generally held for resale.

  For the year ended December 31, 2002, net cash used for investing activities
was $1,488.0 million as compared with $205.0 million in 2001. Cash flows used
by investing activities were related principally to increased purchases of
invested assets due to positive operating cash flow and cash provided by
financing activities.

  For the year ended December 31, 2001, net cash used for investing activities
was $205.0 million as compared with net cash inflows of $1,842.0 million in
2000. Cash flows for investing activities were related principally to
increased net purchases of invested assets related to investing $1.0 billion
of proceeds from the common stock rights offering completed in the third
quarter of 2001.

  Cash flows from financing activities include proceeds from the issuance of
debt or equity securities, outflows for dividends or repayment of debt and
outlays to reacquire equity instruments. For the year ended December 31, 2002,
net cash provided from financing activities was $432.0 million as compared
with $783.0 million in 2001.

  For the year ended December 31, 2001, net cash provided from financing
activities was $783.0 million as compared with $487.0 million of net cash used
in 2000.

  On December 19, 2002 CNA received $750.0 million from the Company in
exchange for 7,500 shares of Series H Cumulative Preferred Stock ("Preferred
Issue"). Of the proceeds from the Preferred Issue, $250.0 million was used to
prepay the $250.0 million one-year bank term loan due April 29, 2003 and an
additional $250.0 million was contributed to CCC to improve its statutory
surplus. It is expected that the rest of the proceeds will be used to repay
other debt of CNA and CIC, a CNA controlled subsidiary, maturing in 2003 and
for other general corporate purposes.

  CNA completed a common stock rights offering on September 26, 2001,
successfully raising $1,006.0 million (40.3 million shares sold at $25.00 per
share). The Company purchased 38.3 million shares issued in connection with
the rights offering for $957.0 million, and an additional 0.8 million shares
in the open market. Additionally, CNA borrowed $500.0 million against its bank
credit facility. Partially offsetting these cash inflows were reductions to
CNA's commercial paper borrowings of $627.0 million.

  CNA is closely managing the cash flows related to claims and reinsurance
recoverables from the WTC event. It is anticipated that significant claim
payments will be made prior to receipt of the corresponding reinsurance
recoverables. CNA does not anticipate any liquidity problems resulting from
these payments. As of March 14, 2003, the Company has paid $488.0 million in
claims and recovered $237.0 million from reinsurers.

  CNA's estimated gross pretax losses for the WTC event were $1,648.0 million
pretax ($958.3 million after tax and minority interest). Net pretax losses
before the effect of corporate aggregate reinsurance treaties were $727.0
million. Approximately 1.0%, 73.0% and 20.0% of the reinsurance recoverables
on the estimated losses related to the WTC event are from companies with
Standard & Poor's ("S&P") ratings of AAA, AA or A.

  Effective January 30, 2001, CNA sold the 180 Maiden Lane, New York,
facility. The sale of this property provided additional liquidity to CNA with
net sale proceeds of $264.0 million.

  CNA has an existing shelf registration statement under which it may issue an
aggregate of $549.0 million of debt or equity securities, declared effective
by the SEC.


  CNA has a $250.0 million three-year bank credit facility with an April 30,
2004 expiration date. CNA previously had a $250.0 million 364-day facility
with an expiration date of April 29, 2002. An option to convert the 364-day
facility to a one-year term loan was exercised in April of 2002. The term loan
was subsequently prepaid on December 23, 2002.

  CNA pays a facility fee to the lenders for having funds available for loans
under the three-year credit facility maturing April 30, 2004. The fee varies
based on the long term debt ratings of CNA. At December 31, 2002, the facility
fee on the three-year component was 17.5 basis points.

  CNA pays interest on any outstanding debt/borrowings under the three-year
facility based on a rate determined using the long term debt ratings of CNA.
The interest rate is equal to the London Interbank Offering Rate ("LIBOR")
plus 57.5 basis points. Further, if CNA has outstanding loans greater than
50.0% of the amounts available under the three-year facility, CNA will also
pay a utilization fee of 12.5 basis points on such loans. At December 31, 2002
and 2001, the weighted-average interest rate on the borrowings under the
facility, including facility fees and utilization fees, was 2.3% and 3.1%.

  A Moody's downgrade of the CNA senior debt rating from Baa2 to Baa3 would
increase the facility fee on the three-year component of the facility from
17.5 basis points to 25.0 basis points. The applicable interest rate would
increase from LIBOR plus 57.5 basis points to LIBOR plus 75.0 basis points.
The utilization fee would remain unchanged on the three-year facility at 12.5
basis points.

  On September 30, 2002, CNA Surety Corporation, a 64.0% owned and
consolidated subsidiary of CNA, entered into a $65.0 million credit agreement
with one bank, which consisted of a $35.0 million 364-day revolving credit
facility and a $30.0 million three-year term loan payable semi-annually at the
rate of $5.0 million. The credit agreement replaced a $130.0 million five-year
revolving credit facility that terminated September 30, 2002. The new credit
facility was fully utilized at inception.

  The terms of the new credit facility agreement required the assumption by a
second bank of $15.0 million of the credit risk by November 30, 2002 or CNA
Surety would be required to repay $15.0 million to reduce the amount of the
credit facility commitment from $35.0 million to $20.0 million. On November
29, 2002, CNA Surety repaid $11.0 million of the outstanding borrowings and
arranged for the due date on the remaining $4.0 million to be delayed to March
31, 2003. A second bank subsequently assumed $10.0 million of the credit risk
resulting in an additional $6.0 million of outstanding borrowings, leaving the
credit facility commitment at $30.0 million. As of December 31, 2002, the
revolving credit facility was fully utilized.

  Under the new credit facility agreement, CNA Surety pays a facility fee of
12.5 basis points, interest at LIBOR plus 45.0 basis points, and for
utilization greater than 50.0% of the amount available to borrow an additional
fee of 5.0 basis points. On the term loan, CNA Surety pays interest at LIBOR
plus 62.5 basis points. At December 31, 2002, the weighted-average interest
rate on the $60.0 million of outstanding borrowings under the credit
agreement, including facility fees and utilization fees was 2.0%.

  Under the former credit facility agreement, CNA Surety paid interest on
outstanding borrowings based on, among other rates, LIBOR plus the applicable
margin. The applicable margin was determined by CNA's leverage ratio (debt to
total capitalization). At the termination date of the old facility, the
applicable margin was 30.0 basis points, including the 10.0 basis point
facility fee. At December 31, 2001, the weighted-average interest rate on the
borrowings under the facility, including facility fees, was 2.6%.

  The terms of CNA's and CNA Surety's credit facilities require CNA and CNA
Surety to maintain certain financial ratios and combined property and casualty
company statutory surplus levels. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, CNA and CNA
Surety were in compliance with all restrictive debt covenants.

  In December of 2002 and January of 2003, CNA provided loans in an aggregate
amount of approximately $45.0 million to a large national contractor that
undertakes projects for the construction of government and private facilities.
CNA Surety has provided significant surety bond protection for projects by
this contractor through surety bonds underwritten by CCC or its affiliates.
The loans were provided by CNA to help the contractor meet its liquidity
needs. The loans are evidenced by demand notes and currently accrue interest
at 10.0% until replaced by the credit facility


described below. The contractor and certain of its affiliates have pledged to
CNA substantially all of their assets as collateral for these loans.

  In March of 2003, CNA entered into an agreement with the contractor to
provide an $86.4 million credit facility, which includes the already advanced
$45.0 million described above. The credit facility and all loans thereunder
would mature in March of 2006. Advances under the credit facility, including
the already-funded $45.0 million, bear interest at the prime rate plus 6.0%.
Payment of 3.0% interest would be deferred until the credit facility matures,
and the remainder would be paid monthly in cash. Loans under the credit
facility are secured by a pledge of substantially all of the assets of the
contractor and certain affiliates.

  The Company and CNA have entered into a participation agreement, pursuant to
which the Company has purchased a participation interest in one-third of the
loans and commitments under the new credit facility, on a dollar-for-dollar
basis, up to a maximum of $25.0 million. Although the Company does not have
rights against the contractor directly under the participation agreement, it
shares recoveries and fees under the facility proportionally with CNA.

  In March of 2003, CNA also purchased the contractor's outstanding bank debt
for $16.4 million. Under the new credit facility, the contractor agreed to
purchase from CNA and retire the bank debt for $16.4 million, with $11.4
million of the purchase price being funded under the new credit facility and
$5.0 million from money loaned to the contractor by its shareholders. Under
its purchase agreement with the banks, CNA is also required to reimburse the
banks for any draws upon approximately $6.5 million in outstanding letters of
credit issued by the banks for the contractor's benefit that expire between
May and August of 2003. Any CNA reimbursements for draws upon the banks'
letters of credit will become obligations of the contractor to CNA as draws
upon the credit facility.

  The contractor has initiated a restructuring plan that is intended to reduce
costs and improve cash flow, and a chief restructuring officer has been
appointed to manage execution of the plan. CNA, through its affiliate CNA
Surety, intends to continue to provide surety bonds on behalf of the
contractor during this restructuring period, subject to the contractor's
initial and ongoing compliance with CNA Surety's underwriting standards. Any
losses arising from bonds issued or assumed by the insurance subsidiaries of
CNA Surety to the contractor are excluded from CNA Surety's $40.0 million
excess of $20.0 million per principal reinsurance program with unaffiliated
reinsurers in place in 2002. As a result, CNA Surety retains the first $60.0
million of losses on bonds written with an effective date of September 30,
2002 and prior, and CCC will incur 100% of losses above that retention level
on bonds with effective dates prior to September 30, 2002. Through facultative
reinsurance contracts with CCC, CNA Surety's exposure on bonds written from
October 1, 2002 through December 31, 2002 has been limited to $20.0 million
per bond.

  Indemnification and subrogation rights, including rights to contract
proceeds on construction projects in the event of default, exist that reduce
CNA Surety's and ultimately CNA's exposure to loss. While CNA believes that
the contractor's restructuring efforts may be successful and provide
sufficient cash flow for its operations and repayment of its borrowings, the
contractor's failure to achieve its restructuring plan could have a material
adverse effect on CNA's future results of operations. If such failures occur
CNA estimates the Surety loss, net of indemnification and subrogation
recoveries, but before the effects of corporate aggregate reinsurance
treaties, if any, and minority interest could be up to $200.0 million.

  In the normal course of business, CNA has obtained letters of credit in
favor of various unaffiliated insurance companies, regulatory authorities and
other entities. At December 31, 2002 and 2001 there were approximately $222.0
and $270.0 million of outstanding letters of credit.

  CNA has provided guarantees related to irrevocable standby letters of credit
for certain of its subsidiaries. Certain of these subsidiaries have been sold;
however, the irrevocable standby letter of credit guarantees remain in effect.
CNA would be required to remit prompt payment on the letters of credit in
question if the primary obligor drew down on these letters of credit and
failed to repay such loans in accordance with the terms of the letters of
credit. The maximum potential amount of future payments that CNA could be
required to pay under these guarantees is approximately $30.0 million at
December 31, 2002.

  As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, CNA had committed approximately $141.0 and
$152.0 million for future capital calls from various third-party limited
partnership investments in exchange for an ownership interest in the related
partnerships.


  In the normal course of investing activities, CCC had committed
approximately $51.0 million as of December 31, 2002 to future capital calls
from certain of its unconsolidated affiliates in exchange for an ownership
interest in such affiliates.

  The Company has a commitment to purchase up to a $100.0 million floating
rate note issued by the California Earthquake Authority in the event of an
earthquake during calendar year 2003 that results in California earthquake
related losses greater than $4.2 billion.

  As of December 31, 2002, CNA is obligated to make future payments totaling
$394.0 million for non-cancelable operating leases expiring from 2003 through
2014 primarily for office space and data processing, office and transportation
equipment. Estimated future minimum payments under these contracts are as
follows: $79.0 million in 2003; $61.0 million in 2004; $56.0 million in 2005;
and $45.0 million in 2006; $153.0 million in 2007 and beyond. Additionally,
CNA has entered into a limited number of guaranteed payment contracts,
primarily relating to telecommunication services, amounting to approximately
$24.0 million. Estimated future minimum purchases under these contracts are as
follows: $13.0 million in 2003; $9.0 million in 2004; and $2.0 million in
2005.

  In certain circumstances CNA provides guarantees of the indebtedness of
certain of its independent insurance producers, which expire in 2002. CNA
would be required to remit prompt and complete payment when due, should the
primary obligor default. In the event of default on the part of the primary
obligor, CNA holds an interest in and to any and all shares of common stock of
the primary obligor. The maximum potential amount of future payments that CNA
could be required to pay under these guarantees are approximately $7.0 million
at December 31, 2002.

  CNA has provided parent company guarantees, which expire in 2015, related to
lease obligations of certain subsidiaries. Certain of those subsidiaries have
been sold; however, the lease obligation guarantees remain in effect. CNA
would be required to remit prompt payment on leases in question if the primary
obligor fails to observe and perform its covenants under the lease agreements.
The maximum potential amount of future payments that CNA could be required to
pay under these guarantees are approximately $8.0 million at December 31,
2002.

  CNA holds an investment in a real estate joint venture that is accounted for
on the equity basis of accounting. In the normal course of business, CNA on a
joint and several basis with other unrelated insurance company shareholders
have committed to continue funding the operating deficits of this joint
venture. Additionally, CNA and the other unrelated shareholders, on a joint
and several basis, have guaranteed an operating lease for an office building,
which expires in 2016.

  The guarantee of the operating lease is a parallel guarantee to the
commitment to fund operating deficits; consequently, the separate guarantee to
the lessor is not expected to be triggered as long as the joint venture
continues to be funded by its shareholders and continues to make its annual
lease payments.

  In the event that the other parties to the joint venture are unable to meet
their commitments in funding the operations of this joint venture, CNA would
be required to assume the obligation for the entire office building operating
lease. The maximum potential future lease payments at December 31, 2002 that
CNA could be required to pay under this guarantee is approximately $333.0
million. If CNA was required to assume the entire lease obligation, CNA would
have the right to pursue reimbursement from the other shareholders and would
have the right to all sublease revenues.

  CNA has recorded a liability of approximately $10.0 million for its share of
estimated future operating deficits of this joint venture through 2016.

  Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the
competitive position of insurance companies. CNA's insurance company
subsidiaries are rated by major rating agencies, and these ratings reflect the
rating agency's opinion of the insurance company's financial strength,
operating performance, strategic position and ability to meet its obligations
to policyholders. Agency ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold
any security, and may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the issuing
organization. Each agency's rating should be evaluated independently of any
other agency's rating. One or more of these agencies could take action in the
future to change the ratings of CNA's insurance subsidiaries. If those ratings
were downgraded as a result, the Company's results of operations and/or equity
could be materially adversely impacted.


  The table below reflects ratings issued by A.M. Best, S&P, Moody's and Fitch
as of February 24, 2003 for the CCC Pool, CIC Pool, CAC Pool and CNAGLA. Also
rated were CNA's senior debt and commercial paper and Continental senior debt.



NR = Not Rated
  All rating outlooks on the above ratings are stable unless otherwise noted.
* CAC and VFL are rated separately by Moody's and both have an A2 rating.

  During the fourth quarter of 2002, A.M. Best and Fitch affirmed the existing
financial strength ratings of each of the insurance pools and the debt ratings
of CNA as noted in the above table.

  In February of 2003, S&P affirmed the ratings of the property and casualty
pools, CCC and CIC, and downgraded the life pool, CAC, by one notch from A+ to
A. S&P cited that the downgrade of the life operations was primarily because
S&P wanted to bring the ratings on all the companies in the group closer
together and because the companies' business profile has changed over the past
two years.

  Corporate bonds comprise a significant portion of CNA's investment
portfolio. CNA regularly reviews the market value of these securities, and
challenges whether an other-than-temporary decline in value has occurred for
securities that are trading below cost (see Investments section, below). In
light of the current volatility in the financial markets and the dramatic
impact that several recent accounting scandals have had on specific issuers,
CNA may be subject to future impairment losses that could materially adversely
impact the Company's results of operations. Any future impairment losses would
not have a material impact on the Company's equity. See the discussion of
CNA's impairment committee in the investment section that follows.

  CNA's ability to pay dividends and other credit obligations is significantly
dependent on receipt of dividends from its subsidiaries. The payment of
dividends to CNA by its insurance subsidiaries without prior approval of the
insurance department of each subsidiary's domiciliary jurisdiction is limited
by formula. Dividends in excess of these amounts are subject to prior approval
by the respective state insurance departments.

  Dividends from CCC are subject to the insurance holding company laws of the
State of Illinois, the domiciliary state of CCC. Under these laws, ordinary
dividends, or dividends that do not require prior approval of the Department,
may be paid only from earned surplus, which is calculated by removing
unrealized gains from unassigned surplus. As of December 31, 2002, CCC's
earned surplus is in a positive position, thereby enabling CCC to pay
approximately $1,069.0 million of dividend payments during 2003 that would not
be subject to the Department's prior approval. The actual level of dividends
paid in any year is determined after an assessment of available dividend
capacity, holding company liquidity and cash needs as well as the impact the
dividends will have on the statutory surplus of the applicable insurance
company.

  CCC's positive earned surplus at December 31, 2002 is contrasted to its
negative earned surplus position at December 31, 2001. Prompted, in part, by
the negative earned surplus position at December 31, 2001, CNA embarked on a
capital realignment initiative within the CCC intercompany reinsurance pool
("Pool") during 2002, the benefits of which included the restoration of CCC's
earned surplus to a positive position. This initiative involved the payment of
dividends to CCC from its insurance subsidiaries during the fourth quarter of
2002. As a result of this distribution of the cumulative earnings of CCC's
insurance subsidiaries, CCC's earned surplus was restored to a positive level
at December 31, 2002, approximating $1,069.0 million.


  This initiative involved a change to the underwriting structure of CCC and
eight of its subsidiaries from the Pool structure to a structure in which CCC
assumes 100% of the net underwriting risks of the group of companies formerly
comprising the pool. This is CNA's first step in a multi-year project to
reduce duplicative legal entities, thereby facilitating more efficient
operations and cost savings.

  In addition, by agreement with the New Hampshire Insurance Department, as
well as certain other state insurance departments, dividend payments for the
CIC pool are restricted to internal and external debt service requirements
through September 2003 up to a maximum of $85.0 million annually, without the
prior approval of the New Hampshire Insurance Department. CNA's domestic
insurance subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital requirements. Risk-
based capital is a method developed by the NAIC to determine the minimum
amount of statutory capital appropriate for an insurance company to support
its overall business operations in consideration of its size and risk profile.
The formula for determining the amount of risk-based capital specifies various
factors, weighted based on the perceived degree of risk, which are applied to
certain financial balances and financial activity. The adequacy of a company's
actual capital is evaluated by a comparison to the risk-based capital results,
as determined by the formula. Companies below minimum risk-based capital
requirements are classified within certain levels, each of which requires
specified corrective action. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, all of CNA's
domestic insurance subsidiaries exceeded the minimum risk-based capital
requirements.

Lorillard

  Lorillard and other cigarette manufacturers continue to be confronted with
substantial litigation and regulatory issues. Approximately 4,500 product
liability cases are pending against cigarette manufacturers in the United
States. Of these, approximately 1,100 cases are pending in a West Virginia
court, and approximately 2,800 cases have been brought by flight attendants
alleging injury from exposure to environmental tobacco smoke in the cabins of
aircraft. Lorillard is a defendant in all of the flight attendant suits served
to date and is a defendant in most of the cases pending in West Virginia.

  The terms of the State Settlement Agreements require significant payments to
be made to the Settling States which began in 1998 and continue in perpetuity.
Lorillard's cash payment under the State Settlement Agreements in 2002 was
approximately $1.0 billion. In 2003, Lorillard anticipates its payments under
the State Settlement Agreements to range from $750.0 to $800.0 million in
accordance with the terms of those agreements.

  See Item 3 -Legal Proceedings and Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report for additional
information regarding this settlement and other litigation matters.

  Lorillard's marketable securities totaled $1,640.7 and $1,628.9 million at
December 31, 2002 and 2001. At December 31, 2002, fixed maturity securities
represented 92.8% of the total investment in marketable securities including
71.3% invested in Treasury Bills with an average duration of 60 days and 11.4%
invested in money market accounts.

  The principal source of liquidity for Lorillard's business and operating
needs is internally generated funds from its operations. Lorillard generated
net cash flow from operations of approximately $852.6 million for the year
ended December 31, 2002, compared to $709.7 million for the prior year. The
increased cash flow in 2002 reflects the absence of cash payments made in 2001
related to the Engle agreement and reduced inventory purchases. Lorillard
believes based on current conditions, that cash flows from operating
activities will be sufficient to enable it to meet its obligations under the
State Settlement Agreements and to fund its capital expenditures. Lorillard
cannot predict the impact on its cash flows of cash requirements related to
any future settlements or judgments, including cash required to bond any
appeals, if necessary, or the impact of subsequent legislative actions, and
thus can give no assurance that it will be able to meet all of those
requirements.

Loews Hotels

  In 2002, Loews Hotels, with its partners, opened a third hotel at Universal
Orlando in Florida. Capital expenditures in relation to these hotel projects
have been funded by a combination of equity from Loews Hotels and its
partners, and mortgages.


  Funds from operations continue to exceed operating requirements. Funds for
other capital expenditures and working capital requirements are expected to be
provided from existing cash balances and operations.

Diamond Offshore

  Diamond Offshore operates in an industry that is historically extremely
competitive and deeply cyclical. The demand for its services has traditionally
been highly correlated with the price of oil and natural gas. However the rise
in product prices that began in late 2001 and continued throughout 2002 did
not yield the expected improvements in utilization and dayrates for Diamond
Offshore's equipment.

  At December 31, 2002, Diamond Offshore's cash and marketable securities
totaled $812.5 million, down from $1.1 billion at December 31, 2001. Cash of
$199.1 million generated by repurchase agreements is included at December 31,
2001. Cash provided by operating activities was $281.2 million in 2002,
compared to $374.0 million in 2001. The decline is primarily due to reduced
net income in 2002.

  During the year ended December 31, 2002, Diamond Offshore spent $187.7
million, including capitalized interest expense, for rig upgrades. These
expenditures were primarily for the deepwater upgrade of the Ocean Rover
($98.4 million) which is expected to be completed in July 2003, upgrades to
six of Diamond Offshore's jack-ups ($50.7 million) of which three were
completed during 2002 and three are expected to be completed during 2003, and
the deepwater upgrade of the Ocean Baroness ($31.4 million) which was
completed in March 2002. Diamond Offshore expects to spend approximately $123
million for rig upgrade capital expenditures during 2003 for the completion of
the Ocean Rover upgrade ($80.0 million) and the three remaining jack-up
upgrades ($43.0 million).

  The significant upgrade of Diamond Offshore's semisubmersible rig, the Ocean
Baroness, to high specification capabilities resulted in an enhanced version
of Diamond Offshore's previous Victory-class upgrades. The upgrade was similar
to the upgrade being performed on the Ocean Rover. Diamond Offshore took
delivery of the Ocean Baroness in January 2002. The approximate cost of the
upgrade was $169.0 million.

  In 2002 Diamond Offshore began a two year program to expand the capabilities
of its jack-up fleet by significantly upgrading six of its 14 jack-up rigs.
Diamond Offshore expects to spend approximately $100.0 million on the program,
and as of December 31, 2002, has spent $57.0 million.

  All of Diamond Offshore's upgrade projects are subject to risks of delay or
cost overruns that are inherent in any large construction project.

  Diamond Offshore purchased the semisubmersible drilling rig Omega for $65.0
million in the first quarter of 2003.

  During the year ended December 31, 2002, Diamond Offshore spent $86.1
million in association with its ongoing rig equipment replacement and
enhancement programs and to meet other corporate requirements. These
expenditures included purchases of drill pipe, anchor chain, riser and other
drilling equipment. In addition, Diamond Offshore spent $68.5 million for the
purchase of the third-generation semisubmersible drilling rig, West Vanguard,
renamed Ocean Vanguard. Diamond Offshore has budgeted $111.3 million for 2003
capital expenditures associated with its ongoing rig equipment replacement and
enhancement programs and other corporate requirements.

  Cash required to meet Diamond Offshore's capital commitments is determined
by evaluating rig upgrades to meet specific customer requirements and by
evaluating Diamond Offshore's ongoing rig equipment replacement and
enhancement programs, including water depth and drilling capability upgrades.
It is the opinion of Diamond Offshore's management that operating cash flows
and existing cash reserves will be sufficient to meet these capital
commitments; however, periodic assessments will be made based on industry
conditions. In addition, Diamond Offshore may, from time to time, issue debt
or equity securities, or a combination thereof, to finance capital
expenditures, the acquisition of assets and businesses or for general
corporate purposes. Diamond Offshore's ability to issue any such securities
will be dependent on Diamond Offshore's results of operations, its current
financial condition, current market conditions and other factors beyond its
control.


Bulova

  For the year ended December 31, 2002, net cash utilized by operations was
$7.3 million as compared to net cash provided of $15.9 million in 2001. The
decrease in net cash flow is primarily the result of an increase in inventory
purchases related to the introduction of the Wittnauer product line, the
Harley Davidson licensed product, and the corresponding increase in accounts
receivable due to increased sales volume. These increases were partially
offset by a change in timing of accounts payable and accrued expenses.
Bulova's cash and cash equivalents, and short-term investments amounted to
$10.1 million at December 31, 2002, compared to $18.9 million at December 31,
2001.

  Bulova and the Company have a credit agreement which provides, under terms
and conditions set forth therein, for unsecured loans to Bulova by the Company
from time to time, in principal amounts aggregating up to $50.0 million.
Bulova has not utilized this credit agreement since 1995 and there are no
amounts outstanding. Bulova may require working capital advances under this
credit agreement to fund its capital expenditures and working capital
requirements associated with product line extensions and international
expansion efforts.

Majestic Shipping

  During 2002 subsidiaries of Hellespont acquired from a Korean shipyard three
new 442,500 deadweight ton, ultra-large crude carrying ships. A fourth such
ship has been contracted for with delivery expected by the end of the first
quarter of 2003. These subsidiaries were purchased by Hellespont from Majestic
at the Company's carrying value, excluding pretax capitalized interest expense
of $3.1 million, in March 2002. In partial consideration for this purchase,
Hellespont issued to Majestic a promissory note in the principal amount of
$57.5 million, which remains outstanding. The total cost of the three ships
delivered in 2002 amounted to approximately $277.8 million, and the fourth
ship is expected to cost approximately $93.0 million. Each ship has been, or
is expected to be, financed in part by $50.0 million of bank debt, for an
aggregate amount of up to $200.0 million of bank debt, guaranteed by
Hellespont. As of December 31, 2002, $150.0 million principal amount of this
debt was outstanding. The Company has agreed to provide credit support for
this bank debt by making available to the borrowers an operating cash flow
credit facility of up to an aggregate amount of $25.0 million, none of which
is outstanding.

Parent Company

  On February 6, 2002, the Company sold 40.3 million shares of a new class of
its common stock, referred to as Carolina Group stock, for net proceeds of
$1.1 billion. Proceeds from this sale have been allocated to the Loews Group
and were used for general corporate purposes.

  As of December 31, 2002, there were 185,441,200 shares of Loews Common Stock
outstanding. During 2002, the Company purchased 6,065,600 shares of Loews
Common Stock at an aggregate cost of $343.5 million. During 2002, the Company
purchased 2,717,876 shares of CNA common stock at an aggregate cost of $73.1
million. The Company also purchased 340,000 shares of Carolina Group Stock
during 2002, for the account of the Carolina Group, at an aggregate cost of
$7.7 million. Depending on market conditions, the Company from time to time
may purchase shares of its, and its subsidiaries', outstanding common stock in
the open market or otherwise. In addition, in December 2002 the Company
purchased from CNA $750.0 million of CNA series H cumulative preferred stock.

  The Company continues to pursue conservative financial strategies while
seeking opportunities for responsible growth. These include the expansion of
existing businesses, full or partial acquisitions and dispositions, and
opportunities for efficiencies and economies of scale.

INVESTMENTS

  Investment activities of non-insurance companies include investments in
fixed income securities, equity securities including short sales, derivative
instruments and short-term investments, and are carried at fair value. Equity
securities, which are considered part of the Company's trading portfolio,
short sales and derivative instruments are marked to market and reported as
investment gains or losses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

  The Company enters into short sales and invests in certain derivative
instruments for a number of purposes, including: (i) asset and liability
management activities, (ii) income enhancements for its portfolio management
strategy, and (iii) to benefit from anticipated future movements in the
underlying markets. If such movements do not occur as anticipated, then
significant losses may occur.


  Monitoring procedures include senior management review of daily detailed
reports of existing positions and valuation fluctuations to ensure that open
positions are consistent with the Company's portfolio strategy.

  The credit exposure associated with these instruments is generally limited
to the positive market value of the instruments and will vary based on changes
in market prices. The Company enters into these transactions with large
financial institutions and considers the risk of nonperformance to be remote.

  The Company does not believe that any of the derivative instruments utilized
by it are unusually complex, nor do these instruments contain embedded
leverage features which would expose the Company to a higher degree of risk.
See "Results of Operations," "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about
Market Risk" and Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included in Item 8 of this Report for additional information with respect to
derivative instruments, including recognized gains and losses on these
instruments.

Insurance

  The significant components of CNA's investment income are presented in the
following table:



  CNA experienced lower investment income in 2002 as compared with 2001. The
decrease was due primarily to decreased limited partnership results and lower
investment yields, partially offset by $34.0 million of dividend income from
Canary Wharf Group plc ("Canary Wharf"). See the Reinsurance section above for
additional information for interest costs on funds withheld and other
deposits, which is included in investment income, net. The interest costs on
these contracts increased significantly in 2001 because of ceded losses
resulting from the second quarter 2001 reserve strengthening and the WTC
event. The decline in limited partnership income was primarily attributable to
many of the same factors that impacted the broader financial markets. Limited
partnership investment performance, particularly high yield bond and equity
strategies, was adversely affected by overall market volatility including
concerns over corporate accounting practices and credit deterioration.

  CNA experienced lower investment income in 2001 as compared with 2000 due
primarily to the decrease in limited partnership income as well as the
increase in interest on funds withheld and other deposits. The decline in
limited partnership income was primarily attributable to many of the same
factors that impacted the broader financial markets. The bond segment of the
investment portfolio yielded 6.0% in 2002, 6.4% in 2001 and 6.7% in 2000.


  The components of CNA's net investment (losses) gains are presented in the
following table:



  Net investment results decreased $847.8 million in 2002 as compared with
2001. This decline was due primarily to the change in net investment gains
(losses) on Other Insurance segment taxable bonds and equity securities. The
$321.0 million increase in realized losses (after tax and minority interest)
of Other Insurance segment taxable bonds relates primarily to impairment
charges of $377.0 million recorded in various market sectors, the most
significant being the telecommunications sector. The $728.0 million change in
net investment gains (losses) (after tax and minority interest) of equity
securities relates primarily to CNA's 2001 gain of $566.0 million for the sale
of Global Crossing Ltd. common stock ("Global Crossing") and closing of the
related hedge agreements. Also included was $140.4 million (after tax and
minority interest) of 2002 impairments recorded in various market sectors.

  Also, during 2002, CNA completed the sale of several businesses, including
CNA Re U.K., the London-based reinsurer. Included in 2002 net realized
investment results was a $62.1 million gain (after tax and minority interest)
resulting from the sale of CNA Re U.K., which included a $34.1 million
reduction of the previously recognized impairment loss on CNA Re U.K. The
impairment loss recorded in 2001 for the sale of CNA Re U.K. and other
subsidiaries was $162.0 million after tax and minority interest. Further
details of these transactions are discussed below.

  Net realized investment gains increased $133.0 million in 2001 as compared
with 2000. This increase was due primarily to gains from closing the hedge
agreements, which were entered into during March 2000, related to CNA's
investment in Global Crossing of $566.0 million in 2001 as compared with
$274.0 million in 2000 as well as gains of $50.0 million, resulting from the
sale of a New York real estate property and gains from the sale of fixed
maturity security investments. This improvement was partially offset by
estimated losses recorded for the planned dispositions of certain operations,
principally CNA Re U.K. described in more detail below as well as decreases in
after tax and minority interest gains from the sale of Canary Wharf of $30.0
million in 2001 as compared with $251.0 million in 2000.

  A primary objective in the management of the fixed maturity and equity
portfolios is to maximize total return relative to underlying liabilities and
respective liquidity needs. In achieving this goal, assets may be sold to take
advantage of market conditions or other investment opportunities or credit and
tax considerations. This activity will produce realized gains and losses.

  CNA classifies its fixed maturity securities (bonds and redeemable preferred
stocks) and its equity securities as available-for-sale, and as such, they are
carried at fair value. The amortized cost of fixed maturity securities is
adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity,
which is included in investment income, net. Changes in fair value are
reported as a component of other comprehensive income.


  The following table provides further detail of gross realized gains and
losses on fixed maturity and equity securities:



  The largest realized losses from sales of securities aggregated by issuer
for the year ended December 31, 2002 totaled $254.0 million. The following
table provides details of those largest realized losses aggregated by issuer
including: the fair value of the securities at sales date, the amount of the
loss recorded and the period of time that the security had been in an
unrealized loss position prior to sale. The period of time that the security
had been in an unrealized loss position prior to sale can vary due to the
timing of individual security purchases. A narrative providing the industry
sector along with the facts and circumstances giving rise to the loss is
provided for each issuer.



- ------------

(a)  During 2002, the losses recorded in this asset class were due to changes
in interest rates and certain trading for duration management purposes.
Treasury bonds are used in many portfolios as duration management tools and
for liquidity in the course of asset/liability portfolio management.


(b)  The pressure to the IPP sector began in April of 2002. At July 31, 2002,
this issuer's financial condition was in good standing. A decision was made to
reduce the portfolio's overall exposure to this sector including this issuer.
(c)  The security had been previously impaired and continued to be held in
anticipation of proceeds from asset sales and liquidation of restaurant
holdings that did not materialize.
(d)  The issuer anticipated participating in proposed spectrum reallocation
that was being reviewed by the Federal Communications Commission. This process
was held up in the courts and took longer than expected. The trades that
generated the losses took place in the fourth quarter of 2002. The sales were
the result of a program to reduce exposures in this sector.
(e)  Securities currently held have been impaired. These losses relate to
trades that took place prior to impairment to reduce issuer exposure and
securities with less desirable collateral.
(f)  These losses were primarily attributable to the sale of fixed income and
convertible preferred securities. The bonds were sold in a rapidly
deteriorating market due to sector and issuer pressures.
(g)  These losses were generated by positions primarily held in convertible
preferred stock holdings. The price decline reflects the pressures of the
issuer, sector and general equity market conditions.
(h)  A portion of these securities were sold to reduce the overall position in
the telecom sector. The issuer reported a deterioration of their financial
condition and lost the financial support of its parent. The remaining
securities held were impaired when new financial information was revealed in
2002.
(i)  The losses are related to the sale of securities on early news of alleged
fraud and improper accounting practices. The value of securities held fell
rapidly and were impaired prior to the issuer filing bankruptcy.
(j)  The original holding was a private convertible preferred stock. The
issuer went public and all equity holders were required to convert to the new
common stock. At the time of the initial public offering, market conditions
negatively affected the transaction as originally planned. These losses
reflect the difference in the market value of the new common shares at the
time of issue and the basis of the original invested securities.
(k)  Losses realized were attributable to reducing exposure to the credit and
exchanging owned bonds for newly issued bonds with more desirable maturity
structures. Losses represent 3% of the consideration for bonds sold.

  Invested assets are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate, market
and credit. Due to the level of risk associated with certain invested assets
and the level of uncertainty related to changes in the value of these assets,
it is possible that changes in risks in the near term could have an adverse
impact on the Company's results of operations or equity.

  A significant judgment in the valuation of investments is the determination
of when an other-than-temporary decline in value has occurred. CNA follows a
consistent and systematic process for impairing securities that sustain other-
than-temporary declines in value. CNA has established a committee responsible
for the impairment process. This committee, referred to as the Impairment
Committee, is made up of three officers appointed by CNA's Chief Financial
Officer. The Impairment Committee is responsible for analyzing watch list
securities on at least a quarterly basis. The watch list includes individual
securities that fall below certain thresholds or that exhibit evidence of
impairment indicators including, but not limited to, a significant adverse
change in the financial condition and near term prospects of the investment or
a significant adverse change in legal factors, the business climate or credit
ratings.

  When a security is placed on the watch list, it is monitored for further
market value changes and additional news related to the issuer's financial
condition. The focus is on objective evidence that may influence the
evaluation of impairment factors.

  The decision to impair a security incorporates both quantitative criteria
and qualitative information. The Impairment Committee considers a number of
factors including, but not limited to: (a) the length of time and the extent
to which the market value has been less than book value, (b) the financial
condition and near term prospects of the issuer, (c) the intent and ability of
CNA to retain its investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any
anticipated recovery in value, (d) whether the debtor is current on interest
and principal payments and (e) general market conditions and industry or
sector specific factors.

  The Impairment Committee's decision to impair a security is primarily based
on whether the security's fair value is likely to remain significantly below
its book value in light of all of the factors considered. For securities that
are impaired, the security is written down to fair value and the resulting
losses are recognized as investment losses in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations.


  Realized investment losses included $890.0, $129.0 and $72.0 million of
pretax impairment losses for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000.
The impairments recorded in 2002 were primarily the result of the continued
credit deterioration on specific issuers in the bond and equity markets and
the effects on such markets due to the overall slowing of the economy.

  For the year ended December 31, 2002, the impairment losses recorded related
primarily to corporate bonds in the communications industry sectors including
$129.0 million related to WorldCom Inc., $74.0 million related to Adelphia
Communication Corporation, $60.0 million for Charter Communications, $57.0
million for AT&T Canada, and $53.0 million for Telewest PLC.

  For the year ended December 31, 2001 the impairment losses recorded related
primarily to corporate bonds and equities in the communications industry
sector including $31.0 million for MedicaLogic/Medscape, Inc. and $27.0
million for At Home Corporation.

  For the year ended December 31, 2000 the impairment losses recorded related
primarily to corporate bonds and equities and were largely spread amongst the
consumer, financial, and communications industry sectors including $14.0
million for Specialty Foods Corporation.

  If the deterioration in these industry sectors continues in future periods
and CNA continues to hold these securities, CNA is likely to have additional
impairments in the future.

  During the second quarter of 2001, CNA announced its intention to sell
certain businesses. The assets being held for disposition included CNA Re U.K.
and certain other businesses. Based upon the impairment analyses performed at
that time, CNA anticipated that it would realize losses in connection with
those planned sales. In determining the anticipated loss from these sales, CNA
estimated the net realizable value of each business being held for sale. An
estimated loss of $278.4 million (after tax and minority interest) was
initially recorded in the second quarter of 2001. This loss was reported in
other realized investment losses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

  In the fourth quarter of 2001, CNA sold certain businesses as planned. The
realized after tax loss applicable to these businesses recognized in the
second quarter of 2001 was $33.1 million (after tax and minority interest).
Revenues of these businesses included in the years ended December 31, 2001 and
2000 totaled approximately $30.0 and $37.0 million. These businesses
contributed approximately $9.6 and $6.9 million (after tax and minority
interest) of net losses in the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000.

  CNA regularly updates its impairment analyses and adjusts its loss as
necessary. Based on these updated analyses the impairment loss was reduced by
approximately $150.7 million (after tax and minority interest) in the fourth
quarter of 2001, primarily because the net assets of the businesses had been
significantly diminished by their operating losses, including adverse loss
reserve development recognized by CNA Re U.K. in the fourth quarter of 2001.
The reduction of the impairment was included in investment gains in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations.

  The statutory surplus of CNA Re U.K. was below the required regulatory
minimum surplus level at December 31, 2001. CCC contributed $120.0 million of
capital on March 25, 2002 bringing the capital above the regulatory minimum.

  On October 31, 2002, CNA completed the sale of CNA Re U.K. to Tawa. The sale
includes business underwritten since inception by CNA Re U.K., except for
certain risks retained by CCC as discussed below. In October, the sale was
approved in the United Kingdom by the Financial Services Authority ("FSA") and
by the Illinois Insurance Department. This sale does not impact CNA Re's on-
going U.S.-based operations.

  The purchase price was $1, subject to adjustments based primarily upon the
results of operations and realized foreign currency losses of CNA Re U.K. The
final purchase price adjustments were prepared by Tawa and have been agreed to
by CNA. Under the terms of the purchase price adjustment, CCC is entitled to
receive $5.0 million from Tawa after Tawa is able to legally withdraw funds
from the former CNA Re U.K. entities. CCC has also committed to contribute up
to $5.0 million to the former CNA Re U.K. entities over a four-year period
beginning in 2010 should the FSA deem those entities to be undercapitalized.
The purchase price adjustment related to foreign currency losses resulted in
CNA contributing additional capital to CNA Re U.K. of $11.0 million. As the
sale and related agreements have now been completed, CNA has finalized its
impairment analysis based upon the terms of the completed transactions. As
such, in


the fourth quarter of 2002, the impairment loss was reduced by approximately
$33.9 million (after tax and minority interest). The reduction of the
impairment was included in net realized investment gains.

  Concurrent with the sale, several reinsurance agreements under which CCC had
provided retrocessional protection to CNA Re U.K. were terminated. As part of
the sale, CNA Re U.K.'s net exposure to all IGI Program liabilities was
assumed by CCC. Further, CCC is providing a $100.0 million stop loss cover
attaching at carried reserves on CNA Re U.K.'s 2001 underwriting year
exposures for which CCC received premiums of $25.0 million.

  CNA Re U.K. had revenues of approximately $48.0, $280.0 and $605.0 million
for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. CNA Re U.K. net losses
were $19.7, $327.3 and $137.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2002,
2001 and 2000. The assets and liabilities of CNA Re U.K., including the
effects of the concurrent transactions, were approximately $2,442.0 and
$2,357.0 million at the date of sale and $2,557.0 and $2,541.0 million as of
December 31, 2001.

  Substantially all of CNA's invested assets are marketable securities
classified as available-for-sale in the accompanying consolidated financial
statements. Accordingly, changes in fair value for these securities are
reported in other comprehensive income.

  The following table details the carrying value of CNA's general and separate
account investment portfolios:



  CNA's general and separate account investment portfolio consists primarily
of publicly traded government bonds, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed
securities, municipal bonds and corporate bonds.

  Investments in the general account had a total net unrealized gain of $887.0
million at December 31, 2002 compared with $345.0 million at December 31,
2001. The unrealized position at December 31, 2002 was composed of a net
unrealized gain of $742.0 million for fixed maturities, a net unrealized gain
of $147.0 million for equity securities and a net unrealized loss of $2.0
million for short term securities. The unrealized position at December 31,
2001 was composed of a net unrealized gain of $194.0 million for fixed
maturities, a net unrealized gain of $170.0 million for equity securities and
a net unrealized loss of $19.0 million for short term securities.

  Unrealized gains (losses) on fixed maturity and equity securities are
presented in the following tables:






  CNA's investment policies for both the general and separate accounts
emphasize high credit quality and diversification by industry, issuer and
issue. Assets supporting interest rate sensitive liabilities are segmented
within the general account to facilitate asset/liability duration management.

  At December 31, 2002, the carrying value of the general account fixed
maturities was $26,275.0 million, representing 74.0% of CNA's total investment
portfolio. The net unrealized gain of this fixed maturity portfolio was $742.0
million, comprising gross unrealized gains of $1,377.0 million and gross
unrealized losses of $635.0 million. The gross unrealized losses were
primarily in corporate bonds with the largest industry sectors being
Utilities, Communications and Consumer-Cyclical, which as a percentage of
total gross unrealized losses were 23.0%, 17.0% and 16.0%. Gross unrealized
losses in any single issuer did not exceed 0.2% of the carrying value of the
total general account fixed maturity portfolio.

  The following table provides the composition of fixed maturity securities
with an unrealized loss in relation to the total of all fixed maturity
securities with an unrealized loss by contractual maturities.




  The following table summarizes for fixed maturity and equity securities in
an unrealized loss position, the aggregate fair value and gross unrealized
loss by length of time those securities have been continuously in an
unrealized loss position.



  CNA's non-investment grade fixed maturity securities held as of December 31,
2002 that were in an unrealized loss position had a fair value of
approximately $2.0 billion. As discussed previously, a significant judgment in
the valuation of investments is the determination of when an other-than-
temporary impairment has occurred. CNA's Impairment Committee analyzes
securities placed on the watch list on at least a quarterly basis. Part of
this analysis is to monitor the length of time and severity of the decline
below book value of the watch list securities. The following table summarizes
the fair value and gross unrealized loss of non-investment grade securities
categorized by the length of time those securities have been in a continuous
unrealized loss position and further categorized by the severity of the
unrealized loss position in 10.0% increments as of December 31, 2002.



  The non-investment grade securities that were in an unrealized loss severity
of less than 70.0% for longer than six months as of December 31, 2002
primarily consisted of securities in the utilities, communication and
transportation


sectors representing 35.0%, 21.0% and 17.0% respectively of the gross
unrealized loss. The non-investment grade securities that were in an
unrealized loss severity of less than 70.0% for greater than 24 months as of
December 31, 2002 primarily consisted of securities in the communications and
transportation sector representing 40.0% and 34.0%, of the gross unrealized
loss. Unrealized losses in the communication sector are predominately
attributable to a European leader in telecommunication services. The
unrealized losses on securities held in the transportation sector are
primarily comprised of debt issued from a major domestic airline.

  As part of the ongoing impairment monitoring process, the Impairment
Committee has evaluated the facts and circumstances based on available
information for each of these non-investment grade securities and determined
that no further impairments were necessary at December 31, 2002. This
determination was based on a number of factors that the Committee regularly
considers including, but not limited to: the issuers' ability to meet current
and future interest and principal payments, an evaluation of the issuers'
financial condition and near term prospects, CNA's sector outlook and
estimates of the fair value of any underlying collateral. In all cases where a
decline in value is judged to be temporary, CNA had the intent and ability to
hold these securities for a period of time sufficient to recover the book
value of its investment through a recovery in the market value of such
securities or by holding the securities to maturity. In many cases, the
securities held are matched to liabilities as part of ongoing asset/liability
duration management. As such the Impairment Committee continually assesses its
ability to hold securities for a time sufficient to recover any temporary loss
in value or until maturity. CNA maintains sufficient levels of liquidity so as
to not impact the asset/liability management process.

CNA's equity securities held as of December 31, 2002 that were in an
unrealized loss position had a fair value of $206.0 million. CNA's Impairment
Committee, under the same process as fixed maturity securities, monitors the
equity securities for other-than-temporary declines in value. In all cases
where a decline in value is judged to be temporary, CNA expects to recover the
book value of its investment through a recovery in the market value of the
security.

  The general account portfolio consists primarily of high quality (rated BBB
or higher) bonds, 89.0% and 92.0% of which are rated as investment grade at
December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

  The following table summarizes the ratings of CNA's general account bond
portfolio at carrying value:



  At December 31, 2002 and 2001, approximately 97% of the general account
portfolio was U.S. Government agencies or was rated by S&P or Moody's
Investors Service ("Moody's"). The remaining bonds were rated by other rating
agencies or CNA management.


  The following table summarizes the bond ratings of the investments
supporting CNA's separate account products, which guarantee principal and a
specified rate of interest:



  At December 31, 2002 and 2001, more than 99.0% of the separate account
portfolio was U.S. government agencies or was rated by S&P or Moody's. The
remaining bonds were rated by other rating agencies or CNA management.

  Non investment-grade bonds, as presented in the tables above, are high-yield
securities rated below BBB by bond rating agencies, as well as other unrated
securities that, in the opinion of management, are below investment-grade.
High-yield securities generally involve a greater degree of risk than
investment-grade securities. However, expected returns should compensate for
the added risk. This risk is also considered in the interest rate assumptions
for the underlying insurance products.

  The carrying value of non-traded private placement securities at December
31, 2002 was $237.0 million which represents 0.7% of CNA's total investment
portfolio. These securities were in a net unrealized loss position of $0.4
million at December 31, 2002. Of the non-traded securities, 78.0% are priced
by unrelated third party sources.

  Included in CNA's general account fixed maturity securities at December 31,
2002 are $8,208.0 million of asset-backed securities, at fair value,
consisting of approximately 67.0% in collateralized mortgage obligations
("CMOs"), 11.0% in corporate asset-backed obligations, 7.0% in U.S. Government
agency issued pass-through certificates and 15.0% in corporate mortgage-backed
pass-through certificates. The majority of CMOs held are actively traded in
liquid markets and are priced by broker-dealers.

  The carrying value of the components of the general account short term
investment portfolio is presented in the following table:



  CNA invests in certain derivative financial instruments primarily to reduce
its exposure to market risk (principally interest rate, equity price and
foreign currency risk) and credit risk (risk of nonperformance of underlying
obligor). CNA considers the derivatives in its general account to be held for
purposes other than trading. Derivative securities are recorded at fair value
at the reporting date.

  Most derivatives in separate accounts are held for hedging purposes. CNA
uses these derivatives to mitigate market risk by purchasing S&P 500 index
futures in a notional amount equal to the contract liability relating to Life
Operations' Index 500 guaranteed investment contract product.


ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

  In June of 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset
Retirement Obligations." SFAS No. 143 applies to the accounting and reporting
obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and
the associated asset retirement costs. This Statement applies to legal
obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets that result
from the acquisition, construction, development and/or the normal operation of
a long-lived asset, except for certain obligations of lessees. Adoption of
this Statement is required for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002.
Adoption of these provisions will not have a material impact on the equity or
results of operations of the Company.

  In December of 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-
Based Compensation-Transition and Disclosure." The Statement amends SFAS No.
123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," to provide alternative methods
of transition for an entity that voluntarily changes the accounting for stock-
based employee compensation. The statement also amends the disclosure
provisions to require prominent disclosure about the effects on reported net
income of an entity's accounting policy decisions with respect to stock-based
compensation. Finally, this Statement amends Accounting Principles Board
("APB") Opinion No. 28, "Interim Financial Reporting," to require disclosure
of those effects in interim financial information. The disclosure and
transition requirements are effective for financial statements of interim or
annual periods ending after December 15, 2002. The amendment to APB No. 28 is
required to be adopted for interim periods ending after December 15, 2002. The
Company has not changed its accounting policies related to stock-based
compensation.

  In January of 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. ("FIN") 46,
"Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No.
51." This Interpretation clarifies the application of ARB No. 51,
"Consolidated Financial Statements," to certain entities in which equity
investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest.
Prior to the issuance of this Interpretation, ARB No. 51 defined a controlling
financial interest as ownership of a majority voting interest. FIN 46 requires
an entity to consolidate a variable interest entity even though the entity
does not, either directly or indirectly, own more than 50% of the outstanding
voting shares.

  FIN 46 defines a variable interest entity as having one or both of the
following characteristics (1) the equity investment at risk is not sufficient
to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated
financial support from other parties or (2) the equity investors lack one or
more of the following (a) the direct or indirect ability to make decisions
about the entity's activities through voting rights or similar rights, (b) the
obligation to absorb the expected losses of the entity, if they occur, which
makes it possible for the entity to finance its activities and (c) the right
to receive the expected residual returns of the entity, if they occur, which
is the compensation for the risk of absorbing the expected losses.

  FIN 46 applies immediately to variable interest entities created after
January 31, 2003, and to interests obtained after that date to an interim
reporting period beginning after June 15, 2003. The Company is currently
evaluating the impact FIN 46 may have on its financial statements.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

  Certain statements made or incorporated by reference by the Company in this
Report are "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the federal
securities laws. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any
statement that may project, indicate or imply future results, events,
performance or achievements, and may contain the words "expect," "intend,"
"plan," "anticipate," "estimate," "believe," "will be," "will continue," "will
likely result," and similar expressions. Statements in this report that
contain forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements
regarding CNA's insurance business relating to asbestos, pollution and mass
tort claims, expected cost savings and other results from restructuring
activities; statements regarding insurance reserves and statements regarding
planned disposition of certain businesses; statements regarding litigation and
developments affecting Lorillard's tobacco business including, among other
things statements regarding claims, litigation and settlement, and statements
regarding regulation of the industry; statements regarding Diamond Offshore's
business including, without limitation, statements with respect to
expenditures for rig conversion and upgrade, oil and gas price levels, and
exploration and production activity.


  Such statements inherently are subject to a variety of risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
anticipated or projected. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others,
the impact of competitive products, policies and pricing; product and policy
availability and demand and market responses, including the effect of the
absence of applicable terrorism legislation on coverages; development of
claims and the effect on loss reserves; exposure to liabilities due to claims
made by insured and others relating to asbestos remediation and health-based
asbestos impairments, and exposure to liabilities for environmental pollution
and mass tort claims; the sufficiency of CNA's loss reserves and the
possibility of future increases in reserves; the performance of reinsurance
companies under reinsurance contracts; the effects of corporate bankruptcies
and/or accounting restatements (such as Enron and WorldCom) on the financial
markets, and the resulting decline in value of securities held by the Company
which may result in additional charges for impairment; the effects of
corporate bankruptcies and/or accounting restatements on the markets for
directors and officers and errors and omissions coverages; limitations upon
CNA's ability to receive dividends from its insurance subsidiaries imposed by
state regulatory agencies; regulatory limitations and restrictions upon CNA
and its insurance subsidiaries generally; judicial decisions and rulings; the
possibility of downgrades in CNA's ratings by ratings agencies and changes in
rating agency policies and practices, and the results of financing efforts.

  The tobacco industry continues to be subject to health concerns relating to
the use of tobacco products and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke,
legislation, including actual and potential excise tax increases, increasing
marketing and regulatory restrictions, governmental regulation, privately
imposed smoking restrictions, litigation, including risks associated with
adverse jury and judicial determinations, courts reaching conclusions at
variance with the general understandings of applicable law, bonding
requirements and the absence of adequate appellate remedies to get timely
relief from any of the foregoing, and the effects of price increases related
to concluded tobacco litigation settlements and excise tax increases on
consumption rates.

  In addition to the factors noted above, all aspects of the operations of the
Company and its subsidiaries are affected by the impact of general economic
and business conditions, changes in financial markets (interest rate, credit,
currency, commodities and equities) or in the value of specific investments;
changes in domestic and foreign political, social and economic conditions, the
economic effects of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the impact of
judicial rulings and jury verdicts, regulatory initiatives and compliance with
governmental regulations and various other matters, many of which are beyond
the control of the Company and its subsidiaries.

  Developments in any of these areas, which are more fully described elsewhere
in this Report could cause the Company's results to differ materially from
results that have been or may be anticipated or projected by or on behalf of
the Company and its subsidiaries. These forward-looking statements speak only
as of the date of this Report. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation
or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-
looking statement contained herein to reflect any change in the Company's
expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or
circumstances on which any statement is based.


SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION

  The following supplemental condensed financial information reflects the
financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Loews Corporation
with its investments in CNA and Diamond Offshore accounted for on an equity
basis rather than as consolidated subsidiaries. It does not purport to present
the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles because it does
not comply with SFAS No. 94, "Consolidation of All Majority-Owned
Subsidiaries." Management believes, however, that this disaggregated financial
data enhances an understanding of the consolidated financial statements by
providing users with a format that management uses in assessing the Company.
The supplemental financial information for 2001 and 2000 has been restated to
reflect an adjustment to the Company's historical accounting for CNA's
investment in life settlement contracts and the related revenue recognition.
See Notes 1 and 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included
in Item 8.







Condensed Statements of Cash Flow Information




Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

  The Company is a large diversified financial services company. As such, it
and its subsidiaries have significant amounts of financial instruments that
involve market risk. The Company's measure of market risk exposure represents
an estimate of the change in fair value of its financial instruments. Changes
in the trading portfolio would be recognized as investment gains (losses) in
the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Market risk exposure is presented
for each class of financial instrument held by the Company at December 31,
assuming immediate adverse market movements of the magnitude described below.
The Company believes that the various rates of adverse market movements
represent a measure of exposure to loss under hypothetically assumed adverse
conditions. The estimated market risk exposure represents the hypothetical
loss to future earnings and does not represent the maximum possible loss nor
any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual
adverse fluctuations would likely differ. In addition, since the Company's
investment portfolio is subject to change based on its portfolio management
strategy as well as in response to changes in the market, these estimates are
not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur.

  Exposure to market risk is managed and monitored by senior management.
Senior management approves the overall investment strategy employed by the
Company and has responsibility to ensure that the investment positions are
consistent with that strategy and the level of risk acceptable to it. The
Company may manage risk by buying or selling instruments or entering into
offsetting positions.

  Equity Price Risk - The Company has exposure to equity price risk as a
result of its investment in equity securities and equity derivatives. Equity
price risk results from changes in the level or volatility of equity prices
which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their
value from such securities or indexes. Equity price risk was measured assuming
an instantaneous 25% change in the underlying reference price or index from
its level at December 31, 2002 and 2001, with all other variables held
constant.

  Interest Rate Risk - The Company has exposure to interest rate risk arising
from changes in the level or volatility of interest rates. The Company
attempts to mitigate its exposure to interest rate risk by utilizing
instruments such as interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, commitments to
purchase securities, options, futures and forwards. The Company monitors its
sensitivity to interest rate risk by evaluating the change in the value of its
financial assets and liabilities due to fluctuations in interest rates. The
evaluation is performed by applying an instantaneous change in interest rates
by varying magnitudes on a static balance sheet to determine the effect such a
change in rates would have on the recorded market value of the Company's
investments and the resulting effect on shareholders' equity. The analysis
presents the sensitivity of the market value of the Company's financial
instruments to selected changes in market rates and prices which the Company
believes are reasonably possible over a one-year period.

  The sensitivity analysis estimates the change in the market value of the
Company's interest sensitive assets and liabilities that were held on December
31, 2002 and 2001 due to instantaneous parallel shifts in the yield curve of
100 basis points, with all other variables held constant.

  The interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate
in advance of changes in market interest rates, while interest rates on other
types may lag behind changes in market rates. Accordingly the analysis may not
be indicative of, is not intended to provide, and does not provide a precise
forecast of the effect of changes of market interest rates on the Company's
earnings or shareholders' equity. Further, the computations do not contemplate
any actions the Company could undertake in response to changes in interest
rates.

  The Company's long-term debt, as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 is
denominated in U.S. Dollars. The Company's debt has been primarily issued at
fixed rates, and as such, interest expense would not be impacted by interest
rate shifts. The impact of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on
fixed rate debt would result in a decrease in market value of $374.6 and
$395.0 million, respectively. A 100 basis point decrease would result in an
increase in market value of $440.1 and $464.6 million, respectively.

  Foreign Exchange Rate Risk - Foreign exchange rate risk arises from the
possibility that changes in foreign currency exchange rates will impact the
value of financial instruments. The Company has foreign exchange rate exposure
when it buys or sells foreign currencies or financial instruments denominated
in a foreign currency. This exposure is mitigated by the Company's
asset/liability matching strategy and through the use of futures for those
instruments which are not matched. The Company's foreign transactions are
primarily denominated in Canadian Dollars, British Pounds and the


European Monetary Unit. The sensitivity analysis also assumes an instantaneous
20% change in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar from
their levels at December 31, 2002 and 2001, with all other variables held
constant.

  Commodity Price Risk - The Company has exposure to commodity price risk as a
result of its investments in gold options. Commodity price risk results from
changes in the level or volatility of commodity prices that impact instruments
which derive their value from such commodities. Commodity price risk was
measured assuming an instantaneous change of 20% from their levels at December
31, 2002 and 2001.

  The following tables present the Company's market risk by category (equity
markets, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices)
on the basis of those entered into for trading purposes and other than trading
purposes.

Trading portfolio:



Note:  The calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed
       adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a
       decrease in equity prices of 25%, (2) a decrease in interest rates of
       100 basis points at December 31, 2002 and an increase in interest rates
       of 100 basis points at December 31, 2001 and (3) a decrease in gold
       prices of 20% at December 31, 2002 and an increase in gold prices of
       20% at December 31, 2001. Adverse changes on options which differ from
       those presented above would not necessarily result in a proportionate
       change to the estimated market risk exposure.

(a)  In addition, the Separate Accounts carry positions in equity index
     futures. A decrease in equity prices of 25% would result in market risk
     amounting to $(151.0) and $(217.0) million at December 31, 2002 and 2001,
     respectively. This market risk would be offset by decreases in
     liabilities to customers under variable insurance contracts.


Other than trading portfolio:



Note:  The calculation of estimated market risk exposure is based on assumed
       adverse changes in the underlying reference price or index of (1) a
       decrease in equity prices of 25% and (2) an increase in interest rates
       of 100 basis points.

(a)  Certain securities are denominated in foreign currencies. An assumed 20%
     decline in the underlying exchange rates would result in an aggregate
     foreign currency exchange rate risk of $(148.0), and $(114.0) million at
     December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

(b)  Certain fixed maturities positions include options embedded in
     convertible debt securities. A decrease in underlying equity prices of
     25% would result in market risk amounting to $(24.0) and $(50.0) million
     at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.


Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.



See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.







See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.




See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.







See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Loews Corporation and Subsidiaries
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

  Basis of presentation - Loews Corporation is a holding company. Its
subsidiaries are engaged in the following lines of business: property,
casualty and life insurance (CNA Financial Corporation ("CNA"), a 90% owned
subsidiary); the production and sale of cigarettes (Lorillard, Inc.
("Lorillard"), a wholly owned subsidiary); the operation of hotels (Loews
Hotels Holding Corporation ("Loews Hotels"), a wholly owned subsidiary); the
operation of offshore oil and gas drilling rigs (Diamond Offshore Drilling,
Inc. ("Diamond Offshore"), a 54% owned subsidiary); and the distribution and
sale of watches and clocks (Bulova Corporation ("Bulova"), a 97% owned
subsidiary). Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms "Company" and
"Registrant" as used herein mean Loews Corporation excluding its subsidiaries.

  Principles of consolidation - The consolidated financial statements include
all significant subsidiaries and all material intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated. The equity method of accounting is used for
investments in associated companies in which the Company generally has an
interest of 20% to 50%.

  Accounting estimates - The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and the related
notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

  Restatement for CNA's Life Settlement Contract Accounting - As a result of a
routine review of CNA's periodic filings by the Division of Corporation
Finance of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), the Company has
restated its financial statements. The restated financial statements reflect
an adjustment to the Company's historical accounting for CNA's investment in
life settlement contracts and the related revenue recognition. See Note 23 for
additional information.

  Accounting changes - In 2002, the Company implemented the provisions of the
Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Emerging Issues Task Force
("EITF") Issue No. 00-14, "Accounting for Certain Sales Incentives," EITF
Issue No. 00-25, "Vendor Income Statement Characterization of Consideration
from a Vendor to a Retailer" and EITF Issue No. 01-14 "Income Statement
Characterization of Reimbursements Received for 'Out-of-Pocket' Expenses
Incurred." EITF Issue No. 00-14 addresses the recognition, measurement, and
income statement characterization of sales incentives, including rebates,
coupons and free products or services, offered voluntarily by a vendor without
charge to the customer that can be used in, or that are exercisable by a
customer as a result of, a single exchange transaction. EITF Issue No. 00-25
addresses whether consideration from a vendor to a reseller of the vendor's
products is (i) an adjustment of the selling prices of the vendor's products
and, therefore, should be deducted from revenue when recognized in the
vendor's income statement or (ii) a cost incurred by the vendor for assets or
services received from the reseller and, therefore, should be included as a
cost or an expense when recognized in the vendor's income statement. EITF 01-
14 requires a company to record the gross amount billed to its customers as
revenue as opposed to a reduction of expenses. As a result, reimbursements
received from customers have been reclassified from other operating expenses
to other revenues. In addition, promotional expenses historically included in
other operating expenses were reclassified to cost of manufactured products
sold, or as reductions of revenues from manufactured products. Prior period
amounts were reclassified for comparative purposes. Adoption of these
provisions did not have any impact on the equity or results of operations of
the Company.

  In June of 2001, the FASB issued a Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards ("SFAS") No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." SFAS No.
142 changes the accounting for goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite
lives from an amortization method to an impairment-only approach. Amortization
of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives recorded in past
business combinations ceased effective January 1, 2002, upon adoption of SFAS
No. 142. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2002 does not include
amortization expense on goodwill. Had the Company not amortized goodwill in
2001 and 2000, pro forma net (loss) income and the related basic and diluted
earnings per share amounts for Loews common stock would have been as follows:




  During the third quarter of 2002, the Company completed its initial goodwill
impairment testing and recorded a $39.6 million impairment charge, as adjusted
to reflect purchase accounting adjustments, net of income taxes and minority
interest of $5.8 and $6.4 million, respectively. In accordance with SFAS No.
142, the impairment charge, which primarily relates to CNA's Specialty Lines
and Life Operations, was recorded as a cumulative effect of a change in
accounting principle as of January 1, 2002. Any impairment losses incurred
after the initial application of this standard will be reported in operating
results.

  Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for
the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." SFAS No. 144 essentially
applies one accounting model for long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale,
whether previously held and used or newly acquired, and broadens the
presentation of discontinued operations to include more disposal transactions.
Adoption of these provisions did not have a material impact on the equity or
results of operations of the Company; however, it did impact the income
statement presentation of certain operations sold in 2002.

  In June of 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs
Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities." SFAS No. 146 addresses financial
accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities
and supercedes EITF No. 94-3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee
Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain
Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)." The Company adopted the provisions of
SFAS No. 146 for all disposal activities initiated after June 30, 2002. The
adoption of SFAS No. 146 did not have a significant impact on the results of
operations or equity of the Company.

  In November of 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. ("FIN") 45,
"Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, including
Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others (an interpretation of SFAS No.
5, 57, and 107 and rescission of FIN 34)." FIN 45 elaborates on the
disclosures to be made by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial
statements about its obligations under certain guarantees that it has issued.
It also clarifies that a guarantor is required to recognize, at the inception
of a guarantee, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in
issuing the guarantee. The initial recognition and measurement provisions are
required on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after
December 31, 2002. The disclosure requirements are effective for financial
statements of interim or annual periods ending after December 15, 2002. The
Company has implemented the disclosure requirements of FIN 45 and will record
the initial recognition and measurement provisions for any guarantees issued
or modified subsequent to December 31, 2002.

  In the first quarter of 2001, the Company adopted SFAS No. 133, "Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" and SFAS No. 138,
"Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities"
(collectively referred to as SFAS No. 133). The initial adoption of SFAS No.
133 did not have a significant impact on the equity of the Company; however,
adoption of SFAS No. 133 resulted in a charge to 2001 earnings of $53.3
million, net of income taxes and minority interest of $33.0 and $8.0 million,
respectively, to reflect the change in accounting principle. Of this
transition amount, approximately $50.5 million, net of income taxes and
minority interest, related to CNA's investments and investment-related
derivatives. Because CNA already carried its investment and investment-related
derivatives at fair value through other comprehensive income, there was an
equal and offsetting favorable adjustment of $50.5 million to shareholders'
equity (accumulated other comprehensive income). The remainder of the
transition adjustment is primarily attributable to collateralized debt
obligation products that are classified as derivatives under SFAS No. 133. See
Note 4 for a complete discussion of the Company's adoption of these accounting
pronouncements.


  Investments - Investments in securities, which are held principally by
insurance subsidiaries of CNA are carried as follows:

  The Company's fixed maturity securities (bonds and redeemable preferred
stocks) and its equity securities held principally by insurance subsidiaries
are classified as available-for-sale and carried at fair value. Changes in
fair value are recorded as a component of other comprehensive income in
shareholders' equity, net of applicable deferred income taxes and
participating policyholders' and minority interest. The amortized cost of
fixed maturity securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and
accretion of discounts to maturity, which are included in investment income.
Investments are written down to fair value and losses are recognized in income
when a decline in value is determined to be other-than-temporary. See Note 2
for information related to the Company's impairment charges.

  For asset-backed securities included in fixed maturity securities, the
Company recognizes income using a constant effective yield based on
anticipated prepayments and the estimated economic life of the securities.
When estimates of prepayments change, the effective yield is recalculated to
reflect actual payments to date and anticipated future payments. The net
investment in the securities is adjusted to the amount that would have existed
had the new effective yield been applied since the acquisition of the
securities. Such adjustments are reflected in investment income.

  Securities in the parent company's investment portfolio that are not part of
its cash management activities are classified as trading securities in order
to reflect the Company's investment philosophy. These investments are carried
at fair value with the net unrealized gain or loss included in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations.

  Short-term investments consist primarily of U.S. government securities,
money market funds and commercial paper. These investments are generally
carried at fair value, which approximates amortized cost.

  All securities transactions are recorded on the trade date. The cost of
securities sold is generally determined by the identified certificate method.
Investments are written down to estimated fair values, and losses are charged
to income when a decline in value is considered to be other-than-temporary.

  Other invested assets include investments in limited partnerships and
certain derivative securities. The Company's limited partnership investments
are recorded at fair value typically reflecting a reporting lag of up to three
months, with changes in fair value reported in investment income. Fair value
of the Company's limited partnership investments represents the Company's
equity in the partnership's net assets as determined by the general partner.
The carrying value of the Company's limited partnership investments was
$1,157.6 and $1,307.0 million as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

  Limited partnerships are a relatively small portion of the Company's overall
investment portfolio. The majority of the limited partnerships invest in a
substantial number of securities that are readily marketable. The Company is a
passive investor in such partnerships and does not have influence over the
partnership management, who are committed to operate them according to
established guidelines and strategies. These strategies may include the use of
leverage and hedging techniques that potentially introduce more volatility and
risk to the partnerships.

  Investments in derivative securities are carried at fair value with changes
in fair value reported as a component of realized gains or losses or other
comprehensive income, depending on their hedge designation. Changes in the
fair value of derivatives securities which are not designated as hedges, are
reported as a component of investment gains or losses in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations.

  Derivative financial investments - A derivative is typically defined as an
instrument whose value is "derived" from an underlying instrument, index or
rate, has a notional amount, requires little or no initial investment, and can
be net settled. Derivatives include, but are not limited to, the following
types of investments: interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, put
and call options, warrants, futures, forwards and commitments to purchase
securities and combinations of the foregoing. Derivatives embedded within non-
derivative instruments (such as call options embedded in convertible bonds)
must be split from the host instrument and accounted for in accordance with
SFAS No. 133 when the embedded derivative is not clearly and closely related
to the host instrument. In addition, non-investment instruments, including
certain types of insurance contracts, mainly Collateralized Debt Obligation


liabilities ("CDOs") and synthetic guaranteed investment contracts ("synthetic
GICs") that have historically not been considered derivatives, may be
derivatives or contain embedded derivatives under SFAS No. 133.

  CDOs represent a credit enhancement product that is typically structured in
the form of a swap. CNA has determined that this product is a derivative under
SFAS No. 133. Changes in the estimated fair value of CDOs, like other
derivative financial instruments with no hedge designation, are recorded in
realized gains or losses as appropriate. CNA did not incur any default losses
in 2002. CNA incurred approximately $25.0 and $13.0 million of default losses
on these products for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. CNA is no longer writing this product.

  In the normal course of business, CNA, through Group Operations, markets
synthetic GICs to institutional customers. These contracts are accounted for
as derivative financial instruments. Synthetic GICs are guaranteed investment
contracts that simulate the performance of a traditional GIC through the use
of financial instruments. A key difference between a synthetic GIC and a
traditional GIC is that the contract owner owns the financial instruments
underlying the synthetic GIC; whereas, the contract owner owns only the
contract itself with a traditional GIC. CNA mitigates its exposure under these
contracts by maintaining the ability to reset the crediting rate on a
monthly/quarterly basis. This rate reset effectively passes any cash flow
volatility and asset underperformance back to the contract owner.

  SFAS No. 133 requires that all derivative instruments be recorded in the
balance sheet at fair value. The Company's derivatives are reported as other
invested assets, with the exception of CDOs and synthetic GICs which are
reported as other assets and/or other liabilities. Embedded derivative
instruments subject to bifurcation are also accounted for on a fair value
basis and reported together with the host contract. If certain criteria are
met, a derivative may be specifically designated as a hedge of exposures to
changes in fair value, cash flows or foreign currency exchange rates. The
accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on
the intended use of the derivative and the nature of any hedge designation
thereon. The Company's accounting for changes in the fair value of derivative
instruments is as follows:



  Changes in the fair value of derivatives held in CNA's separate accounts are
reflected in separate account earnings. Because separate account investments
are generally carried at fair value with changes therein reflected in separate
account earnings, hedge accounting is generally not applicable to separate
account derivatives.

  Securities sold under agreements to repurchase - The Company lends
securities to unrelated parties, primarily major brokerage firms. Borrowers of
these securities must deposit collateral with the Company of at least 102% of
the fair value of the securities loaned, if the collateral is cash or
securities. The Company maintains effective control over all loaned securities
and, therefore, continues to report such securities as fixed maturity
securities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

  Cash collateral received on these transactions is invested in short-term
investments with an offsetting liability recognized for the obligation to
return the collateral. Non-cash collateral, such as securities or letters of
credit, received by the Company are not reflected as assets of the Company as
there exists no right to sell or repledge the collateral. The fair value of
collateral held and included in short-term investments was $544.0 and
$1,591.5 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001; The fair value of non-cash
collateral was $777.0 and $413.0 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001.


  Insurance Operations - Insurance premiums - Insurance premiums on property
and casualty, and accident and health insurance contracts are recognized in
proportion to the underlying risk insured which principally is earned ratably
over the duration of the policies after deductions for ceded insurance
premiums. The reserve for unearned premium on these contracts represents the
portion of premiums written relating to the unexpired terms of coverage.

  Property and casualty contracts that are retrospectively rated contain
contract provisions that result in an adjustment to the initial policy premium
depending on the contract provisions and loss experience of the insured during
the experience period. For such contracts, CNA estimates the amount of
ultimate premiums that CNA may earn upon completion of the experience period
and recognizes either an asset or a liability for the difference between the
initial policy premium and the estimated ultimate premium. CNA adjusts such
estimated ultimate premium amounts during the course of the experience period
based on actual results to date. The resulting adjustment is recorded as
either a reduction of or an increase to the earned premium for the period.

  Revenues on interest sensitive contracts are comprised of contract charges
and fees, which are recognized over the coverage period. Premiums for other
life insurance products and annuities are recognized as revenue when due,
after deductions for ceded insurance premiums.

  Claim and claim adjustment expense reserves - Claim and claim adjustment
expense reserves, except reserves for structured settlements not associated
with environmental pollution and mass tort and asbestos ("APMT"), workers
compensation lifetime claims and accident and health disability claims, are
not discounted and are based on (i) case basis estimates for losses reported
on direct business, adjusted in the aggregate for ultimate loss expectations,
(ii) estimates of incurred but not reported losses, ("IBNR"), (iii) estimates
of losses on assumed reinsurance, (iv) estimates of future expenses to be
incurred in the settlement of claims, and (v) estimates of salvage and
subrogation recoveries. Management considers current conditions and trends as
well as past CNA and industry experience in establishing these estimates. The
effects of inflation, which can be significant, are implicitly considered in
the reserving process and are part of the recorded reserve balance. Insurance
and reinsurance receivables are reported as assets in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets.

  Structured settlements have been negotiated for certain property and
casualty insurance claims. Structured settlements are agreements to provide
fixed periodic payments to claimants. Certain structured settlements are
funded by annuities purchased from CNA's life insurance subsidiary for which
the related annuity obligations are recorded in future policy benefits
reserves. Obligations for structured settlements not funded by annuities are
included in claim and claim adjustment expense reserves and carried at
present values determined using interest rates ranging from 6.0% to 7.5%. At
December 31, 2002 and 2001, the discounted reserves for unfunded structured
settlements were $884.0 and $887.0 million (net of discounts of $1,466.0 and
$1,478.0 million).

  Workers compensation lifetime claim reserves and accident and health
disability claim reserves are calculated using mortality and morbidity
assumptions based on CNA's and industry experience, and are discounted at
interest rates allowed by insurance regulators that range from 3.5% to 6.5%.
At December 31, 2002 and 2001, such discounted reserves totaled $2,537.0 and
$2,384.0 million (net of discounts of $974.0 and $978.0 million).

  Future policy benefits reserves - Reserves for traditional life insurance
products (whole and term life products) and long term care products are
computed using the net level premium method, which incorporates actuarial
assumptions as to interest rates, mortality, morbidity, withdrawals and
expenses. Actuarial assumptions generally vary by plan, age at issue and
policy duration and include a margin for adverse deviation. Interest rates
range from 2.3% to 9.8%, and mortality, morbidity and withdrawal assumptions
are based on CNA and industry experience prevailing at the time of issue.
Expense assumptions include the estimated effects of inflation and expenses to
be incurred beyond the premium paying period. Reserves for interest sensitive
contracts are equal to the account balances that accrue to the benefit of the
policyholders. Interest crediting rates ranged from 4.4% to 6.5% for the three
years ended December 31, 2002.

  Policyholders' funds reserves - Policyholders' funds reserves include
reserves for universal life insurance contracts and investment contracts
without life contingencies. The liability for policy benefits for universal
life-type contracts is equal to the balance that accrues to the benefit of
policyholders, including credited interest, amounts that have been assessed to
compensate CNA for services to be performed over future periods, and any
amounts previously assessed against policyholders that are refundable on
termination of the contract. For investment


contracts, policyholder liabilities are equal to the accumulated policy
account values, which consist of an accumulation of deposit payments plus
credited interest, less withdrawals and amounts assessed through the end of
the period.

  Guaranty fund and other insurance-related assessments - Liabilities for
guaranty fund and other insurance-related assessments are accrued when an
assessment is probable, when it can be reasonably estimated, and when the
event obligating the entity to pay an imposed or probable assessment has
occurred. Liabilities for guaranty funds and other insurance-related
assessments are not discounted and are included as part of other liabilities
in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, the
liability balance was $63.0 and $94.0 million. As of December 31, 2002 and
2001, included in other assets were $32.0 and $24.0 million of related assets
for premium tax offsets or policy surcharges. The related asset is limited to
the amount that is determined based on future premium collections or policy
surcharges from policies in-force.

  Reinsurance - Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner
consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy
benefits reserves and are reported as a receivable in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets. The cost of reinsurance related to long-duration contracts is
accounted for over the life of the underlying reinsured policies using
assumptions consistent with those used to account for the underlying policies.
An estimated allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded on the basis of
periodic evaluations of balances due from reinsurers, reinsurer solvency,
management's experience and current economic conditions.

  Reinsurance contracts that do not meet the criteria for risk transfer are
recorded using the deposit method of accounting, which requires that premium
paid or received by the ceding company or assuming company be accounted for as
a deposit asset or liability. CNA primarily records these deposits as either
reinsurance receivables or other assets for ceded recoverables and
reinsurance balances payable or other liabilities for assumed liabilities.
At December 31, 2002 and 2001, CNA had approximately $618.0 and $693.0 million
recorded as deposit assets and $569.0 and $511.0 million recorded as deposit
liabilities.

  Income on reinsurance contracts accounted for under the deposit method is
recognized using a constant effective yield based on the anticipated timing of
payments and the remaining life of the contract. When the estimate of timing
of payments changes, the effective yield is recalculated to reflect actual
payments to date and the estimated timing of future payments. The deposit
asset or liability is adjusted to the amount that would have existed had the
new effective yield been applied since the inception of the contract. This
adjustment is reflected in other revenue or other operating expense as
appropriate.

  Participating insurance - Policyholder dividends are accrued using an
estimate of the amount to be paid based on underlying contractual obligations
under policies and applicable state laws. When limitations exist on the amount
of net income from participating life insurance contracts that may be
distributed to stockholders, the policyholders' share of net income on those
contracts that cannot be distributed is excluded from stockholders' equity by
a charge to operations and the establishment of a corresponding liability.

  Deferred acquisition costs - Costs including commissions, premium taxes, and
certain underwriting and policy issuance costs that vary with and are related
primarily to the acquisition of property and casualty insurance business, are
deferred and amortized ratably over the period the related premiums are
earned. Anticipated investment income is considered in the determination of
the recoverability of deferred acquisition costs.

  The excess of first year commissions over renewal commissions, and other
first year costs of acquiring life insurance business such as agency and
policy issuance expenses, that vary with and are related primarily to the
production of new and renewal business, have been deferred and are amortized
with interest over the expected life of the related contracts. The excess of
first year ceded expense allowances over renewal ceded expense allowances
reduces applicable unamoritzed deferred acquisition costs.

  Deferred acquisition costs related to non-participating traditional life
insurance and accident and health insurance are being amortized over the
premium-paying period of the related policies using assumptions consistent
with those used for computing future policy benefits reserves for such
contracts. Assumptions as to anticipated premiums are made at the date of
policy issuance or acquisition and are consistently applied during the lives
of the contracts.


Deviations from estimated experience are included in operations when they
occur. For these contracts, the amortization period is typically the estimated
life of the policy.

  For universal life and cash value annuity contracts, the amortization of
deferred acquisition costs is recorded in proportion to the present value of
estimated gross margins or profits. The gross margins or profits result from
actual earned interest minus actual credited interest, actual costs of
insurance ("mortality") charges minus expected mortality, actual expense
charges minus expected maintenance expenses and surrender charges.
Amortization interest rates are based on rates in effect at the inception or
acquisition of the contracts or the latest revised rate applied to the
remaining benefit period, according to product line. Actual gross margins or
profits can vary from CNA's estimates resulting in increases or decreases in
the rate of amortization. When appropriate, CNA revises its assumptions of the
estimated gross margins or profits of these contracts, and the cumulative
amortization is re-estimated and adjusted through current operations. To the
extent that unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities would
result in an adjustment of deferred acquisition costs had they actually been
realized, an adjustment is recorded to deferred acquisition costs and to
unrealized investment gains or losses.

  Deferred acquisition costs are recorded net of ceding commissions and other
ceded acquisition costs. CNA evaluates deferred acquisition costs for
recoverability; adjustments, if necessary, are recorded in current operations.

  Investments in life settlement contracts and related revenue recognition -
CNA has purchased investments in life settlement contracts. Under a life
settlement contract, CNA obtains the rights of being the owner and beneficiary
to an underlying life insurance policy. The carrying value of each contract at
purchase and at the end of each reporting period is equal to the cash
surrender value of the policy in accordance with FASB Technical Bulletin
("FTB") 85-4, "Accounting for Purchases of Life Insurance". Amounts paid to
purchase these contracts that are in excess of the cash surrender value, at
the date of purchase, are expensed immediately. Periodic maintenance costs,
such as premiums necessary to keep the underlying policy in-force are expensed
as incurred and included in other operating expenses. Revenue is recognized
and included in other revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Operations
when the life insurance policy underlying the life settlement contract
matures.

  Separate account business - CNA's life insurance subsidiaries, Continental
Assurance Company ("CAC") and Valley Forge Life Insurance Company ("VFL"),
write investment and annuity contracts. The supporting assets and liabilities
of certain of these contracts are legally segregated and reported as assets
and liabilities of separate account business. CAC and VFL guarantee principal
and a specified return to the contract holders on approximately 58% and 53% of
the separate account business at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
Substantially all assets of the separate account business are carried at fair
value. Separate account liabilities are carried at contract values.

  During July of 2002, CNA entered into an agreement, whereby The Phoenix
Companies, Inc. ("Phoenix") acquired the variable life and annuity business of
VFL through a coinsurance arrangement, with modified coinsurance on the
separate accounts. See Note 14 for further details of this agreement.

  Statutory accounting practices (unaudited) - CNA's insurance subsidiaries
are domiciled in various jurisdictions. These subsidiaries prepare statutory
financial statements in accordance with accounting practices prescribed or
permitted by their respective jurisdiction's insurance regulators. Prescribed
statutory accounting practices are set forth in a variety of publications of
the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC"), as well as state
laws, regulations and general administrative rules. CNA's insurance
subsidiaries follow one significant permitted accounting practice at December
31, 2002, related to discounting of certain non-tabular workers compensation
claims. The impact of the permitted practice was to increase statutory surplus
by approximately $24.0 and $47.0 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001,
respectively. This practice was followed by an acquired company, and CNA
received permission to eliminate the effect of the permitted practice over a
ten-year period, which ends in 2003.

  In 2001, CCC filed for approval with the Illinois Department of Insurance
(the "Department") the affiliated promissory note between CCC and Viaticus,
Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of CNA. Review of this note was still ongoing
by the Department at December 31, 2001, so the Department granted a permitted
practice that expired on June 30, 2002 to carry this note at a value of
approximately $449.0 million as of December 31, 2001. The par value of this
note at December 31, 2001 was approximately $464.0 million. The Department
approved the note and the valuation basis in 2002.


  CNA's domestic insurance subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital
requirements. Risk-based capital is a method developed by the NAIC to
determine the minimum amount of statutory capital appropriate for an insurance
company to support its overall business operations in consideration of its
size and risk profile. The formulas for determining the amount of risk-based
capital specifies various factors, weighted based on the perceived degree of
risk, that are applied to certain financial balances and financial activity.
The adequacy of a company's actual capital is evaluated by a comparison to the
risk-based capital results, as determined by the formulas. Companies below
minimum risk-based capital requirements are classified within certain levels,
each of which requires specified corrective action. As of December 31, 2002
and 2001, all of CNA's domestic insurance subsidiaries exceeded the minimum
risk-based capital requirements.

  Statutory capital and surplus - Combined statutory capital and surplus and
net income (loss), determined in accordance with accounting practices
prescribed or permitted by the regulations and statutes of various insurance
regulators, for the property and casualty and the life and group insurance
subsidiaries, were as follows:



*Surplus includes the property and casualty companies' equity ownership of the
life and group insurance subsidiaries.

  At December 31, 2002 and 2001, CNA maintained statutory deposits of cash and
securities, with carrying values of approximately $1.8 and $2.0 billion,
respectively, under requirements of regulatory authorities.

  Cash and securities with carrying values of approximately $37.0 and $30.0
million were deposited with financial institutions as collateral for letters
of credit at December 31, 2002 and 2001 (see Note 21).

  During July of 2002, CNA entered into an agreement, whereby Phoenix acquired
the variable life and annuity business of VFL through a coinsurance
arrangement, with modified coinsurance on the separate accounts. Securities
with carrying values of approximately $479.0 million continue to be held by
CNA and are reported in separate account business in the asset section of the
Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2002. See Note 14 for further
details of this agreement.

  Tobacco product inventories - These inventories, aggregating $262.6 and
$285.7 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, are stated at the
lower of cost or market, using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method and
primarily consist of leaf tobacco. If the average cost method of accounting
had been used for tobacco inventories instead of the LIFO method, such
inventories would have been $194.6 and $210.2 million higher at December 31,
2002 and 2001, respectively.

  Watch and clock inventories - These inventories, aggregating $67.3 and $48.9
million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, are stated at the lower
of cost or market, using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method.

  Goodwill and other intangible assets - Goodwill and other intangible assets
with indefinite lives are tested for impairment. Goodwill represents the
excess of purchase price over fair value of net assets of acquired entities.
Impairment losses, if any, are included in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations.

  Property, plant and equipment - Property, plant and equipment is carried at
cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed principally by
the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the various
classes of properties. Leaseholds and leasehold improvements are depreciated
or amortized over the terms of the related leases (including optional renewal
periods where appropriate) or the estimated lives of improvements, if less
than the lease term.


  The principal service lives used in computing provisions for depreciation
are as follows:



  Impairment of long-lived assets - The Company reviews its long-lived assets
for impairment when changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount
of an asset may not be recoverable. Long-lived assets and intangibles with
finite lives, under certain circumstances, are reported at the lower of
carrying amount or fair value. Assets to be disposed of and assets not
expected to provide any future service potential to the Company are recorded
at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell.

  Stock option plans - The Company has elected to follow Accounting Principles
Board Opinion ("APB") No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" and
related interpretations in accounting for its employee stock options and
awards. Under APB No. 25, no compensation expense is recognized when the
exercise prices of options equals the fair value (market price) of the
underlying stock on the date of grant.

  SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," requires the
Company to disclose pro forma information regarding option grants made to its
employees. SFAS No. 123 specifies certain valuation techniques that produce
estimated compensation charges for purposes of valuing stock option grants.
These amounts have not been included in the Company's Consolidated Statements
of Operations, in accordance with APB No. 25. Several of the Company's
subsidiaries also maintain their own stock option plans. The pro forma effect
of applying SFAS No. 123 includes the Company's share of expense related to
its subsidiaries' plans as well. The Company's pro forma net income (loss) and
the related basic and diluted income (loss) per Loews common and Carolina
Group shares would have been as follows:




  Supplementary cash flow information - Cash payments made for interest on
long-term debt, including capitalized interest and commitment fees, amounted
to approximately $338.5, $312.3 and $361.3 million for the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Cash payments (received) made
for federal, foreign, state and local income taxes, net of refunds, amounted
to approximately $(168.0), $420.7 and $227.9 million for the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

  Accounting pronouncements - In June of 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143,
"Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." SFAS No. 143 applies to the
accounting and reporting obligations associated with the retirement of
tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. This
Statement applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-
lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development
and/or the normal operation of a long-lived asset, except for certain
obligations of lessees. Adoption of this Statement is required for fiscal
years beginning after June 15, 2002. Adoption of these provisions will not
have a material impact on the equity or results of operations of the Company.

  In December of 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-
Based Compensation-Transition and Disclosure." The Statement amends SFAS No.
123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," to provide alternative methods
of transition for an entity that voluntarily changes the accounting for stock-
based employee compensation. The statement also amends the disclosure
provisions to require prominent disclosure about the effects on reported net
income of an entity's accounting policy decisions with respect to stock-based
compensation. Finally, this Statement amends APB No. 28, "Interim Financial
Reporting," to require disclosure of those effects in interim financial
information. The disclosure and transition requirements are effective for
financial statements of interim or annual periods ending after December 15,
2002. The amendment to APB No. 28 is required to be adopted for interim
periods ending after December 15, 2002. The Company has not changed its
accounting policies related to stock-based compensation.

  In January of 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46, "Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51." This Interpretation
clarifies the application of ARB No. 51, "Consolidated Financial Statements,"
to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics
of a controlling financial interest. Prior to the issuance of this
Interpretation, ARB No. 51 defined a controlling financial interest as
ownership of a majority voting interest. FIN 46 requires an entity to
consolidate a variable interest entity even though the entity does not, either
directly or indirectly, own more than 50% of the outstanding voting shares.
FIN 46 defines a variable interest entity as having one or both of the
following characteristics (1) the equity investment at risk is not sufficient
to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated
financial support from other parties or (2) the equity investors lack one or
more of the following (a) the direct or indirect ability to make decisions
about the entity's activities through voting rights or similar rights, (b) the
obligation to absorb the expected losses of the entity, if they occur, which
makes it possible for the entity to finance its activities and (c) the right
to receive the expected residual returns of the entity, if they occur, which
is the compensation for the risk of absorbing the expected losses. FIN 46
applies immediately to variable interest entities created after January 31,
2003, and to interest obtained after that date to an interim reporting period
beginning after June 15, 2003. The Company is currently evaluating the impact
FIN 46 may have on its consolidated financial statements.

  Reclassifications - Certain amounts applicable to prior periods have been
reclassified to conform to the classifications followed in 2002.


Note 2. Investments





(a) Includes gains on sales of Global Crossing Ltd. ("Global Crossing") common
    stock of $962.0 and $484.9 for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000,
    respectively. In March of 2000, the Company entered into a hedge
    arrangement related to its Global Crossing stock. The unrealized
    appreciation of the stock that was preserved by the hedge was reflected as
    an unrealized gain in accumulated other comprehensive income at December
    31, 2000. The hedge agreements were closed out in 2001 resulting in the
    realized gain of $962.0.
(b) Includes losses of pretax $136.6 (after tax and minority interest) related
    to the planned disposition of certain subsidiary operations, principally
    the U.K. subsidiaries of CNA Re, for the year ended December 31, 2001.


The amortized cost and market values of securities are as follows:






  The amortized cost and market value of fixed maturities are shown below by
contractual maturity. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities
because securities may be called or prepaid with or without call or prepayment
penalties.



  The carrying value of fixed maturity investments that did not produce income
was $90.2 and $186.0 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001. At December 31,
2002 and 2001, no investments other than investments in U.S. government agency
securities, exceeded 10% of shareholders' equity.

  Investment gains of $1,677.8, $2,379.6 and $1,825.6 million and losses of
$1,766.4, $903.2 and $831.2 million were realized on securities available for
sale for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.
Investment gains (losses) also include $18.2 million of net unrealized gains
in 2001, and $29.3 and $16.5 million of net unrealized losses in 2002 and 2000
on equity securities in the Company's trading portfolio.

  Investment securities are exposed to various risks, such as interest rate,
market and credit. Due to the level of risk associated with certain investment
securities and the level of uncertainty related to changes in the value of
investment securities, it is possible that changes in these risk factors in
the near term could have an adverse material impact on the Company's results
of operations or equity.

  A primary objective in the management of the fixed maturity and equity
portfolios is to maximize total return relative to underlying liabilities and
respective liquidity needs. In achieving this goal, assets may be sold to take
advantage of market conditions or other investment opportunities or credit and
tax considerations. This activity will produce realized gains and losses.

  CNA's investment policies for both the general and separate accounts
emphasize high credit quality and diversification by industry, issuer and
issue. Assets supporting interest rate sensitive liabilities are segmented
within the general account to facilitate asset/liability duration management.

  A significant judgment in the valuation of investments is the determination
of when an other-than-temporary decline in value has occurred. CNA follows a
consistent and systematic process for impairing securities that sustain other-
than-temporary declines in value. CNA has established a committee responsible
for the impairment process. This committee, referred to as the Impairment
Committee, is made up of three officers appointed by CNA's Chief Financial
Officer. The Impairment Committee is responsible for analyzing watch list
securities on at least a quarterly basis. The watch list includes individual
securities that fall below certain thresholds or that exhibit evidence of
impairment indicators including, but not limited to, a significant adverse
change in the financial condition and near term prospects of the investment or
a significant adverse change in legal factors, the business climate or credit
ratings.

  When a security is placed on the watch list, it is monitored for further
market value changes and additional news related to the issuer's financial
condition. The focus is on objective evidence that may influence the
evaluation of impairment factors.

  The decision to impair a security incorporates both quantitative criteria
and qualitative information. The Impairment Committee considers a number of
factors including, but not limited to: (a) the length of time and the extent
to which the market value has been less than book value, (b) the financial
condition and near term prospects of the issuer, (c) the intent and ability of
CNA to retain its investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any


anticipated recovery in value, (d) whether the debtor is current on interest
and principal payments and (e) general market conditions and industry or
sector specific factors.

  The Impairment Committee's decision to impair a security is primarily based
on whether the security's fair value is likely to remain significantly below
its book value in light of all of the factors considered. For securities that
are impaired, the security is written down to fair value and the resulting
losses are recognized in investment gains (losses) in the Consolidated
Statement of Operations.

  Realized investment losses included $890.0, $129.0 and $72.0 million of
pretax impairment losses for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000.
The impairments recorded in 2002 were primarily the result of the continued
credit deterioration on specific issuers in the bond and equity markets and
the effects on such markets due to the overall slowing of the economy.

Note 3. Fair Value of Financial Instruments



  In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are
estimated using present value or other valuation techniques. These techniques
are significantly affected by management's assumptions, including discount
rates and estimates of future cash flows. The estimates presented herein are
not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company could realize in a
current market exchange. The amounts reported in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets for fixed maturities securities, equity securities, derivative
instruments, short-term investments and securities sold under agreements to
repurchase are at fair value. As such, these financial instruments are not
shown in the table above. See Note 4 for the fair value of derivative
instruments. Since the disclosure excludes certain financial instruments and
nonfinancial instruments such as real estate, life settlement contracts and
insurance reserves, the aggregate fair value amounts cannot be summed to
determine the underlying economic value of the Company.

  The following methods and assumptions were used by the Company in estimating
its fair value disclosures for financial instruments:

  Fixed maturity securities and equity securities were based on quoted market
prices, where available. For securities not actively traded, fair values were
estimated using values obtained from independent pricing services or quoted
market prices of comparable instruments.

  Other investments consist of mortgage loans and notes receivable, policy
loans, investments in limited partnerships and various miscellaneous assets.
Valuation techniques to determine fair value of limited partnership


investments, other investments and other separate account assets consisted of
discounting cash flows, obtaining quoted market prices of the investments and
comparing the investments to similar instruments or to the comparable
underlying assets of the investments.

  Premium deposits and annuity contracts were valued based on cash surrender
values and the outstanding fund balances.

  The fair values of CDOs were determined largely based on management's
estimates using default probabilities of the debt securities underlying the
contract, which were obtained from a rating agency, the term of each contract,
and actual default losses recorded on the contracts.

  The fair value of the liability for financial guarantee contracts was
estimated using discounted cash flows utilizing interest rates currently being
offered for similar contracts.

  The fair value of guaranteed investment contracts of the separate accounts
business was estimated using discounted cash flow calculations, based on
interest rates currently being offered for similar contracts with similar
maturities. The fair value of the liabilities for variable separate account
business was based on the quoted market values of the underlying assets of
each variable separate account. The fair value of other separate account
business liabilities approximates carrying value because of their short-term
nature.

  Fair value of long-term debt was based on quoted market prices when
available. The fair value for other long-term debt was based on quoted market
prices of comparable instruments adjusted for differences between the quoted
instruments and the instruments being valued or is estimated using discounted
cash flow analyses, based on current incremental borrowing rates for similar
types of borrowing arrangements.

Note 4.  Derivative Financial Instruments

  The Company invests in certain derivative instruments for a number of
purposes, including: (i) asset and liability management activities, (ii)
income enhancements for its portfolio management strategy, and (iii) benefit
from anticipated future movements in the underlying markets. If such movements
do not occur as anticipated, then significant losses may occur.

  Monitoring procedures include senior management review of daily detailed
reports of existing positions and valuation fluctuations to ensure that open
positions are consistent with the Company's portfolio strategy.

  The Company does not believe that any of the derivative instruments utilized
by it are unusually complex, nor do these instruments contain embedded
leverage features which would expose the Company to a higher degree of risk.

  CNA invests in derivative financial instruments in the normal course of
business, primarily to reduce its exposure to market risk (principally
interest rate risk, equity stock price risk and foreign currency risk)
stemming from various assets and liabilities and credit risk (the ability of
an obligor to make timely payment of principal and/or interest). CNA's
principal objective under such market risk strategies is to achieve the
desired reduction in economic risk, even if the position will not receive
hedge accounting treatment. CNA also uses derivatives for purposes of income
enhancement, primarily via the sale of covered call options.

  CNA's use of derivatives is limited by statutes and regulations promulgated
by the various regulatory bodies to which it is subject, and by its own
derivative policy. The derivative policy limits authorization to initiate
derivative transactions to certain personnel. The policy generally prohibits
the use of derivatives with a maturity greater than 18 months, unless the
derivative is matched with assets or liabilities having a longer maturity. The
policy prohibits the use of derivatives containing greater than one-to-one
leverage with respect to changes in the underlying price, rate or index. The
policy also prohibits the use of borrowed funds, including funds obtained
through repurchase transactions, to engage in derivative transactions.

  Credit exposure associated with non-performance by the counterparties to
derivative instruments is generally limited to the gross fair value of the
asset related to the instruments recognized in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets. The Company mitigates the risk of non-performance by monitoring
the creditworthiness of counterparties and


diversifying derivatives to multiple counter-parties. The Company generally
requires collateral from its derivative investment counterparties depending on
the amount of the exposure and the credit rating of the counterparty.

  The Company has exposure to economic losses due to interest rate risk
arising from changes in the level of or volatility of interest rates. The
Company attempts to mitigate its exposure to interest rate risk through active
portfolio management, which includes rebalancing its existing portfolios of
assets and liabilities, as well as changing the characteristics of investments
to be purchased or sold in the future. In addition, various derivative
financial instruments are used to modify the interest rate risk exposures of
certain assets and liabilities. These strategies include the use of interest
rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, options, futures, forwards, and
commitments to purchase securities. These instruments are generally used to
lock interest rates or unrealized gains, to shorten or lengthen durations of
fixed maturity securities or investment contracts, or to hedge (on an economic
basis) interest rate risks associated with investments, variable rate debt and
life insurance liabilities. The Company has used these types of instruments as
hedges against specific assets or liabilities on an infrequent basis.

  The Company is exposed to equity price risk as a result of its investment in
equity securities and equity derivatives. Equity price risk results from
changes in the level or volatility of equity prices, which affect the value of
equity securities, or instruments that derive their value from such
securities. The Company attempts to mitigate its exposure to such risks by
limiting its investment in any one security or index. The Company may also
manage this risk by utilizing instruments such as options, swaps, futures and
collars to protect appreciation in securities held. CNA uses derivatives in
one of its separate accounts to mitigate equity price risk associated with its
indexed group annuity contracts by purchasing Standard & Poor's 500 ("S&P
500") index futures contracts in a notional amount equal to the contract
holder liability, which is calculated using the S&P 500 rate of return.

  The Company has exposure to credit risk arising from the uncertainty
associated with a financial instrument obligor's ability to make timely
principal and/or interest payments. The Company attempts to mitigate this risk
by limiting credit concentrations, practicing diversification, and frequently
monitoring the credit quality of issuers and counterparties. In addition, the
Company may utilize credit derivatives such as credit default swaps to modify
the credit risk inherent in certain investments. Credit default swaps involve
a transfer of credit risk from one party to another in exchange for periodic
payments. The Company infrequently designates these types of instruments as
hedges against specific assets.

  Foreign exchange rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in
foreign currency exchange rates will impact the fair value of financial
instruments denominated in a foreign currency. The Company's foreign
transactions are primarily denominated in Canadian dollars, British pounds and
the European Monetary Unit. The Company manages this risk via asset/liability
matching and through the use of foreign currency futures and forwards. The
Company has infrequently designated these types of instruments as hedges
against specific assets or liabilities.

  The contractual or notional amounts for derivatives are used to calculate
the exchange of contractual payments under the agreements and are not
representative of the potential for gain or loss on these instruments.
Interest rates, equity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity
prices affect the fair value of derivatives. The fair values generally
represent the estimated amounts that the Company would expect to receive
or pay upon termination of the contracts at the reporting date. Dealer quotes
are available for substantially all of the Company's derivatives. For
derivative instruments not actively traded, fair values are estimated using
values obtained from independent pricing services, costs to settle or quoted
market prices of comparable instruments.










(a) As of January 1, 2001

  Options embedded in convertible debt securities are classified as fixed
maturity securities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, consistent with the
host instruments.

Fair Value Hedges

  As of the adoption date of SFAS No. 133, CNA's collar position related to
its investment in Global Crossing common stock was the only derivative
position that had been designated as a hedge for accounting purposes. In March
of 2000, the Company entered into a hedge arrangement related to its Global
Crossing stock. The unrealized appreciation on the stock that was preserved by
the hedge was reflected as an unrealized gain in accumulated other
comprehensive income at December 31, 2000. The hedge agreements were closed
out in 2001 resulting in the recognition of a realized gain of $962.0
million.

  The effectiveness of this hedge was measured based on changes in the
intrinsic value of the collar in relation to changes in the fair value of
Global Crossing common stock. Changes in the time value component of the
collar's fair value were excluded from the hedge designation and measurement
of effectiveness. Up to the date of the sale, the Global Crossing hedge was
100% effective. The change in the time value component of the collar was a
pretax gain


of $33.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, and has been recorded
as a realized investment gain in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

  CNA's other hedging activities primarily involve hedging risk exposures to
interest rate and foreign currency risks. The ineffective portion of the fair
value hedges resulted in a realized loss of approximately $4.0 and $0.6
million for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001.

  The Company also enters into short sales as part of its portfolio management
strategy. Short sales are commitments to sell a financial instrument not owned
at the time of sale, usually done in anticipation of a price decline. These
sales resulted in proceeds of $205.0 and $183.7 million with fair value
liabilities of $200.7 and $193.4 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001,
respectively. These positions are marked to market and investment gains or
losses are included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Note 5. Earnings Per Share

  Companies with complex capital structures are required to present basic and
diluted earnings per share. Basic earnings per share excludes dilution and is
computed by dividing net income (loss) attributable to each class of common
stock by the weighted average number of common shares of each class of common
stock outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share reflects the
potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue
common stock were exercised or converted into common stock. For the years
ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, income (loss) per common share
assuming dilution is the same as basic income (loss) per share because the
impact of securities that could potentially dilute basic income (loss) per
common share was insignificant or antidilutive for the periods presented.

  Options to purchase 0.29 and 0.02 million shares of Loews common stock were
outstanding at December 31, 2002 and 2000, respectively, but were not included
in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' exercise
prices were greater than the average market price of the common shares and,
therefore, the effect would be antidilutive. Had the Company recognized net
income in 2001, incremental shares attributable to the assumed exercise of
outstanding options would have increased diluted shares outstanding by 0.10
million shares. Options to purchase 0.18 million shares of Carolina Group
stock were outstanding at December 31, 2002, but were not included in the
computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' exercise prices
were greater than the average market price of the common shares and,
therefore, the effect would be antidilutive.

  The attribution of income to each class of common stock in millions of
dollars, for the year ended December 31, 2002, was as follows:




Note 6. Loews and Carolina Group Consolidating Condensed Financial Information

  On February 6, 2002, the Company sold 40,250,000 shares of a new class of
its common stock, referred to as Carolina Group stock, for net proceeds of
$1.1 billion. This stock is designed to track the performance of the Carolina
Group, which consists of: the Company's ownership interest in Lorillard;
notional, intergroup debt owed by the Carolina Group to the Loews Group ($2.4
billion outstanding at December 31, 2002), bearing interest at the annual rate
of 8.0% and, subject to optional prepayment, due December 31, 2021; any and
all liabilities, costs and expenses of the Company and Lorillard arising out
of the past, present or future business of Lorillard, and all net income or
net losses from the assets and liabilities attributed to the Carolina Group.
Each outstanding share of Carolina Group stock has 1/10 of a vote per share.

  The issuance of Carolina Group stock has resulted in a two class common
stock structure for the Company. During the year ended December 31, 2002, the
Company purchased, for the account of the Carolina Group, 340,000 shares of
Carolina Group stock. As of December 31, 2002, the outstanding Carolina Group
stock represents a 23.01% economic interest in the economic performance of the
Carolina Group. The Loews Group consists of all of the Company's assets and
liabilities other than the 23.01% economic interest represented by the
outstanding Carolina Group stock, and includes as an asset the notional,
intergroup debt of the Carolina Group. Holders of the Company's common stock
and of Carolina Group stock are shareholders of Loews Corporation and are
subject to the risks related to an equity investment in Loews Corporation.

  The Company has separated, for financial reporting purposes, the Carolina
Group and Loews Group. The following schedules present the consolidating
condensed financial information for these individual groups. Neither group is
a separate company or legal entity. Rather, each group is intended to reflect
a defined set of assets and liabilities.


Loews and Carolina Group
Consolidating Condensed Balance Sheet Information



(a) To eliminate the intergroup notional debt and interest payable/receivable.
(b) To eliminate the Loews Group's 76.99% equity interest in the combined
    attributed net assets of the Carolina Group.


Loews and Carolina Group
Consolidating Condensed Balance Sheet Information



(a)  To eliminate the Loews Group's 100% equity interest in the combined
     attributed net assets of the Carolina Group.


Loews and Carolina Group
Consolidating Condensed Statement of Operations Information



(a)  To eliminate interest on the intergroup notional debt.
(b)  Includes $0.3 of expenses allocated by the Carolina Group to the Loews
     Group for computer related charges and $0.2 of expenses allocated by
     Loews Group to the Carolina Group for services provided pursuant to a
     services agreement, which eliminate in these consolidating statements.
(c)  To eliminate the Loews Group's intergroup interest in the earnings of
     the Carolina Group.


Loews and Carolina Group
Consolidating Condensed Statement of Operations Information



(a) Includes $2.6 of expenses allocated by the Carolina Group to the Loews
    Group for computer related charges and $0.2 of expenses allocated by Loews
    Group to the Carolina Group for services provided pursuant to a services
    agreement, which eliminate in these consolidating statements.
(b) To eliminate the Loews Group's intergroup interest in the earnings of the
    Carolina Group.


Loews and Carolina Group
Consolidating Condensed Statement of Operations Information



(a)  Includes $2.6 of expenses allocated by the Carolina Group to the Loews
     Group for computer related charges and $0.2 of expenses allocated by the
     Loews Group to the Carolina Group for services provided pursuant to a
     service agreement, which eliminate in these consolidating statements.
(b)  To eliminate the Loews Group's intergroup interest in the earnings of the
     Carolina Group.


Loews and Carolina Group
Consolidating Condensed Statement of Cash Flows Information




Loews and Carolina Group
Consolidating Condensed Statement of Cash Flows Information



Note 7. Receivables




Note 8. Property, Plant and Equipment



  Depreciation and amortization expense, including amortization of
intangibles, and capital expenditures, are as follows:



  In January of 2001, CNA sold its 180 Maiden Lane, New York, facility for net
sales proceeds of $264.0 million, resulting in a gain of $47.9 million (after
tax and minority interest).

  In January of 2000, Diamond Offshore sold a jack-up drilling rig for $32.0
million, resulting in a gain of $13.9 million ($4.7 million after tax and
minority interest).

Note 9.  Claim and Claim Adjustment Expense Reserves

  CNA's property and casualty insurance claim and claim adjustment expense
reserves represent the estimated amounts necessary to settle all outstanding
claims, including claims that are incurred but not reported as of the
reporting date. CNA's reserve projections are based primarily on detailed
analysis of the facts in each case, CNA's experience with similar cases and
various historical development patterns. Consideration is given to such
historical patterns as field reserving trends and claims settlement practices,
loss payments, pending levels of unpaid claims and product mix, as well as
court decisions, economic conditions and public attitudes. All of these
factors can affect the estimation of claim and claim adjustment expense
reserves.

  Establishing claim and claim adjustment expense reserves, including claim
and claim adjustment expense loss reserves for catastrophic events that have
occurred, is an estimation process. Many factors can ultimately affect the
final settlement of a claim and, therefore, the necessary reserve. Changes in
the law, results of litigation, medical costs, the cost of repair materials
and labor rates can all affect ultimate claim costs. In addition, time can be
a critical part of reserving determinations since the longer the span between
the incidence of a loss and the payment or settlement of the claim, the more
variable the ultimate settlement amount can be. Accordingly, short-tail
claims, such as property damage claims, tend to be more reasonably estimable
than long-tail claims, such as general liability and professional liability
claims. Adjustments to prior year reserve estimates, if necessary, are
reflected in the operating results in the period that the need for such
adjustments is determined.


  Catastrophes are an inherent risk of the property and casualty insurance
business and have contributed to material period-to-period fluctuations in the
Company's results of operations or equity. The level of catastrophe losses
experienced in any period cannot be predicted and can be material to the
results of operations or equity of the Company.

  During 2001, CNA recorded estimated incurred losses of $468.0 million
pretax, net of reinsurance, related to the September 11, 2001 World Trade
Center disaster and related events ("WTC event"). The loss estimate is based
on a total industry loss of $50.0 billion and includes all lines of insurance.
The estimate takes into account CNA's substantial reinsurance agreements,
including its catastrophe reinsurance program and corporate reinsurance
programs. See Note 18 for further discussion of reinsurance. CNA has closely
monitored reported losses as well as the collection of reinsurance on WTC
event claims. As of December 31, 2002, CNA believes its recorded reserves, net
of reinsurance, for the WTC event are adequate.

  The following table provides management's estimate of pretax losses related
to the WTC event on a gross basis (before reinsurance) and a net basis (after
reinsurance) by line of business:




  The table below provides a reconciliation between beginning and ending claim
and claim adjustment expense reserves including claim and claim adjustment
expense reserves of the life and group companies:



(a)  The net reserves were reduced by $1,316.0 as a result of the sale
     of CNA Reinsurance Company Limited ("CNA Re U.K."). See Note 14 for
     further discussion of the sale.

  The changes in provision for insured events of prior years (reserve
development), is composed of the following:




Environmental Pollution and Mass Tort and Asbestos ("APMT") Reserves

  CNA's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries have actual potential
exposures related to environmental pollution and mass tort and asbestos
claims.

  The following table provides data related to CNA's environmental pollution
and mass tort and asbestos claim and claim adjustment expense reserves:



  There was no asbestos or environmental pollution and mass tort-related net
claim and claim adjustment expense reserve development for the year ended
December 31, 2002. As a result of a change in estimate resulting from CNA's
semi-annual ground-up review of APMT accounts, gross and ceded APMT reserves
were increased. The settlement scenarios that supported higher estimated gross
and higher estimated ceded reserves were judged to be the most appropriate.
However, net reserves remained unchanged. The estimation of reinsurance
recoverables on accounts is highly dependent on the allocation of each
account's estimated ultimate losses to their available historical insurance
coverage. This allocation becomes more refined as accounts and their insurers
enter more serious settlement negotiations.

  During 2002, net reserves were identified relating to APMT related claim and
claim adjustment expense reserves for assumed reinsurance pools, which
reflects improvements in the identification of APMT activity from assumed
reinsurance and pools. The inclusion of these additional abestos reserves
increased the AMPT reserves and decreased other reserves, resulting in no net
change in CNA's overall carried claim and claim adjustment expense reserves.

Environmental Pollution and Mass Tort

  Environmental pollution cleanup is the subject of both federal and state
regulation. By some estimates, there are thousands of potential waste sites
subject to cleanup. The insurance industry is involved in extensive litigation
regarding coverage issues. Judicial interpretations in many cases have
expanded the scope of coverage and liability beyond the original intent of the
policies. The Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability
Act of 1980 ("Superfund") and comparable state statutes ("mini-Superfunds")
govern the cleanup and restoration of toxic waste sites and formalize the
concept of legal liability for cleanup and restoration by Potentially
Responsible Parties ("PRPs"). Superfund and the mini-Superfunds establish
mechanisms to pay for cleanup of waste sites if PRPs fail to do so, and to
assign liability to PRPs. The extent of liability to be allocated to a PRP is
dependent upon a variety of factors. Further, the number of waste sites
subject to cleanup is unknown. To date, approximately 1,200 cleanup sites have
been identified by the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and included on
its National Priorities List ("NPL"). State authorities have designated many
cleanup sites as well.

  Many policyholders have made claims against various CNA insurance
subsidiaries for defense costs and indemnification in connection with
environmental pollution matters. The vast majority of these claims relate to
accident years 1989 and prior, which coincides with CNA's adoption of the
Simplified Commercial General Liability coverage form, which includes what is
referred to in the industry as an "absolute pollution exclusion." CNA and the
insurance industry are disputing coverage for many such claims. Key coverage
issues include whether cleanup costs are considered damages under the
policies, trigger of coverage, allocation of liability among triggered
policies, applicability of pollution exclusions and owned property exclusions,
the potential for joint and several liability and the definition of an
occurrence. To date, courts have been inconsistent in their rulings on these
issues.


  A number of proposals to reform Superfund have been made by various parties.
In 2002, no reforms were enacted by Congress. If there is legislation, and in
some circumstances even if there is no legislation, the federal role in
environmental cleanup may be significantly reduced in favor of state action.
Substantial changes in the federal statute or the activity of the EPA may
cause states to reconsider their environmental cleanup statutes and
regulations. There can be no meaningful prediction of the pattern of
regulation that would result or the possible effect upon the Company's results
of operations or equity.

  CNA's ultimate liability for its environmental pollution and mass tort
claims is impacted by several factors including ongoing disputes with
policyholders over scope and meaning of coverage terms and in the area of
environmental, court decisions that continue to restrict the scope and
applicability of the absolute pollution exclusion contained in policies issued
by CNA post 1989. Due to the inherent uncertainties described above, including
the inconsistency of court decisions, the number of waste sites subject to
cleanup, and in the area of environmental, the standards for cleanup and
liability, the ultimate liability of CNA for environmental pollution and mass
tort claims may vary substantially from the amount currently recorded.

  As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, CNA carried approximately $517.0 and
$633.0 million of claim and claim adjustment expense reserves, net of
reinsurance recoverables, for reported and unreported environmental pollution
and mass tort claims. There was no environmental and mass tort net claim and
claim adjustment expense reserve development for the year ended December 31,
2002. Unfavorable environmental pollution and mass tort net claim and claim
adjustment expense reserve development for the years ended December 31, 2001
and 2000 amounted to $468.0 and $15.0 million. CNA paid environmental
pollution-related claims and mass tort related claims, net of reinsurance
recoveries, of $116.0, $203.0 and $135.0 million during the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000.

Asbestos

  CNA's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries also have exposure to
asbestos-related claims. Estimation of asbestos-related claim and claim
adjustment expense reserves involves many of the same limitations discussed
above for environmental pollution claims, such as inconsistency of court
decisions, specific policy provisions, allocation of liability among insurers
and insureds, and additional factors such as missing policies and proof of
coverage. Furthermore, estimation of asbestos-related claims is difficult due
to, among other reasons, the proliferation of bankruptcy proceedings and
attendant uncertainties, the targeting of a broader range of businesses and
entities as defendants, the uncertainty as to which other insureds may be
targeted in the future and the uncertainties inherent in predicting the number
of future claims.

  In the past several years, CNA has experienced significant increases in
claim counts for asbestos-related claims. The factors that led to these
increases included, among other things, intensive advertising campaigns by
lawyers for asbestos claimants, mass medical screening programs sponsored by
plaintiff lawyers, and the addition of new defendants such as the distributors
and installers of products containing asbestos. Currently, the majority of
asbestos bodily injury claims are filed by persons exhibiting few, if any,
disease symptoms. It is estimated that approximately 90.0% of the current non-
malignant asbestos claimants do not meet the American Medical Association's
definition of impairment. Some courts, including the federal district court
responsible for pre-trial proceedings in all federal asbestos bodily injury
actions, have ordered that so-called "unimpaired" claimants may not recover
unless at some point the claimant's condition worsens to the point of
impairment.

  As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, CNA carried approximately $1,231.0 and
$1,252.0 million of claim and claim adjustment expense reserves, net of
reinsurance recoverables, for reported and unreported asbestos-related claims.

  There was no asbestos-related net claim and claim adjustment expense reserve
development for the year ended December 31, 2002. Unfavorable asbestos-related
net claim and claim adjustment expense reserve development for the years ended
December 31, 2001 and 2000 amounted to $773.0 and $65.0 million. CNA paid
asbestos-related claims, net of reinsurance, of $20.0, $171.0 and $126.0
million during the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, excluding
payments made in connection with the 1993 settlement of litigation related to
Fibreboard Corporation.


  CNA has structured settlement agreements with four of its policyholders for
which it has future payment obligations. Structured settlement agreements
provide for payments of sums certain over multiple years as set forth in each
individual agreement. As to the four structured settlement agreements existing
at December 31, 2002, payment obligations under those settlement agreements
are projected to terminate in 2016. For these four structured settlement
agreements, CNA has reserved $118.0 million, net of reinsurance.

  CNA, through its acquisition of CIC in 1995, acquired obligations under the
Wellington Agreement. In 1985, 47 asbestos producers and their insurers,
including CIC, executed the Wellington Agreement. The agreement intended to
resolve all issues and litigation related to coverage for asbestos exposures.
Under this agreement, signatory insurers committed scheduled policy limits and
made the limits available to pay asbestos claims based upon coverage blocks
designated by the policyholders in 1985, subject to extension by
policyholders. CIC was a signatory insurer to the Wellington Agreement. At
December 31, 2002, CNA had fulfilled its Wellington Agreement obligations as
to all but five accounts. With respect to the five remaining unpaid Wellington
obligations, CNA has evaluated its exposure under these agreements and has
established a $28.0 million reserve, net of reinsurance, for Wellington
obligations.

  CNA has also used coverage in place agreements to resolve large asbestos
exposures. Coverage in place agreements are typically agreements between CNA
and its policyholders identifying the policies and the terms for payment of
asbestos related liabilities. Claims payments are contingent on presentation
of adequate documentation showing exposure during the policy periods and other
documentation supporting the demand for claims payment. Coverage in place
agreements may have annual payment caps. At December 31, 2002, CNA had
negotiated 23 such agreements in which CNA committed coverage for payment of
claims and claim related adjustment expenses subject to documentation
requirements as set forth in the terms of each specific agreement. CNA has
evaluated these commitments and has established a $66.0 million reserve, net
of reinsurance, to fund coverage in place agreements based on current
projections of claims volumes and severities.

  At December 31, 2002, CNA's total IBNR reserve for asbestos was $729.0
million, net of reinsurance. For asbestos exposures, CNA classifies its IBNR
reserve as assigned or unassigned. In circumstances where CNA has executed a
settlement agreement with its policyholder, CNA assigns IBNR reserve to that
account to cover the projected value of the settlement. At December 31, 2002,
the assigned IBNR reserve was $166.0 million, net of reinsurance. The
unassigned IBNR reserve relates to potential development on accounts that have
not settled and potential future claims for unidentified policyholders. At
December 31, 2002, CNA's unassigned IBNR reserve was $563.0 million, net of
reinsurance.

  At December 31, 2002, CNA categorized active accounts as large or small
accounts. CNA defined a large account as an active account with more than
$100,000 cumulative paid losses through December 31, 2002. CNA had 150 large
accounts, with a collective reserve of $220.0 million, net of reinsurance.
Small accounts were defined as active accounts with $100,000 or less
cumulative paid losses through December 31, 2002. CNA had 939 small accounts,
with a collective reserve of $90.0 million, net of reinsurance.

  Some asbestos-related defendants have asserted that their claims for
insurance are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage. CNA has such claims
from a number of insureds. Some of these claims involve insureds facing
exhaustion of products liability aggregate limits in their policies, who have
asserted that their asbestos-related claims fall within so-called "non-
products" liability coverage contained within their policies rather than
products liability coverage, and that the claimed "non-products" coverage is
not subject to any aggregate limit. It is difficult to predict the ultimate
size of any of the claims for coverage purportedly not subject to aggregate
limits or predict to what extent, if any, the attempts to assert "non-
products" claims outside the products liability aggregate will succeed. CNA
has attempted to manage such exposures by aggressive settlement strategies.
Nevertheless, there can be no assurance any of these settlement efforts will
be successful, or that any such claims can be settled on terms acceptable to
CNA. Adverse developments with respect to such matters discussed in this
paragraph could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of
operations or equity.

  On February 13, 2003, CNA announced it had resolved asbestos-related
coverage litigation and claims involving A.P. Green Industries, A.P. Green
Services and Bigelow - Liptak Corporation. Under the agreement, CNA will be
required to pay $74.0 million, net of reinsurance recoveries, over a ten-year
period. The settlement resolves CNA's


liabilities for all pending and future asbestos claims involving A.P. Green
Industries, Bigelow - Liptak Corporation and related subsidiaries, including
alleged "non-products" exposure. The settlement is subject to bankruptcy court
approval and confirmation of a bankruptcy plan containing a channeling
injunction to protect CNA from any future claims. CNA's recorded reserves as
of December 31, 2002, included reserves for this exposure.

  CNA is engaged in insurance coverage litigation with Robert A. Keasbey
Company ("Keasbey") and associated claimants in New York state court.
(Continental Casualty Company v. Robert A. Keasbey Company et al., Supreme
Court State of New York - County of New York, No. 401621/02). Keasbey was a
seller and installer of asbestos products in the New York and New Jersey area.
CNA paid its full product liability limits to Keasbey in prior years.
Claimants against Keasbey now claim CNA owes additional coverage under the
operations section of policies issued to it by CNA. CNA is also a party to
insurance coverage litigation between Burns & Roe Enterprises, Inc. ("Burns &
Roe") and its insurance carriers related to asbestos bodily injury and
wrongful death claims. (In re: Burns & Roe Enterprises, Inc., pending in the
U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of New Jersey, No. 00-41610). Burns &
Roe provided various engineering and related services in connection with
construction projects. Burns & Roe is currently in bankruptcy. There are
numerous factual and legal issues to be resolved in connection with these
cases and it is difficult to predict the outcome or financial exposure
represented by these matters in light of the novel theories asserted by
policyholders and their counsel.

  Policyholders have also initiated litigation directly against CNA and other
insurers. CNA has been named in Adams v. Aetna, Inc., et al. (Circuit Court of
Kanhwha County, West Virginia), a purported class action against CNA and other
insurers, alleging that the defendants violated West Virginia's Unfair Trade
Practices Act in handling and resolving asbestos claims against their
policyholders. In addition, lawsuits have been filed in Texas against CNA, and
other insurers and non-insurer corporate defendants asserting liability for
failing to warn of the dangers of asbestos. (Boson v. Union Carbide Corp., et
al. (District Court of Nueces County, Texas)). It is difficult to predict the
outcome or financial exposure represented by this type of litigation in light
of the broad nature of the relief requested and the novel theories asserted.

  CNA reviews each active asbestos account every six months to determine
whether changes in reserves estimates may be necessary. CNA considers input
from its analyst professionals with direct responsibility for the claims,
inside and outside counsel with responsibility for representation of CNA, and
its actuarial staff. These professionals review, among many factors, the
policyholder's present and future exposures (including such factors as claims
volume, disease mix, trial conditions, settlement demands and defense costs);
the policies issued by CNA (including such factors as aggregate or per
occurrence limits, whether the policy is primary, umbrella or excess, and the
existence of policyholder retentions and/or deductibles); the existence of
other insurance; and reinsurance arrangements.

  Due to the uncertainties created by volatility in claim numbers and
settlement demands, the effect of bankruptcies, the extent to which non-
impaired claimants can be precluded from making claims and the efforts by
insureds to obtain coverage not subject to aggregate limits, the ultimate
liability of CNA for asbestos-related claims may vary substantially from the
amount currently recorded. Other variables that will influence CNA's ultimate
exposure to asbestos-related claims will be medical inflation trends, jury
attitudes, the strategies of plaintiff attorneys to broaden the scope of
defendants, the mix of asbestos-related diseases presented, CNA's abilities to
recover reinsurance, future court decisions and the possibility of legislative
reform. Adverse developments with respect to such matters discussed in this
paragraph could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of
operations or equity.

  During the second quarter of 2001, CNA noted the continued emergence of
adverse loss experience across several lines of business related to prior
years, which are discussed in further detail below. CNA completed a number of
reserve studies during the second quarter of 2001 for many of its lines of
business, including those in which these adverse trends were noted.

  With respect to environmental and mass tort reserves, commencing in 2000 and
continuing into the first and second quarters of 2001, CNA received a number
of new reported claims, some of which involved declaratory judgment actions
premised on court decisions purporting to expand insurance coverage for
pollution claims. In these decisions, several courts adopted rules of
insurance policy interpretation which established joint and several liability
for insurers consecutively on a risk during a period of alleged property
damage; and in other instances adopted interpretations of the "absolute
pollution exclusion," which weakened its effectiveness in most circumstances.
In


addition to receiving new claims and declaratory judgment actions premised
upon these unfavorable legal precedents, these court decisions also impacted
CNA's pending pollution and mass tort claims and coverage litigation. During
the spring of 2001, CNA reviewed specific claims and litigation, as well as
general trends, and concluded reserve strengthening in this area was
necessary.

  In the area of mass torts, several well-publicized verdicts arising out of
bodily injury cases related to allegedly toxic mold led to a significant
increase in mold-related claims in 2000 and the first half of 2001. CNA's
reserve increase in the second quarter of 2001 was caused in part by this
increased area of exposure.

  With respect to other court cases and how they might affect CNA's reserves
and reasonable possible losses, the following should be noted. State and
federal courts issue numerous decisions each year, which potentially impact
losses and reserves in both a favorable and unfavorable manner. Examples of
favorable developments include decisions to allocate defense and indemnity
payments in a manner so as to limit carriers' obligations to damages taking
place during the effective dates of their policies; decisions holding that
injuries occurring after asbestos operations are completed are subject to the
completed operations aggregate limits of the policies; and decisions ruling
that carriers' loss control inspections of their insured's premises do not
give rise to a duty to warn third parties to the dangers of asbestos.

  Examples of unfavorable developments include decisions limiting the
application of the "absolute pollution exclusion;" and decisions holding
carriers liable for defense and indemnity of asbestos and pollution claims on
a joint and several basis.

  Throughout 2000, and into 2001, CNA experienced significant increases in new
asbestos bodily injury claims. In light of this development, CNA formed the
view that payments for asbestos claims could be higher in future years than
previously estimated. Moreover, in late 2000 through mid-2001, industry
sources such as rating agencies and actuarial firms released analyses and
studies commenting on the increase in claim volumes and other asbestos
liability developments.

  Also in the 2000 to 2001 time period, a number of significant asbestos
defendants filed for bankruptcy, increasing the likelihood that excess layers
of insurance coverage could be called upon to indemnify policyholders and
creating the potential that novel legal doctrines could be employed which
could accelerate the time when such indemnification payments could be due.

  These developments led CNA to the conclusion that its asbestos reserves
required strengthening.

  The results of operations or equity of the Company in future years may be
adversely affected by environmental pollution and mass tort and asbestos claim
and claim adjustment expenses. Management will continue to review and monitor
these liabilities and make further adjustments, including the potential for
further reserve strengthening, as necessary.

Other Reserves

  Unfavorable net claim and claim adjustment expense reserve development for
other reserves in 2002 of $35.0 million was the result of analyses of several
lines of business. This development related principally to the property and
casualty companies. A brief summary of these lines of business and the
associated reserve development is discussed below.

  The gross and net carried claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for
Standard Lines were $12,854.0 and $7,788.0 million at the beginning of the
year of 2002.

  Approximately $140.0 million of favorable prior year reserve development was
attributable to participation in the Workers Compensation Reinsurance Bureau
("WCRB"), a reinsurance pool, and residual market. The favorable prior year
reserve development for WCRB is the result of information received from the
WCRB that reported the results of a recent actuarial review. This information
indicated that CNA's net required reserves for accident years 1970 through
1996 were $60.0 million less than the carried reserves. In addition, during
2002, CNA commuted accident years 1965 through 1969 for a payment of
approximately $5.0 million to cover carried reserves of


approximately $13.0 million, resulting in further favorable reserve
development of $8.0 million. The favorable residual market prior year reserve
development was the result of lower than expected paid loss activity during
recent periods for accident years dating back to 1984. The paid losses during
2002 on prior accident years were approximately 60.0% of the previously
expected amount.

  In addition, Standard Lines had favorable prior year reserve development,
primarily in the package liability and auto liability lines of business due to
new claims initiatives. Based on CNA management's best estimate of the
reduction in ultimate claim costs, approximately $100.0 million of favorable
prior year reserve development was recorded in 2002. Approximately one-half of
this favorable reserve development was recorded in accident years prior to
1999, with the remainder of the favorable reserve development recorded in
accident years 1999 to 2001.

  Approximately $50.0 million of favorable prior year reserve development
during 2002 was recorded in commercial automobile liability. Most of the
favorable development was from accident year 2000. The most recent actuarial
review showed that underwriting actions have resulted in reducing the number
of commercial automobile liability claims for recent accident years,
especially the number of large losses.

  Approximately $45.0 million of favorable reserve development was recorded in
property lines during 2002. The favorable reserve development was principally
from accident years 1999 through 2001, and was the result of the low number of
large losses in recent years. Although property claims are generally reported
relatively quickly, determining the ultimate cost of the claim can involve a
significant amount of time between the occurrence of the claim and settlement.

  Offsetting these favorable reserve developments were approximately $70.0
million of unfavorable reserve development in two programs written in CNA
Excess & Surplus ("E&S"), approximately $30.0 million of unfavorable reserve
development on a contractors account package policy program and approximately
$20.0 million of unfavorable development on middle market general liability
coverages.

  A CNA E&S program, covering facilities that provide services to
developmentally disabled individuals, accounts for approximately $50.0 million
of the unfavorable reserve development. The development was due to an increase
in the size of known claims and increases in policyholder defense costs. These
increases became apparent as the result of an actuarial review completed
during 2002, with most of the development recorded in accident years 1999 and
2000. The other program which contributed to the CNA E&S development covers
tow truck and ambulance operators in the 2000 and 2001 accident years. This
program was started in 1999. CNA expected that loss ratios for this business
would be similar to its middle market commercial automobile liability
business. Reviews completed during the year resulted in estimated loss ratios
on the tow truck and ambulance business that are 25 points higher than the
middle market commercial automobile liability loss ratios.

  The unfavorable reserve development on contractors account package policies
was the result of an actuarial review completed during 2002. Since this
program is no longer being written, CNA expected that the change in reported
losses would decrease each quarterly period. However, in recent quarterly
periods, the change in reported losses has been higher than prior quarters,
resulting in the unfavorable reserve development.

  The gross and net carried claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for
Specialty Lines were $5,668.0 and $3,461.0 million for the beginning of the
year of 2002.

  Unfavorable prior year reserve development of approximately $180.0 million
was recorded for CNA HealthPro in 2002 and was driven principally by medical
malpractice excess products provided to hospitals and physicians and coverages
provided to long term care facilities, principally national for-profit nursing
homes. Approximately $100.0 million of the prior year unfavorable reserve
development was related to assumed excess products and loss portfolio
transfers, and was primarily driven by unexpected increases in the number of
excess claims in accident years 1999 and 2000. The percentage of total claims
greater than $1.0 million has increased by 33.0%, from less than 3.0% of all
claims to more than 4.0% of all claims. CNA HealthPro no longer writes assumed
excess products and loss portfolio transfers.

  Approximately $50.0 million of the prior year unfavorable reserve
development was related to long term care facilities. The development
principally impacted accident years 1997 through 2000. The average value of
claims


closed during the first several months of 2002 increased by more than 50.0%
when compared to claims closed during 2001. In response to those trends, CNA
HealthPro has reduced its writings of national for-profit nursing home chains.
Excess products provided to healthcare institutions and physician coverages in
a limited number of states was responsible for the remaining development in
CNA HealthPro. The unfavorable reserve development on excess products provided
to institutions for accident years 1996 through 1999 resulted from increases
in the size of claims experienced by these institutions. Due to the increase
in the size of claims, more claims were exceeding the point at which these
excess products apply. The unfavorable reserve development on physician
coverages was recorded for accident years 1999 through 2001 in Oregon,
California, Arizona and Nevada. The average claim size in these states has
increased by 20.0%, driving the change in losses.

  The Marine business recorded unfavorable reserve development of
approximately $65.0 million during 2002. Approximately $50.0 million of this
unfavorable reserve development was due to participation in voluntary pools.
About half of the reserve development was recorded in accident years 1999 and
2000 with the remainder attributable to accident years prior to 1999. The
reserves were based on recommendations provided by the pools. Participation in
many of these pools has been discontinued. The remaining reserve development
for the Marine business was due principally to unfavorable reserve development
on hull and liability coverages from accident years 1999 and 2000 offset by
favorable reserve development on cargo coverages recorded for accident year
2001. Reviews completed during 2002 showed additional reported losses on
individual large accounts and other bluewater business that drove the
unfavorable hull and liability reserve development. These additional losses
during the first nine months of 2002 for accident years 1999 and 2000 were
almost 75.0% higher than the provision that had been established at the end of
2001.

  Offsetting the unfavorable reserve development was favorable reserve
development in CNA Pro and for Enron-related exposures. Programs providing
professional liability coverage to accountants, lawyers and realtors primarily
drove favorable prior year reserve development of approximately $110.0 million
in CNA Pro. Reviews of this business completed during 2002 have shown little
activity for older accident years (principally prior to 1999), which reduced
the need for reserves on these years. The reported losses on these programs
for accident years prior to 1999 increased by approximately $5.0 million
during 2002. This increase compared to the total reserve at the beginning of
2002 of approximately $180.0 million, net of reinsurance. Additionally,
favorable reserve development of $20.0 million was associated with the Enron
settlement. CNA had established a $20.0 million reserve for accident year 2001
for an excess layer associated with Enron related surety losses; however the
case has settled for less than the attachment point of this excess layer.

  The gross and net carried claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for
CNA Re were $4,644.0 and $3,013.0 million for the beginning of the year of
2002.

  Prior year unfavorable reserve development was recorded in 2002 as a result
of an actuarial review completed during 2002 and was primarily recorded in the
directors and officers, professional liability errors and omissions, and
surety lines of business. Several large losses, as well as continued increases
in the overall average size of claims for these lines, have resulted in higher
than expected loss ratios.

  During 2002, CNA Re revised its estimate of premiums and losses related to
the WTC event. In estimating CNA Re's WTC event losses, CNA performed a
treaty-by-treaty analysis of exposure. CNA's loss estimate was based on a
number of assumptions including the loss to the industry, the loss to
individual lines of business and the market share of CNA Re's cedants.
Information available in 2002 resulted in CNA Re increasing its estimate of
WTC event related premiums and losses on its property facultative and property
catastrophe business. The impact of increasing the estimate of gross WTC event
losses by $144.0 million was fully offset on a net of reinsurance basis
(before the impact of the CCC Cover) by higher reinstatement premiums and a
reduction of return premiums.

  Approximately $95.0 million of CNA Re's net WTC loss estimate was
attributable to its United Kingdom subsidiary, CNA Re U.K., which was sold in
2002. See Note 14 for further discussion of the sale.

  The gross and net carried claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for
the Other Insurance segment, excluding the gross and net carried claim and
claim adjustment expense reserves for APMT, were $2,562.0 and $225.0 million
for the beginning of the year of 2002.


  Personal insurance recorded unfavorable reserve development of $35.0 million
on accident years 1997 through 1999. These losses were subject to a
retroactive ceded reinsurance agreement with The Allstate Corporation
("Allstate") that covers losses occurring prior to October 1, 1999. This ceded
reinsurance agreement was entered into as part of the sale of CNA's personal
insurance business to Allstate. The unfavorable reserve development was
principally due to continuing policyholder defense costs associated with
remaining open claims. At the end of 2002, approximately 4,800 claims remain
open. It was anticipated these claims would be closed more quickly,
eliminating further defense coverage costs.

  The unfavorable reserve development on personal insurance was offset by
favorable reserve development on other run-off business driven principally by
financial and mortgage guarantee coverages from accident years 1997 and prior.
The favorable reserve development on financial and mortgage guarantee
coverages resulted from a review of the underlying exposures and the
outstanding losses. This review showed that salvage and subrogation continues
to be collected on these types of claims, thereby reducing estimated future
losses net of anticipated reinsurance recoveries.

  Unfavorable net claim and claim adjustment expense reserve development for
other reserves in 2001 of $1,223.0 million was the result of analyses of
several lines of business. This development related principally to commercial
insurance coverages including automobile liability and multiple-peril, as well
as assumed reinsurance and healthcare-related coverages. A brief summary of
these lines of business and the associated reserve development is discussed
below.

  Approximately $230.0 million of the adverse loss development was a result of
several coverages provided to commercial entities. The gross and net carried
claim and claim adjustment expense reserves for the Standard Lines business at
the beginning of 2001 were $12,070.0 and $9,129.0 million. Reserve analyses
performed during 2001 showed unexpected increases in the size of claims for
several lines, including commercial automobile liability, general liability
and the liability portion of commercial multiple-peril coverages. In addition,
the number of commercial automobile liability claims was higher than expected
and several state-specific factors resulted in higher than anticipated losses,
including developments associated with commercial automobile liability
coverage in Ohio and general liability coverage provided to contractors in New
York. The unfavorable development was driven principally by accident years
1997 through 2000. The remaining development affecting years prior to 1997 was
driven principally by construction defect claims as described below.

  The commercial automobile liability analysis indicated increased ultimate
claim and claim adjustment expense across several accident years due to higher
paid and reported claim and claim adjustment expense resulting from several
factors. These factors include uninsured/underinsured motorists coverage in
Ohio, a change in the rate at which the average claim size was increasing and
a lack of improvement in the ratio of the number of claims per exposure unit,
the frequency. First, Ohio courts had significantly broadened the population
covered through the uninsured/underinsured motorists' coverage. The broadening
of the population covered by this portion of the policy, and the retrospective
nature of this broadening of coverage, resulted in additional claims for older
years. Second, in recent years, the average claim size had been increasing at
less than a 2.0% annual rate. The available data indicated that the rate of
increase was closer to 8.0% with only a portion of this increase explainable
by a change in mix of business. Finally, the review completed during the
second quarter of 2001 indicated that the frequency for the 2000 accident year
was 6.0% higher than 1999. Expectations were that the 2000 frequency would
show an improvement from the 1999 level.

  The analyses of general liability and the liability portion of commercial
multiple-peril coverages showed several factors affecting these lines.
Construction defect claims in California and a limited number of other states
have had a significant impact. It was expected that the number of claims being
reported and the average size of those claims would fall quickly due to the
decrease in business exposed to those losses. However, the number of claims
reported during the first six months of 2001 increased from the number of
claims reported during the last six months of 2000. In addition to the effects
of construction defect claims, the average claim associated with New York
labor law has risen to more than $125,000 from less than $100,000, which was
significantly greater than previously expected.

  An analysis of assumed reinsurance business written by CNA Re showed that
the paid and reported losses for recent accident years were higher than
expectations, which resulted in management recording net unfavorable
development on prior year loss reserves of approximately $690.0 million. The
gross and net claim and claim


adjustment expense reserves at the beginning of 2001 for CNA Re were $4,238.0
and $2,735.0 million. Because of the long and variable reporting pattern
associated with assumed reinsurance as well as uncertainty regarding possible
changes in the reporting methods of the ceding companies, the carried reserves
for assumed reinsurance was based mainly on the pricing assumptions until
experience emerges to show that the pricing assumptions are no longer valid.
The reviews completed during the second quarter of 2001, including analysis at
the individual treaty level, showed that the pricing assumptions were no
longer appropriate. The classes of business with the most significant changes
included excess of loss liability, professional liability and proportional and
retrocessional property. Approximately $470.0 million of the total unfavorable
development was from accident years 1998 through 2000, and approximately
$150.0 million was from accident years 1996 and 1997. The remaining $70.0
million of unfavorable development was attributable to accident years prior to
1996.

  Approximately $300.0 million of adverse loss development was due to adverse
experience in all other lines, primarily in coverages provided to healthcare-
related entities written by CNA HealthPro. The gross and net claim and claim
adjustment expense reserve at the beginning of 2001 for Specialty Lines were
$4,813.0 and $3,429.0 million. The level of paid and reported losses
associated with coverages provided to national long term care facilities were
higher than expected. The long term care facility business had traditionally
been limited to local facilities. In recent years, CNA began to provide
coverage to large chains of long term care facilities. Original assumptions
were that these chains would exhibit loss ratios similar to the local
facilities. The most recent review of these large chains indicated an overall
loss ratio in excess of 500% versus approximately 100% for the remaining
business. In addition, the average size of claims resulting from coverages
provided to physicians and institutions providing healthcare-related services
increased more than expected. The review indicated that the average loss had
increased to over $330,000. Prior to this review, the expectation for the
average loss was approximately $250,000. Unfavorable reserve development of
$240.0 million was recorded for accident years 1997 through 2000. The
remaining unfavorable reserve development was attributable to accident years
prior to 1997.

  Concurrent with CNA's review of loss reserves, CNA completed comprehensive
studies of estimated premium receivable accruals on retrospectively rated
insurance policies and involuntary market facilities. These studies included
ground-up reviews of retrospective premium accruals utilizing a more
comprehensive database of retrospectively rated contracts. This review
included application of the policy retrospective rating parameters to the
revised estimate of ultimate loss ratio and consideration of actual interim
cash settlement. This study resulted in a change in the estimated
retrospective premiums receivable balances.

  As a result of this review and changes in premiums associated with the
change in estimates for loss reserves, CNA recorded a pretax reduction in
premium accruals of $566.0 million. The effect on net earned premiums was
$616.0 million offset by a reduction of accrued commissions of $50.0 million.
The studies included the review of all such retrospectively rated insurance
policies and the estimate of ultimate losses.

  Approximately $188.0 million of this amount resulted from a change in
estimate in premiums related to involuntary market facilities, which had an
offsetting impact on net losses and therefore had no impact on the net
operating results. More than one-half of the change in estimate in premiums
was attributable to accident years 1997 through 1999 with the remainder
attributable to accident years prior to 1992. Accruals for ceded premiums
related to other reinsurance treaties increased $83.0 million due to the
reserve strengthening. This increase in accruals for ceded premiums was
principally recorded in accident year 2000. The remainder of the decrease in
premium accruals relates to the change in estimate of the amount of
retrospective premium receivables as discussed above, which were principally
recorded in accident years prior to 1999.

  Unfavorable net claim and claim adjustment expense reserve development for
other reserves in 2000 of $347.0 million was due to unfavorable loss
experience in standard commercial lines, assumed reinsurance and accident and
health lines. These unfavorable changes were partially offset by favorable
development in non-medical professional liability and other casualty lines.
The unfavorable development in standard commercial lines can be attributed to
adverse claim experience for recent accident years in the commercial auto
liability, commercial multi-peril and workers compensation lines of business.
The unfavorable development in the assumed reinsurance and accident and health
lines also resulted from adverse claims experience.

  CNA's insurance subsidiaries also have exposure to construction defect
losses, principally in its general liability and commercial multiple-peril
lines. This exposure relates to claims involving property damage alleging loss
of use,


damage, destruction or deterioration of land, buildings and other structures
involving new construction or major rehabilitation of real property. Many of
these claims involve multiple defects and multiple defendants. The majority of
losses have been concentrated in a limited number of states, including
California. CNA has recorded several underwriting actions to mitigate this
exposure in the future. Estimation of construction defect losses is subject to
a high level of uncertainty due to the long period of time between the
accident date and the reporting of the claim, emerging case law, changing
regulatory rules and the allocation of damages to the multiple defendants.
Due to the inherent uncertainties noted above, the ultimate liability for
construction defect claims may vary substantially from the amount currently
recorded.

Financial Guarantee Reserves

  CNA, through assumed reinsurance contracts, provided financial guarantees to
issuers of asset-backed securities, motion picture finance and money market
funds. Premiums were received throughout the exposure period and were
recognized as revenue in proportion to the underlying risk insured. In
addition, CNA's property and casualty subsidiaries wrote financial guarantee
insurance in the form of surety bonds and also insured equity policies through
August 1, 1989. These bonds represented primarily industrial development bond
guarantees and, in the case of insured equity policies, typically extended in
initial terms from 10 to 13 years. For these guarantees and policies CNA
received an advance premium that was recognized over the exposure period and
in proportion to the underlying risk insured.

  As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, gross exposure on assumed financial
guarantee insurance contracts, credit enhancement products, financial
guarantee surety bonds and insured equity policies was approximately $7.0 and
$82.0 million. The degree of risk to CNA related to this exposure is
substantially reduced through reinsurance, diversification of exposures and
collateral requirements. In addition, security interests in improved real
estate are also commonly obtained on these risks. Approximately 14.0% and
26.0% of the risks were ceded to reinsurers at December 31, 2002 and 2001.
Total exposure, net of reinsurance, amounted to $6.0 and $61.0 million as of
December 31, 2002 and 2001. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, collateral
consisting of letters of credit, cash reserves and debt service reserves
amounted to $1.0 and $6.0 million.

  Gross unearned premium reserves for these contracts were $2.0 and $2.0
million at December 31, 2002 and 2001. Gross claim and claim adjustment
expense reserves totaled $50.0 and $103.0 million as of December 31, 2002 and
2001.

Note 10. Leases

  The Company's hotels in some instances are constructed on leased land. Other
leases cover office facilities, computer and transportation equipment. Rent
expense amounted to $110.2, $108.8 and $93.7 million for the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The table below presents the
future minimum lease payments to be made under non-cancelable operating leases
along with lease and sublease minimum receipts to be received on owned and
leased properties.



  CNA has provided parent company guarantees, which expire in 2015, related to
lease obligations of certain subsidiaries. Certain of those subsidiaries have
been sold; however, the lease obligation guarantees remain in effect.


CNA would be required to remit prompt payment on leases in question if the
primary obligor fails to observe and perform its covenants under the lease
agreements. The maximum potential amount of future payments that CNA could be
required to pay under these guarantees is approximately $8.0 million at
December 31, 2002.

Note 11. Income Taxes



Deferred tax assets (liabilities) are as follows:



  Gross deferred tax assets amounted to $2,775.2 and $2,718.8 million and
liabilities amounted to $2,148.0 and $1,980.2 million at December 31, 2002 and
2001, respectively. Although realization of deferred tax assets is not
assured, management believes it is more likely than not that deferred tax
assets will be realized through future earnings, including but not limited to
the generation of future operating income and reversal of existing temporary
differences and available tax planning strategies. As a result, no valuation
allowance was recorded at December 31, 2002 and 2001.

  Total income tax expense (benefit) for the years ended December 31, 2002,
2001 and 2000, was different than the amounts of $576.5, $(287.8) and $1,102.9
million, computed by applying the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate of
35% to income before income taxes and minority interest for each of the years.


  A reconciliation between the statutory federal income tax rate and the
Company's effective income tax rate as a percentage of income (loss) before
income tax expense (benefit) and minority interest is as follows:





  Provision has been made for the expected U.S. federal income tax liabilities
applicable to undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, except for certain
subsidiaries for which the Company intends to invest the undistributed
earnings indefinitely, or recover such undistributed earnings tax-free.
Adjustments related to foreign net operating loss carry-forwards reflected
above pertain to those foreign subsidiaries for which no tax benefit is
expected to be realized.

  The Company has entered into a separate tax allocation agreement with CNA, a
majority-owned subsidiary in which its ownership exceeds 80%. The agreement
provides that the Company will (i) pay to CNA the amount, if any, by which the
Company's consolidated federal income tax is reduced by virtue of inclusion of
CNA in the Company's return, or (ii) be paid by CNA an amount, if any, equal
to the federal income tax that would have been payable by CNA if it had filed
a separate consolidated return.

  Under this agreement, CNA has paid, or will pay, the Company approximately
$94.0 million for 2002. In 2001 and 2000, CNA received $908.0 million and paid
$64.0 million, respectively. The agreement may be canceled by either of the
parties upon thirty days' written notice.

  The Company's federal income tax returns have been settled through 1997.
Years 1998 through 2001 are currently under examination. While tax liabilities
for subsequent years are subject to audit and final determination, in the
opinion of management the amount accrued in the Consolidated Balance Sheets is
believed to be adequate to cover any additional assessments which may be made
by federal, state and local tax authorities and should not have a material
effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.

Note 12. Long-Term Debt






(a)  Redeemable in whole or in part at June 1, 2003 at 103.8%, and decreasing
percentages thereafter.
(b)  Redeemable in whole or in part at October 15, 2003 at 102.4%, and
decreasing percentages thereafter.
(c)  The notes are exchangeable into 15.376 shares of Diamond Offshore's
common stock per one thousand dollars principal amount of notes, at a price of
$65.04 per share. Redeemable in whole or in part at 101.6%, and decreasing
percentages annually.
(d)  The debentures are convertible into Diamond Offshore's common stock at
the rate of 8.6075 shares per one thousand dollars principal amount, subject
to adjustment. Each debenture will be purchased by Diamond Offshore at the
option of the holder on the fifth, tenth and fifteenth anniversaries of
issuance at the accreted value through the date of repurchase. Diamond
Offshore, at its option, may elect to pay the purchase price in cash or shares
of common stock, or in certain combinations thereof. The debentures are
redeemable at the option of Diamond Offshore at any time after June 6, 2005,
at prices which reflect a yield of 3.5% to the holder.


(e)  The Debentures are convertible into Diamond Offshore's common stock at an
initial conversion rate of 20.3978 shares per one thousand dollars principal
amount, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. Upon conversion,
Diamond Offshore has the right to deliver cash in lieu of shares of its common
stock. Diamond Offshore may redeem all or a portion of the Debentures at any
time on or after April 15, 2008 at a price equal to 100% of the principal
amount.

  On April 6, 2001, Diamond Offshore redeemed all of its outstanding 3.75%
Convertible Subordinated Notes (the "Notes") in accordance with the indenture
under which the Notes were issued. Prior to April 6, 2001, $12.4 million
principal amount of the Notes had been converted into 307,071 shares of
Diamond Offshore's common stock at the stated conversion price of $40.50 per
share. The remaining $387.6 million principal amount of the Notes was redeemed
at 102.1% of the principal amount, plus accrued interest, for a total cash
payment of $397.7 million.

  On April 11, 2001, Diamond Offshore issued $460.0 million principal amount
of 1.5% convertible senior debentures (the "1.5% Debentures") due April 15,
2031. The transaction resulted in net proceeds of approximately $449.1
million. Diamond Offshore will pay contingent interest to holders of the 1.5%
Debentures during any six-month period commencing after April 15, 2008 if the
average market price of a 1.5% Debenture for a measurement period preceding
that six-month period equals 120% or more of the principal amount of such 1.5%
Debenture and Diamond Offshore pays a regular cash dividend during the six-
month period. The contingent interest payable per $1,000 principal amount of
1.5% Debentures in respect of any quarterly period will equal 50% of regular
cash dividends paid by Diamond Offshore per share on its common stock during
that quarterly period multiplied by the conversion rate.

  CNA has a $250.0 million three-year bank credit facility with an April 30,
2004 expiration date. CNA previously had a $250.0 million 364-day facility
with an expiration date of April 29, 2002. An option to convert the 364-day
facility to a one-year term loan was exercised in April 2002. The term loan
was subsequently prepaid on December 23, 2002.

  CNA pays a facility fee to the lenders for having funds available for loans
under the three-year credit facility maturing April 30, 2004. The fee varies
based on the long-term debt ratings of CNA. At December 31, 2002, the facility
fee on the three-year component was 17.5 basis points.

  CNA pays interest on any outstanding debt/borrowings under the three-year
facility based on a rate determined using the long-term debt ratings of CNA.
The interest rate is equal to the London Interbank Offering Rate ("LIBOR")
plus 57.5 basis points. Further, if CNA has outstanding loans greater than 50%
of the amounts available under the three-year facility, CNA also will pay a
utilization fee of 12.5 basis points on such loans. At December 31, 2002 and
2001, the weighted-average interest rate on the borrowings under the facility,
including facility fees and utilization fees, was 2.3% and 3.1%.

  A Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's") downgrade of the CNA senior debt
rating from Baa2 to Baa3 would increase the facility fee on the three-year
component of the facility from 17.5 basis points to 25.0 basis points. The
applicable interest rate would increase from LIBOR plus 57.5 basis points to
LIBOR plus 75.0 basis points. The utilization fee would remain unchanged on
the three-year facility at 12.5 basis points.

  The combined weighted average interest rate of all short-term debt,
including facility fees and commercial paper borrowings of CNA was 2.3% and
7.4% at December 31, 2002 and 2001.

  On September 30, 2002, CNA Surety Corporation ("CNA Surety"), a 64.0% owned
and consolidated subsidiary of CNA, entered into a $65.0 million credit
agreement with one bank, which consisted of a $35.0 million 364-day revolving
credit facility and a $30.0 million three-year term loan, payable semi-
annually at a rate of $5.0 million. The credit agreement replaced a $130.0
million five-year revolving credit facility that terminated September 30,
2002. The new revolving credit facility was fully utilized at inception.

  The terms of the new credit facility agreement required the assumption by a
second bank of $15.0 million of the credit risk by November 30, 2002 or CNA
Surety would be required to repay $15.0 million to reduce the amount of the
credit facility commitment from $35.0 to $20.0 million. On November 29, 2002,
CNA Surety repaid $11.0 million of the outstanding borrowings and arranged for
the due date on the remaining $4.0 million to be delayed to March 31, 2003. A
second bank subsequently assumed $10.0 million of the credit risk resulting in
an additional $6.0


million of outstanding borrowings, leaving the credit facility commitment at
$30.0 million. As of December 31, 2002, the revolving credit facility was
fully utilized.

  Under the new credit facility agreement, CNA Surety pays a facility fee of
12.5 basis points, interest at LIBOR plus 45.0 basis points, and for
utilization greater than 50% of the amount available to borrow an additional
fee of 5.0 basis points. On the term loan, CNA Surety pays interest at LIBOR
plus 62.5 basis points. At December 31, 2002, the weighted-average interest
rate on the $60.0 million of outstanding borrowings under the credit
agreement, including facility fees and utilization fees was 2.0%.

  Under the former credit facility agreement, CNA Surety paid interest on
outstanding borrowings based on, among other rates, LIBOR plus the applicable
margin. The applicable margin was determined by the company's leverage ratio
(debt to total capitalization). At the termination date of the old facility,
the applicable margin was 30.0 basis points, including the 10.0 basis point
facility fee. At December 31, 2001, the weighted-average interest rate on the
borrowings under the facility, including facility fees, was 2.6%.

  The terms of CNA's and CNA Surety's credit facilities require CNA and CNA
Surety to maintain certain financial ratios and combined property and casualty
company statutory surplus levels. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, CNA and CNA
Surety were in compliance with all restrictive debt covenants.

  The aggregate of long-term debt maturing in each of the next five years is
approximately as follows: $433.0 million in 2003, $266.7 million in 2004,
$564.0 million in 2005, $554.9 million in 2006 and $1,224.9 million in 2007.

  CNA has provided guarantees related to irrevocable standby letters of credit
for certain of its subsidiaries. Certain of these subsidiaries have been sold;
however, the irrevocable standby letter of credit guarantees remain in effect.
CNA would be required to remit prompt payment on the letters of credit in
question if the primary obligor drew down on these letters of credit and
failed to repay such loans in accordance with the terms of the letters of
credit. The maximum potential amount of future payments that CNA could be
required to pay under these guarantees are approximately $30.0 million at
December 31, 2002.

  CNA's ability to pay dividends and other credit obligations is significantly
dependent on receipt of dividends from subsidiaries. The payment of dividends
to CNA by its insurance subsidiaries without prior approval of the insurance
department of each subsidiary's domiciliary jurisdiction is limited by
formula. Dividends in excess of these amounts are subject to prior approval by
the respective state insurance departments.

  Dividends from CCC are subject to the insurance holding company laws of the
State of Illinois, the domiciliary state of CCC. Under these laws, ordinary
dividends, or dividends that do not require prior approval of the Illinois
Department, may be paid only from earned surplus, which is calculated by
removing unrealized gains from unassigned surplus. As of December 31, 2002,
CCC's earned surplus is in a positive position, thereby enabling CCC to pay
approximately $1,069.0 million of dividend payments during 2003 that would not
be subject to the Department's prior approval. The actual level of dividends
paid in any year is determined after an assessment of available dividend
capacity, holding company liquidity and cash needs as well as the impact the
dividends will have on the statutory surplus of the applicable insurance
company.

  CCC's positive earned surplus at December 31, 2002 is contrasted to its
negative earned surplus position at December 31, 2001. Prompted, in part, by
the negative earned surplus position at December 31, 2001, CNA embarked on a
capital realignment initiative within the CCC intercompany reinsurance pool
("Pool") during 2002, the benefits of which included the restoration of CCC's
earned surplus to a positive position. This initiative involved the payment of
dividends to CCC from its insurance subsidiaries during the fourth quarter of
2002. As a result of this distribution of the cumulative earnings of CCC's
insurance subsidiaries, CCC's earned surplus was restored to a positive level
at December 31, 2002, approximating $1,069.0 million.

  This initiative involved a change to the underwriting structure of CCC and
eight of its subsidiaries from the Pool structure to a structure in which CCC
assumes 100% of the net underwriting risks of the group of companies formerly
comprising the pool. This is CNA's first step in a multi-year project to
reduce duplicative legal entities, thereby facilitating more efficient
operations and cost savings.


  In addition, by agreement with the New Hampshire Insurance Department, as
well as certain other state insurance departments, dividend payments for the
CIC pool are restricted to internal and external debt service requirements
through September of 2003, up to a maximum of $85.0 million annually, without
the prior approval of the New Hampshire Insurance Department.

Note 13. Comprehensive Income (Loss)

  The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are as
follows:




Note 14.  Significant Transactions

Variable Life and Annuity Transaction

  In July of 2002, CNA entered into an agreement, whereby Phoenix acquired the
variable life and annuity business of VFL through a coinsurance arrangement,
with modified coinsurance on the separate accounts.

  As a result of this agreement, Phoenix assumed net assets of $6.0 million.
At December 31, 2002, approximately $479.0 million of separate account assets
and $479.0 million of separate account policy reserves related to the variable
life and annuity business continue to be held by CNA and are reported in
Separate account business in the assets and liabilities sections of the
Consolidated Balance Sheet. The assets and liabilities of the variable life
and annuity business were $637.0 million (primarily separate account assets)
and $637.0 million (primarily separate account policy reserves) as of December
31, 2001.

  The variable life and annuity business' premiums and fee income were $8.0,
$11.0 and $5.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000.
Net loss was $4.5, $38.5 and $10.4 million for the years ended December 31,
2002, 2001 and 2000.

National Postal Mail Handlers Union Contract Termination

  During the second quarter of 2002, CNA sold Claims Administration
Corporation and transferred the National Postal Handlers Union group benefits
plan (the "Mail Handlers Plan") to First Health Group Corporation. As a result
of this transaction CNA recognized a $7.0 million pretax realized loss on the
sale of Claims Administration Corporation and $15.0 million of pretax non-
recurring fee income related to the transfer of the Mail Handlers Plan.

  The assets and liabilities of Claims Administration Corporation and the Mail
Handlers Plan were $352.0 and $350.0 million at December 31, 2001. The
revenues of Claims Administration Corporation and the Mail Handlers Plan were
$1,151.0, $2,231.0 and $2,081.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2002,
2001 and 2000.

  Net income from Claims Administration Corporation and Mail Handlers Plan was
$4.5 million, including the non-recurring fee income, $14.0 and $5.2 million
for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000.

CNA Vida Disposition

  In the first quarter of 2002, CNA completed the sale of the common stock of
CNA Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries ("CNA Vida"), CNA's life operations
in Chile, to Consorcio Financiero S.A. ("Consorcio"). In connection with the
sale, CNA received proceeds of $73.0 million and recorded a loss from
discontinued operations of $31.0 million, after tax and minority interest of
$9.3 and $4.0 million. This loss is composed of a $32.8 million realized loss
on the sale of CNA Vida and income of $1.8 million from CNA Vida's operations
for 2002.

  CNA Vida's assets and liabilities at December 31, 2001 were $442.0 and
$337.0 million. CNA Vida's net earned premiums were $24.0, $77.0 and $86.0
million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. Net income was
$1.8, $9.4 and $4.5 million for the years ended 2002, 2001 and 2000. CNA
Vida's results of operations, including the loss on sale, are presented as
discontinued operations in all periods presented.

Individual Life Reinsurance Transaction

  Effective December 31, 2000, CNA completed a transaction with Munich
American Reassurance Company ("MARC"), whereby MARC acquired CNA's individual
life reinsurance business ("CNA Life Re") via an indemnity reinsurance
agreement. CNA will continue to accept and retrocede business on existing CNA
Life Re contracts until such time that CNA and MARC are able to execute
novations of each of CNA Life Re's assumed and retroceded reinsurance
contracts.

  MARC assumed approximately $294.0 million of liabilities (primarily future
policy benefits and claim reserves) and approximately $209.0 million in assets
(primarily uncollected premiums and deferred acquisition costs). The net


gain of approximately $1.7 million from the reinsurance transaction has been
recorded as deferred revenue and will be recognized in income as CNA Life Re's
assumed contracts are novated to MARC.

  The CNA Life Re business contributed net earned premiums of $229.0 million
and net income of $15.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2000.

Other Dispositions of Certain Businesses

  During the second quarter of 2001, CNA announced its intention to sell
certain businesses. The assets being held for disposition included CNA Re U.K.
and certain other businesses. Based upon the impairment analyses performed at
that time, CNA anticipated that it would realize losses in connection with
those planned sales. In determining the anticipated loss from these sales, CNA
estimated the net realizable value of each business being held for sale. An
estimated loss of $278.4 million, after tax and minority interest, was
initially recorded in the second quarter of 2001. This loss was reported in
investment losses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

  In the fourth quarter of 2001, CNA sold certain businesses as planned. The
realized loss after tax and minority interest applicable to these businesses,
recognized in the second quarter of 2001 was $33.1 million. Revenues of these
businesses included in the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 totaled
approximately $33.0 and $37.0 million. These businesses contributed
approximately $9.6 and $6.9 million of net losses in the years ended December
31, 2001 and 2000.

  CNA regularly updates its impairment analyses and adjusts its loss as
necessary. Based on these updated analyses, the impairment loss was reduced by
approximately $150.7 million after tax and minority interest in the fourth
quarter of 2001, primarily because the net assets of the businesses had been
significantly diminished by their operating losses, including adverse loss
reserve development recognized by CNA Re U.K. in the fourth quarter of 2001.
The reduction of the impairment was included in investment gains in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations.

  The statutory surplus of CNA Re U.K. was below the required regulatory
minimum surplus level at December 31, 2001. CCC contributed $120.0 million of
capital on March 25, 2002 bringing the capital above the regulatory minimum.

  On October 31, 2002, CNA completed the sale of CNA Re U.K. to Tawa UK
Limited ("Tawa"), a subsidiary of Artemis Group, a diversified French-based
holding company. The sale includes business underwritten since inception by
CNA Re U.K., except for certain risks retained by CCC as discussed below. In
October, the sale was approved in the United Kingdom by the Financial Services
Authority ("FSA") and by the Illinois Insurance Department. This sale does not
impact CNA Re's on-going U.S.-based operations.

  The purchase price was $1, subject to adjustments based primarily upon the
results of operations and realized foreign currency losses of CNA Re U.K. The
final purchase price adjustments were prepared by Tawa and have been agreed to
by CNA. Under the terms of the purchase price adjustment, CCC is entitled to
receive $5.0 million from Tawa after Tawa is able to legally withdraw funds
from the former CNA Re U.K. entities. CCC has also committed to contribute up
to $5.0 million to the former CNA Re U.K. entities over a four-year period
beginning in 2010 should the FSA deem those entities to be undercapitalized.
The purchase price adjustment related to foreign currency losses resulted in
CNA contributing additional capital to CNA Re U.K. of $11.0 million. As the
sale and related agreements have now been completed, CNA has finalized its
impairment analysis based upon the terms of the completed transactions. As
such, in the fourth quarter of 2002, the impairment loss was reduced by
approximately $35.1 after tax and minority interest. The reduction of the
impairment was included in net realized investment gains.

  Concurrent with the sale, several reinsurance agreements under which CCC had
provided retrocessional protection to CNA Re U.K. were terminated. As part of
the sale, CNA Re U.K.'s net exposure to all IGI Program liabilities was
assumed by CCC. Further, CCC is providing a $100.0 million stop loss cover
attaching at carried reserves on CNA Re U.K.'s 2001 underwriting year
exposures for which CCC received premiums of $25.0 million.


  CNA Re U.K. had revenues of approximately $48.0, $280.0 and $605.0 million
for the three years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. CNA Re U.K. had
net losses of $19.7, $327.3 and $137.3 million for the years ended December
31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. The assets and liabilities of CNA Re U.K., including
the effects of the concurrent transactions, were approximately $2,442.0 and
$2,357.0 million at the date of sale and $2,557.0 and $2,541.0 million as of
December 31, 2001.

Personal Insurance Transaction

  On October 1, 1999, certain subsidiaries of CNA completed a transaction with
Allstate, whereby CNA's Personal Insurance lines of business and related
employees were transferred to Allstate. Approximately $1.1 billion of cash and
$1.1 billion of additional assets (primarily premium receivables and deferred
acquisition costs) were transferred to Allstate, and Allstate assumed $2.2
billion of claim and claim adjustment expense reserves and unearned premium
reserves. Additionally, CNA received $140.0 million in cash, which consisted
of (1) $120.0 million in ceding commission for the reinsurance of the CNA
personal insurance business by Allstate and (2) $20.0 million for an option
exercisable during 2002 to purchase 100% of the common stock of five CNA
insurance subsidiaries at a price equal to the GAAP carrying value as of the
exercise date. Also, CNA invested $75.0 million in a ten-year equity-linked
note issued by Allstate.

  As of December 10, 2001, Allstate and CNA agreed to modify a number of the
original terms of the transaction. The following is an overview of the
significant modifications to the terms of the original agreement:

(1) CNA has substituted subsidiaries for the originally named subsidiaries and
    extended the purchase option period for the substituted subsidiaries
    through 2005. CNA has compensated Allstate for the postponement of its
    right to exercise the option due to the substitution of companies in the
    amount of $7.0 million, reducing the original payment from Allstate of
    $20.0 million to approximately $13.0 million. The $13.0 million will
    continue to be deferred and will not be recognized until Allstate
    exercises its option, at which time it will be recorded as a realized
    gain.

(2) The $75.0 million ten-year equity-linked note issued by Allstate in
    October of 1999 was redeemed by Allstate at par plus accrued interest.

  An amendment to the December of 2001 Option Agreement was signed by both
Allstate and CNA in December of 2002. The amendment modified certain terms and
provisions of the Option Agreement related to the option companies and
licenses needed to be acquired, and substituted payment for certain of the
licenses in one of the option companies provided for in the December 10, 2001
transaction.

  CNA will continue to write new and renewal personal insurance policies and
to reinsure this business with Allstate companies until such time as Allstate
exercises its option to buy the CNA subsidiaries. CNA continues to have
primary liability on policies reinsured by Allstate. Through 2005, CNA will
continue to receive a royalty fee based on the volume of personal insurance
business sold through CNA agents using the terms of the original agreement.

  CNA shares in indemnity and claim and allocated claim adjustment expenses if
payments related to losses incurred prior to October 1, 1999 on the CNA
policies transferred to Allstate exceed the claim and allocated claim
adjustment expense reserves of approximately $1.0 billion at the date of sale.
CNA's obligation with respect to unallocated claim adjustment expenses was
settled at the transaction date and is therefore not subject to the sharing
arrangement.

  CNA must reimburse Allstate for 80% of the first $40.0 million of payments
in excess of $1.0 billion, and for 90% of any additional payments in excess of
the first $40.0 million. CNA must begin to reimburse Allstate for claim and
allocated claim adjustment expense payments when cumulative claim payments
after October 1, 1999 on losses occurring prior to that date exceed the $1.0
billion. CNA's remaining obligation valued under this loss sharing provision
as of October 1, 2003 will be settled by agreement of the parties or by an
independent actuarial review of the unpaid claim liabilities as of that date.
Cumulative payments of indemnity and allocated loss adjustment expenses on
such policies are expected to exceed $1.0 billion during 2003. CNA has
established reserves for its estimated liability under this loss sharing
arrangement.


  The retroactive portion of the reinsurance transaction, consisting primarily
of the cession of claim and claim adjustment expense reserves approximating
$1.0 billion, was not recognized as reinsurance because the criteria for risk
transfer were not met for this portion of the transaction. The related
consideration paid was recorded as a deposit and is included in reinsurance
receivables in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The prospective portion of the
transaction, which as of the transaction date consisted primarily of the
cession of $1.1 billion of unearned premium reserves, has been recorded as
reinsurance. The related consideration paid was recorded as prepaid
reinsurance premiums. Premiums ceded after the transaction date follow this
same treatment.

  CNA recognized a realized loss of approximately $33.4 million after tax and
minority interest, in 1999 related to the transaction, consisting primarily of
the accrual of lease obligations and the write-down of assets that related
specifically to the Personal Insurance lines of business. The $120.0 million
ceding commission related to the prospective portion of the transaction has
been recognized in proportion to the recognition of the unearned premium
reserves to which it relates. Ceding commission earned was $69.0 and $51.0
million in 2000 and 1999. Royalty fees earned in 2002, 2001 and 2000 were
approximately $27.0, $26.0 and $27.0 million.

Note 15.  Discontinued Operations

  The Company reports CNA's net assets of discontinued operations, which
primarily consists of run-off operations discontinued in the mid-1990's,
in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The following table
provides more detailed information regarding those net assets.



Note 16. Restructuring and Other Related Charges

  In 2001, CNA finalized and approved two separate restructuring plans. The
first plan related to CNA's Information Technology operations (the "IT Plan").
The second plan related to restructuring the property and casualty segments
and Life Operations, discontinuation of the variable life and annuity business
and consolidation of real estate locations (the "2001 Plan").

  IT Plan - The overall goal of the IT Plan was to improve technology for the
underwriting function and throughout CNA and to eliminate inefficiencies in
the deployment of IT resources. The changes facilitated a strong focus on
enterprise-wide system initiatives. The IT Plan had two main components,
which included the reorganization of IT resources into the Technology and
Operations Group with a structure based on centralized, functional roles and
the implementation of an integrated technology roadmap that included common
architecture and platform standards that directly support CNA's strategies.


  As summarized in the following table, during 2001, CNA incurred $62.0
million, pretax, or $35.0 million after tax and minority interest, of
restructuring and other related charges for the IT Plan. During 2002, $4.0
million pretax, or $2.6 million after tax and minority interest, of this
accrual was reduced.



  In connection with the IT Plan, after the write-off of impaired assets, CNA
accrued $30.0 million of restructuring and other related charges in 2001 (the
"IT Plan Initial Accrual"). These charges primarily related to $29.0 million
of workforce reductions of approximately 260 positions gross and net and $1.0
million of other costs. The following table summarizes the IT Plan Initial
Accrual and the activity in that accrual during 2001 and 2002.



  Through December 31, 2002, 249 employees were released due to the IT Plan,
nearly all of whom were technology support staff. In December of 2002, the
accrual was reduced by $4.0 million in the Other Insurance segment primarily
related to employee termination costs.

  2001 Plan - The overall goal of the 2001 Plan was to create a simplified and
leaner organization for customers and business partners. The major components
of the plan included a reduction in the number of strategic business units
("SBUs") in the property and casualty operations, changes in the strategic
focus of the Life Operations and Group Operations and consolidation of real
estate locations. The reduction in the number of property and casualty SBUs
resulted in consolidation of SBU functions, including underwriting, claims,
marketing and finance. The strategic changes in Group Operations included a
decision to discontinue the variable life and annuity business.


  As summarized in the following table, during 2001, CNA incurred $189.0
million pretax, or $109.4 million after tax and minority interest, of
restructuring and other related charges for the 2001 Plan. During 2002, $32.0
million pretax, or $18.4 million after tax and minority interest, of this
accrual was reduced.



  All lease termination costs and impaired asset charges, except lease
termination costs incurred by operations in the United Kingdom and software
write-offs incurred by Life Operations, were charged to the Other Insurance
segment because office closure and consolidation decisions were not within the
control of the other segments affected. Lease termination costs incurred in
the United Kingdom relate solely to the operations of CNA Re. All other
charges were recorded in the segment benefiting from the services or existence
of an employee or an asset.

  In connection with the 2001 Plan, CNA accrued $189.0 million of these
restructuring and other related charges (the "2001 Plan Initial Accrual").
These charges included employee termination and related benefit costs, lease
termination costs, impaired asset charges and other costs. The following table
summarizes the 2001 Plan Initial Accrual and the activity in that accrual
during 2001 and 2002.




  The following table summarizes the reduction of the accrual by segment in
2002.



  The 2001 Plan charges incurred and accrued by Standard Lines were $40.0
million in 2001, related entirely to employee termination and related benefit
costs for planned reductions in the workforce of 1,063 positions gross and
net, of which $27.0 million related to severance and outplacement costs and
$13.0 million related to other salary costs. Through December 31, 2002,
approximately 882 employees net were released due to the 2001 Plan.
Approximately 39.0% of these employees were administrative, technology or
financial support staff; approximately 52.0% of these employees were
underwriters, claim adjusters and related insurance services staff; and
approximately 9.0% of these employees were in various other positions. During
December of 2002, $8.0 million of the accrual was reduced primarily due to
successful redeployment of employees to other positions within the
organization. An accrual of $1.0 million remained at December 31, 2002
relating to employee termination costs which will be paid in 2003.

  The 2001 Plan charges incurred and accrued by Specialty Lines were $7.0
million in 2001, related entirely to employee termination and related benefit
costs for planned reductions in the workforce of 177 positions gross and net,
of which $5.0 million related to severance and outplacement costs and $2.0
million related to other salary costs. Through December 31, 2002,
approximately 126 employees net were released due to the 2001 Plan.
Approximately 26.0% of these employees were administrative, technology or
financial support staff; approximately 63.0% of these employees were
underwriters, claim adjusters and related insurance services staff; and
approximately 11.0% of these employees were in various other positions. During
December of 2002, the accrual was reduced by $1.0 million. An accrual of $1.0
million remained at December 31, 2002 relating to employee termination costs
which will be paid in 2003.

  The 2001 Plan charges incurred and accrued by CNA Re were $6.0 million.
Costs related to employee termination and related benefit costs for planned
reductions in the workforce of 33 positions gross and net, amounted to $2.0
million, all of which related to severance and outplacement costs. Payments of
$1.0 million were made in 2002 for approximately 15 employees net released
through December 31, 2002 due to the 2001 Plan. The remaining $4.0 million of
charges incurred by CNA Re related to lease termination costs. Approximately
$1.0 million was paid in 2002 related to lease termination costs. As a result
of the sale of CNA Re U.K., the remaining accrual related to CNA Re of $4.0
million was reduced. See Note 14 for further discussion of the sale.

  The 2001 Plan charges incurred and accrued by Group Operations were $42.0
million. Costs related to employee termination and related benefit costs for
planned reductions in the workforce of 187 positions, gross and net, amounted
to $7.0 million. Through December 31, 2002, 82 employees net in Group
Operations were released due to the 2001 Plan. Approximately 28.0% of these
employees were administrative, technology or financial support staff; and
approximately 72.0% of these employees were underwriters, claim adjusters and
related insurance services staff. Other costs of $35.0 million in Group
Operations relate to a write-off of deferred acquisition costs on in-force
variable life and annuity contracts, as CNA believes that the decision to
discontinue these products will negatively impact the persistency of the
business.

  The 2001 Plan charges incurred and accrued by Life Operations were $12.0
million. Costs related to employee termination and related benefit costs for
planned reductions in workforce of 207 positions gross and net, amounted to
$3.0 million, which related primarily to severance and outplacement costs.
Through December 31, 2002,


approximately 144 employees net were released due to the 2001 Plan.
Approximately 23.0% of these employees were administrative, technology or
financial support staff; approximately 65.0% of these employees were
underwriters, claim adjusters and related insurance services staff; and
approximately 12.0% of these employees were in various other positions. Life
Operations incurred and accrued $9.0 million of impaired asset charges related
to software in 2001. In December of 2002, the remaining $1.0 million of this
accrual was reduced.

  The 2001 Plan charges incurred and accrued by the Other Insurance segment
were $82.0 million. Costs related to employee termination and related benefit
costs for planned reductions in the workforce of 194 positions gross and net,
amounted to $9.0 million, of which $6.0 million related to severance and
outplacement costs and $3.0 million related to other salary costs. Through
December 31, 2002, 157 employees net were released due to the 2001 Plan.
Approximately 63.0% of these employees were administrative, technology or
financial support staff; approximately 28.0% of these employees were
underwriters, claim adjusters and related insurance services staff; and
approximately 9.0% of these employees were in various other positions. In
December of 2002, $1.0 million of the accrual was reduced for employee
termination and related benefit costs. The Other Insurance segment also
incurred $73.0 million of lease termination and asset impairment charges
related to office closure and consolidation decisions not within the control
of the other segments affected. Additionally, $7.0 million was reversed and
included in 2002 income relating to lease obligations and $14.0 million
relating to impaired asset charges. CNA's original plan contained a timeline
to consolidate and reduce the number of office locations. Due to unfavorable
conditions in the commercial real estate market, certain office relocations
and consolidations occurred later than planned. As a result of such delays, a
portion of the planned leasehold write-offs and vacant office space were
expensed as period costs, resulting in an excess initial accrual.

  At December 31, 2001, an accrual of $1.0 million for lease termination costs
remained related to the August 1998 restructuring. In December of 2002, this
accrual was reduced.

Note 17. Benefit Plans

  Pension Plans - The Company has several non-contributory defined benefit
plans for eligible employees. The benefits for certain plans which cover
salaried employees and certain union employees are based on formulas which
include, among others, years of service and average pay. The benefits for one
plan which covers union workers under various union contracts and certain
salaried employees are based on years of service multiplied by a stated
amount. Benefits for another plan are determined annually based on a specified
percentage of annual earnings (based on the participant's age) and a specified
interest rate (which is established annually for all participants) applied to
accrued balances.

  The Company's funding policy is to make contributions in accordance with
applicable governmental regulatory requirements. The assets of the plans are
invested primarily in interest-bearing obligations and for one plan with an
insurance subsidiary of CNA, in its separate account business.

  Other Postretirement Benefit Plans - The Company has several postretirement
benefit plans covering eligible employees and retirees. Participants generally
become eligible after reaching age 55 with required years of service. Actual
requirements for coverage vary by plan. Benefits for retirees who were covered
by bargaining units vary by each unit and contract. Benefits for certain
retirees are in the form of a Company health care account.

  Benefits for retirees reaching age 65 are generally integrated with
Medicare. Other retirees, based on plan provisions, must use Medicare as their
primary coverage, with the Company reimbursing a portion of the unpaid amount;
or are reimbursed for the Medicare Part B premium or have no Company coverage.
The benefits provided by the Company are basically health and, for certain
retirees, life insurance type benefits.

  The Company does not fund any of these benefit plans and accrues
postretirement benefits during the active service of those employees who would
become eligible for such benefits when they retire.

  In 2000, CNA recorded pretax curtailment charges of approximately $13.0
million related to employee's elections regarding participation in a defined
benefit pension plan. This change resulted in a reduction of the pension
benefit obligation of $37.0 million.


  The weighted average rates used in the actuarial assumptions were:



  Net periodic benefit cost components:



  For measurement purposes, a trend rate for covered costs from 4.0% to 9.0%
pre-65 and 11.0% post-65, was used. These trend rates are expected to decrease
gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.0% to 5.0% at a rate of 0.5% per annum. The
health care cost trend rate assumption has a significant effect on the amount
of the benefit obligation and periodic cost reported. An increase (or
decrease) in the assumed health care cost trend rate of 1% would increase (or
decrease) the postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2002 by
$24.7 (or $22.7) million and the total of service and interest cost
components of net periodic postretirement benefit cost for 2002 by $2.4 (or
$2.2) million.

  The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair
value of plan assets for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation
in excess of plan assets were $2,363.2, $2,112.6 and $2,023.5 million,
respectively, at December 31, 2002 and $2,202.2, $1,938.3 and $1,951.7
million, respectively, at December 31, 2001.


  The following provides a reconciliation of benefit obligations:



  Savings Plans - The Company and its subsidiaries have several contributory
savings plans which allow employees to make regular contributions based upon a
percentage of their salaries. Matching contributions are made up to specified
percentages of employees' contributions. The contributions by the Company and
its subsidiaries to these plans amounted to $64.4, $67.2 and $61.6 million for
the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

  Stock Option Plans - In 2000, shareholders approved the Loews Corporation
2000 Stock Option Plan (the "Loews Plan"). The aggregate number of shares of
Loews Common Stock for which options may be granted under the Loews Plan is
2,000,000, and the maximum number of shares of Loews Common Stock with respect
to which options may be granted to any individual in any calendar year is
400,000. The exercise price per share may not be


less than the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of grant.
Generally, options vest ratably over a four-year period and expire in ten
years.

  A summary of the Loews Plan's stock option transactions follows:



  The following table summarizes information about the Company's stock options
outstanding in connection with the Loews Plan at December 31, 2002:



  In February 2002, shareholders approved the Carolina Group 2002 Stock Option
Plan (the "Carolina Group Plan") in connection with the issuance of Carolina
Group stock. The aggregate number of shares of Carolina Group stock for which
options may be granted under the Carolina Group Plan is 1,500,000; and the
maximum number of shares of Carolina Group stock with respect to which options
may be granted to any individual in any calendar year is 200,000. The exercise
price per share may not be less than the fair market value of the stock on the
date of the grant. Generally, options vest ratably over a four-year period and
expire in ten years. The weighted average remaining contractual life of
options granted was 9.1 years.




  The fair value of granted options for the Loews Plan and Carolina Group Plan
were estimated at the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model
with the following assumptions and results:



Note 18. Reinsurance

  CNA assumes and cedes reinsurance with other insurers, reinsurers and
members of various reinsurance pools and associations. CNA utilizes
reinsurance arrangements to limit its maximum loss, provide greater
diversification of risk, minimize exposures on larger risks and to exit
certain lines of business. Reinsurance coverages are tailored to the specific
risk characteristics of each product line and CNA's retained amount varies by
type of coverage. Generally, property risks are reinsured on an excess of
loss, per risk basis. Liability coverages are generally reinsured on a quota
share basis in excess of CNA's retained risk. CNA's ceded life reinsurance
includes utilization of coinsurance, yearly renewable term and facultative
programs. A majority of the reinsurance utilized by CNA's life insurance
operations relates to term life insurance policies. Term life insurance
policies issued from 1994 onward are generally ceded at 60%-90% of the face
value. Universal Life policies issued from 1998 onward are generally ceded at
75% of the face value.

  CNA's overall reinsurance program includes certain property and casualty
contracts, such as the corporate aggregate reinsurance treaties discussed in
more detail later in this note, that are entered into and accounted for on a
"funds withheld" basis. Under the funds withheld basis, CNA records the cash
remitted to the reinsurer for the reinsurer's margin, or cost of the
reinsurance contract, as ceded premiums. The remainder of the premiums ceded
under the reinsurance contract is recorded as funds withheld liabilities. CNA
is required to increase the funds withheld balance at stated interest
crediting rates applied to the funds withheld balance or as otherwise
specified under the terms of the contract. The funds withheld liability is
reduced by any cumulative claim payments made by CNA in excess of CNA's
retention under the reinsurance contract. If the funds withheld liability is
exhausted,


interest crediting will cease and additional claim payments are recoverable
from the reinsurer. The funds withheld liability is recorded in reinsurance
balances payable in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

  Interest cost on these contracts is credited during all periods in which a
funds withheld liability exists. Interest cost, which is included in
investment income, was $239.6, $241.4 and $86.9 million for the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. The amount subject to interest crediting
rates on such contracts was $2,766.0 and $2,724.0 million at December 31, 2002
and 2001.

  The amount subject to interest crediting on these funds withheld contracts
will vary over time based on a number of factors, including the timing of loss
payments and ultimate gross losses incurred. CNA expects that it will continue
to incur significant interest costs on these contracts for several years.

  The ceding of insurance does not discharge the primary liability of CNA.
Therefore, a credit exposure exists with respect to property and casualty and
life reinsurance ceded to the extent that any reinsurer is unable to meet the
obligations assumed under reinsurance agreements.

  Amounts receivable from reinsurers were $12,695.3 and $13,823.4 million at
December 31, 2002 and 2001. Of these amounts, $957.0 and $838.0 million were
billed to reinsurers as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, as reinsurance
contracts generally require payment of claims by the ceding company before the
amount can be billed to the reinsurer. The remaining receivable relates to the
estimated case and IBNR reserves and future policyholder benefits ceded under
reinsurance contracts.

  CNA attempts to mitigate its credit risk related to reinsurance by entering
into reinsurance arrangements only with reinsurers that have credit ratings
above certain levels and by obtaining substantial amounts of collateral. The
primary methods of obtaining collateral are through reinsurance trusts,
letters of credit and funds withheld balances. Such collateral was
approximately $4,825.0 and $3,696.0 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001.

  CNA's largest recoverables from a single reinsurer at December 31, 2002,
including prepaid reinsurance premiums, were approximately $2,090.0, $1,456.0,
$890.0, $616.0, $598.0 and $541.0 million from subsidiaries of Allstate,
subsidiaries of Hannover Reinsurance (Ireland) Ltd., American Reinsurance
Company, European Reinsurance Company of Zurich, subsidiaries of Gerling
Global Reinsurance Corporation, and Lloyd's Underwriters.

  CNA has reinsurance receivables from several reinsurers who have recently
experienced multiple downgrades of their financial strength ratings, have
announced that they will no longer accept new business and are placing their
books of business into run-off. CNA's principal credit exposures from these
recent events arise from reinsurance receivables from Gerling Global
("Gerling"), Trenwick and Commercial Risk insurance groups. At December 31,
2002, CNA had approximately $926.0 million of reinsurance receivables from
these reinsurers, of which $384.0 million was not supported by collateral. The
majority of the uncollateralized receivables were due from U.S.-domiciled
insurers. Of the $384.0 million of reinsurance receivables unsupported by
collateral, $170.0 million relates to Gerling. Gerling has stated that CNA
transfer approximately $204.0 million of funds withheld balances on three
treaties relating to CNA HealthPro to a trust established by Gerling for the
benefit of CNA or in the absence of such transfer, that these treaties be
commuted. CNA has taken Gerling's statement under advisement.

  CNA has established an allowance for doubtful accounts to provide for
estimated uncollectible reinsurance receivables. The allowance for doubtful
accounts was $195.7 and $170.0 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001.

  Insurance claims and policyholders' benefits reported in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations are net of reinsurance recoveries of $4,164.0,
$7,221.0 and $3,755.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and
2000.

  Life premiums are primarily from long duration contracts and property and
casualty premiums and accident and health premiums are primarily from short
duration contracts.


The effects of reinsurance on earned premiums are shown in the following
table:



  The impact of reinsurance on life insurance in-force is shown in the
following table:



  For 2002, CNA entered into a corporate aggregate reinsurance treaty covering
substantially all of CNA's property and casualty lines of business (the "2002
Cover"). Ceded premium related to the reinsurer's margin of $10.0 million was
recorded in 2002. No losses were ceded during 2002 under this contract, and
the 2002 Cover was commuted as of December 31, 2002.

  In 1999, CNA entered into an aggregate reinsurance treaty related to the
1999 through 2001 accident years covering substantially all of CNA's property
and casualty lines of business (the "Aggregate Cover"). CNA has two sections
of coverage under the terms of the Aggregate Cover. These coverages attach at
defined loss ratios for each accident year. Coverage under the first section
of the Aggregate Cover, which is available for all accident years covered by
the contract, has annual limits of $500.0 million of ceded losses with an
aggregate limit of $1.0 billion of ceded losses for the three year period. The
ceded premiums are a percentage of ceded losses and for each $500.0 million of
limit the ceded premium is $230.0 million. The second section of the Aggregate
Cover, which was only utilized for accident year 2001, provides additional
coverage of up to $510.0 million of ceded losses for a maximum ceded premium
of $310.0 million. Under the Aggregate Cover, interest charges on the funds
withheld liability accrue at 8.0% per annum. If the aggregate loss ratio for
the three-year period exceeds certain thresholds, additional premiums may be
payable and the rate at which interest charges are accrued would increase to
8.25% per annum commencing in 2006.


  The coverage under the second section of the Aggregate Cover was triggered
for the 2001 accident year. As a result of losses related to the WTC event,
the limit under this section was exhausted. Additionally, as a result of the
significant reserve additions recorded in the second quarter of 2001, the
$500.0 million limit on the 1999 accident year under the first section was
also fully utilized. No losses have been ceded to the remaining $500.0 million
of aggregate limit on accident years 2000 and 2001 under the first section of
the Aggregate Cover.

  The impact of the Aggregate Cover on pretax operating results was as
follows:



  In 2001, CNA entered into a one-year aggregate reinsurance treaty related to
the 2001 accident year covering substantially all property and casualty lines
of business in the Continental Casualty Company pool (the "CCC Cover"). The
loss protection provided by the CCC Cover has an aggregate limit of
approximately $760.0 million of ceded losses. The ceded premiums are a
percentage of ceded losses. The ceded premium related to full utilization of
the $760.0 million limit is $456.0 million. The CCC Cover provides continuous
coverage in excess of the second section of the Aggregate Cover discussed
above. Under the CCC Cover, interest charges on the funds withheld generally
accrue at 8.0% per annum. The interest rate increases to 10.0% per annum if
the aggregate loss ratio exceeds certain thresholds. Losses of $618.0 million
have been ceded under the CCC Cover through December 31, 2002.

  The impact of the CCC Cover on pretax operating results was as follows:


Note 19. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)






  Quarterly results for 2002 and 2001 were restated to reflect an adjustment
to the Company's historical accounting for CNA's investment in life settlement
contracts and the related revenue recognition (see Note 23). Quarterly results
for 2002 were also restated for the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No.
142. See Note 1 for additional information.

  The following tables set forth unaudited quarterly results for 2002 and 2001
as previously reported before a restatement to reflect the change in
accounting noted above. Amounts previously reported have been revised to
reflect adoption of new accounting pronouncements (see Note 1) and
reclassification for discontinued operations (see Note 14).






Note 20.  Legal Proceedings

INSURANCE RELATED

  IGI Contingency - In 1997, CNA Reinsurance Company Limited ("CNA Re Ltd."),
a subsidiary of CNA Re U.K., entered into an arrangement with IOA Global, Ltd.
("IOA"), an independent managing general agent based in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, to develop and manage a book of accident and health coverages.
Pursuant to this arrangement, IGI Underwriting Agencies, Ltd. ("IGI"), a
personal accident reinsurance managing general underwriter, was appointed to
underwrite and market the book under the supervision of IOA. Between April 1,
1997 and December 1, 1999, IGI underwrote a number of reinsurance arrangements
with respect to personal accident insurance worldwide (the "IGI Program").
Under various arrangements, CNA Re Ltd. both assumed risks as a reinsurer and
also ceded a substantial portion of those risks to other companies, including
other CNA insurance subsidiaries and ultimately to a group of reinsurers
participating in a reinsurance pool known as the Associated Accident and
Health Reinsurance Underwriters ("AAHRU") Facility. CNA's Group Operations
business unit participated as a pool member in the AAHRU Facility in varying
percentages between 1997 and 1999.

  CNA has determined that a portion of the premiums assumed under the IGI
Program related to United States workers compensation "carve-out" business.
Some of these premiums were received from John Hancock Financial Services,
Inc. ("John Hancock"). CNA is aware that a number of reinsurers with workers
compensation carve-out insurance exposure, including John Hancock, have
disavowed their obligations under various legal theories. If one or more such
companies are successful in avoiding or reducing their liabilities, then it is
likely that CNA's potential liability will also be reduced. Moreover, based on
information known at this time, CNA believes it has strong grounds to
successfully challenge its alleged exposure on a substantial portion of its
United States workers compensation carve-out business, including all purported
exposure derived from John Hancock, through legal action.

  As noted, CNA arranged substantial reinsurance protection to manage its
exposures under the IGI Program. CNA believes it has valid and enforceable
reinsurance contracts with the AAHRU Facility and other reinsurers with
respect to the IGI Program, including the United States workers compensation
carve-out business. However, certain reinsurers dispute their liabilities to
CNA, and CNA has commenced arbitration proceedings against such reinsurers.

  CNA has established reserves for its estimated exposure under the program,
other than that derived from John Hancock, and an estimate for recoverables
from retrocessionaires. CNA has not established any reserve for any exposure
derived from John Hancock because, as indicated, CNA believes the contract
will be rescinded.

  CNA is pursuing a number of loss mitigation strategies with respect to the
entire IGI Program. Although the results of these various actions to date
support the recorded reserves, the estimate of ultimate losses is subject to
considerable uncertainty due to the complexities described above. As a result
of these uncertainties, the results of operations in future years may be
adversely affected by potentially significant reserve additions. Management
does not believe that any such reserve additions will be material to the
equity of the Company, although results of operations may be adversely
affected. CNA's position in relation to the IGI Program was unaffected by the
sale of CNA Re UK in 2002. See Note 14 for further discussion of the sale.

  California Wage and Hour Litigation - In Ernestine Samora, et al. v. CCC,
Case No. BC 242487, Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles,
California and Brian Wenzel v. Galway Insurance Company, Superior Court of
California, County of Orange No. BC01CC08868 (coordinated), two former CNA
employees, filed lawsuits in Los Angeles Superior Court on behalf of purported
classes of CNA employees asserting they worked hours for which they should
have been compensated at a rate of one and one-half times their base hourly
wage over a four-year period. The cases were coordinated and an amended
complaint was filed which alleges overtime claims under California law over a
four year period. In June 2002, CNA filed a responsive pleading denying the
material allegations of the amended complaint. CNA intends to defend this case
vigorously. Due to the recent commencement of discovery and the uncertainty of
how the courts may interpret California law as applied to the facts of these
cases, the extent of losses beyond any amounts that may be accrued is not
readily determinable at this time. Based on facts and circumstances presently
known, however, in the opinion of management, the outcome will not materially
affect the equity of the Company, although results of operations may be
adversely affected.


  Voluntary Market Premium Litigation - CNA, along with dozens of other
insurance companies, is a defendant in sixteen purported class action cases
brought by large policyholders, which generally allege that the defendants, as
part of an industry-wide conspiracy, included improper charges in their
retrospectively rated and other loss-sensitive insurance premiums. Fourteen
lawsuits were brought as class actions in state courts and two in federal
court. Among the claims asserted were violations of state antitrust laws,
breach of contract, fraud and unjust enrichment. In two of the cases, the
defendants won dismissals on motions and, in four others, class certification
was denied after hearing. Plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed their claims in
four states. In the federal court case, Sandwich Chef of Texas, Inc., et al.
v. Reliance National Indemnity Insurance Company, et al., Civil Action No. H-
98-1484, United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas, the
district court certified a multi-state class but was reversed on interlocutory
appeal by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. Due to the
uncertainty of how the courts may interpret state and federal law as applied
to the facts of the cases, the extent of potential losses beyond any amounts
that may be accrued is not readily determinable at this time. Based on facts
and circumstances presently known, however, in the opinion of management, the
outcome will not materially affect the equity of the Company, although the
results of operations may be adversely affected.

  See Note 9 for information with respect to claims and litigation involving
CNA related to environmental pollution, asbestos and mass torts.

TOBACCO RELATED

Product Liability

  Approximately 4,500 product liability cases are pending against cigarette
manufacturers in the United States. Lorillard is a defendant in approximately
4,075 of these cases.

  The pending product liability cases are comprised of the following types of
cases:

  "Conventional product liability cases" are brought by individuals who allege
cancer or other health effects caused by smoking cigarettes, by using
smokeless tobacco products, by addiction to tobacco, or by exposure to
environmental tobacco smoke. Approximately 1,600 cases are pending, including
approximately 1,185 cases against Lorillard. Included in this group are
approximately 1,100 cases pending in a single West Virginia court in which a
consolidated trial is scheduled. Lorillard is a defendant in approximately
1,000 of the 1,100 consolidated West Virginia cases.

  "Flight Attendant cases" are brought by non-smoking flight attendants
alleging injury from exposure to environmental smoke in the cabins of
aircraft. Plaintiffs in these cases may not seek punitive damages for injuries
that arose prior to January 15, 1997. Lorillard is a defendant in each of the
approximately 2,800 pending Flight Attendant cases.

  "Class action cases" are purported to be brought on behalf of large numbers
of individuals for damages allegedly caused by smoking. Approximately 40 of
these cases are pending against Lorillard. Lorillard is not a defendant in
approximately 20 additional class actions that are pending against other
cigarette manufacturers and assert claims on behalf of smokers of "light"
cigarettes.

  "Reimbursement cases" are brought by or on behalf of entities who seek
reimbursement of expenses incurred in providing health care to individuals who
allegedly were injured by smoking. Plaintiffs in these cases have included the
U.S. federal government, U.S. state and local governments, foreign
governmental entities, hospitals or hospital districts, American Indian
tribes, labor unions, private companies, and private citizens suing on behalf
of taxpayers. Lorillard is a defendant in most of the approximately 40 pending
Reimbursement cases.

  "Contribution cases" are brought by private companies, such as asbestos
manufacturers or their insurers, who are seeking contribution or indemnity for
court claims they incurred on behalf of individuals injured by their products
but who also allegedly were injured by smoking cigarettes. Lorillard is a
defendant in each of the approximately 10 pending Contribution cases.


  Excluding the flight attendant and the consolidated West Virginia suits,
approximately 600 product liability cases are pending against U.S. cigarette
manufacturers. Lorillard is a defendant in approximately 275 of the 600 cases.
The Company, which is not a defendant in any of the flight attendant or the
consolidated West Virginia matters, is a defendant in fewer than 35 of the
actions.

  Plaintiffs assert a broad range of legal theories in these cases, including,
among others, theories of negligence, fraud, misrepresentation, strict
liability, breach of warranty, enterprise liability (including claims asserted
under the Racketeering Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act), civil
conspiracy, intentional infliction of harm, violation of consumer protection
statutes, violation of antitrust statutes, injunctive relief, indemnity,
restitution, unjust enrichment, public nuisance, claims based on antitrust
laws and state consumer protection acts, and claims based on failure to warn
of the harmful or addictive nature of tobacco products.

  Plaintiffs in most of the cases seek unspecified amounts of compensatory
damages and punitive damages, although some seek damages ranging into the
billions of dollars. Plaintiffs in some of the cases seek treble damages,
statutory damages, disgorgement of profits, equitable and injunctive relief,
and medical monitoring, among other damages.

  CONVENTIONAL PRODUCT LIABILITY CASES - Approximately 1,600 cases are
pending, including approximately 1,185 cases against Lorillard. Included in
this total is approximately 1,100 cases pending in a single West Virginia
court in which a consolidated trial is scheduled. Lorillard is a defendant in
approximately 1,000 of the 1,100 consolidated West Virginia cases. The
Company, which is not a defendant in any of the consolidated West Virginia
cases, is a defendant in five of the pending cases.

  As of February 13, 2003, trial was proceeding in two cases, Inzerilla v. The
American Tobacco Company, et al. (Supreme Court Queens County, New York, filed
May 29, 1996), and Allen v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (U.S.
District Court, Southern District, Florida, filed September 19, 2001).
Lorillard is not a defendant in either matter.

  Since January 1, 2001 and through February 13, 2003, verdicts have been
returned in 17 matters. Lorillard was a defendant in two of the cases. Defense
verdicts were returned in 11 of the cases, including both tried against
Lorillard.

  Ten cases are pending in which verdicts have been returned in favor of the
plaintiffs. Neither the Company nor Lorillard were defendants in any of these
cases. These ten cases, and the verdict amounts, are below:

  Bullock v. Philip Morris USA (Superior Court, Los Angeles County,
California). During September and October of 2002, plaintiff was awarded $5.5
million in actual damages and $28.0 billion in punitive damages. The court
reduced the punitive damages award to $28.0 million. Philip Morris has
appealed.

  Figueroa v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company (U.S. District Court, Puerto
Rico). During September of 2002, plaintiffs were awarded $1.0 million in
actual damages. The court granted the defendant's motion for judgment as a
matter of law and entered a final judgment in favor of R.J. Reynolds.
Plaintiffs have appealed.

  Schwarz v. Philip Morris Incorporated (Circuit Court, Multnomah County,
Oregon). During March of 2002, plaintiff was awarded approximately $120,000 in
economic damages, $50,000 in noneconomic damages and $150.0 million in
punitive damages, although the court subsequently reduced the punitive damages
award to $100.0 million. Many of plaintiff's claims were directed to
allegations that the defendant had made false representations regarding the
low tar cigarettes smoked by the decedent. Philip Morris has appealed.

  Burton v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (U.S. District Court,
Kansas) During February of 2002, plaintiff was awarded approximately $200,000
in actual damages and the jury determined that plaintiff was entitled to
punitive damages. During June of 2002, the court awarded plaintiff $15.0
million in punitive damages from R.J. Reynolds. R.J. Reynolds has appealed.

  Kenyon v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company (Circuit Court, Hillsborough County,
Florida). During December of 2001, plaintiff was awarded $165,000 in actual
damages. R.J. Reynolds has appealed.


  Boeken v. Philip Morris Incorporated (Superior Court, Los Angeles County,
California). During June of 2001, plaintiff was awarded $5.5 million in actual
damages and $3.0 billion in punitive damages. The court reduced the punitive
damages award to $100.0 million. Philip Morris has appealed.

  Jones v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. (Circuit Court, Hillsborough County,
Florida). During October of 2000, plaintiff was awarded $200,000 in actual
damages. The court granted the defendant's motion for new trial. The Florida
Court of Appeal affirmed this ruling. Plaintiff has filed for permission to
appeal to the Florida Supreme Court.

  Whiteley v. Raybestos-Manhattan, Inc., et al. (Superior Court, San Francisco
County, California). During March of 2000, plaintiffs were awarded $1.0
million in economic damages, $500,000 in noneconomic damages, $250,000 in loss
of consortium and $20.0 million in punitive damages from Philip Morris and
R.J. Reynolds. Both defendants have appealed.

  Williams v. Philip Morris, Inc. (Circuit Court, Multnomah County, Oregon).
During March of 1999, plaintiff was awarded $21,000 in economic damages,
$800,000 in actual damages and $79.5 million in punitive damages. The court
reduced the punitive damages award to $32.0 million. During 2002, the Oregon
Court of Appeals affirmed the verdict and reinstated the full amount of the
punitive damages award. The Oregon Supreme Court declined to review the case.
Philip Morris has stated that it intends to file a petition for writ of
certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court.

  Henley v. Philip Morris Incorporated (Superior Court, San Francisco County,
California). During February of 1999, plaintiff was awarded $1.5 million in
actual damages and $50.0 million in punitive damages, although the court
reduced the latter award to $25.0 million. During 2001, the California Court
of Appeals affirmed the verdicts. During 2002, the California Supreme Court
remanded the case to the Court of Appeals with directions that it reconsider
its 2001 ruling in light of the California Supreme Court's August 2002 orders
that are discussed below.

  Defense verdicts have been returned in the following 11 matters since
January 1, 2001. Unless otherwise noted, neither Lorillard nor the Company was
a defendant in these matters:

  Lucier v. Philip Morris USA, et al. (Superior Court, Sacramento County,
California). A defense verdict was returned during February of 2003.
Plaintiffs have filed motion for new trial. During 2003, the Court of Appeals
reaffirmed its 2001 order. Philip Morris has announced it intends to notice an
appeal to the California Supreme Court.

  Carter v. Philip Morris USA (Court of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County,
Pennsylvania). A defense verdict was returned during January of 2003. Plantiff
has filed a motion for new trial.

  Conley v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al. (U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California). A defense verdict was returned during December of
2002. Plaintiffs have appealed.

  Tune v. Philip Morris Incorporated (Circuit Court of Pinellas County,
Florida). A defense verdict was returned during May of 2002. Plaintiff did not
appeal.

  Hyde v. Philip Morris Incorporated (U.S. District Court, Rhode Island). A
defense verdict was returned during March of 2002. Plaintiffs did not appeal.

  DuJack v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (Superior Court of
Connecticut at Rockville). The court directed a verdict in favor of the
defendant during November of 2001. Plaintiff did not appeal.

  Tompkin v. The American Tobacco Company, et al. (U.S. District Court,
Northern District, Ohio). Lorillard is a defendant in this matter. A defense
verdict was returned during October of 2001. Plaintiff has appealed.

  Mehlman v. Philip Morris, Inc., et al. (Superior Court, Middlesex County,
New Jersey). A defense verdict was returned during May of 2001. Plaintiff did
not appeal.


  Grinnell v. The American Tobacco Company (District Court, Jefferson County,
Texas). A defense verdict was returned during March of 2001. Plaintiff did not
appeal.

  Little v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (U.S. District Court, South
Carolina). A defense verdict was returned during February of 2001. Plaintiff
withdrew her appeal and the case is not pending.

  Apostolou v. The American Tobacco Company, et al. (Supreme Court, Kings
County, New York). Lorillard was a defendant in this matter. A defense verdict
was returned during January of 2002. Plaintiffs withdrew their appeal during
2002.

  Some cases against U.S. cigarette manufacturers and manufacturers of
smokeless tobacco products are scheduled for trial during the remainder of
2003 and beyond. As of February 13, 2003, Lorillard is a defendant in four
trials scheduled for 2003. One of these is the consolidated trial addressing
the approximately 1,000 cases pending against Lorillard in the Circuit Court
of Ohio County, West Virginia. The Company is a not a defendant in any of the
cases scheduled for trial during 2003 as of February 13, 2003. The trial dates
are subject to change.

  During August of 2002, the California Supreme Court issued two rulings in
separate conventional product liability cases in which it addressed the effect
of an amendment to a statute in effect in the state between January 1, 1988,
and December 31, 1997 (the "immunity period"). In one of its rulings, the
California Supreme Court held that the amendment conferred immunity to
cigarette manufacturers in product liability actions for conduct engaged in
during the immunity period, regardless of when a plaintiff may have sustained
or discovered an injury allegedly caused by the cigarette manufacturers. In
the second decision issued during August of 2002, the California Supreme Court
held that, within the immunity period, immunity does not extend to allegations
that the cigarette manufacturers "used additives that exposed smokers to
dangers beyond those commonly known to be associated with cigarette smoking."
The California Supreme Court did not precisely define the term "additives,"
nor did it expressly state how the phrase "dangers beyond those commonly known
to be associated with cigarette smoking" should be considered. The California
Supreme Court's rulings are expected to govern future litigation brought
against cigarette manufacturers in California.

  FLIGHT ATTENDANT CASES - As of February 13, 2003, approximately 2,800 Flight
Attendant cases were pending. Lorillard and three other cigarette
manufacturers are the defendants in each of these matters. The Company is not
a defendant in any of these case. These suits were filed as a result of a
settlement agreement by the parties, including Lorillard, in Broin v. Philip
Morris Companies, Inc., et al. (Circuit Court, Dade County, Florida, filed
October 31, 1991), a class action brought on behalf of flight attendants
claiming injury as a result of exposure to environmental tobacco smoke. The
settlement agreement, among other things, permitted the plaintiff class
members to file these individual suits. These individuals may not seek
punitive damages for injuries that arose prior to January 15, 1997.

  During October of 2000, the Circuit Court of Miami-Dade County, Florida
entered an order that may be construed to hold that the flight attendants are
not required to prove the substantive liability elements of their claims for
negligence, strict liability and breach of implied warranty in order to
recover damages. The court further ruled that the trials of these suits are to
address whether the plaintiffs' alleged injuries were caused by their exposure
to environmental tobacco smoke and, if so, the amount of damages to be
awarded. It is not clear how the trial judges will apply this order. The
defendants' appeals were rejected as premature. Defendants retain the right to
appeal this order in the future.

  Verdicts have been returned in five of the flight attendant cases. Lorillard
has been a defendant in each of these five cases.

  A plaintiff has prevailed in the following matter:

  French v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al. During June of 2002, the jury
found in favor of the plaintiff and awarded her $5.5 million in actual
damages. The trial court reduced the award to $500,000. Defendants have
noticed an appeal and plaintiff has filed a cross-appeal.

  Juries have returned verdicts in favor of the defendants, including
Lorillard, in the following four matters:


  Fontana v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al. A defense verdict was returned
during April of 2001. Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed her appeal and the
matter is concluded.
  Janoff v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al. A defense verdict was returned
during September of 2002. The court granted plaintiff's motion for new trial.
Defendants have appealed this ruling.

  Tucker v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al. A defense verdict was returned
during October of 2002. The court denied plaintiff's motion for new trial.
Plaintiff has appealed.

  Seal v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al. A defense verdict was returned
during February of 2003. Plaintiff has filed a motion for new trial.

  As of February 13, 2003, approximately 10 flight attendant cases were
scheduled for trial during 2003. Trial dates are subject to change.

  CLASS ACTION CASES - Lorillard is a defendant in approximately 40 pending
cases. The Company is a defendant in two of these cases. In most of the
pending cases, plaintiffs purport to seek class certification on behalf of
groups of cigarette smokers, or the estates of deceased cigarette smokers, who
reside in the state in which the case was filed. The pending class action
cases against Lorillard include approximately 25 separate suits filed in a
single Nevada court in which the plaintiffs assert virtually identical class
definitions. Neither Lorillard nor the Company are defendants in approximately
20 additional class action cases pending against other cigarette manufacturers
in various courts throughout the nation. Many of these 20 cases assert claims
on behalf of smokers of "light" cigarettes.

  Cigarette manufacturers, including Lorillard, have defeated motions for
class certification in a total of 28 cases, 12 of which were in state court
and 16 of which were in federal court. These 28 cases were filed in 16 states,
the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

  The Engle Case - One of the class actions pending against Lorillard is Engle
v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco co., et al. (Circuit Court, Dade County, Florida,
filed May 5, 1994), a case in which a jury awarded approximately $16.3 billion
in punitive damages against Lorillard during 2000 as part of a $145.0 billion
verdict against all of the defendants. Lorillard and the other defendants have
appealed this award and other rulings in this case, which is described below.

  A three-phase trial plan governed Engle when trial began in July of 1998.
The first phase involved certain issues deemed common to the certified class,
which was defined as Florida residents, and survivors of Florida residents,
who were injured or died from medical conditions allegedly caused by addiction
to cigarettes. The trial's first phase ended on July 7, 1999 with findings
against the defendants, including Lorillard. Among other things, the jury
found that cigarette smoking is addictive and causes lung cancer and a variety
of other diseases, that the defendants concealed information about the health
risks of smoking, and that defendants' conduct rose to a level that would
permit a potential award or entitlement to punitive damages. The jury was not
asked to award damages in the Phase One verdict, and the verdict permitted the
trial to proceed to a second phase.

  Following the Phase One verdict, the trial judge amended the trial plan with
respect to the manner of determining punitive damages. This ruling, known as
the Punitive Damages Order, provided that the jury would determine punitive
damages, if any, on a lump-sum dollar amount basis for the entire qualified
class. The Florida Third District Court of Appeal rejected as premature
defendants' appeals from the Punitive Damages Order, and the Florida Supreme
Court declined to review the Punitive Damages Order at that time.

  The first portion of Phase Two of the trial began on November 1, 1999 before
the same jury that returned the verdict in Phase One. On April 7, 2000, the
jury returned a verdict against the defendants and awarded three plaintiffs
$12.5 million in damages for their individual claims.

  The second part of Phase Two, which began on May 22, 2000, was heard by the
same jury that heard the trial's prior phases and considered evidence as to
the punitive damages to be awarded to the class. On July 14, 2000, the jury
awarded approximately $145.0 billion in punitive damages against all
defendants, including $16.3 billion against Lorillard.  The judgment provides
that the jury's awards bear interest at the rate of 10% per year.


  Lorillard has noticed an appeal from the final judgment to the Florida Third
District Court of Appeal and has posted its appellate bond in the amount of
$100.0 million pursuant to Florida legislation enacted in May of 2000 limiting
the amount of an appellate bond required to be posted in order to stay
execution of a judgment for punitive damages in a certified class action.
While Lorillard believes this legislation is valid and that any challenges to
the possible application or constitutionality of this legislation would fail,
during May of 2001, Lorillard entered into an agreement with the plaintiffs
(the "Engle Agreement") in which it contributed $200.0 million to a fund held
for the benefit of the Engle plaintiffs that will not be recoverable by
Lorillard even if the challenges to the judgment are resolved in favor of the
defendants. The $200.0 million contribution included the $100.0 million that
Lorillard posted as collateral for the appellate bond. Accordingly, Lorillard
recorded a pretax charge of $200.0 million in the second quarter of the year
ended December 31, 2001. Two other defendants executed agreements with the
plaintiffs that are similar to Lorillard's. As a result, the class has agreed
to a stay of execution, with respect to Lorillard and the two other defendants
on its punitive damages judgment until appellate review is completed,
including any review by the U.S. Supreme Court.

  The Engle Agreement provides that in the event that Lorillard, Inc.'s
balance sheet net worth falls below $921.2 million (as determined in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect as of July
14, 2000), the stay granted in favor of Lorillard in the Engle agreement would
terminate and the class would be free to challenge the Florida legislation. As
of December 31, 2002, Lorillard, Inc. had a balance sheet net worth of
approximately $1.4 billion.

  In addition, the Engle Agreement requires Lorillard to obtain the written
consent of class counsel or the court prior to selling any trademark of or
formula comprising a cigarette brand having a U.S. market share of 0.5% or
more during the preceding calendar year. The Engle Agreement also requires
Lorillard to obtain the written consent of the Engle class counsel or the
court to license to a third party the right to manufacture or sell such a
cigarette brand unless the cigarettes to be manufactured under the license
will be sold by Lorillard.

  Although the jury has awarded punitive damages and final judgment has been
entered, Lorillard believes that it is unclear how the Punitive Damages Order
will be implemented. The Punitive Damages Order provides that the lump-sum
punitive damages amount, if any, will be allocated equally to each class
member and acknowledges that the actual size of the class will not be known
until the last case has withstood appeal, i.e., the punitive damages amount,
if any, determined for the entire qualified class, would be divided equally
among those plaintiffs who are ultimately successful. The Punitive Damages
Order does not address whether defendants would be required to pay the
punitive damages award, if any, prior to a determination of claims of all
class members, which is Phase Three of the trial plan, a process that could
take years to conclude. The final judgment entered by the court on November 6,
2000 directs that the amounts awarded by the jury are to be paid immediately.
Phase Three would address potentially hundreds of thousands of other class
members' claims, including issues of specific causation, reliance, affirmative
defenses and other individual-specific issues regarding entitlement to
damages, in individual trials before separate juries.

  Lorillard is a defendant in eleven separate cases pending in the Florida
courts in which the plaintiffs claim that they are members of the Engle class,
that all liability issues associated with their claims were resolved in the
earlier phases of the Engle proceedings, and that trials on their claims
should proceed immediately. Lorillard is opposing trials of these actions on
the grounds that they should be considered during Phase Three of the Engle
case and should be stayed while the Engle appeal is proceeding. Additional
cases with similar contentions are pending against other cigarette
manufacturers. In one of the matters in which Lorillard was not a party, a
jury in the Circuit Court of Miami-Dade County, Florida returned a verdict in
favor of the plaintiffs during June of 2002 in the case of Lukacs v. Brown &
Williamson Tobacco Corporation, et al. and awarded them $500,000 in economic
damages, $24.5 million in noneconomic damages and $12.5 million in damages for
loss of consortium. No post-trial motions are scheduled to be filed in Lukacs
as a final judgment reflecting the verdict will not be entered until the Engle
appeal is resolved.

  Lorillard remains of the view that the Engle case should not have been
certified as a class action. Lorillard believes that class certification in
the Engle case is inconsistent with the majority of federal and state court
decisions which have held that mass smoking and health claims are
inappropriate for class treatment.  Lorillard has challenged the class
certification, as well as numerous other legal errors that it believes
occurred during the trial. The Florida Third District Court of Appeal heard
argument in defendants' appeal on November 6, 2002. The Court of Appeal took
the


appeal under advisement and it is not known when a ruling will be issued.
Lorillard believes that an appeal of these issues on the merits should
prevail.

  Other Class Action Cases - In six additional class actions in which
Lorillard is a defendant, courts have granted plaintiffs' motions for class
certification. Two of these matters have been resolved in favor of the
defendants and plaintiffs' claims in a third case were resolved through a
settlement agreement. These six matters are listed below in alphabetical
order:

  Blankenship v. American Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Ohio County,
West Virginia, filed January 31, 1997). During 2000, the court certified a
class comprised of certain West Virginia cigarette smokers who sought, among
other things, medical monitoring. During November of 2001, the jury returned a
verdict in favor of the defendants, including Lorillard. Plaintiffs have
noticed an appeal.

  Broin v. Philip Morris Companies, Inc., et al. (Circuit Court, Dade County,
Florida, filed October 31, 1991). This is the matter concluded by a settlement
agreement and discussed under "Flight Attendant Cases" above.

  Brown v. The American Tobacco Company, Inc., et al. (Superior Court, San
Diego County, California, filed June 10, 1997). During 2001, the court
certified a class comprised of adult residents of California who smoked at
least one of defendants' cigarettes between June 10, 1993 and April 23, 2001
and who were exposed to defendants' marketing and advertising activities in
California. Trial is scheduled to begin during October of 2003.

  Daniels v. Philip Morris, Incorporated, et al. (Superior Court, San Diego
County, California, filed August 2, 1998). During 2000, the court certified a
class comprised of California residents who, while minors, smoked at least one
cigarette between April 1994 and December 31, 1999. During 2002, the court
granted defendants' motion for summary judgment and entered final judgment in
their favor. Plaintiffs have appealed.

  In re: Simon II Litigation v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (U.S.
District Court, Eastern District, New York, filed September 6, 2000). During
2002, the case was certified as a nationwide non-opt out class comprised of
the punitive damages claims asserted by individuals who allege certain
injuries or medical conditions allegedly caused by smoking. Certain
individuals, including those who allege membership in the class certified in
Engle v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al., were excluded from the class.
Defendants are appealing the ruling.

  Scott v. The American Tobacco Company, et al. (District Court, Orleans
Parish, Louisiana, filed May 24, 1996). The court certified a class comprised
of certain cigarette smokers resident in the State of Louisiana who desire to
participate in medical monitoring or smoking cessation programs and who began
smoking prior to September 1, 1988, or who began smoking prior to May 24, 1996
and allege that defendants undermined compliance with the warnings on
cigarette packages. Jury selection began during 2001, but the jury did not
begin hearing evidence until January of 2003. Trial was proceeding as of
February 13, 2003.

  Since January 1, 2001, verdicts have been returned in two of the class
actions, the cases of Blankenship v. American Tobacco Company, et al. and
Engle v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al., both of which are discussed above.
As of February 13, 2003, trial was proceeding in one case, Scott v. The
American Tobacco Company, et al., discussed above. Lorillard is a defendant in
Blankenship, Engle and Scott.

  In addition to the above, motions for class certification have been granted
in some cases in which Lorillard is not a defendant. One of these is the case
of Price v. Philip Morris USA (Circuit Court, Madison County, Illinois, filed
February 10, 2000). The court in Price certified a class comprised of Illinois
residents who smoked Philip Morris' cigarettes labeled as "light" or "ultra
light."

  REIMBURSEMENT CASES - The cases settled by the State Settlement Agreements
described below are concluded. Approximately 40 other suits are pending in
which Lorillard is a defendant. The Company is a defendant in 26 of the
pending cases. Plaintiffs in 27 of the cases are foreign governments that have
filed suit in U.S. courts. The plaintiffs in the remaining pending cases
include the U.S. federal government, several U.S. county or city governments,
American Indian tribes, hospitals or hospital districts, private companies and
private citizens suing on behalf of taxpayers. Plaintiffs in some of these
cases seek certification as class actions.


  U.S. Federal Government Action - The U.S. federal government filed a
reimbursement suit on September 22, 1999 in the U.S. District Court for the
District of Columbia against Lorillard, other U.S. cigarette manufacturers,
some parent companies and two trade associations. The Company is not a
defendant in this action. Plaintiff asserted claims under the Medical Care
Recovery Act, the Medicare as Secondary Payer provisions of the Social
Security Act, and the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. The
court has dismissed plaintiff's Medical Care Recovery Act and the Medicare as
Secondary Payer provisions of the Social Security Act claims. In a recent
filing, the government stated that it is seeking an aggregate of $289.0
billion in disgorgement of profits from the defendants, including Lorillard,
as well as injunctive relief.

  Reimbursement Cases filed by Foreign Governments in U.S. Courts - Cases have
been brought in U.S. courts by 13 nations, more than 20 Brazilian states or
cities, and one Canadian province. Some of the cases have been voluntarily
dismissed, while courts have granted defendants' dismissal motions in some of
the other matters. Twenty-seven of the cases are pending. Both the Company and
Lorillard are named as defendants in most of these cases, although both have
been dismissed from three suits that remain pending against other defendants.

  In 1977, Lorillard sold substantially all of its cigarette trademarks
outside of the United States and the international business associated with
those brands. Performance by Lorillard of obligations under the 1977 agreement
reflecting the sale was guaranteed by the Company. Lorillard and the Company
have received notice from Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation ("B&W"),
which claims to be a successor to the purchaser, that indemnity will be sought
under certain indemnification provisions of the 1977 agreement with respect to
suits brought by various of the foregoing foreign jurisdictions, and in
certain cases brought in foreign countries by individuals concerning periods
prior to June 1977 and during portions of 1978. Lorillard has entered into
discussions with B&W in an attempt to resolve these indemnification claims and
related matters, as well as certain matters concerning the use by B&W and its
affiliates of the Lorillard trademarks.

  Other pending Reimbursement cases - In addition to the cases described
above, approximately 15 Reimbursement cases are pending against Lorillard.
Plaintiffs in these suits include U.S. city or county governments, hospitals
or hospital districts, American Indian tribes, private companies and private
citizens suing on behalf of taxpayers.

  Excluding the cases filed by U.S. state governments that are described
below, defendants have successfully defended many of the Reimbursement cases.
For instance, each of the approximately 75 cases filed by labor union health
and welfare funds were dismissed, either due to orders that granted
defendants' dispositive motions or as the result of plaintiffs voluntarily
withdrawing their claims. In addition, various courts of appeal have affirmed
orders dismissing cases in favor of the defendants. For instance, during
February of 2003, the Appellate Division of the New York Supreme Court
affirmed the order dismissing the case filed by approximately 170 New York
hospitals or hospital districts, while the U.S. Supreme Court denied the
petition for writ of certiorari filed by the plaintiff in one of the tribal
cases during January of 2003.

  Since January 1, 2001, one of the Reimbursement cases has been tried. During
June of 2001, a jury in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
New York returned a verdict in Blue Cross and Blue Shield of New Jersey, Inc.,
et al. v. Philip Morris, Incorporated, et al., and awarded damages against the
defendants, including Lorillard. In this trial, the jury heard evidence as to
the claims of only one of the plan plaintiffs, Empire Blue Cross and Blue
Shield, referred to as "Empire." In its verdict, the jury found in favor of
the defendants on some of Empire's claims, one of which precluded the jury
from considering Empire's claims for punitive damages. The jury found in favor
of Empire on certain other of plaintiff's claims. As a result of these
findings, a final judgment was entered in which Empire was awarded a total of
approximately $17.8 million in actual damages, including approximately $1.5
million attributable to Lorillard. Empire was awarded approximately $55,000 in
pre-judgment interest for a total award against Lorillard of approximately
$1.6 million. The court has awarded plaintiff's counsel approximately $38.0
million in attorneys' fees. The defendants have noticed an appeal to the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit from the final judgment and from the
order awarding plaintiff's counsel attorneys' fees. The Court of Appeals heard
argument of defendants' appeal during February of 2003.

  In addition to the above, the District Court of Jerusalem, Israel, has
permitted a private insurer in Israel, Clalit Health Services, to make service
outside the jurisdiction on the Company and Lorillard with a suit in which
Clalit Health Services seeks damages for providing treatment to individuals
allegedly injured by cigarette smoking. The


Company and Lorillard have separately moved to set aside the order that
permitted service outside the jurisdiction. As of February 13, 2003, the court
had not ruled on the motions to set aside the attempted service.

  CONTRIBUTION CLAIMS - Approximately 10 cases are pending against Lorillard.
The Company is a defendant in one of these cases. Plaintiffs seek recovery of
funds expended by them to individuals whose asbestos disease or illness was
alleged to have been caused in whole or in part by smoking-related illnesses.

  SETTLEMENT OF STATE REIMBURSEMENT LITIGATION - On November 23, 1998,
Lorillard, Philip Morris Incorporated, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation
and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, the "Original Participating Manufacturers,"
entered into a Master Settlement Agreement with 46 states, the District of
Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands,
American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands to settle
the asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and certain other claims
of those states. These settling entities are generally referred to as the
"Settling States." The Original Participating Manufacturers had previously
settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota,
which together with the Master Settlement Agreement are generally referred to
as the "State Settlement Agreements."

  The State Settlement Agreements provide that the agreements are not
admissions, concessions or evidence of any liability or wrongdoing on the part
of any party, and were entered into by the Original Participating
Manufacturers to avoid the further expense, inconvenience, burden and
uncertainty of litigation.

  Lorillard recorded pretax charges of $1,062.2, $1,140.4 and $1,076.5 million
($646.1, $694.2 and $642.3 million after taxes), for the years ended December
31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, to accrue its obligations under the
State Settlement Agreements. Lorillard's portion of ongoing adjusted payments
and legal fees is based on its share of domestic cigarette shipments in the
year preceding that in which the payment is due. Accordingly, Lorillard
records its portions of ongoing settlement payments as part of cost of
manufactured products sold as the related sales occur.

  The State Settlement Agreements require that the domestic tobacco industry
make annual payments in the following amounts, subject to adjustment for
several factors, including inflation, market share and industry volume: 2003,
$10.9 billion; 2004 through 2007, $8.4 billion; and thereafter, $9.4 billion.
In addition, the domestic tobacco industry is required to pay settling
plaintiffs' attorneys' fees, subject to an annual cap of $500.0 million, as
well as an additional amount of $250.0 million per annum in 2003. These
payment obligations are the several and not joint obligations of each settling
defendant.

  The State Settlement Agreements also include provisions relating to
significant advertising and marketing restrictions, public disclosure of
certain industry documents, limitations on challenges to tobacco control and
underage use laws, and other provisions.

  In addition, as part of the Master Settlement Agreement, the Original
Participating Manufacturers committed to work cooperatively with the tobacco
growing community to address concerns about the potential adverse economic
impact on that community. On January 21, 1999, the Original Participating
Manufacturers reached an agreement to establish a $5.2 billion trust fund
payable between 1999 and 2010 to compensate the tobacco growing communities in
14 states. Payments to the trust fund are to be allocated among the Original
Participating Manufacturers according to their relative market share of
domestic cigarette shipments, except that Philip Morris paid more than its
market share in 1999 but will have its payment obligations reduced in 2009 and
2010 to make up for the overpayment. Of the total $5.2 billion, a total of
$1.4 billion was paid since 1999 through December 31, 2002, $124.4 million of
which was paid by Lorillard. Lorillard believes its remaining payments under
the agreement will total approximately $370.0 million. All payments will be
adjusted for inflation, changes in the unit volume of domestic cigarette
shipments, and the effect of new increases in state or federal excise taxes on
tobacco products that benefit the tobacco growing community.

  The Company believes that the State Settlement Agreements will materially
adversely affect its cash flows and operating income in future years. The
degree of the adverse impact will depend, among other things, on the rates of
decline in U.S. cigarette sales in the premium price and discount price
segments, Lorillard's share of the domestic premium price and discount price
cigarette segments, and the effect of any resulting cost advantage of
manufacturers


not subject to significant payment obligations under the State Settlement
Agreements. Almost all domestic manufacturers have agreed to become subject to
the terms of the Master Settlement Agreement, however, under the terms of the
Master Settlement Agreement, manufacturers other than the Original
Participating Manufacturers retain much of their cost advantage.

  FILTER CASES - Claims have been brought against Lorillard by smokers as well
as former employees of Lorillard seeking damages resulting from alleged
exposure to asbestos fibers that were incorporated into filter material used
in one brand of cigarettes manufactured by Lorillard for a limited period of
time, ending almost 50 years ago. Approximately 50 such matters are currently
pending against Lorillard.  The Company is a defendant in three of these
matters. Since January 1, 2000 and through February 13, 2003 Lorillard has
paid, or has reached agreement to pay, a total of approximately $17.3 million
in payments of judgments and settlements to finally resolve approximately 45
previously pending claims.

Other Tobacco - Related

  TOBACCO-RELATED ANTITRUST CASES - Wholesalers and Direct Purchaser Suits -
Lorillard and other domestic and international cigarette manufacturers and
their parent companies, including the Company, were named as defendants in
nine separate federal court actions brought by tobacco product wholesalers for
violations of U.S. antitrust laws and international law. The complaints allege
that defendants conspired to fix the price of cigarettes to wholesalers since
1993 in violation of the Sherman Act. These actions seek certification of a
class including all domestic and international wholesalers similarly affected
by such alleged conduct, and damages, injunctive relief and attorneys' fees.
These actions were consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of Georgia. The Court granted class
certification for a four-year class (beginning in 1996 and ending in 2000) of
domestic direct purchasers. The Company has been voluntarily dismissed without
prejudice from all direct purchaser cases. On July 11, 2002, the Court granted
motions for summary judgment filed by Lorillard and all other defendants
dismissing the actions in their entirety. Plaintiffs have filed a notice of
appeal in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, which will be
argued May 2, 2003.

  Indirect Purchaser Suits - Approximately 30 suits are pending in various
state courts alleging violations of state antitrust laws which permit indirect
purchasers, such as retailers and consumers, to sue under price fixing or
consumer fraud statutes. Approximately 18 states permit such suits. Lorillard
is a defendant in all but one of these indirect purchaser cases. One indirect
purchaser suit, in New York, has been dismissed in its entirety. The Arizona
indirect purchaser suit was dismissed by the trial court, but the dismissal
was reversed on appeal, and an appeal from the reversal to the Arizona Supreme
Court was argued in January 2003. While one state court has granted
plaintiff's motion to certify a class of consumers, two other state courts
have refused to do so, and other motions seeking class certification have been
deferred by other courts pending resolution of the federal case discussed
above. In Kansas, a Motion to Compel against Lorillard (and one other
defendant) seeking certain documents for which Lorillard has claimed privilege
is pending before the court. The Company was also named as a defendant in most
of these indirect purchaser cases but has been voluntarily dismissed without
prejudice from all of them.

  Tobacco Growers Suit - DeLoach v. Philip Morris Inc., et al. (U.S. District
Court, Middle District of North Carolina, filed February 16, 2000). Lorillard
is named as a defendant in a lawsuit that, after several amendments, alleges
only antitrust violations. The other major domestic tobacco companies are also
presently named as defendants, and the plaintiffs have now added the major
leaf buyers as defendants. This case was originally filed in U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia, and transferred to a North Carolina federal court
upon motion by the defendants. The plaintiffs' claims relate to the conduct of
the companies in the purchase of tobacco through the auction system under the
federal program. The suit seeks an unspecified amount of actual damages,
trebled under the antitrust laws, and injunctive relief. On April 3, 2002 the
court certified a class consisting of all persons holding a quota (the
licenses that a farmer must either own or rent to sell the crop) to grow, and
all domestic producers who sold, flue-cured or burley tobacco at anytime from
February 1996 to present. Defendants' petition to the United States Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit seeking permission to appeal the District
Court's decision on class certification was denied on June 12, 2002. Pre-trial
discovery has commenced and is currently scheduled to be completed on or
before September 1, 2003. A trial date has not yet been scheduled.

  REPARATION CASES - During 2002, the Company was named as a defendant in
three cases in which plaintiffs seek reparations for the alleged financial
benefits derived from the uncompensated use of slave labor. The Company


was named as a defendant in these matters as a result of conduct purportedly
engaged in by Lorillard and various other entities. Plaintiffs in these suits
seek various types of damages including disgorgement of profits, restitution
and punitive damages. Plaintiffs seek class certification on behalf of the
descendants of enslaved African Americans.

Defenses

  Lorillard believes that it has valid defenses to the cases pending against
it. Lorillard also believes it has valid bases for appeal of the adverse
verdicts against it. To the extent the Company is a defendant in any of the
lawsuits described in this section, the Company believes that it is not a
proper defendant in these matters and has moved or plans to move for dismissal
of all such claims against it. While Lorillard intends to defend vigorously
all tobacco products liability litigation, it is not possible to predict the
outcome of any of this litigation. Litigation is subject to many
uncertainties, and it is possible that some of these actions could be decided
unfavorably. Lorillard may enter into discussions in an attempt to settle
particular cases if it believes it is appropriate to do so.

  In addition, some developments on health issues related to tobacco products
have received widespread media attention, which could have adverse effects on
the ability of Lorillard to prevail in smoking and health litigation. These
developments also could prompt the filing of additional litigation. These
developments include, but are not limited to, the release of industry
documents beginning in 1998 and the adverse outcomes in some of the cases
tried during the past few years, some of which have resulted in awards to the
plaintiffs for billions of dollars. Defendants have appealed, or intend to
appeal, each of the verdicts returned to date in which plaintiffs were awarded
damages.

  Except for the impact of the State Settlement Agreements as described above,
management is unable to make a meaningful estimate of the amount or range of
loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of pending litigation and,
therefore, no provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements
for any unfavorable outcome. It is possible that the Company's results of
operations or cash flows in a particular quarterly or annual period or its
financial position could be materially affected by an unfavorable outcome of
certain pending litigation.

OTHER LITIGATION

  The Company and its subsidiaries are also parties to other litigation
arising in the ordinary course of business. The outcome of this other
litigation will not, in the opinion of management, materially affect the
Company's results of operations or equity.

Note 21.  Commitments and Contingencies

Guarantees

  CNA holds an investment in a real estate joint venture that is accounted for
on the equity basis of accounting. In the normal course of business, CNA on a
joint and several basis with other unrelated insurance company shareholders
have committed to continue funding the operating deficits of this joint
venture. Additionally, CNA and the other unrelated shareholders, on a joint
and several basis, have guaranteed an operating lease for an office building,
which expires in 2016.

  The guarantee of the operating lease is a parallel guarantee to the
commitment to fund operating deficits; consequently, the separate guarantee to
the lessor is not expected to be triggered as long as the joint venture
continues to be funded by its shareholders and continues to make its annual
lease payments.

  In the event that the other parties to the joint venture are unable to meet
their commitments in funding the operations of this joint venture, CNA would
be required to assume the obligation for the entire office building operating
lease. The maximum potential future lease payments at December 31, 2002 that
CNA could be required to pay under this guarantee is approximately $333.0
million. If CNA was required to assume the entire lease obligation, CNA would
have the right to pursue reimbursement from the other shareholders and would
have the right to all sublease revenues.

  CNA has recorded a liability of approximately $10.0 million for its share of
estimated future operating deficits of this joint venture through 2016.


  CNA has entered into a limited number of guaranteed payment contracts,
primarily relating to telecommunication services, amounting to approximately
$24.0 million. Estimated future minimum purchases under these contracts are as
follows: $13.0 million in 2003; $9.0 million in 2004; and $2.0 million in
2005.

  In certain circumstances, CNA provides guarantees of the indebtedness of
certain of its independent insurance producers, which expire in 2003. CNA
would be required to remit prompt and complete payment when due, should the
primary obligor default. In the event of default on the part of the primary
obligor, CNA holds an interest in and to any and all shares of common stock of
the primary obligor. The maximum potential amount of future payments that CNA
could be required to pay under these guarantees are approximately $7.0 million
at December 31, 2002.

CNA Surety

  In December of 2002 and January of 2003, CNA provided loans in an aggregate
amount of approximately $45.0 million to a large national contractor that
undertakes projects for the construction of government and private facilities.
CNA Surety has provided significant surety bond protection for projects by
this contractor through surety bonds underwritten by CCC or its affiliates.
The loans were provided by CNA to help the contractor meet its liquidity
needs. The loans are evidenced by demand notes and currently accrue interest
at 10.0% until replaced by the credit facility described below. The contractor
and certain of its affiliates have pledged to CNA substantially all of their
assets as collateral for these loans.

  In March of 2003, CNA entered into an agreement with the contractor to
provide an $86.4 million credit facility, which includes the already advanced
$45.0 million described above. The credit facility and all loans under it will
mature in March of 2006. Advances under the credit facility, including the
already-funded $45.0 million, bear interest at the prime rate plus 6.0%.
Payment of 3.0% of the interest is deferred until the credit facility matures,
and the remainder is to be paid monthly in cash. Loans under the credit
facility are secured by a pledge of substantially all of the assets of the
contractor and certain affiliates.

  The Company and CNA have entered into a participation agreement, pursuant to
which the Company has purchased a participation interest in one-third of the
loans and commitments under the new credit facility, on a dollar-for-dollar
basis, up to a maximum of $25.0 million. Although the Company does not have
rights against the contractor directly under the participation agreement, it
shares recoveries and certain fees under the facility proportionally with CNA.

  In March of 2003, CNA also purchased the contractor's outstanding bank debt
for $16.4 million. Under the new credit facility, the contractor agreed to
purchase from CNA and retire the bank debt for $16.4 million, with $11.4
million of the purchase price being funded under the new credit facility and
$5.0 million from money loaned to the contractor by its shareholders. Under
its purchase agreement with the banks, CNA is also required to reimburse the
banks for any draws upon approximately $6.5 million in outstanding letters of
credit issued by the banks for the contractor's benefit that expire between
May and August of 2003. Any CNA reimbursements for draws upon the banks'
letters of credit will become obligations of the contractor to CNA as draws
upon the credit facility.

  The contractor has initiated a restructuring plan that is intended to reduce
costs and improve cash flow, and a chief restructuring officer has been
appointed to manage execution of the plan. CNA, through its affiliate CNA
Surety, intends to continue to provide surety bonds on behalf of the
contractor during this restructuring period, subject to the contractor's
initial and ongoing compliance with CNA Surety's underwriting standards. Any
losses arising from bonds issued or assumed by the insurance subsidiaries of
CNA Surety to the contractor are excluded from CNA Surety's $40.0 million
excess of $20.0 million per principal reinsurance program with unaffiliated
reinsurers in place in 2002. As a result, CNA Surety retains the first $60.0
million of losses on bonds written with an effective date of September 30,
2002 and prior, and CCC will incur 100% of losses above that retention level
on bonds with effective dates prior to September 30, 2002. Through facultative
reinsurance contracts with CCC, CNA Surety's exposure on bonds written from
October 1, 2002 through December 31, 2002 has been limited to $20.0 million
per bond.

  Indemnification and subrogation rights, including rights to contract
proceeds on construction projects in the event of default, exist that reduce
CNA Surety's and ultimately CNA's exposure to loss. While CNA believes that
the


contractor's restructuring efforts may be successful and provide sufficient
cash flow for its operations and repayment of its borrowings under the credit
facility, the contractor's failure to achieve its restructuring plan or
perform its contractual obligations under the credit facility and underlying
all of CNA's Surety bonds could have a material adverse effect on CNA's future
results of operations. If such failures occurs CNA estimates the surety loss,
net of indemnification and subrogation recoveries, but before the effects of
corporate aggregate reinsurance treaties, if any, and minority interest could
be up to $200.0 million.

  CCC provided an excess of loss reinsurance contract to the insurance
subsidiaries of CNA Surety, over a period that expired on December 31, 2000
(the "stop loss contract"). The stop loss contract limits the net loss ratios
for CNA Surety with respect to certain accounts and lines of insurance
business. In the event that CNA Surety's accident year net loss ratio exceeds
24% for 1997 through 2000 (the "contractual loss ratio"), the stop loss
contract requires CCC to pay amounts equal to the amount, if any, by which CNA
Surety's actual accident year net loss ratio exceeds the contractual loss
ratio multiplied by the applicable net earned premiums. The minority
shareholders of CNA Surety do not share in any losses that apply to this
contract. Reinsurance balances payable under this stop loss contract were
approximately $22.0 million as of December 31, 2001. There were no reinsurance
balances payable under this stop loss contract as of December 31, 2002.

  CCC provided an Excess of Loss Contract to the insurance subsidiaries of CNA
Surety with the capacity to underwrite large surety bond exposures. The Excess
of Loss Contract provided $75.0 million of coverage in excess of the $40.0
million of coverage provided to the insurance subsidiaries of CNA Surety in
2002 by third party reinsurers, which is in turn in excess of the $20.0
million of per principal losses retained by the CNA Surety insurance
subsidiaries. Subsequent to September 30, 1997, CNA Surety entered into a
second excess of loss contract with CCC ("Second Excess of Loss Contract").
The Second Excess of Loss Contract provides additional coverage for principal
losses that exceed the foregoing coverage of $75.0 million per principal
provided by the Excess of Loss Contract, or aggregate losses per principal in
excess of $135.0 million. CCC is also obligated to act as a joint insurer, or
"co-surety," for business covered by the Excess of Loss Contract when
requested by the CNA Surety insurance subsidiaries. In consideration for the
reinsurance coverage provided by the Excess of Loss Contracts, the insurance
subsidiaries of CNA Surety paid to CCC, on a quarterly basis, a premium equal
to 1.0% of the net written premiums applicable to the Excess of Loss Contract,
subject to a minimum premium of $20,000 and $5,000 per quarter under the
Excess of Loss Contract and Second Excess of Loss Contract, respectively. The
two Excess of Loss Contracts collectively provide coverage for losses
discovered on surety bonds in force as of September 30, 1997 and for losses
discovered on new and renewal business written during the term of the Excess
of Loss Contracts. Both Excess of Loss Contracts commenced immediately
following September 30, 1997 and continue for a period of five years from
September 30, 1997 or until September 30, 2002. The discovery period for
losses covered by the Excess of Loss Contracts extends until three years after
the September 30, 2002 expiration date of the contracts.

  CCC, effective October 1, 2002, has secured replacement excess of loss
protection for new and renewal bonds for CNA Surety for per principal
exposures that exceed $60.0 million since October 1, 2002 in two parts - (a)
$40.0 million excess of $60.0 million and (b) $50.0 million excess of $100.0
million for CNA Surety. This excess of loss protection is primarily necessary
to support new and renewal bonds for contract surety accounts with bonded
backlogs or work-in-process in excess of $60.0 million. In consideration for
the reinsurance coverage provided by the $40.0 million excess of $60.0 million
contract, CNA Surety will pay to CCC, on a quarterly basis, a premium equal to
$3.0 million. In 2002, the insurance subsidiaries of CNA Surety paid $4.0
million in premium to CCC in consideration of the coverage provided by the
$50.0 million excess of $100.0 million.

Other

  As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company has committed approximately
$141.0 and $152.0 million for future capital calls from various third-party
limited partnership investments in exchange for an ownership interest in the
related partnerships.

  In the normal course of investing activities, CCC had committed
approximately $51.0 million as of December 31, 2002 to future capital calls
from certain of its unconsolidated affiliates in exchange for an ownership
interest in such affiliates.


  In the normal course of business, CNA has obtained letters of credit in
favor of various unaffiliated insurance companies, regulatory authorities and
other entities. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, there were approximately $222.0
and $270.0 million of outstanding letters of credit.

  CNA has a commitment to purchase up to a $100.0 million floating rate note
issued by the California Earthquake Authority in the event of an earthquake
during calendar year 2003 that results in California earthquake-related losses
greater than $4.2 billion.

  CNA assumes the risk for a limited amount of insurance from R.V.I. Guaranty
Company, Inc. ("RVI"), an unconsolidated affiliate. CNA assumed approximately
$0.3, $2.0 and $11.0 million in written premiums from RVI during 2002, 2001
and 2000.

Note 22.  Business Segments

  The Company's reportable segments are based on its individual operating
subsidiaries. Each of the subsidiaries are headed by a chief executive officer
who is responsible for the operation of its business and has the duties and
authority commensurate with that position. Investment gains (losses) and the
related income taxes, excluding those of CNA Financial, are included in the
Corporate and other segment.

  CNA's insurance products include property and casualty coverages; life,
accident and health insurance; and retirement products and annuities. CNA's
services include risk management, information services, health care management
and claims administration. CNA's products and services are marketed through
agents, brokers, managing general agents and direct sales.

  During the second quarter of 2002, Group Reinsurance, the business which
assumes reinsurance from unaffiliated entities on group life, accident and
health products as well as excess medical risk coverages for self-funded
employers, was transferred from Group Operations to the Other Insurance
segment to be included as part of run-off insurance operations. Also, CNA
Trust, a limited-operations bank specializing in 401(k) plan administration,
was transferred from Life Operations to Group Operations. Segment disclosures
of prior periods have been restated to conform to the current period
presentation.

  The Other Insurance segment is comprised primarily of losses and expenses
related to the centralized adjusting and settlement of APMT claims, certain
run-off insurance operations and other operations. This segment's results also
include interest expense on CNA's corporate borrowings, eBusiness initiatives
and CNA UniSource.

  Lorillard is engaged in the production and sale of cigarettes with its
principal products marketed under the brand names of Newport, Kent, True,
Maverick and Old Gold with substantially all of its sales in the United
States.

  Loews Hotels owns and/or operates 18 hotels, 16 of which are in the United
States and two are in Canada.

  Diamond Offshore's business primarily consists of operating 46 offshore
drilling rigs that are chartered on a contract basis for fixed terms by
companies engaged in exploration and production of hydrocarbons. Offshore rigs
are mobile units that can be relocated based on market demand. As of December
31, 2002, 28 of these rigs were located in the Gulf of Mexico, 5 were located
in Brazil and the remaining 13 were located in various foreign markets.

  Bulova distributes and sells watches and clocks under the brand names of
Bulova, Wittnauer, Caravelle and Accutron with substantially all of its sales
in the United States and Canada. All watches and clocks are purchased from
foreign suppliers.

  The Corporate and other segment consists primarily of investment income,
including investment gains (losses) from non-insurance subsidiaries, as well
as equity earnings from shipping operations, corporate interest expenses and
other corporate administrative costs.

  The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in
the summary of significant accounting policies. In addition, CNA does not
maintain a distinct investment portfolio for each of its insurance segments,
and


accordingly, allocation of assets to each segment is not performed. Therefore,
investment income and investment gains (losses) are allocated based on each
segment's carried insurance reserves, as adjusted.

  The following tables set forth the Company's consolidated revenues, income
and assets by business segment:






(a)  Investment gains (losses) included in Revenues, Pretax income (loss) and
Net income (loss) are as follows:



(b)  Includes $1,151.0, $2,231.0 and $2,088.0 under contracts covering
     U.S. government employees and their dependents for the respective
     periods.
(c)  Includes a gain from the sale of a drilling rig of $13.9 ($4.7 after
     taxes and minority interest) for the year ended December 31, 2000.
(d)  Includes pretax charges related to the settlement of tobacco litigation
     of $1,062.2, $1,140.4 and $1,076.5 ($646.1, $694.2 and $642.3 after
     taxes) for the respective periods.
(e)  Income taxes and interest expense are as follows:




Note 23.  Prior Period Adjustment for Life Settlement Contracts

  As a result of a routine review of CNA's periodic filings by the Division of
Corporation Finance of the SEC, the Company has restated its financial
statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 as well as
its interim financial statements for the first three quarters of 2002 and all
interim periods of 2001. The restated financial statements reflect an
adjustment to the Company's historical accounting for CNA's investment in life
settlement contracts and the related revenue recognition.

  CNA's historical accounting was to record an asset for the amount paid to
acquire the life settlement contract along with other direct acquisition
costs, and to recognize revenue over the period the contract was held. The SEC
concluded that FTB 85-4 "Accounting for Purchases of Life Insurance" should
have been applied to CNA's investment in life settlement contracts. Under FTB
85-4, the carrying value of each contract at purchase and at the end of each
reporting period is equal to the cash surrender value of the policy. Amounts
paid to purchase these contracts that are in excess of the cash surrender
value, at the date of purchase, are expensed immediately. Periodic maintenance
costs, such as premiums, necessary to keep the underlying policy in-force are
expensed as incurred and included in other operating expense. Revenue is
recognized and included in other revenue in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations when the life insurance policy underlying the life settlement
contract matures.

  The adjustment related to life settlement contracts increased (decreased)
previously reported results of operations by $2.0 and $(28.1) million for the
years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Additionally, the
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity reflects a decrease in
earnings retained in the business of $193.9 million as of January 1, 2000.

  Amounts previously reported have been revised to reflect adoption of new
accounting pronouncements (see Note 1) and reclassification for discontinued
operations (see Note 14).

  The effect of the restatement is as follows:

Consolidated Balance Sheet:






Note 24.  Consolidating Financial Information

  The following schedules present the Company's consolidating balance sheet
information at December 31, 2002 and 2001, and consolidating statements of
operations information for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000.
These schedules present the individual subsidiaries of the Company and their
contribution to the consolidated financial statements. Amounts presented will
not necessarily be the same as those in the individual financial statements of
the Company's subsidiaries due to adjustments for purchase accounting, income
taxes and minority interests. In addition, many of the Company's subsidiaries
use a classified balance sheet which also leads to differences in amounts
reported for certain line items. This information also does not reflect the
impact of the Company's issuance of Carolina Group stock. Lorillard is
reported as a 100% owned subsidiary and does not include any adjustments
relating to the tracking stock structure. See Note 6 for consolidating
information of the Carolina Group and Loews Group.

  The Corporate and Other column primarily reflects the parent company's
investment in its subsidiaries, invested cash portfolio and corporate long-
term debt. The elimination adjustments are for intercompany assets and
liabilities, interest and dividends, the parent company's investment in
capital stocks of subsidiaries, and various reclasses of debit or credit
balances to the amounts in consolidation. Purchase accounting adjustments have
been pushed down to the appropriate subsidiary.





Loews Corporation
Consolidating Balance Sheet Information




Loews Corporation
Consolidating Balance Sheet Information




Loews Corporation
Consolidating Statement of Operations Information




Loews Corporation
Consolidating Statement of Operations Information




Loews Corporation
Consolidating Statement of Operations Information







Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure.

  None.

                                   PART III

  Certain information called for by Part III (Items 10, 11, 12 and 13) has
been omitted as Registrant intends to include such information in its
definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission not later than 120 days after the close of its fiscal year.

Item 14.  Controls and Procedures

  The Company maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures which
are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the
Company in reports that it files or submits under the federal securities laws,
including this report, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported on a
timely basis. These disclosure controls and procedures include controls and
procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed under
the federal securities laws is accumulated and communicated to the Company's
management on a timely basis to allow decisions regarding required disclosure.

  The Company's principal executive officer and principal financial officer
have conducted an evaluation of the Company's disclosure controls and
procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the date of this report. Based
on this evaluation, the Company's principal executive officer and principal
financial officer have each concluded that the Company's disclosure controls
and procedures are effective for their intended purpose.

  There were no significant changes in the Company's internal controls or in
other factors that could significantly affect these controls subsequent to the
date of their evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

                                    PART IV

Item 15.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.

(a) 1.  Financial Statements:

  The financial statements appear above under Item 8. The following additional
financial data should be read in conjunction with those financial statements.
Schedules not included with these additional financial data have been omitted
because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the
consolidated financial statements or notes to consolidated financial
statements.





* Filed herewith

  (b) Reports on Form 8-K -

  On October 15, 2002, Registrant filed a report on Form 8-K regarding its
announcement of a quarterly dividend of $.15 per share of Common Stock,
payable December 2, 2002 to shareholders of record on November 1, 2002.

  On October 18, 2002 Registrant filed a report on Form 8-K regarding the
Registrant's subsidiary, Lorillard, to confirm and reiterate statements made
by Lorillard's management during the second quarter earnings conference call
held on August 8, 2002 to the effect that Lorillard intends to increase its
promotional dollar support behind its Newport cigarette brand for the second
half of 2002.






                                 SIGNATURES

  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                             LOEWS CORPORATION



Dated: March 26, 2003                         By      /s/ Peter W. Keegan
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                 (Peter W. Keegan, Senior Vice
                                                  President and Chief
                                                  Financial Officer)

  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



Dated: March 26, 2003                         By      /s/ James S. Tisch
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                (James S. Tisch, President and
                                                 Chief Executive Officer)



Dated: March 26, 2003                         By      /s/ Peter W. Keegan
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                (Peter W. Keegan, Senior Vice
                                                 President and Chief Financial
                                                 Officer)



Dated: March 26, 2003                         By        /s/ Guy A. Kwan
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                  (Guy A. Kwan, Controller)



Dated: March 26, 2003                         By       /s/ Joseph L. Bower
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                 (Joseph L. Bower, Director)



Dated: March 26, 2003                         By        /s/ John Brademas
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                   (John Brademas, Director)



Dated: March 26, 2003                         By       /s/ Paul J. Fribourg
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                 (Paul J. Fribourg, Director)





Dated: March 26, 2003                         By      /s/ Philip A. Laskawy
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                 (Philip A. Laskawy, Director)



Dated: March 26, 2003                         By       /s/ Edward J. Noha
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                  (Edward J. Noha, Director)



Dated: March 26, 2003                         By       /s/ Gloria R. Scott
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                  (Gloria R. Scott, Director)



Dated: March 26, 2003                         By      /s/ Andrew H. Tisch
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                  (Andrew H. Tisch, Director)



Dated: March 26, 2003                         By      /s/ Jonathan M. Tisch
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                 (Jonathan M. Tisch, Director)



Dated: March 26, 2003                         By      /s/ Laurence A. Tisch
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                 (Laurence A. Tisch, Director)



Dated: March 26, 2003                         By      /s/ Preston R. Tisch
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                 (Preston R. Tisch, Director)



Dated: March 26, 2003                         By         /s/ Fred Wilpon
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                    (Fred Wilpon, Director)


CERTIFICATIONS


I, James S. Tisch, certify that:

1.  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Loews Corporation;

2.  Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
this annual report;

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.  The registrant's other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:

    a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
        material information relating to the registrant, including its
        consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
        entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report
        is being prepared;

    b)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
        and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of
        this annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

    c)  Presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
        effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
        evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.  The registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on
our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent function):

    a)  All significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
        controls which could adversely affect the registrant's ability to
        record, process, summarize and report financial data and have
        identified for the registrant's auditors any material weaknesses in
        internal controls; and

    b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
        employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
        controls; and

6.  The registrant's other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal controls
subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective
actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.


Dated:  March 26, 2003                       By      /s/ James S. Tisch
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                       JAMES S. TISCH
                                                        President and
                                                   Chief Executive Officer


CERTIFICATIONS


I, Peter W. Keegan, certify that:

1.  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Loews Corporation;

2.  Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by
this annual report;

3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.  The registrant's other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:

    a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
        material information relating to the registrant, including its
        consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
        entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report
        is being prepared;

    b)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
        and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of
        this annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

    c)  Presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
        effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
        evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.  The registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on
our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent function):

    a)  All significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
        controls which could adversely affect the registrant's ability to
        record, process, summarize and report financial data and have
        identified for the registrant's auditors any material weaknesses in
        internal controls; and

    b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
        employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
        controls; and

6.  The registrant's other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal controls
subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective
actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.


Dated:  March 26, 2003                       By      /s/ Peter W. Keegan
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                     PETER W. KEEGAN
                                                 Senior Vice President and
                                                  Chief Financial Officer




                       INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Loews Corporation:

  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Loews
Corporation and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the
related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2002. Our
audits also included the financial statement schedules listed in the Index at
Item 15(a)2. These financial statements and financial statement schedules are
the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement
schedules based on our audits.

  We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Loews Corporation and its
subsidiaries at December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2002, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial
statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.

  As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the 2001
and 2000 consolidated financial statements have been restated.

  As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
changed its method of accounting for goodwill and other intangibles in 2002,
and for derivative instruments and hedging activities in 2001.





Deloitte & Touche LLP
New York, New York
March 19, 2003

                                       L-1

                                                                    SCHEDULE I


                      Condensed Financial Information of Registrant

                                     LOEWS CORPORATION
                                       BALANCE SHEETS

                                           ASSETS



                                      L-2

                                                                   SCHEDULE I
                                                                   (Continued)


                  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant

                                 LOEWS CORPORATION
                              STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



                                       L-3

                                                                    SCHEDULE I
(Continued)


Condensed Financial Information of Registrant

- ----------
Notes:

  (a) Long-term debt consisted of:


     (1)  Redeemable in whole or in part at 101.6%, and decreasing
          percentages annually. The notes are exchangeable into 15.376
          shares of Diamond Offshore's common stock per one thousand dollars
          principal amount of notes at a price of $65.04 per share.
     (2)  Redeemable in whole or in part at June 1, 2003 at 103.8%, and
          decreasing percentages thereafter.
     (3)  Redeemable in whole or in part at October 15, 2003 at 102.4%, and
          decreasing percentages thereafter.

  (b) Cash dividends paid to the Company by affiliates amounted to $695.6,
$807.1 and $356.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and
2000, respectively.

  (c) The Company is included in a consolidated federal income tax return with
certain of its subsidiaries and, accordingly, participates in the allocation
of certain components of the consolidated provision for federal income taxes.
Such taxes are generally allocated on a separate return bases.

  The Company has entered into a separate tax allocation agreement with CNA, a
majority-owned subsidiary in which its ownership exceeds 80%. The agreement
provides that the Company will (i) pay to CNA the amount, if any, by which the
Company's consolidated federal income tax is reduced by virtue of inclusion of
CNA in the Company's return, or (ii) be paid by CNA an amount, if any, equal
to the federal income tax which would have been payable by CNA if it had filed
a separate consolidated return.

  Under this agreement, CNA has paid, or will pay the Company approximately
$94.0 million for 2002. In 2001 and 2000, CNA received $908.0 million and paid
$64.0 million, respectively. The agreement may be canceled by either of the
parties upon thirty days' written notice. See Note 11 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements of Loews Corporation and subsidiaries
included in Item 8.

  (d) As a result of a routine review of CNA's periodic filings by the
Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC, the Company has restated its
financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000
as well as its interim financial statements for the first three quarters of
2002. The restated financial statements reflect an adjustment to the Company's
historical accounting for CNA's investment in life settlement contracts and
the related revenue recognition. See Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8.

                                       L-4

                                                                   SCHEDULE II


                      LOEWS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                       Valuation and Qualifying Accounts




                                       L-5

                                                                    SCHEDULE V


                      LOEWS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

Supplemental Information Concerning Property-Casualty Insurance Operations


                                       L-6







