Item 1.Business



General



Welltower
Inc. (NYSE:WELL), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is
driving the transformation of health care infrastructure.  The company invests
with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems
to fund real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery
models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care experience. 
WelltowerTM, a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests
in properties concentrated in major, high-growth markets in the United States
(“U.S.”), Canada and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), consisting of seniors housing
and post-acute communities and outpatient medical properties.  Our capital
programs, when combined with comprehensive planning, development and property management
services, make us a single-source solution for acquiring, planning, developing,
managing, repositioning and monetizing real estate assets.  More information is
available on the Internet at www.welltower.com.  The information on our website
is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our
web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.



Our
primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder
value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create
opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of
annual increases in net operating income and portfolio growth. To meet these
objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and health
care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type,
relationship and geographic location.



References
herein to “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” refer to Welltower Inc., a
Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries unless specifically noted otherwise.



Portfolio of Properties



Please
see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operation – Executive Summary – Company Overview” for a table that
summarizes our portfolio as of December 31, 2017.



Property Types



We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate and
evaluate our business on three reportable segments: triple-net, seniors housing
operating and outpatient medical.For additional information
regarding our segments, please see Note 17 to our consolidated financial
statements.The accounting policies of the segments
are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting
policies in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.The
following is a summary of our various property types.



Triple-Net



Our
triple-net properties include independent living facilities and independent
supportive living facilities (Canada), continuing care retirement communities,
assisted living facilities, care homes with and without nursing (U.K.),
Alzheimer’s/dementia care facilities and long-term/post-acute care facilities. 
We invest primarily through acquisitions, development and joint venture
partnerships. Our properties are primarily leased to operators under long-term,
triple-net master leases that obligate the tenant to pay all operating costs,
utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, building repairs, maintenance costs
and all obligations under certain ground leases. We are not involved in
property management.  Our properties include stand-alone facilities that
provide one level of service, combination facilities that provide multiple
levels of service, and communities or campuses that provide a wide range of
services.



Independent
Living Facilities and Independent Supportive Living Facilities (Canada).Independent
living facilities and independent supportive living facilities are
age-restricted, multifamily properties with central dining facilities that
provide residents access to meals and other services such as housekeeping,
linen service, transportation and social and recreational activities.



Continuing
Care Retirement Communities.Continuing care
retirement communities typically include a combination of detached homes, an
independent living facility, an assisted living facility and/or a
long-term/post-acute care facility on one campus. These communities appeal to
residents because there is no need to relocate when health and medical needs
change. Resident payment plans vary, but can include entrance fees, condominium
fees and rental fees. Many of these communities also charge monthly maintenance
fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services.



Assisted
Living Facilities.  Assisted living facilities are state regulated rental
properties that provide the same services as independent living facilities, but
also provide supportive care from trained employees to residents who require
assistance with activities of daily living, including, but not limited to,
management of medications, bathing, dressing, toileting, ambulating and eating.










Care
Homes with or without Nursing (U.K.).  Care homes without nursing,
regulated by the Care Quality Commission (CQC”), are rental properties that
provide essentially the same services as U.S. assisted living facilities. Care
homes with nursing, also regulated by the CQC, are licensed daily rate or
rental properties where the majority of individuals require 24-hour nursing
and/or medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for various
national and local reimbursement programs.  Unlike the U.S., care homes with
nursing in the U.K. generally do not provide post-acute care.



Alzheimer’s/Dementia
Care Facilities.Certain assisted living facilities may include
state-licensed settings that specialize in caring for those afflicted with
Alzheimer’s disease and/or other types of dementia.



Long-Term/Post-Acute
Care Facilities.  Our long-term/post-acute care facilities generally include
skilled nursing/post-acute care facilities, inpatient rehabilitation facilities
and long-term acute care facilities.  Skilled nursing/post-acute care
facilities are licensed daily rate or rental properties where the majority of
individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally, these
properties are licensed for Medicaid and/or Medicare reimbursement in the U.S.
or provincial reimbursement in Canada.  All facilities offer some level of
rehabilitation services.  Some facilities focus on higher acuity patients and
offer rehabilitation units specializing in cardiac, orthopedic, dialysis,
neurological or pulmonary rehabilitation.  Inpatient rehabilitation facilities
provide inpatient services for patients with intensive rehabilitation needs. 
Long-term acute care facilities provide inpatient services for patients with
complex medical conditions that require more intensive care, monitoring or
emergency support than is available in most skilled nursing/post-acute care
facilities.



Our triple-net segment
accounted for 22%, 28% and 31% of total revenues for the years ended December
31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  For the year ended December 31, 2017,
our revenues related to our relationship with GenesisHealthCare (“Genesis”)accounted for
approximately 20% of our triple-net segment revenues and 4% of our total
revenues.As of December 31, 2017, our relationship
with Genesis was comprised of a master lease for 86 properties owned 100% by
us, three real estate loans totaling approximately $267 million, approximately
9.5 million shares of GEN Series A common stock (representing approximately 6%
of total GEN common stock) and a 25% ownership stake in an unconsolidated joint
venture that includes a master lease for 28 properties operated by Genesis. In
addition to rent, the master lease requires Genesis to pay all operating costs,
utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, building repairs, maintenance costs
and all obligations under certain ground leases.  All obligations under the
master lease have been guaranteed by FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC, a
subsidiary of Genesis. Please see Notes 6 and 21 to our consolidated financial
statements for additional information.



Seniors
Housing Operating



Our
seniors housing operating properties include several of the facility types
described in “Item 1 – Business – Property Types – Triple-Net”, including
independent living facilities and independent supportive living facilities,
assisted living facilities, care homes and Alzheimer’s/dementia care
facilities.  Properties are primarily held in joint venture entities with operating
partners. We utilize the structure proposed in the REIT Investment
Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007, which is commonly referred to as a
“RIDEA” structure (the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code authorizing the
RIDEA structure were enacted as part of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act
of 2008).  See Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements for more
information.



Our seniors housing
operating segment accounted for 65%, 59% and 56% of total revenues for the
years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  As of December 31,
2017, we had relationships with 17 operators to manage our seniors housing
operating properties.  In each instance, our partner provides management
services to the properties pursuant to an incentive-based management contract. 
We rely on our partners to effectively and efficiently manage these
properties.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, our relationship with
Sunrise Senior Living accounted for approximately 37% of our seniors housing
operating segment revenues and 24% of our total revenues. See Note 7 to our
consolidated financial statements for additional information.



Outpatient
Medical



Outpatient
Medical Buildings.  The outpatient medical building portfolio consists of health
care related buildings that generally include physician offices, ambulatory
surgery centers, diagnostic facilities, outpatient services and/or labs. Our
portfolio has a strong affiliation with health systems. Approximately 95% of
our outpatient medical building portfolio is affiliated with health systems
(with buildings on hospital campuses or serving as satellite locations for the
health system and its physicians). We typically lease our outpatient medical
buildings to multiple tenants and provide varying levels of property
management.  Our outpatient medical segment accounted for 13% of total revenues
for each of the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.  No single tenant
exceeds 20% of segment revenues.



Investments



We
invest in seniors housing and health care real estate primarily through
acquisitions, developments and joint venture partnerships. For additional
information regarding acquisition and development activity, please see Note 3
to our consolidated financial statements.  We seek to diversify our investment
portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic location. In determining
whether to invest in a property, we focus on the following: (1) the
experience of the obligor’s/partner’s management








team;
(2) the historical and projected financial and operational performance of
the property; (3) the credit of the obligor/partner; (4) the security
for any lease or loan; (5) the real estate attributes of the building and its
location; (6) the capital committed to the property by the
obligor/partner; and (7) the operating fundamentals of the applicable industry.



We
monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of
property. Our asset management process for seniors housing properties generally
includes review of monthly financial statements and other operating data for
each property, review of obligor/partner creditworthiness, property
inspections, and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real
estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. Our internal property
management division manages and monitors the outpatient medical portfolio with
a comprehensive process including review of, among other things, tenant
relations, lease expirations, the mix of health service providers,
hospital/health system relationships, property performance, capital improvement
needs, and market conditions.



Investment Types



Real Property.Our properties
are primarily comprised of land, buildings, improvements and related rights. 
Our triple-net properties are generally leased to operators under long-term
operating leases.  The leases generally have a fixed contractual term of 12 to
15 years and contain one or more five to 15-year renewal options. Certain
of our leases also contain purchase options, a portion of which could result in
the disposition of properties for less than full market value.  Most of our
rents are received under triple-net leases requiring the operator to pay rent
and all additional charges incurred in the operation of the leased property.
The tenants are required to repair, rebuild and maintain the leased properties.
Substantially all of these operating leases are designed with escalating rent
structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized
on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability
assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators
is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the
period.



At
December 31, 2017, approximately 92% of our triple-net properties were subject
to master leases. A master lease is a lease of multiple properties to one
tenant entity under a single lease agreement. From time to time, we may acquire
additional properties that are then leased to the tenant under the master
lease. The tenant is required to make one monthly payment that represents rent
on all the properties that are subject to the master lease. Typically, the
master lease tenant can exercise its right to purchase the properties or to
renew the master lease only with respect to all leased properties at the same
time. This bundling feature benefits us because the tenant cannot limit the
purchase or renewal to the better performing properties and terminate the
leasing arrangement with respect to the poorer performing properties. This
spreads our risk among the entire group of properties within the master lease.
The bundling feature should provide a similar advantage to us if the master
lease tenant is in bankruptcy. Subject to certain restrictions, a debtor in
bankruptcy has the right to assume or reject its unexpired leases and executory
contracts.  In the context of integrated master leases such as ours, our
tenants in bankruptcy would be required to assume or reject the master lease as
a whole, rather than deciding on a property by property basis.



Our
outpatient medical portfolio is primarily self-managed and consists principally
of multi-tenant properties leased to health care providers. Our leases
typically include increasers and some form of operating expense reimbursement
by the tenant. As of December 31, 2017, 80% of our portfolio included leases
with full pass through, 19% with a partial expense reimbursement (modified
gross) and 1% with no expense reimbursement (gross). Our outpatient medical
leases are non-cancellable operating leases that have a weighted-average
remaining term of seven years at December 31, 2017 and are often credit
enhanced by security deposits, guaranties and/or letters of credit.



Construction.



Real
Estate Loans.Our real estate loans are typically structured to
provide us with interest income, principal amortization and transaction fees
and are generally secured by first/second mortgage liens, leasehold mortgages,
corporate guaranties and/or personal guaranties. At December 31, 2017, we had gross
outstanding real estate loans of $495,871,000.  The interest yield averaged approximately
9.2% per annum on our outstanding real estate loan balances. Our yield on real
estate loans depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest
rate, average principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan and any
interest rate adjustments. The real estate loans outstanding at December 31,
2017 are generally subject to one to 15-year terms with principal amortization
schedules and/or balloon payments of the outstanding principal balances at the
end of the term. Typically, real estate loans are cross-defaulted and
cross-collateralized with other real estate loans, operating leases or
agreements between us and the obligor and its affiliates. See Note 6 to our
consolidated financial statements for additional information.










Investments in
Unconsolidated Entities. Investments in entities that we do not consolidate
but have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and
financial policies are reported under the equity method of accounting.  Our
investments in unconsolidated entities generally represent interests ranging
from 10% to 50% in real estate assets.  Under the equity method of accounting,
our share of the investee’s earnings or losses is included in our consolidated
results of operations. To the extent that our cost basis is different from the
basis reflected at the entity level, the basis difference is generally
amortized over the lives of the related assets and liabilities, and such
amortization is included in our share of equity in earnings of the entity.  The
initial carrying value of investments in unconsolidated entities is based on
the amount paid to purchase the entity interest or the estimated fair value of
the assets prior to the sale of interests in the entity. We evaluate our equity
method investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the estimated fair
value of the equity method investment to its carrying value. When we determine
a decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment below its carrying
value is other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded.  See Note 7 to our
consolidated financial statements for more information.



Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements
are in conformity with U.S general accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”)
and include the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint venture
entities that we control, through voting rights or other means. All material
intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.

At inception of joint venture
transactions, we identify entities for which control is achieved through means
other than voting rights (“variable interest entities” or “VIEs”) and determine
which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of its operations. A VIE
is broadly defined as an entity where either (i) the equity investors as a
group, if any, do not have a controlling financial interest, or (ii) the
equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities
without additional subordinated financial support. We consolidate investments
in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary.  Accounting
Standards Codification Topic 810, Consolidations, requires enterprises to
perform a qualitative approach to determining whether or not a VIE will need to
be consolidated. This evaluation is based on an enterprise’s ability to direct
and influence the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact that
entity’s economic performance.

For investments in joint ventures, U.S.
GAAP may preclude consolidation by the sole general partner in certain
circumstances based on the type of rights held by the limited partner(s).  We
assess the limited partners’ rights and their impact on our consolidation
conclusions, and we reassess if there is a change to the terms or in the
exercisability of the rights of the limited partners, the sole general partner
increases or decreases its ownership of limited partnership interests, or there
is an increase or decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership
interests. We similarly evaluate the rights of managing members of limited
liability companies.





Borrowing Policies



We
utilize a combination of debt and equity to fund investments. Our debt and
equity levels are determined by management to maintain a conservative balance
sheet and credit profile. Generally, we intend to issue unsecured, fixed-rate
public debt with long-term maturities to approximate the maturities on our
triple-net leases and investment strategy. For short-term purposes, we may
borrow on our primary unsecured credit facility. We replace these borrowings
with long-term capital such as senior unsecured notes or common stock. When
terms are deemed favorable, we may invest in properties subject to existing
mortgage indebtedness. In addition, we may obtain secured financing for
unleveraged properties in which we have invested or may refinance properties
acquired on a leveraged basis. In certain agreements with our lenders, we are
subject to restrictions with respect to secured and unsecured indebtedness.



Competition



We
compete with other real estate investment trusts, real estate partnerships,
private equity and hedge fund investors, banks, insurance companies,
finance/investment companies, government-sponsored agencies, taxable and
tax-exempt bond funds, health care operators, developers and other investors in
the acquisition, development, leasing and financing of health care and seniors
housing properties. We compete for investments based on a number of factors
including relationships, certainty of execution, investment structures and
underwriting criteria. Our ability to successfully compete is impacted by
economic and demographic trends, availability of acceptable investment
opportunities, our ability to negotiate beneficial investment terms,
availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, and
applicable laws and regulations.



The
operators/tenants of our properties compete with properties that provide
comparable services in the local markets. Operators/tenants compete for
patients and residents based on a number of factors including quality of care,
reputation, physical appearance of properties, location, services offered,
family preferences, physicians, staff, and price. We also face competition from
other health care facilities for tenants, such as physicians and other health
care providers that provide comparable facilities and services.



For
additional information on the risks associated with our business, please see
“Item 1A — Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



EmployeesAs of January 31, 2018, we had 392 employees.










Credit ConcentrationsPlease see Note 8 to our
consolidated financial statements.



Geographic ConcentrationsPlease see “Item 2 –
Properties” below and Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements.



Health Care Industry





Health
care real estate investment opportunities tend to increase as demand for health
care services increases.  We recognize the need for health care real estate as
it correlates to health care service demand.  Health care providers require
real estate to house their businesses and expand their services.  We believe
that investment opportunities in health care real estate will continue to be
present due to:

·The specialized nature of the industry, which enhances the
credibility and experience of the Company;

·The projected population growth combined with stable or increasing
health care utilization rates, which ensures demand; and

·The on-going merger and acquisition activity.



Certain
Government Regulations



United
States



Health Law Matters — Generally



Typically, operators of seniors housing facilities do not receive significant
funding from government programs and are largely subject to state laws, as
opposed to federal laws.  Operators of long-term/post-acute care facilities and
hospitals do receive significant funding from government programs, and these
facilities are subject to extensive regulation, including federal and state
laws covering the type and quality of medical and/or nursing care provided,
ancillary services (

e.g



Licensing and Certification



The primary regulations that affect long-term and post-acute care facilities
are state licensing and registration laws.  For example, certain health care
facilities are subject to a variety of licensure and certificate of need
(“CON”) laws and regulations.  Where applicable, CON laws generally require,
among other requirements, that a facility demonstrate the need for (1)
constructing a new facility, (2) adding beds or expanding an existing facility,
(3) investing in major capital equipment or adding new services, (4) changing
the ownership or control of an existing licensed facility, or (5) terminating
services that have been previously approved through the CON process.  Certain
state CON laws and regulations may restrict the ability of operators to add new
properties or








expand an existing facility’s size or
services. In addition, CON laws may constrain the ability of an operator to
transfer responsibility for operating a particular facility to a new operator.



With respect to licensure, generally our long-term/post-acute care facilities
are required to be licensed and certified for participation in Medicare,
Medicaid, and other federal and state health care programs.  The failure of our
operators to maintain or renew any required license or regulatory approval as
well as the failure of our operators to correct serious deficiencies identified
in a compliance survey could require those operators to discontinue operations
at a property.  In addition, if a property is found to be out of compliance with
Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal or state health care program conditions of
participation, the property operator may be excluded from participating in
those government health care programs.



Reimbursement



The reimbursement methodologies applied to health care facilities continue to
evolve.  Federal and state authorities have considered and may seek to
implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies, including value-based
reimbursement methodologies that may negatively impact health care property
operations.  The impact of any such changes, if implemented, may result in a
material adverse effect on our portfolio.  No assurance can be given that
current revenue sources or levels will be maintained.  Accordingly, there can
be no assurance that payments under a government health care program are
currently, or will be in the future, sufficient to fully reimburse the property
operators for their operating and capital expenses.

·Seniors Housing Facilities.Approximately 60% of our overall revenues
for the year ended December 31, 2017 were attributable to U.S. seniors housing
facilities.  The majority of the revenues received by the operators of these
facilities are from private pay sources. The remaining revenue source is
primarily Medicaid provided under state waiver programs for home and community
based care.  As of September 30, 2017, 14 of our 43 seniors housing operators
received Medicaid reimbursement pursuant to Medicaid waiver programs. For the
twelve months ended September 30, 2017, approximately 1.2% of the revenues at
our seniors housing facilities were from Medicaid reimbursement.  There can be
no guarantee that a state Medicaid program operating pursuant to a waiver will
be able to maintain its waiver status.  Rates paid by self-pay residents are
set by the facilities and are determined by local market conditions and
operating costs.  Generally, facilities receive a higher payment per day for a
private pay resident than for a Medicaid beneficiary who requires a comparable level
of care.  The level of Medicaid reimbursement varies from state to state. 
Thus, the revenues generated by operators of our assisted living facilities may
be adversely affected by payor mix, acuity level, changes in Medicaid
eligibility, and reimbursement levels.  In addition, a state could lose its
Medicaid waiver and no longer be permitted to utilize Medicaid dollars to
reimburse for assisted living services.

·Long-Term/Post-Acute Care
Facilities.  Approximately 8% of our
overall revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 were attributable to U.S.
long-term/post-acute care facilities.  The majority of the revenues received by
the operators of these facilities are from the Medicare and Medicaid programs,
with the balance representing reimbursement payments from private payors. 
Consequently, changes in federal or state reimbursement policies may adversely
affect an operator’s ability to cover its expenses, including our rent or debt
service.  Long-term/post-acute care facilities are subject to periodic pre- and
post-payment reviews, and other audits by federal and state authorities.  A
review or audit of a property operator’s claims could result in recoupments,
denials, or delay of payments in the future.  Due to the significant judgments
and estimates inherent in payor settlement accounting, no assurance can be
given as to the adequacy of any reserves maintained by our property operators
to cover potential adjustments to reimbursements, or to cover settlements made
to payors. Recent focus on billing practices, payments, and quality of care, or
ongoing government pressure to reduce spending by government health care
programs, could result in lower payments to long-term/post-acute care
facilities and, as a result, may impair an operator’s ability to meet its
financial obligations to us.

☐Medicare Reimbursement.For the twelve months ended September 30, 2017,
approximately 35% of the revenues at our long-term/post-acute care facilities
were paid by Medicare. Generally, long-term/post-acute care facilities are
reimbursed under the Medicare Skilled Nursing Facility Prospective Payment
System (“SNF PPS”), the Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility Prospective Payment
System (“IRF PPS”), or the Long-Term Care Hospital Prospective Payment System
(“LTCH PPS”), which generally provide reimbursement based upon a predetermined
fixed amount per episode of care and are updated by CMS, an agency of the
Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) annually.  In August 2017, CMS
made some positive payment updates for fiscal year (“FY”) 2017 under the SNF
PPS, the IRF PPS and the LTCH PPS.  In particular, CMS published a final rule
regarding FY 2018 Medicare payment policies and rates for:

§SNF PPS.  Under the final SNF PPS rule,
CMS projects that payments to SNFs will increase in FY2018
on an aggregate basis by1.0% from payments in
FY2017.

§IRF PPS.  Under the IRF PPS rule,
CMS estimates that aggregate payments to IRFs will increase in FY2018 on an aggregate basis by0.9%
relative to payments in FY2017.

§LTCH PPS.  As a result of the
continuation of the phase-in of site neutral payment rates for specified cases
in LTCHs, CMS projects FY 2018 Medicare payments to LTCHs will decrease by2.4%.  Payment rates will increase by1.0% for cases that qualify for the higher standard
LTCHPPS rate.  CMS also finalized its proposal to
remove from FY 2018 payment rates the temporary 0.6% Medicare Part A hospital payment
increase to FY 2017 payment rates implemented in connection with a federal
district court’s review of the “Two Midnight” payment policy.

There is a risk under these payment systems that costs
will exceed the fixed payments, or that payments may be set below the costs to
provide certain items and services.  In addition, the HHS Office of Inspector
General has released recommendations to address SNF billing practices and
Medicare payment rates.  If followed, these recommendations regarding SNF
payment reform may impact our tenants and operators.








☐Medicaid Reimbursement.  For the twelve months ended September 30, 2017,
approximately 36% of the revenues of our long-term/post-acute care facilities
were paid by Medicaid.  Many states reimburse SNFs, for example, using fixed
daily rates, which are applied prospectively based on patient acuity and the
historical costs incurred in providing patient care.  In most states, Medicaid
does not fully reimburse the cost of providing services.  Certain states are
attempting to slow the rate of Medicaid growth by freezing rates or restricting
eligibility and benefits.  In addition, Medicaid reimbursement rates may
decline if state revenues in a particular state are not sufficient to fund
budgeted expenditures.

·Medicare Reimbursement for
Physicians, Hospital Outpatient Departments (“HOPDs”), and Ambulatory Surgical
Centers (“ASCs”).Changes in
reimbursement to physicians, HOPDs, and ASCs may further affect our tenants and
operators.  Generally, Medicare reimburses physicians under the Physician Fee
Schedule, while HOPDs and ASCs are reimbursed under prospective payment
systems.  The Physician Fee Schedule and the HOPD and ASC prospective payment
systems are updated annually by CMS.  These annual Medicare payment regulations
have resulted in lower net pay increases than providers of those services have
often expected.  In addition, the Medicare and Children’s Health Insurance Program
Reauthorization Act of 2015 (“MACRA”) includes payment reductions for providers
who do not meet government quality standards.  The implementation of
pay-for-quality models like those required under MACRA is expected to produce
funding disparities that could adversely impact some provider tenants in outpatient
medical buildings and other health care properties.Changes in Medicare Advantage plan payments may also indirectly
affect our operators and tenants that contract with Medicare Advantage plans.

·



Health Reform Laws.









Fraud & Abuse Enforcement





Prosecutions, investigations, or whistleblower actions could have a material
adverse effect on a property operator’s liquidity, financial condition, and
operations, which could adversely affect the ability of the operator to meet
its financial obligations to us.  In addition, government investigations and
enforcement actions brought against the health care industry have increased
dramatically over the past several years and are expected to continue. 
Although the responsibility for enforcing these laws and regulations lies with
a variety of federal, state and local governmental agencies, some may be
enforced by private litigants through federal and state false claims acts and
other laws, including some state privacy laws, that allow for private
individuals to bring actions.  The costs for an








operator
of a health care property associated with both defending such enforcement actions
and the undertakings in settling these actions can be substantial and could
have a material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its
obligations to us.



Federal and State Data Privacy and
Security Laws



The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), as
amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health
Act, and numerous other state and federal laws govern the collection, security,
dissemination, use, access to and confidentiality of individually identifiable
health information.  Violations of these laws may result in substantial civil
and/or criminal fines and penalties.  The costs for an operator of a health
care property associated with developing and maintaining HIPAA compliance
systems, defending enforcement actions and paying any assessed fines, can be
substantial and could have a material adverse effect on the ability of an
operator to meet its obligations to us.



United
Kingdom





Canada



Retirement homes and long-term care homes are subject to regulation, and
long-term care homes receive funding, under provincial law.  There is no
federal regulation in this area.  Set out below are summaries of the principal
regulatory requirements in the provinces where we have a material number of
facilities.



Licensing and Regulation



Alberta



In Alberta, there are three relevant designations for seniors’ living
arrangements, ordered below from the most independent to the highest level of
care.

·Retirement Homes(also called independent living) are designed for
older adults able to live on their own, and may offer various lifestyle
amenities.  These residences may be rented, privately owned, or life-leased,
and may be operated for profit or non-profit.  Support services are not usually
offered, but can be arranged by residents.  Retirement homes do not generally
receive government funding; residents pay for tenancy and services
received.  Rental subsidies may be available to qualified seniors.
Independent living residences are subject to provincial tenancy and housing
laws.

·



Supportive Living

·Nursing Homes(also called long-term care) are for residents who
have complex, unpredictable medical needs and who require 24-hour on-site
registered nurse assessment or treatment. Nursing homes are regulated by provincial
laws, and governed by the Ministry of Health.  Operators are not licensed, but
enter into agreements with the Ministry for the operation of nursing homes and
must comply with certain accommodation standards.  Homes can be operated by
private for-profit or








not-for-profit, or public
operators. Operators that receive public funds for health and personal care
services must also comply with certain health service standards and legislation
aimed at protecting residents.  Alberta Health regulates the maximum
accommodation fee in publicly-funded nursing homes.  Health services in
long-term care are publicly-funded, provided through Alberta Health Services. 
Private sector operators are eligible to apply for government funding, and the
Minister may make grants to an operator in respect of its operating or capital
costs.



Ontario





British Columbia



Provincial laws regulate and license “community care facilities” (long-term
care homes) in substantially the same manner as retirement homes are regulated
under Ontario laws. Community care facilities are defined as premises used for
the purpose of supervising vulnerable persons who require three or more prescribed
services (from a list that includes regular assistance with activities of daily
living; distribution of medication; management of cash resources; monitoring of
food intake; structured behavior management and intervention; and psychosocial
or physical rehabilitative therapy).



Provincial law also recognizes and regulates “assisted living residences,” for
seniors who can live independently, but require assistance with certain
activities. Services available can include meals, housekeeping, monitoring and
emergency support, social/recreational opportunities, and transportation. 
Assisted living residences do not require a license, but must be registered
with the registrar of assisted living residences and must be operated in a
manner that does not jeopardize the health or safety of residents. If the
registrar believes the standard is not being met, the registrar may inspect the
residence and may suspend or cancel a registration.  Independent living residences offer housing and
hospitality services for retired adults who are functionally independent and
able to direct their own care.



Québec



Provincial laws in Québec regulate retirement homes (private seniors’
residences) as well as long-term care homes (residential and long-term care
centers). Private seniors’ residences are required to obtain a certificate of
compliance based on prescribed operating standards.  A certificate of
compliance is issued for a period of four years and is renewable. The regional
health and social agency may revoke or refuse to issue or renew a certificate
of compliance if, among other things, the operator fails to comply with the
applicable law. The agency may also order corrective measures, further to an
inspection, complaint or investigation. The agency is authorized to inspect a
residence, at any reasonable time of day, in order to ascertain whether it
complies with the law.



Private seniors’ residences may belong to either or both of the following
categories: (i) those offering services to independent elderly persons and (ii)
those offering services to semi-independent elderly persons. The operator must,
for each category, comply with the applicable criteria and standards, with some
exceptions for residences with fewer than six or ten rooms or apartments. There
are requirements with respect to residents’ health and safety, meal services
and recreation, content of residents’ files, disclosure of information to
residents, and staffing, among other things.



In May 2017, Quebec adopted theAct to combat maltreatment of seniors and
other persons of full age in vulnerable situations, which aims to implement
a Quebec-wide framework agreement to combat maltreatment, targets all
facilities that provide health services and social services to seniors and
vulnerable persons, including health establishments and private residences.  We
expect that it will affect private seniors’ residences in the following ways:

·Health establishments are required
to adopt an “Anti-Maltreatment Policy”, providing notably for the measures put
in place to prevent maltreatment of persons in vulnerable situations;

·The policy adopted by health
establishments will notably have to include the required adaptation for the
implementation of the policy in private sector residences; and








·Operators of private seniors’
residences will be required to apply the policy adopted by the integrated
health and social services center in their territory, as well as ensure that
the policy is known by residents, their family members and their employees.



Other Related Laws



Privacy



The services provided in our facilities are subject to privacy legislation in
Canada, including, in certain provinces, privacy laws specifically related to
personal health information.  Although the obligations of custodians of personal
information in the various provinces differ, they all include the obligation to
protect the information.  The organizations with which we have management
agreements may be the custodian of personal information collected in connection
with the operation of our facilities.



Privacy laws in Canada are consent-based and require the implementation of a
privacy program involving policies, procedures and the designation of an
individual or team with primary responsibility for privacy law compliance.  Mandatory
breach notification to affected individuals is a requirement under some laws. 
Mandatory breach notification to the applicable regulator is a requirement in
some provinces.  Some laws require notification where personal information is
processed or stored outside of Canada.  One provincial law (in Quebec) provides
for fines where an organization fails to perform due diligence before
outsourcing activities involving personal information to a service provider
outside of the province.



The powers of privacy regulators and penalties for violations of privacy law
vary according to the applicable law or are left to the courts.  To date,
monetary penalties granted have been on the low side, although that is changing
with civil actions for breach of privacy and may change further as a result of
class action activity.  There are over 60 privacy class actions which have been
filed in Canada over recent years although none have yet been decided on their
merits.  Regulators have the authority to make public the identity of a
custodian that has been found to have committed a breach, so there is a
reputational risk associated with privacy law violations even where no monetary
damages are incurred. The notification of residents (mandatory under some
privacy laws) and other activities required to manage a privacy breach can give
rise to significant costs.



Other Legislation



Retirement homes may be
subject to residential tenancy laws, such that there can be restrictions on
rent increases and termination of tenancies, for instance.  Other provincial
and/or municipal laws applicable to fire safety, food services, zoning, occupational
health and safety, public health, and the provision of community health care
and funded long-term/post-acute care may also apply to retirement homes.



Taxation



U.S. Federal Income Tax
Considerations



General



We elected to be taxed as
a REIT commencing with our first taxable year. We intend to continue to operate
in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT, but there is no guarantee that we
will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for subsequent years. Qualification
and taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet a variety of complex
qualification tests imposed under federal income tax law with respect to
income, assets, distribution level and diversity of share ownership. There can
be no assurance that we will be owned and organized and will operate in a
manner so as to qualify or remain qualified.



Failure to Qualify as a
REIT



If we fail to qualify for
taxation as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income
tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Distributions to
stockholders in any year in which we fail to qualify as a REIT will not be deductible
nor will any particular amount of distributions be required to be made in any
year. All distributions to stockholders will be taxable as ordinary income to
the extent of current and accumulated earnings and profits allocable to these
distributions and, subject to certain limitations, will be eligible for the
dividends received deduction for corporate stockholders. Unless entitled to
relief under specific statutory provisions, we also will be disqualified from
taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which
qualification was lost. It is not possible to state whether in all
circumstances we would be entitled to statutory relief. Failure to qualify for
even one year could result in our need to incur indebtedness or liquidate
investments in order to pay potentially significant resulting tax liabilities.



The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
(“Tax Act”)










The Tax Act made significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws
applicable to businesses and their owners, including REITs and their
shareholders.  Congressional leaders have recognized that the process of
adopting extensive tax legislation in a short amount of time without hearings
and substantial time for review may have led to drafting errors, issues needing
clarification and unintended consequences that may need to be addressed
subsequent tax legislation.  It is unknown when Congress may address these
issues or when the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) may issue guidance
regarding the interpretation and implementation of the Tax Act.  We cannot
predict what impact future legislation and guidance will have on us or our
shareholders.



Internet Access to Our SEC Filings



Our
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as our proxy
statements and other materials that are filed with, or furnished to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are made available, free of charge,
on the Internet at www.welltower.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after
they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We routinely post important
information on our website atwww.welltower.comin
the “Investors” section, including corporate and investor presentations and
financial information.  We intend to use our website as a means of
disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our
disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included
on our website under the heading “Investors.”  Accordingly, investors
should monitor such portion of our website in addition to following our press
releases, public conference calls, and filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The information on our website is not incorporated by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included
as an inactive textual reference only.



Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements



This Annual Report on Form
10-K and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements that
constitute “forward-looking statements,” within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as “may,”
“will,” “intend,” “should,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,”
“estimate” or similar expressions that do not relate solely to historical
matters, we are making forward-looking statements. In particular, these
forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those relating to
our opportunities to acquire, develop or sell properties; our ability to close
our anticipated acquisitions, investments or dispositions on currently anticipated
terms, or within currently anticipated timeframes; the expected performance of
our operators/tenants and properties; our expected occupancy rates; our ability
to declare and to make distributions to stockholders; our investment and
financing opportunities and plans; our continued qualification as a REIT; and
our ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds.



Forward-looking statements are
not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that
may cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations
discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various
factors, including, but not limited to:

•the status of the economy;

•the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of
capital;

•issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and
changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government
investigations and punitive settlements and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in
cost-effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other
insurance;

•changes in financing terms;

•competition within the health care and seniors housing industries;

•negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of
operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and
repay loans;

•our ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results;

•the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when
anticipated;

•natural disasters and other acts of God affecting our properties;

•our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur;

•our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets
sold;

•operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies;

•the cooperation of joint venture partners;

•government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement
rates and operational requirements;

•liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants;

•unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future
investments or acquisitions;

•environmental laws affecting our properties;

•changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting;

•the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates;

•our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT;

•key management personnel recruitment and retention; and

•the risks described under “Item 1A — Risk Factors.”










We
undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking
statements, whether because of new information, future events, or otherwise.



