Item 1.Business



General



Health
Care REIT, Inc. is a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) that has been at the
forefront of seniors housing and health care real estate since the company was
founded in 1970.  We are an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio. Our
portfolio spans the full spectrum of seniors housing and health care real
estate, including seniors housing communities, skilled nursing/post-acute
facilities, medical office buildings, inpatient and outpatient medical centers
and life science facilities. Our capital programs, when combined with
comprehensive planning, development and property management services, make us a
single-source solution for acquiring, planning, developing, managing,
repositioning and monetizing real estate assets.  More information is available
on the Internet at www.hcreit.com.



Our
primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder
value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create opportunities
to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual increases
in net operating income and portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we
invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and health care real estate
and diversify our investment portfolio by property type, customer and
geographic location.



Depending
upon the availability and cost of external capital, we believe our liquidity is
sufficient to fund operations, meet debt service obligations (both principal
and interest), make dividend distributions and complete construction projects
in process. We also continuously evaluate opportunities to finance future
investments. New investments are generally funded from temporary borrowings
under our primary unsecured line of credit arrangement, internally generated
cash and the proceeds from investment dispositions. Our investments generate
cash from net operating income and principal payments on loans receivable.
Permanent financing for future investments, which replaces funds drawn under our
primary unsecured line of credit arrangement, has historically been provided
through a combination of the issuance of public debt and equity securities and
the incurrence or assumption of secured debt.



References
herein to “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” refer to Health Care REIT, Inc.
and its subsidiaries unless specifically noted otherwise.



Portfolio of Properties



Please
see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operation – Executive Summary – Company Overview” for a table that summarizes
our portfolio as of December 31, 2013.



Property Types



We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate and
evaluate our business on three reportable segments: seniors housing triple-net,
seniors housing operating, and medical facilities.For
additional information regarding our segments, please see Note 17 to our
consolidated financial statements.The accounting
policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant
accounting policies in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.The
following is a summary of our various property types.



Seniors
Housing Triple-Net



Our
seniors housing triple-net properties include independent living facilities, continuing
care retirement communities, assisted living facilities, care homes with and
without nursing, Alzheimer’s/dementia facilities, skilled nursing/post-acute
facilities and combinations thereof. We invest primarily through acquisitions,
development and joint venture partnerships. Our properties are primarily leased
to operators under long-term, triple-net master leases. We are not involved in
property management.  Our properties include stand-alone facilities that
provide one level of service, combination facilities that provide multiple
levels of service, and communities or campuses that provide a wide range of
services.



Independent
Living Facilities.Independent living facilities are age-restricted,
multifamily properties with central dining facilities that provide residents
access to meals and other services such as housekeeping, linen service,
transportation and social and recreational activities.



Continuing
Care Retirement Communities.Continuing care
retirement communities typically include a combination of detached homes, an
independent living facility, an assisted living facility and/or a skilled
nursing facility on one campus. These communities










appeal
to residents because there is no need to relocate when health and medical needs
change. Resident payment plans vary, but can include entrance fees, condominium
fees and rental fees. Many of these communities also charge monthly maintenance
fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services.



Assisted
Living Facilities.  Assisted living facilities are state regulated rental
properties that provide the same services as independent living facilities, but
also provide supportive care from trained employees to residents who require
assistance with activities of daily living, including, but not limited to, management
of medications, bathing, dressing, toileting, ambulating and eating.



Care
Homes (United Kingdom).  Care homes, regulated by the Care
Quality Commission, are rental properties that provide essentially the same
services as U.S. assisted living facilities.



Alzheimer’s/Dementia
Care Facilities.Certain assisted living facilities may include state-licensed
settings that specialize in caring for those afflicted with Alzheimer’s disease
and/or other types of dementia.



Skilled
Nursing/Post-Acute Facilities.  Skilled nursing/post-acute
facilities are licensed daily rate or rental properties where the majority of
individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally, these
properties are licensed for Medicaid and/or Medicare reimbursement.  All
facilities offer some level of rehabilitation services.  Some facilities focus
on higher acuity patients and offer rehabilitation units specializing in
cardiac, orthopedic, dialysis, neurological or pulmonary rehabilitation.



Care
Homes with Nursing (United Kingdom).  Care homes with nursing
facilities are licensed daily rate or rental properties where the majority of
individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally, these
properties are licensed for various federal and local reimbursement programs. 
Unlike the U.S., care homes with nursing in the U.K. generally do not provide
post-acute care.



Our seniors housing
triple-net segment accounted for 28%, 41% and 46% of total revenues (including
discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011,
respectively.  We lease 177 facilities to Genesis HealthCare, LLC, an operator
of skilled nursing/post-acute facilities, pursuant to a long-term, triple-net
master lease.  In addition to rent, the master lease requires Genesis to pay
all operating costs, utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, building repairs,
maintenance costs and all obligations under the ground leases.  All obligations
under the master lease have been guaranteed by FC-GEN Operations Investment,
LLC.  For the year ended December 31, 2013, our lease with Genesis accounted
for approximately 34% of our seniors housing triple-net segment revenues and
10% of our total revenues.



Seniors
Housing Operating



In
addition to the facility types described in “Item 1 – Business – Property Types
– Seniors Housing Triple-Net,” our seniors housing operating properties include
facilities classified in Canada as independent supportive living facilities.



Independent
Supportive Living Facilities (Canada).Independent
supportive living facilities are age-restricted, multifamily properties with
central dining facilities that provide residents access to meals and other
services such as housekeeping, linen service, transportation and social and
recreational activities.



Properties
are primarily held in consolidated joint venture entities with operating
partners. We utilize the structure proposed in the REIT Investment
Diversification Act of 2007, which is commonly referred to as a “RIDEA”
structure (the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code authorizing the RIDEA
structure were enacted as part of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008). 
See Note 18 for more information.



Our seniors housing
operating segment accounted for 56%, 37% and 32% of total revenues (including
discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011,
respectively.  We have relationships with nine operators to own and operate 279
facilities (plus 44 unconsolidated facilities).  In each instance, our partner
provides management services to the properties pursuant to an incentive-based
management contract.  We rely on our partners to effectively and efficiently
manage these properties.  For the year ended December 31, 2013, our
relationship with Sunrise Senior Living accounted for approximately 40% of our
seniors housing operating segment revenues and 23% of our total revenues.



Medical
Facilities



Our
medical facilities include medical office buildings, hospitals and life science
facilities.  We typically lease our medical office buildings to multiple
tenants and provide varying levels of property management. Our hospital
investments are typically structured similar to our seniors housing triple-net
investments.  Our life science investment represents an investment in an
unconsolidated joint venture entity (see Note 7 to our consolidated financial
statements).  Our medical facilities segment accounted for 16%, 22% and 22%










of total revenues (including discontinued operations) for
the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  No single tenant
exceeds 20% of segment revenues.



Medical
Office Buildings.  The medical office building portfolio consists of health care
related buildings that generally include physician offices, ambulatory surgery
centers, diagnostic facilities, outpatient services and/or labs. Our portfolio
has a strong affiliation with health systems. Approximately 93% of our medical
office building portfolio is affiliated with health systems (with buildings on
hospital campuses or serving as satellite locations for the health system and
their physicians).



Hospitals. 
Our hospitals generally include acute care hospitals, inpatient rehabilitation
hospitals, and long-term acute care hospitals. Acute care hospitals provide a
wide range of inpatient and outpatient services, including, but not limited to,
surgery, rehabilitation, therapy and clinical laboratories. Inpatient
rehabilitation hospitals provide inpatient services for patients with intensive
rehabilitation needs. Long-term acute care hospitals provide inpatient services
for patients with complex medical conditions that require more intensive care,
monitoring or emergency support than is available in most skilled nursing
facilities.



Life
Science Facilities.  The life science portfolio consists of laboratory and office
facilities specifically designed and constructed for use by biotechnology and
pharmaceutical companies.  These facilities are located adjacent to The
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which is a well-established market known
for pharmaceutical and biotechnology research. They are similar to commercial
office buildings with advanced HVAC (heating, ventilation and air conditioning),
electrical and mechanical systems.



Investments



Depending
upon market conditions, we believe that new investments will be available in
the future with spreads over our cost of capital that will generate appropriate
returns to our stockholders.  We invest in seniors housing and health care real
estate primarily through acquisitions, developments and joint venture
partnerships. For additional information regarding acquisition and development
activity, please see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements.  We
diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and
geographic location. In determining whether to invest in a property, we focus
on the following: (1) the experience of the obligor’s/partner’s management
team; (2) the historical and projected financial and operational
performance of the property; (3) the credit of the obligor/partner;
(4) the security for any lease or loan; (5) the real estate attributes of
the building and its location; (6) the capital committed to the property
by the obligor/partner; and (7) the operating fundamentals of the applicable
industry. We conduct market research and analysis for all potential
investments. In addition, we review the value of all properties, the interest
rates and covenant requirements of any facility-level debt to be assumed at the
time of the acquisition and the anticipated sources of repayment of any
existing debt that is not to be assumed at the time of the acquisition.



We
monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of
property. Our proactive and comprehensive asset management process for seniors
housing properties generally includes review of monthly financial statements
and other operating data for each property, review of obligor/partner
creditworthiness, property inspections, and review of covenant compliance
relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and other
collateral. Our internal property management division actively manages and
monitors the medical office building portfolio with a comprehensive process
including review of, among other things, tenant relations, lease expirations,
the mix of health service providers, hospital/health system relationships,
property performance, capital improvement needs, and market conditions. In
monitoring our portfolio, our personnel use a proprietary database to collect
and analyze property-specific data. Additionally, we conduct extensive research
to ascertain industry trends.



We
evaluate the operating environment in each property’s market to determine the
likely trend in operating performance of the facility.  When we identify
unacceptable trends, we seek to mitigate, eliminate or transfer the risk.
Through these efforts, we are generally able to intervene at an early stage to
address any negative trends, and in so doing, support both the collectability
of revenue and the value of our investment.



Investment Types



Real Property.Our
properties are primarily comprised of land, buildings, improvements and related
rights.  Our hospitals and seniors housing triple-net properties are generally
leased to operators under long-term operating leases.  The leases generally
have a fixed contractual term of 12 to 15 years and contain one or more
five to 15-year renewal options. Certain of our leases also contain purchase
options, a portion of which could result in the disposition of properties for
less than full market value.  Most of our rents are received under triple-net
leases requiring the operator to pay rent and all additional charges incurred
in the operation of the leased property. The tenants are required to repair,
rebuild and maintain the leased properties. Substantially all of these
operating leases are designed with escalating rent structures. Leases with
fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line
basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment.
Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally
recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period.












At December 31, 2013, approximately 92% of our hospitals and
seniors housing triple-net properties were subject to master leases. A master
lease is a lease of multiple properties to one tenant entity under a single
lease agreement. From time to time, we may acquire additional properties that
are then leased to the tenant under the master lease. The tenant is required to
make one monthly payment that represents rent on all the properties that are
subject to the master lease. Typically, the master lease tenant can exercise
its right to purchase the properties or to renew the master lease only with
respect to all leased properties at the same time. This bundling feature
benefits us because the tenant cannot limit the purchase or renewal to the
better performing properties and terminate the leasing arrangement with respect
to the poorer performing properties. This spreads our risk among the entire
group of properties within the master lease. The bundling feature should
provide a similar advantage to us if the master lease tenant is in bankruptcy.
Subject to certain restrictions, a debtor in bankruptcy has the right to assume
or reject each of its leases. It is our intent that a tenant in bankruptcy
would be required to assume or reject the master lease as a whole, rather than
deciding on a property by property basis.



Our
medical office building portfolio is primarily self-managed and consists
principally of multi-tenant properties leased to health care providers. Our
leases typically include increasers and some form of operating expense
reimbursement by the tenant. As of December 31, 2013, 76% of our portfolio
included leases with full pass through, 20% with a partial expense
reimbursement (modified gross) and 4% with no expense reimbursement (gross).
Our medical office building leases are non-cancellable operating leases that
have a weighted-average remaining term of eight years at December 31, 2013 and
are often credit enhanced by security deposits, guaranties and/or letters of
credit.



Construction.We occasionally
provide for the construction of properties for tenants as part of long-term
operating leases. We capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds
used for the construction of properties owned by us. The amount capitalized is
based upon the amount advanced during the construction period using the rate of
interest that approximates our company-wide cost of financing. Our interest
expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. We also typically charge a
transaction fee at the commencement of construction which we defer and amortize
to income over the term of the resulting lease. The construction period
commences upon funding and terminates upon the earlier of the completion of the
applicable property or the end of a specified period. During the construction
period, we advance funds to the tenants in accordance with agreed upon terms
and conditions which require, among other things, periodic site visits by a
Company representative. During the construction period, we generally require an
additional credit enhancement in the form of payment and performance bonds
and/or completion guaranties. At December 31, 2013, we had outstanding
construction investments of $141,085,000 and were committed to provide
additional funds of approximately $243,083,000 to complete construction for
investment properties.



Real Estate Loans.Our
real estate loans are typically structured to provide us with interest income,
principal amortization and transaction fees and are generally secured by
first/second mortgage liens, leasehold mortgages, corporate guaranties and/or
personal guaranties. At December 31, 2013, we had outstanding real estate loans
of $332,146,000. The interest yield averaged approximately 8.4% per annum on
our outstanding real estate loan balances. Our yield on real estate loans
depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, average
principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate
adjustments. The real estate loans outstanding at December 31, 2013 are
generally subject to one to 15-year terms with principal amortization schedules
and/or balloon payments of the outstanding principal balances at the end of the
term. Typically, real estate loans are cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized
with other real estate loans, operating leases or agreements between us and the
obligor and its affiliates.





Investments in
Unconsolidated Entities



Principles of Consolidation



The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly-owned
subsidiaries and joint venture entities that we control, through voting rights
or other means. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been
eliminated in consolidation.












At inception of joint venture transactions, we identify entities
for which control is achieved through means other than voting rights (“variable
interest entities” or “VIEs”) and determine which business enterprise is the
primary beneficiary of its operations. A VIE is broadly defined as an entity
where either (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a
controlling financial interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is
insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without additional
subordinated financial support. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined
to be the primary beneficiary.  Accounting Standards Codification Topic 810,Consolidations,requires enterprises to perform a qualitative approach to determining
whether or not a VIE will need to be consolidated on a continuous basis. This
evaluation is based on an enterprise’s ability to direct and influence the
activities of a VIE that most significantly impact that entity’s economic performance.



For
investments in joint ventures, we evaluate the type of rights held by the
limited partner(s), which may preclude consolidation in circumstances in which
the sole general partner would otherwise consolidate the limited partnership.
The assessment of limited partners’ rights and their impact on the presumption
of control over a limited partnership by the sole general partner should be
made when an investor becomes the sole general partner and should be reassessed
if (i) there is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the
rights of the limited partners, (ii) the sole generalpartner increases or decreases its ownership in the limited partnership interests, or
(iii) there is an increase or decrease in the number of outstanding
limited partnership interests. We similarly evaluate the rights of managing
members of limited liability companies.



Borrowing Policies



We
utilize a combination of debt and equity to fund investments. Our debt and
equity levels are determined by management to maintain a conservative credit
profile. Generally, we intend to issue unsecured, fixed-rate public debt with
long-term maturities to approximate the maturities on our triple-net leases and
loans. For short-term purposes, we may borrow on our primary unsecured line of
credit arrangement. We replace these borrowings with long-term capital such as
senior unsecured notes, common stock or preferred stock. When terms are deemed
favorable, we may invest in properties subject to existing mortgage
indebtedness. In addition, we may obtain secured financing for unleveraged
properties in which we have invested or may refinance properties acquired on a
leveraged basis. In certain agreements with our lenders, we are subject to
restrictions with respect to secured and unsecured indebtedness.



Competition



We
compete with other real estate investment trusts, real estate partnerships,
private equity and hedge fund investors, banks, insurance companies,
finance/investment companies, government-sponsored agencies, taxable and
tax-exempt bond funds, health care operators, developers and other investors in
the acquisition, development, leasing and financing of health care and seniors
housing properties. We compete for investments based on a number of factors
including investment structures, underwriting criteria and reputation. Our
ability to successfully compete is impacted by economic and demographic trends,
availability of acceptable investment opportunities, our ability to negotiate
beneficial investment terms, availability and cost of capital, construction and
renovation costs and new and existing laws and regulations.



The
operators/tenants of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with
operators/tenants of properties that provide comparable services.
Operators/tenants compete for patients and residents based on a number of
factors including quality of care, reputation, physical appearance of
properties, location, services offered, family preferences, physicians, staff
and price. We also face competition from other health care facilities for
tenants, such as physicians and other health care providers that provide
comparable facilities and services.



For
additional information on the risks associated with our business, please see
“Item 1A — Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



EmployeesAs of January 31, 2014, we had 404 employees.



Credit ConcentrationsPlease see Note 8 to our
consolidated financial statements.



Geographic ConcentrationsPlease see “Item 2 –
Properties” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 17 to our
consolidated financial statements.



Certain Government
Regulations



United States



Health
Law Matters — Generally












Typically, operators of seniors housing
facilities do not receive significant funding from government programs and are
largely subject to state laws, as opposed to federal laws. Operators of skilled
nursing facilities and hospitals do receive significant funding from government
programs, and these facilities are subject to the federal and state laws that
regulate the type and quality of the medical and/or nursing care provided,
ancillary services (

e.g.,

respiratory, occupational, physical and
infusion therapies), qualifications of the administrative personnel and nursing
staff, the adequacy of the physical plant and equipment, reimbursement and rate
setting and operating policies.  In addition, as described below, operators of
these facilities are subject to extensive laws and regulations pertaining to
health care fraud and abuse, including, but not limited to, the Federal
Anti-Kickback Statute, the Federal Stark Law, and the Federal False Claims Act,
as well as comparable state law counterparts.  Hospitals, physician group
practice clinics, and other health care providers that operate in our portfolio
are subject to extensive federal, state, and local licensure, registration,
certification, and inspection laws, regulations, and industry standards. Our tenants’
failure to comply with any of these, and other, laws could result in loss of
accreditation; denial of reimbursement; imposition of fines; suspension,
decertification, or exclusion from federal and state health care programs; loss
of license; or closure of the facility.



Licensing
and Certification



The primary regulations that affect seniors housing
facilities with assisted living are state licensing and registration laws. In
granting and renewing these licenses, the state regulatory agencies consider
numerous factors relating to a property’s physical plant and operations,
including, but not limited to, admission and discharge standards, staffing, and
training. A decision to grant or renew a license is also affected by a property
owner’s record with respect to patient and consumer rights, medication
guidelines, and rules.  Certain of the seniors housing facilities mortgaged to
or owned by us may require the resident to pay an entrance or upfront fee, a
portion of which may be refundable.  These entrance fee communities are subject
to significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of
each facility’s financial condition; establishment and monitoring of reserve
requirements, and other financial restrictions; the right of residents to
cancel their contracts within a specified period of time; lien rights in favor
of residents; restrictions on change of ownership; and similar matters.  Such
oversight, and the rights of residents within these entrance fee communities,
may have an effect on the revenue or operations of the operators of such
facilities, and, therefore, may adversely affect us.



Certain health care facilities are subject to a variety of licensure and
certificate of need (“CON”) laws and regulations.  Where applicable, CON laws
generally require, among other requirements, that a facility demonstrate the
need for (1) constructing a new facility, (2) adding beds or expanding an
existing facility, (3) investing in major capital equipment or adding new
services, (4) changing the ownership or control of an existing licensed
facility, or (5) terminating services that have been previously approved
through the CON process.  Certain state CON laws and regulations may restrict
the ability of operators to add new properties or expand an existing facility’s
size or services. In addition, CON laws may constrain the ability of an
operator to transfer responsibility for operating a particular facility to a
new operator.  If we have to replace a property operator who is excluded from participating
in a federal or state health care program (as discussed below), our ability to
replace the operator may be affected by a particular state’s CON laws,
regulations, and applicable guidance governing changes in provider control.



With respect to licensure, generally our skilled nursing facilities and acute
care facilities are required to be licensed and certified for participation in
Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal health care programs.  This generally
requires license renewals and compliance surveys on an annual or bi-annual
basis. The failure of our operators to maintain or renew any required license
or regulatory approval as well as the failure of our operators to correct
serious deficiencies identified in a compliance survey could require those
operators to discontinue operations at a property.  In addition, if a property
is found to be out of compliance with Medicare, Medicaid, or other health care
program conditions of participation, the property operator may be excluded from
participating in those government health care programs.  Any such occurrence
may impair an operator’s ability to meet their financial obligations to us.  If
we have to replace an excluded-property operator, our ability to replace the
operator may be affected by federal and state laws, regulations, and applicable
guidance governing changes in provider control. This may result in payment
delays, an inability to find a replacement operator, a significant working
capital commitment from us to a new operator or other difficulties.



Reimbursement



Seniors Housing Facilities (excluding skilled nursing facilities).Approximately 71% of our overall revenues
(including discontinued operations) for the year ended December 31, 2013 were
attributable to seniors housing facilities. The majority of the revenues
received by the operators of these facilities are from private pay sources. The
remaining revenue source is primarily Medicaid under certain waiver programs.
As a part of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (“OBRA”) of 1981, Congress
established a waiver program enabling some states to offer Medicaid
reimbursement to assisted living providers as an alternative to institutional
long-term care services. The provisions of OBRA and the subsequent OBRA Acts of
1987 and 1990 permit states to seek a waiver from typical Medicaid requirements
to develop cost-effective alternatives to long-term care, including Medicaid
payments for assisted living and home health. As of September 30, 2013, ten of
our forty seniors housing operators received Medicaid










reimbursement
pursuant to Medicaid waiver programs. For the twelve months ended
September 30, 2013, approximately 2% of the revenues at our seniors
housing facilities were from Medicaid reimbursement. There can be no guarantee
that a state Medicaid program operating pursuant to a waiver will be able to
maintain its waiver status.



Rates paid by self-pay residents are set by the facilities and are determined
by local market conditions and operating costs. Generally, facilities receive a
higher payment per day for a private pay resident than for a Medicaid
beneficiary who requires a comparable level of care. The level of Medicaid
reimbursement varies from state to state.  Thus, the revenues generated by
operators of our assisted living facilities may be adversely affected by payor
mix, acuity level, changes in Medicaid eligibility, and reimbursement levels. 
In addition, a state could lose its Medicaid waiver and no longer be permitted
to utilize Medicaid dollars to reimburse for assisted living services. Changes
in revenues could in turn have a material adverse effect on an operator’s
ability to meet its obligations to us.



Skilled Nursing Facilities and Hospitals.



Medicare Reimbursement and Skilled Nursing Facilities.For the twelve months ended
September 30, 2013, approximately 29% of the revenues at our skilled
nursing facilities (which comprised 12% of our overall revenues, including
discontinued operations, for the year ended December 31, 2013) were paid
by Medicare. Skilled nursing facilities are reimbursed under the Medicare
Skilled Nursing Facility Prospective Payment System (“SNF PPS”). There is a
risk that some skilled nursing facilities’ costs will exceed the fixed payments
under the SNF PPS, and there is also a risk that payments under the SNF PPS may
be set below the costs to provide certain items and services, which could
result in immediate financial difficulties for skilled nursing facilities, and
could cause operators to seek bankruptcy protection. Skilled nursing facilities
have faced these types of difficulties since the implementation of the SNF PPS.



The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”), an agency of the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), made a positive
payment update for skilled nursing facilities for fiscal year 2014.  On July
31, 2013, CMS issued a final rule for the SNF PPS that sets forth payment rate
changes for the 2014 fiscal year.  Under the final rule, SNFs will receive a
net payment increase of 1.3%, which is based on a 2.3% increase in the SNF
market basket, less a 0.5% forecast error adjustment, and less a 0.5%
multi-factor productivity adjustment.  CMS is implementing a forecast error
adjustment because the forecasted fiscal year 2012 market basket percentage
change exceeded the actual SNF market basket percentage change by 0.51%, a
figure that is in excess of the 0.5% threshold adopted by the agency for
determining when a forecast error adjustment will be applied.



In addition, on November 21, 2011, the Joint Select Committee on Deficit
Reduction, which was created by the Budget Control Act of 2011, concluded its
work, and issued a statement that it was not able to make a bipartisan
agreement, thus triggering the sequestration process.  On January 2, 2013,
President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012
(“Taxpayer Relief Act”), which delayed the sequestration process until March
2013.  The sequester went into effect March 1, 2013 and, effective April 1,
2013, provider payments under Medicare Parts A and B, Medicare Advantage, and
Medicare Part D were reduced up to 2% annually.  However, Medicaid spending and
most of the spending on subsidies are exempt from reduction.    On January 21,
2014, President Obama signed the fiscal year 2014 omnibus appropriations bill,
which lifted the sequester that went info effect on March 1,










2013.  The Taxpayer Relief Act also increased the
multiple procedure discount for Part B therapy services from 25% to 50%
effective April 2013, which will lower revenues for certain operators or
tenants.



Section 5008 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 directed the Secretary
of HHS to conduct a Post Acute Care Payment Reform Demonstration (“PAC-PRD”)
program, for a three year period, beginning January 1, 2008, to assess the
costs and outcomes of patients discharged from hospitals in a variety of
post-acute care settings, including skilled nursing facilities.  The
demonstration program’s results and recommendations were reported to Congress
in a January 2012 report.  The results and recommendations could lead to future
changes in Medicare coverage, reimbursement, and reporting requirements for
post-acute care.



The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 mandated caps on Medicare reimbursement for
certain therapy services. However, Congress imposed various waivers on the
implementation of those caps.  The Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act
of 2012 (“Job Creation Act”) made a number of changes, including, effective on
October 1, 2012, applying the therapy caps to outpatient hospitals, creating
two new threshold amounts of $3,700 (one for each therapy cap amount), and
requiring a manual medical review process of claims over these new thresholds. 
CMS announced on March 1, 2013 that, until the agency provides further
guidance, all therapy claims that are suspended for Manual Medical Review of
Therapy Services above the $3,700 threshold will be subject to prepayment
medical review.  The Taxpayer Relief Act extended the Job Creation Act
provisions related to payment for Medicare outpatient therapy services and
extended the historical therapy cap waiver and exceptions process, but only
through December 31, 2013.  Pursuant to the calendar year 2014 Medicare
Physician Fee Schedule, the therapy cap limitation also applies to services
provided at critical access hospitals.  These therapy caps may negatively
impact payments to skilled nursing facilities.



If the waiver program is not reinstituted, patients will need to use private
funds to pay for the cost of therapy above the caps.  If patients are unable to
satisfy their out-of-pocket cost responsibility to reimburse an operator for
services rendered, the operator’s ability to meet its financial obligations to
us could be adversely impacted.



Medicare Reimbursement and Hospitals.For
the twelve months ended September 30, 2013, approximately 57% of the
revenues at our hospitals (which comprised 3% of our overall revenues,
including discontinued operations, for the year ended December 31,
2013) were from Medicare reimbursements. Hospitals, generally, are reimbursed
by Medicare under the Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment System (“PPS”),
the Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System (“OPPS”), the Long Term Care
Hospital Prospective Payment System (“LTCH PPS”), or the Inpatient
Rehabilitation Facility Prospective Payment System (“IRF PPS”). Acute care
hospitals provide a wide range of inpatient and outpatient services, including,
but not limited to, surgery, rehabilitation, therapy, and clinical laboratory
services. Long-term acute care hospitals provide inpatient services for
patients with medical conditions that are often complex and that require more
intensive care, monitoring or emergency support than that available in most
skilled nursing facilities. Inpatient rehabilitation facilities provide intensive
rehabilitation services in an inpatient setting for patients requiring at least
three hours of rehabilitation services a day.



With respect to Medicare’s PPS for regular hospitals,
reimbursement for inpatient services is made on the basis of a fixed,
prospective rate, based on the principal diagnosis of the patient.  Hospitals
may be at risk to the extent that their costs in treating a specific case
exceed the fixed payment amount. The diagnosis related group (“DRG”)
reimbursement system was updated in 2008 to expand the number of DRGs from 538
to 745 in order to better distinguish more severe conditions.   The subsequent
addition of new DRGs has now raised the total number of DRGs to 751.   In some
cases, a hospital might be able to qualify for an outlier payment if the
hospital’s losses exceed a threshold.



On August 2, 2013, CMS issued a final rule for the
Medicare Inpatient Prospective Payment System, which sets forth acute care and
long-term care hospital payment rate changes for the 2014 fiscal year, which
began on October 1, 2013.  Under the final rule, the Medicare rates for
inpatient services at acute care hospitals will increase by 0.7% and rates for
long-term care hospitals will increase by 0.4%, accounting for adjustments,
such as the multifactor productivity adjustment and the second year adjustment
for a three-year phase-in of a one-time 3.75% budget neutrality adjustment to
the long-term care hospital rate.  CMS finalized its proposal to let expire the
one-year extension of the existing moratorium on the 25% threshold policy, a
policy that imposes lower Medicare payments, in certain circumstances, on those
long-term care hospitals that admit more than 25% of their patients from a
single acute care hospital.  The expiration of the moratorium on the 25%
threshold policy will impact cost reporting periods which begin on or after
October 1, 2013.  Under the final rule, CMS also finalized a number of changes
to comply with the

Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (“PPACA”) and the Health Care and
Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which amends the PPACA (collectively, the
“Health Reform Laws”)

.  Beginning in
fiscal year 2014, hospitals that rank among the lowest-performing 25% with
regard to hospital-acquired conditions will see a 1% reduction in Medicare
payment rates.  CMS will also increase the maximum payment reduction under the
Hospital Readmissions Reduction program, which began on October 1, 2012, to 2%
of payment amounts in fiscal year 2014.  For fiscal year 2014, CMS is increasing
the applicable percentage reduction, the portion of Medicare payments available
to fund the Value-Based Purchasing Program’s value-based incentive payments, to
1.25%, as required by statute.  CMS clarified its regulations to reflect an
existing policy that the Inpatient Prospective Payment System comparable per
diem amount is capped at an amount












comparable to what
would have been a full payment under the Inpatient Prospective Payment System
and that cap applies to short stay cases in long-term care hospitals with
discharges occurring on or after December 29, 2012.



Notably, from 2007 through the end of 2012, there was
a statutory moratorium imposed by the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension
Act of 2007 (“MMSEA”) and subsequent amendments on new LTCH beds and
facilities, which reduced the opportunities for expansion.  Now that this
moratorium has been lifted, such facilities have the option to increase their
capacity and services.  It is unclear at this time what impact, if any, this
change will have on our operators and tenants and our business, generally.



On July 31, 2013, CMS issued a final rule for the
Medicare Inpatient Rehabilitation Facilities Prospective Payment System that
sets forth payment rate changes for the 2014 fiscal year.  Under the final rule
for fiscal year 2014, the Medicare rates for inpatient rehabilitation
facilities will increase by 1.8%, which includes a 2.6% market basket increase
factor, reduced by a 0.5% multi-factor productivity adjustment and an
additional 0.3% point reduction as required by the Health Reform Laws.



On December 10, 2013, CMS published the Medicare
Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment and Ambulatory Surgical Center Payment
System final rule for calendar year 2014, which sets payment rates for outpatient
care hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers.  CMS estimates that the rates
and policies in the final rule will increase payment rates for ambulatory
surgery centers by 1.2%.



Medicare Reimbursement and Physicians.CMS annually adjusts the Medicare
Physician Fee Schedule payment rates based on an update formula that includes
application of the Sustainable Growth Rate (“SGR”).  On November 27, 2013, CMS
issued the calendar year 2013 Physician Fee Schedule final rule, which called
for a negative 20.1% update under the statutory SGR formula.  With the
enactment of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 on December 26, 2013, the
reimbursement cut that was to occur was replaced with a 0.5% increase for
services provided through March 31, 2014.  Congress has overridden the required
reduction every year since 2003.  The final rule continues implementation of
quality and cost measures that will be used in establishing a new
value−based modifier that would adjust physician payments based on
whether they are providing higher quality and more efficient care. The Health
Reform Laws, as defined below, require CMS to begin making payment adjustments
to certain physicians and physician groups on January 1, 2015, and to apply the
modifier to all physicians by January 1, 2017. Calendar year 2013 is the
initial performance year for purposes of adjusting payments in calendar year
2015.



Medicaid Reimbursement.Medicaid is a major payor source for
residents in our skilled nursing facilities and hospitals. For the twelve months
ended September 30, 2013, approximately 48% of the revenues of our skilled
nursing facilities and 3% of the revenues of our hospitals were attributable to
Medicaid reimbursement payments. The federal and state governments share
responsibility for financing Medicaid. The federal matching rate, known as the
Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (“FMAP”), varies by state based on
relative per capita income, but is at least 50% in all states. On average,
Medicaid is the largest component of total state spending, representing
approximately 23.7% of total state expenditures in state fiscal year 2011. The
percentage of Medicaid dollars used for long-term care varies from state to
state, due in part to different ratios of elderly population and eligibility requirements.
Within certain federal guidelines, states have a fairly wide range of
discretion to determine eligibility and reimbursement methodology.  Many states
reimburse long-term care facilities using fixed daily rates, which are applied
prospectively based on patient acuity and the historical costs incurred in
providing patient care. Reasonable costs typically include allowances for
staffing, administrative and general expenses, property, and equipment (e.g.,
real estate taxes, depreciation and fair rental).



In most states, Medicaid does not fully reimburse the
cost of providing skilled nursing services. Certain states are attempting to
slow the rate of growth in Medicaid expenditures by freezing rates or
restricting eligibility and benefits. Our skilled nursing portfolio’s average
Medicaid rate will likely vary throughout the year as states continue to make
interim changes to their budgets and Medicaid funding. In addition, Medicaid
reimbursement rates may decline if revenues in a particular state are not
sufficient to fund budgeted expenditures.  President Obama’s proposed fiscal
year budget for 2013 included several proposals that would have lowered federal
spending for Medicaid, potentially impacting provider Medicaid reimbursement
rates.  The proposals included new limits on state provider taxes, phasing down
the existing Medicaid provider tax, and blending the Federal matching rate for
state Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program.  Although the
President’s proposed fiscal year budget for 2014 did not include these
proposals, it nevertheless called for an overall reduction in federal health
care spending by $401 billion over ten years, with savings stemming from
several cost-saving proposals including reduced Medicare payments for long-term
care hospitals, SNFs, and other post-acute care providers.



The Medicare Part D drug benefit became effective
January 1, 2006. Since that date, low-income Medicare beneficiaries
(eligible for both Medicare and full Medicaid benefits), including those nursing
home residents who are dually eligible for both programs, may enroll and
receive outpatient prescription drugs under Medicare, not Medicaid. Medicare
Part D has resulted in increased administrative responsibilities for
nursing home operators because enrollment in Medicare Part D is voluntary
and residents must










choose between multiple
prescription drug plans.  Operators may also experience increased expenses to
the extent that a particular drug prescribed to a patient is not listed on the
Medicare Part D drug plan formulary for the plan in which the patient is
enrolled.



The reimbursement methodologies applied to health care
facilities continue to evolve.  Federal and state authorities have considered
and may seek to implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies that may
negatively impact health care property operations.  The impact of any such
changes, if implemented, may result in a material adverse effect on our skilled
nursing and hospital property operations. No assurance can be given that current
revenue sources or levels will be maintained.  Accordingly, there can be no
assurance that payments under a government health care program are currently,
or will be in the future, sufficient to fully reimburse the property operators
for their operating and capital expenses.  As a result, an operator’s ability
to meet its financial obligations to us could be adversely impacted.



Finally,the Health Reform
Laws (further discussed below)may have a significant impact on
Medicare, Medicaid, other federal health care programs, and private insurers,
which impact the reimbursement amounts received by skilled nursing facilities
and other health care providers. The Health Reform Laws could have a
substantial and material adverse effect on all parties directly or indirectly
involved in the health care system.



Other
Related Laws





qui tam

actions, may be filed by almost anyone, including present and former patients,
nurses and other employees.  Such whistleblower actions have been brought
against nursing facilities on the basis of the alleged failure of the nursing
facility to meet applicable regulations relating to its operations. 
Significantly, if a claim is successfully adjudicated, the Federal False Claims
Act provides for treble damages up to $11,000 per claim.



Prosecutions, investigations, or whistleblower actions
could have a material adverse effect on a property operator’s liquidity,
financial condition, and operations, which could adversely affect the ability
of the operator to meet its financial obligations to us.  Finally, various
state false claim act and anti-kickback laws may also apply to each property
operator. Violation of any of the foregoing statutes can result in criminal
and/or civil penalties that could have a material adverse effect on the ability
of an operator to meet its financial obligations to us.



Other legislative developments, including the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), have greatly
expanded the definition of health care fraud and related offenses and broadened
its scope to include private health care plans in










addition
to government payors. Congress also has greatly increased funding for the
Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Office of the
Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services to audit,
investigate and prosecute suspected health care fraud.  Moreover, a significant
portion of the billions in health care fraud recoveries over the past several
years has also been returned to government agencies to further fund their fraud
investigation and prosecution efforts.





In November 2002, CMS began an ongoing national
Nursing Home Quality Initiative (“NHQI”). Under this initiative, historical
survey information, the NHQI Pilot Evaluation Report and the NHQI Overview is
made available to the public on-line. The NHQI website provides consumer and
provider information regarding the quality of care in nursing homes. The data allows
consumers, providers, states, and researchers to compare quality information
that shows how well nursing homes are caring for their residents’ physical and
clinical needs. The posted nursing home quality measures come from resident
assessment data that nursing homes routinely collect on the residents at
specified intervals during their stay. If the operators of nursing facilities
are unable to achieve quality of care ratings that are comparable or superior
to those of their competitors, they may lose market share to other facilities,
reducing their revenues and adversely impacting their ability to make rental
payments.



Finally, government investigations and enforcement
actions brought against the health care industry have increased dramatically
over the past several years and are expected to continue. Some of these
enforcement actions represent novel legal theories and expansions in the
application of the Federal False Claims Act. The costs for an operator of a
health care property associated with both defending such enforcement actions
and the undertakings in settling these actions can be substantial and could
have a material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its
obligations to us.



United
Kingdom



Registration



In England, care home services are
principally regulated by the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (the“Act”) and associated Regulations.The Act requires all persons carrying out “Regulated
Activities” in England, and the managers of such persons, to be registered.
Regulated Activities are defined in the Health and Social Care Act 2008
(Regulated Activities) Regulations 2010 and include (among other activities):

·The provision of personal care for
persons who, by reason of old age, illness or disability are unable to provide
it for themselves, and which is provided in a place where those persons are
living at the time the care is provided; and

·The provision of residential
accommodation, together with nursing or personal care.



Any person who carries on a regulated
activity without being registered in respect of that activity is guilty of an
offense under the Act. A person guilty of an offense is liable on summary
conviction, to a fine of up to £50,000, or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 12 months, or both, and on conviction on indictment, to a fine, or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, or to both.



Under the Care Quality Commission
(Registration) Regulations 2009, service providers and managers of Regulated
Activities must provide documentation demonstrating their ability to provide
the relevant service(s); in particular, registrants must be able to










demonstrate that they (or a nominated individual, if the
registered person is a company) possess good character, are physically and
mentally fit to carry on the regulated activity and have the necessary
qualifications, skills and experience to do so.



Service Standards and Notification
Obligations



The Health and Social Care Act 2008
(Regulated Activities) Regulations 2010 list the standards that must be met
when providing care services. The service providers’ legal obligations include:

·Ensuring service users are
protected against receiving care or treatment that is inappropriate or unsafe;

·Assessing and monitoring the
quality of service provision;

·Safeguarding service users from
abuse;

·Ensuring that service users and
others are protected against risks of a healthcare associated infection;

·Protecting service users against
risks in relation to the unsafe use of medicines;

·Meeting the nutritional needs of
service users;

·Ensuring that the premises are
safe and suitable;

·Ensuring that any equipment used
is safe, suitable and readily available when required;

·Respecting and involving service
users;

·Obtaining and acting in accordance
with the consent of service users to care and treatment;

·Having in place an effective
complaints system;

·Maintaining accurate records;

·Operating effective recruitment
procedures; and

·Having sufficient numbers of
suitably qualified, skilled and experienced employees and supporting workers
through training, professional development, supervision, appraisals and
qualifications.



Failure to comply with certain provisions
of the above Regulations is an offense, with a person guilty of the offense
liable on summary conviction to a fine of up to £50,000.  Monetary penalty
notices may also be issued.



Under the Care Quality Commission
(Registration) Regulations 2009 certain matters must be notified to the Care
Quality Commission (the “CQC”), the government regulatory body overseeing the
provision of nursing and other care services in England. Events that must be
notified include (among others):



·Where the service provider or
registered manager proposes to be absent for a continuous period of 28 days or
more;

·A change of the registered person
or where the registered person is a company changes in the name or address of
the registered person, a change of director, secretary or other similar
officer, or a change of the nominated individual;

·The death of a service user;

·Incidents resulting in an injury
(provided certain conditions are met);

·Abuse and allegations of abuse in
relation to a service user; and

·Any event which prevents, or
appears to the service provider to be likely to threaten to prevent, the
service provider’s ability to continue to carry on the regulated activity
safely, or in accordance with the registration requirements.



Failure to comply with the
above notification obligations is an offense and a person guilty of an offense
is liable on summary conviction to a fine of up to £2,500.



Regulatory Oversight and Inspections



The Act also sets out the powers and
responsibilities of the CQC. Among other powers, the CQC administers the
compulsory registration system and issues guidance to care service providers on
how to comply with applicable standards set out in legislation.



The CQC is also empowered to carry out
inspections of care home premises to verify compliance with the standards set
out in legislation. The CQC’s current policy is to carry out routine
unannounced inspections at care homes at least once a year. Reports of all
inspections in England are published, as are details of enforcement actions
taken by the CQC, which can include issuing warning notices, restricting the
services that the provider can offer, stopping admissions into the care
service, issuing fixed penalty notices, suspending or cancelling the service
registration and prosecution.



Financial Assistance for Service
Users



Financial assistance for service users towards care home
fees is available from local authorities and is means-tested. The National
Health Service may also, in certain circumstances, contribute towards the costs
of nursing care.












Canada



Retirement homes and long-term care facilities are subject to regulation, and
long-term care facilities receive funding, under provincial law.  There is no
federal regulation in this area.  Set out below are summaries of the principal
regulatory requirements in the provinces where we have a material number of
facilities.



Licensing and Regulation



Ontario



Long-term care facilities, or nursing homes, receive government funding, are
licensed under the Long-Term Care Homes Act, 2007and are governed by
the Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care.  The LTC Homes Act places a strong
emphasis on the protection of residents.



Retirement homes in Ontario are regulated under the Retirement Homes Act, 2010
(the “Act”).  Retirement homes do not receive any government funding; residents
pay for tenancy and services received at retirement homes.  Residents may
access publicly-funded external care services at the home from funded external
suppliers.



A license is required to operate a retirement home.  Licenses must be applied
for and are non-transferable.  Applications for licenses are directed to the
Registrar of the Retirement Homes Regulatory Authority (RHRA).  All of the
homes in which we have an interest in Ontario are licensed as retirement homes.
One of the homes also has some licensed long-term care beds.



Licenses can have conditions imposed upon them or can be suspended in
circumstances where the operator is found to be in contravention of the Act. 
There is no set renewal period for licenses, and they terminate according to
the terms set out in the license itself, or if one of the enumerated triggering
mechanisms occurs (for example, if the operator ceases to have controlling
interest in the license).



The licensee of a retirement home must ensure that the care provided by the
home meets prescribed standards.  The Act and its regulations include a number
of detailed provisions with respect to care standards, safety plans in the
event of emergency or infectious disease, temperature control, cleanliness,
pest control, maintenance, food preparations, risk of resident falls and
behavioral management, among other things.  A care plan must be developed for
each resident of the home (with their consent). The Act establishes a Residents’
Bill of Rights, which provides residents with a list of rights, such as the
right to participate fully in decision-making with respect to care, the right
not to be restrained and the right to know what care services are provided and
their cost.  The Residents’ Bill of Rights can be enforced as a contract.



The Act requires a report to the RHRA when any person has reasonable grounds to
suspect abuse of a resident by anyone, or neglect of a resident by staff. 
Following a report to the RHRA, there is a mandatory inspection carried out by
the RHRA, which results in a report that is posted on the RHRA’s public
website. The most recent report must also be posted in the subject home, and be
readily available for review if requested thereafter.



The Registrar of the RHRA has the power to inspect a retirement home at any
time without warning or issue a warrant to ensure compliance with the Act. 
Compliance inspections occur at least every three years. The Registrar has the
power to make a variety of orders including, for example, the imposition of a
fine or an order revoking the operator’s license.  There is an appeal process
in place with respect to orders made by the Registrar.  The Act also enumerates
offenses, such as operating without a license, and provides for penalties for
offenses.



British Columbia



The Community Care and Assisted Living Act, the Residential Care Regulation,
and the Community Care and Assisted Living Regulation(together, the
“B.C. Act”) regulate “community care facilities” (long-term care facilities) in
substantially the same manner as retirement homes are regulated under the
Ontario Act. The B.C. Act defines such a facility as premises used for the
purpose of supervising vulnerable persons who require three or more prescribed
services.



The B.C. Act also creates a separate regime for regulating “assisted living
residences,” which are facilities providing at least one but not more than two
prescribed care services. Assisted living residences are designed for those who
can live independently, but who require assistance with certain activities.
Unlike community care facilities, assisted living residences must be registered
with the registrar of assisted living residences, but do not require a license.
Nevertheless, assisted living residences must be operated in a










manner that does not jeopardize the health or safety of
its residents. If the registrar has reason to believe a residence is not being
operated in accordance with this standard, the registrar may inspect the
assisted living residence and may suspend or cancel a registration.  Most of
the residences in which we have an interest in B.C. are assisted living
residences, with one being an independent living residence.



Independent living residences offer housing and hospitality services for
retired adults who are functionally independent and able to direct their own
care.   Services available for residents can include, for example, meals,
housekeeping, monitoring and emergency support, social and recreational
opportunities, and transportation.



Québec



In Québec, retirement homes are regulated by the Act respecting Health Services
and Social Services (the “Act”) and the Regulation respecting the conditions
for obtaining a certificate of compliance and the operating standards for a
private seniors' residence (the “Regulation”), which refer to “private seniors’
residences.” Private seniors’ residences in Québec are required to obtain a
certificate of compliance. The Regulation is currently in the process of being
amended.



A certificate of compliance is issued for a period of three years, is renewable
and can only be validly transferred to another person with the written
permission of the regional licensing agency. An agency may revoke a temporary
certificate, or revoke or refuse to issue or renew a certificate of compliance
if, among other things, the operator fails to comply with the Act and the
Regulation, although the decision of the applicable agency can be contested
before the Administrative Tribunal of Québec. The agency may also order the
residence to take corrective measures, further to an inspection, complaint
and/or investigation. The agency is authorized to inspect a residence, at any
reasonable time of day, in order to ascertain whether it complies with the Act
and the Regulation.



Private seniors’ residences may belong to either or both of the following two
categories: those offering services to independent elderly persons and those offering
services to semi-independent elderly persons. The operator of a residence must,
for each category, comply with the applicable criteria and standards, with some
exceptions provided for residences with fewer than six or ten rooms or
apartments. The Act and the Regulation set out a number of detailed provisions
with respect to residents’ health and safety (including mandatory call-for-help
systems, safety plans in the event of fire or infectious disease, health
assessments, permissible control measures, as well as administration and
distribution of medication), meal services and recreation, content of
residents’ files, disclosure of information to residents, and staffing
requirements, among other things.



Other Related Laws



Privacy



We are generally subject to privacy legislation in Canada, including, in
certain provinces, privacy laws specifically related to personal health
information.  Although the obligations of custodians of personal health
information in the various provinces differ to some extent, they all include
the obligation to protect the information. Privacy laws in Canada are
consent-based and require the implementation of a privacy program involving
policies, procedures and the designation of an individual or team with primary
responsibility for a custodian’s privacy law compliance.  Mandatory breach
notification is a requirement under some laws.  Some laws require notification
where personal health information/personal information is processed or stored
outside of Canada.  One provincial law (in Quebec) provides for fines where an
organization fails to perform required due diligence before outsourcing
activities involving personal information to a service provider outside of the
province.



Some privacy regulators in Canada have order-making authority and others are
ombudspersons who make recommendations that may only be enforced by a court.
Under a number of privacy laws, a finding by a regulator that a custodian has
breached the law creates a right to apply to a court for money damages.  In
some provinces there is a statutory civil cause of action for breach of
privacy. In other provinces, the courts have recognized a limited common law
cause of action for breach of privacy.



The powers of privacy regulators and penalties for violations of privacy law
vary according to the applicable law or are left to the courts.  Generally,
penalties are monetary in nature.  Private rights of action may also be
available and regulators have the authority to make public the identity of a
health information custodian that has been found to have committed a breach, so
that there is a reputational risk associated with privacy law violations even
where there are no monetary damages incurred. The notification of patients
(mandatory under some privacy laws) and other activities required to manage a
privacy breach can give rise to significant costs.



Other Legislation












Retirement homes may be subject to residential
tenancy laws, such that there can be restrictions on rent increases and
termination of tenancies, for instance.  Other provincial legislation
applicable to occupational health and safety, public health, and the provision
of community health care and funded long-term care/skilled nursing may also
apply to retirement homes.  In addition, municipal laws with respect to matters
such as fire safety, food services and zoning would also apply.





Taxation



Federal Income Tax Considerations



The following summary of the taxation of the Company
and the material federal tax consequences to the holders of our debt and equity
securities is for general information only and is not tax advice. This summary
does not address all aspects of taxation that may be relevant to certain types
of holders of stock or securities (including, but not limited to, insurance
companies, tax-exempt entities, financial institutions or broker-dealers,
persons holding shares of common stock as part of a hedging, integrated
conversion, or constructive sale transaction or a straddle, traders in
securities that use a mark-to-market method of accounting for their securities,
investors in pass-through entities and foreign corporations and persons who are
not citizens or residents of the United States).



This summary does not discuss all of the aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be relevant to you in light of your particular
investment or other circumstances. In addition, this summary does not discuss
any state or local income taxation or foreign income taxation or other tax
consequences. This summary is based on current U.S. federal income tax
law. Subsequent developments in U.S. federal income tax law, including
changes in law or differing interpretations, which may be applied
retroactively, could have a material effect on the U.S. federal income tax
consequences of purchasing, owning and disposing of our securities as set forth
in this summary. Before you purchase our securities, you should consult your
own tax advisor regarding the particular U.S. federal, state, local,
foreign and other tax consequences of acquiring, owning and selling our
securities.



General



We elected to be taxed as a real estate investment
trust (a “REIT”) commencing with our first taxable year. We intend to continue
to operate in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT, but there is no guarantee
that we will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for subsequent years.
Qualification and taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet a variety
of qualification tests imposed under federal income tax law with respect to
income, assets, distribution level and diversity of share ownership as
discussed below under “— Qualification as a REIT.” There can be no
assurance that we will be owned and organized and will operate in a manner so
as to qualify or remain qualified.



In any year in which we qualify as a REIT, in general,
we will not be subject to federal income tax on that portion of our REIT
taxable income or capital gain that is distributed to stockholders. We may,
however, be subject to tax at normal corporate rates on any taxable income or
capital gain not distributed. If we elect to retain and pay income tax on our
net long-term capital gains, stockholders are required to include their proportionate
share of our undistributed long-term capital gains in income, but they will
receive a refundable credit for their share of any taxes paid by us on such
gain.



Despite the REIT election, we may be subject to
federal income and excise tax as follows:



•     To the extent that we do not distribute all of
our net capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our
“REIT taxable income,” as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the
undistributed amount at regular corporate tax rates;



•     We may be subject to the “alternative minimum
tax” (the “AMT”) on certain tax preference items to the extent that the AMT
exceeds our regular tax;



•     If we have net income from the sale or other
disposition of “foreclosure property” that is held primarily for sale to
customers in the ordinary course of business or other non-qualifying income
from foreclosure property, such income will be taxed at the highest corporate
rate;



•     Any net income from prohibited transactions
(which are, in general, sales or other dispositions of property held primarily
for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, other than
dispositions of foreclosure property and dispositions of property due to an
involuntary conversion) will be subject to a 100% tax;



•     If we fail to satisfy either the 75% or 95%
gross income tests (as discussed below), but nonetheless maintain our
qualification as a REIT because certain other requirements are met, we will be
subject to a 100% tax on an amount equal to (1) the gross










income attributable to the greater of (i) 75% of our
gross income over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 75%
gross income test (discussed below) or (ii) 95% of our gross income over
the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test
(discussed below) multiplied by (2) a fraction intended to reflect our
profitability;



•     If we fail to distribute during each year at
least the sum of (1) 85% of our REIT ordinary income for the year,
(2) 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for such year (other than
capital gain that we elect to retain and pay tax on) and (3) any
undistributed taxable income from preceding periods, we will be subject to a 4%
excise tax on the excess of such required distribution over amounts actually distributed;



•     We will be subject to a 100% tax on the amount
of any rents from real property, deductions or excess interest paid to us by
any of our “taxable REIT subsidiaries” that would be reduced through
reallocation under certain federal income tax principles in order to more
clearly reflect income of the taxable REIT subsidiary. See
“— Qualification as a REIT — Investments in Taxable REIT
Subsidiaries;” and



•     We may be subject to the corporate “alternative
minimum tax” on any items of tax preference, including any deductions of net
operating losses.





Qualification as a REIT



A REIT is defined as a corporation, trust or
association:



(1)     which is managed by one or more trustees or
directors;



(2)     the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced
by transferable shares or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest;



(3)     which would be taxable as a domestic
corporation but for the federal income tax law relating to REITs;



(4)     which is neither a financial institution nor
an insurance company;



(5)     the beneficial ownership of which is held by
100 or more persons in each taxable year of the REIT except for its first
taxable year;



(6)     not more than 50% in value of the outstanding
stock of which is owned during the last half of each taxable year, excluding
its first taxable year, directly or indirectly, by or for five or fewer
individuals (which includes certain entities) (the “Five or Fewer
Requirement”); and



(7)     which meets certain income and asset tests
described below.



Conditions (1) to (4), inclusive, must be met
during the entire taxable year and condition (5) must be met during at
least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a
proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months. For purposes
of conditions (5) and (6), pension funds and certain other tax-exempt
entities are treated as individuals, subject to a “look-through” exception in
the case of condition (6).



Based on publicly available information, we believe we
have satisfied the share ownership requirements set forth in (5) and
(6) above. In addition, Article VI of our by-laws provides for
restrictions regarding ownership and transfer of shares. These










restrictions are intended to assist us in continuing to
satisfy the share ownership requirements described in (5) and
(6) above. These restrictions, however, may not ensure that we will, in
all cases, be able to satisfy the share ownership requirements described in
(5) and (6) above.



We have complied with, and will continue to comply
with, regulatory rules to send annual letters to certain of our stockholders
requesting information regarding the actual ownership of our stock. If, despite
sending the annual letters, we do not know, or after exercising reasonable
diligence would not have known, whether we failed to meet the Five or Fewer
Requirement, we will be treated as having met the Five or Fewer Requirement. If
we fail to comply with these regulatory rules, we will be subject to a monetary
penalty. If our failure to comply was due to intentional disregard of the
requirement, the penalty would be increased. However, if our failure to comply
were due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect, no penalty would be
imposed.



We may own a number of properties through wholly owned
subsidiaries. A corporation will qualify as a “qualified REIT subsidiary” if
100% of its stock is owned by a REIT, and the REIT does not elect to treat the
subsidiary as a taxable REIT subsidiary. A “qualified REIT subsidiary” will not
be treated as a separate corporation, and all assets, liabilities and items of
income, deductions and credits of a “qualified REIT subsidiary” will be treated
as assets, liabilities and items (as the case may be) of the REIT. A “qualified
REIT subsidiary” is not subject to federal income tax, and our ownership of the
voting stock of a qualified REIT subsidiary will not violate the restrictions
against ownership of securities of any one issuer which constitute more than
10% of the value or total voting power of such issuer or more than 5% of the
value of our total assets, as described below under “— Asset Tests.”



If we invest in a partnership, a limited liability
company or a trust taxed as a partnership or as a disregarded entity, we will
be deemed to own a proportionate share of the partnership’s, limited liability
company’s or trust’s assets. Likewise, we will be treated as receiving our
share of the income and loss of the partnership, limited liability company or
trust, and the gross income will retain the same character in our hands as it
has in the hands of the partnership, limited liability company or trust. These
“look-through” rules apply for purposes of the income tests and assets tests
described below.



Income Tests.There
are two separate percentage tests relating to our sources of gross income that
we must satisfy for each taxable year.



•     At least 75% of our gross income (excluding
gross income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) must be
directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from “rents from real
property,” other income from investments relating to real property or mortgages
on real property or certain income from qualified temporary investments.



•     At least 95% of our gross income (excluding
gross income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) must be
directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from any of the sources
qualifying for the 75% gross income test and from dividends (including
dividends from taxable REIT subsidiaries) and interest.



As to transactions entered into in taxable years
beginning after October 22, 2004 and on or prior to July 30, 2008, any of
our income from a “clearly identified” hedging transaction that is entered into
by us in the normal course of business, directly or indirectly, to manage the
risk of interest rate movements, price changes or currency fluctuations with
respect to borrowings or obligations incurred or to be incurred by us, or such
other risks that are prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, is excluded
from the 95% gross income test.



For transactions entered into after July 30,
2008, any of our income from a “clearly identified” hedging transaction that is
entered into by us in the normal course of business, directly or indirectly, to
manage the risk of interest rate movements, price changes or currency
fluctuations with respect to borrowings or obligations incurred or to be
incurred by us is excluded from the 95% and 75% gross income tests.



For transactions entered into after July 30,
2008, any of our income from a “clearly identified” hedging transaction entered
into by us primarily to manage risk of currency fluctuations with respect to
any item of income or gain that is included in gross income in the 95% and 75%
gross income tests is excluded from the 95% and 75% gross income tests.



In general, a hedging transaction is “clearly
identified” if (1) the transaction is identified as a hedging transaction
before the end of the day on which it is entered into and (2) the items or
risks being hedged are identified “substantially contemporaneously” with the
hedging transaction. An identification is not substantially contemporaneous if
it is made more than 35 days after entering into the hedging transaction.



As to gains and items of income recognized after
July 30, 2008, “passive foreign exchange gain” for any taxable year will
not constitute gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test and “real
estate foreign exchange gain” for any taxable year will










not
constitute gross income for purposes of the 75% gross income test. Real estate
foreign exchange gain is foreign currency gain (as defined in Internal Revenue
Code Section 988(b)(1)) which is attributable to: (i) any qualifying
item of income or gain for purposes of the 75% gross income test; (ii) the
acquisition or ownership of obligations secured by mortgages on real property
or interests in real property; or (iii) becoming or being the obligor
under obligations secured by mortgages on real property or on interests in real
property. Real estate foreign exchange gain also includes Internal Revenue Code
Section 987 gain attributable to a qualified business unit (a “QBU”) of a
REIT if the QBU itself meets the 75% gross income test for the taxable year and
the 75% asset test at the close of each quarter that the REIT has directly or
indirectly held the QBU. Real estate foreign exchange gain also includes any
other foreign currency gain as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Passive foreign exchange gain includes all real estate foreign exchange gain
and foreign currency gain which is attributable to: (i) any qualifying
item of income or gain for purposes of the 95% gross income test; (ii) the
acquisition or ownership of obligations; (iii) becoming or being the
obligor under obligations; and (iv) any other foreign currency gain as
determined by the Secretary of the Treasury.



Generally, other than income from “clearly identified”
hedging transactions entered into by us in the normal course of business, any
foreign currency gain derived by us from dealing, or engaging in substantial
and regular trading, in securities will constitute gross income which does not
qualify under the 95% or 75% gross income tests.



Rents received by us will qualify as “rents from real
property” for purposes of satisfying the gross income tests for a REIT only if
several conditions are met:



•     The amount of rent must not be based in whole or
in part on the income or profits of any person, although rents generally will
not be excluded merely because they are based on a fixed percentage or percentages
of receipts or sales.



•     Rents received from a tenant will not qualify as
rents from real property if the REIT, or an owner of 10% or more of the REIT,
also directly or constructively owns 10% or more of the tenant, unless the
tenant is our taxable REIT subsidiary and certain other requirements are met
with respect to the real property being rented.



•     If rent attributable to personal property leased
in connection with a lease of real property is greater than 15% of the total
rent received under the lease, then the portion of rent attributable to such
personal property will not qualify as “rents from real property.”



•     For rents to qualify as rents from real
property, we generally must not furnish or render services to tenants, other
than through a taxable REIT subsidiary or an “independent contractor” from whom
we derive no income, except that we may directly provide services that are
“usually or customarily rendered” in the geographic area in which the property
is located in connection with the rental of real property for occupancy only,
or are not otherwise considered “rendered to the occupant for his convenience.”



•     For taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008,
the REIT may lease“qualified
health careproperties”on an
arm’s-length basis to a taxable REIT subsidiary if the property is operated on
behalf of such subsidiary by a person whoqualifies as an
“independent contractor” and who is, or is related to a person who is, actively
engaged in the trade or business of operating health care facilities for any
person unrelated to us or our taxable REIT subsidiary, an “eligible independent contractor.”Generally, the rent that the REIT
receives from the taxable REIT subsidiary will be treated as “rents from real
property.”A “qualified health care property” includes any real
property and any personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to
the use of, a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate
care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility that
extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients and is operated by
a provider of such services that is eligible for participation in the Medicare
program with respect to such facility.



A REIT is permitted to render a de minimis amount of
impermissible services to tenants and still treat amounts received with respect
to that property as rent from real property. The amount received or accrued by
the REIT during the taxable year for the impermissible services with respect to
a property may not exceed 1% of all amounts received or accrued by the REIT
directly or indirectly from the property. The amount received for any service
or management operation for this purpose shall be deemed to be not less than
150% of the direct cost of the REIT in furnishing or rendering the service or
providing the management or operation. Furthermore, impermissible services may
be furnished to tenants by a taxable REIT subsidiary subject to certain
conditions, and we may still treat rents received with respect to the property
as rent from real property.



The term “interest” generally does not
include any amount if the determination of the amount depends in whole or in
part on the income or profits of any person, although an amount generally will
not be excluded from the term “interest” solely by reason of being based on a
fixed percentage of receipts or sales.












If we fail
to satisfy one or both of the 75% or 95% gross income tests for any taxable
year, we may nevertheless qualify as a REIT for such year if we are eligible
for relief.  These relief provisions generally will be available if
(1) following our identification of the failure, we file a schedule for
such taxable year describing each item of our gross income, and (2) the
failure to meet such tests was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful
neglect.



It is not now possible to determine
the circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief
provisions. If these relief provisions apply, a 100% tax is imposed on an
amount equal to (a) the gross income attributable to (1) 75% of our
gross income over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 75%
income test and (2) 95% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying
gross income for purposes of the 95% income test, multiplied by (b) a
fraction intended to reflect our profitability.



The Secretary of the Treasury is given
broad authority to determine whether particular items of income or gain qualify
or not under the 75% and 95% gross income tests, or are to be excluded from the
measure of gross income for such purposes.



Asset Tests.Within 30 days after
the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must also satisfy several
tests relating to the nature and diversification of our assets determined in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. At least 75% of the
value of our total assets must be represented by real estate assets, cash, cash
items (including receivables arising in the ordinary course of our operation),
government securities and qualified temporary investments. Although the
remaining 25% of our assets generally may be invested without restriction, we
are prohibited from owning securities representing more than 10% of either the
vote (the “10% vote test”) or value (the “10% value test”) of the outstanding
securities of any issuer other than a qualified REIT subsidiary, another REIT
or a taxable REIT subsidiary. Further, no more than 25% of the total assets may
be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (the “25%
asset test”) and no more than 5% of the value of our total assets may be
represented by securities of any non-governmental issuer other than a qualified
REIT subsidiary (the “5% asset test”), another REIT or a taxable REIT
subsidiary. Each of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test and the 25% and 5%
asset tests must be satisfied at the end of each quarter. There are special
rules which provide relief if the value related tests are not satisfied due to
changes in the value of the assets of a REIT.



Certain items are excluded from the
10% value test, including: (1) straight debt securities (as defined in
Internal Revenue Code Section 1361(c)(5)) of an issuer (including straight debt
that provides certain contingent payments); (2) any loan to an individual
or an estate; (3) any rental agreement described in Section 467 of
the Internal Revenue Code, other than with a “related person”; (4) any
obligation to pay rents from real property; (5) certain securities issued
by a state or any subdivision thereof, the District of Columbia, a foreign
government, or any political subdivision thereof, or the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico; (6) any security issued by a REIT; and (7) any other
arrangement that, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, is excepted
from the definition of security (“excluded securities”). Special rules apply to
straight debt securities issued by corporations and entities taxable as
partnerships for federal income tax purposes. If a REIT, or its taxable REIT
subsidiary, holds (1) straight debt securities of a corporate or
partnership issuer and (2) securities of such issuer that are not excluded
securities and have an aggregate value greater than 1% of such issuer’s
outstanding securities, the straight debt securities will be included in the
10% value test.



A REIT’s interest as a partner in a
partnership is not treated as a security for purposes of applying the 10% value
test to securities issued by the partnership. Further, any debt instrument
issued by a partnership will not be a security for purposes of applying the 10%
value test (1) to the extent of the REIT’s interest as a partner in the
partnership and (2) if at least 75% of the partnership’s gross income
(excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) would qualify for the 75%
gross income test.  For purposes of the 10% value test, a REIT’s interest in a
partnership’s assets is determined by the REIT’s proportionate interest in any
securities issued by the partnership (other than the excluded securities
described in the preceding paragraph).



For taxable years beginning after
July 30, 2008, if the REIT or its QBU uses a foreign currency as its functional
currency, the term “cash” includes such foreign currency, but only to the
extent such foreign currency is (i) held for use in the normal course of
the activities of the REIT or QBU which give rise to items of income or gain
that are included in the 95% and 75% gross income tests or are directly related
to acquiring or holding assets qualifying under the 75% asset test, and
(ii) not held in connection with dealing or engaging in substantial and
regular trading in securities.



With respect to corrections of
failures as to violations of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test or the 5%
asset test, a REIT may avoid disqualification as a REIT by disposing of
sufficient assets to cure a violation that does not exceed the lesser of 1% of
the REIT’s assets at the end of the relevant quarter or $10,000,000, provided
that the disposition occurs within six months following the last day of the
quarter in which the REIT first identified the assets. For violations of any of
the REIT asset tests due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect that
exceed the thresholds described in the preceding sentence, a REIT can avoid
disqualification as a REIT after the close of a taxable quarter by taking
certain steps, including disposition of sufficient assets within the six month
period described above to meet the applicable asset test, paying a tax equal to
the greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net
income generated by the non-qualifying assets during the period of time that
the assets were held as non-qualifying assets and filing a schedule with the
Internal Revenue Service that describes the non-qualifying assets.












Investments
in Taxable REIT Subsidiaries.REITs may own more than 10% of the voting power
and value of securities in taxable REIT subsidiaries. We and any taxable
corporate entity in which we own an interest are allowed to jointly elect to
treat such entity as a “taxable REIT subsidiary.”



Certain of our subsidiaries have
elected to be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary. Taxable REIT subsidiaries
are subject to full corporate level federal taxation on their earnings but are
permitted to engage in certain types of activities that cannot be performed
directly by REITs without jeopardizing their REIT status. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries
will attempt to minimize the amount of these taxes, but there can be no
assurance whether or the extent to which measures taken to minimize taxes will
be successful. To the extent our taxable REIT subsidiaries are required to pay
federal, state or local taxes, the cash available for distribution as dividends
to us from our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be reduced.



The amount of interest on
related-party debt that a taxable REIT subsidiary may deduct is limited.
Further, a 100% tax applies to any interest payments by a taxable REIT
subsidiary to its affiliated REIT to the extent the interest rate is not
commercially reasonable. A taxable REIT subsidiary is permitted to deduct
interest payments to unrelated parties without any of these restrictions.



The Internal Revenue Service may
reallocate costs between a REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiary where there is
a lack of arm’s-length dealing between the parties. Any deductible expenses
allocated away from a taxable REIT subsidiary would increase its tax liability.
Further, any amount by which a REIT understates its deductions and overstates
those of its taxable REIT subsidiary may, subject to certain exceptions, be
subject to a 100% tax. Additional taxable REIT subsidiary elections may be made
in the future for additional entities in which we obtain an interest.



Annual Distribution Requirements.



It is also possible that, from time to
time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90%
distribution requirement, or to distribute such greater amount as may be
necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, due to, among other things,
(1) timing differences between (i) the actual receipt of income and
actual payment of deductible expenses and (ii) the inclusion of income and
deduction of expenses in arriving at our taxable income, or (2) the
payment of severance benefits that may not be deductible to us. In the event
that timing differences occur, we may find it necessary to arrange for
borrowings or, if possible, pay dividends in the form of taxable stock
dividends in order to meet the distribution requirement.



Under certain circumstances, in the
event of a deficiency determined by the Internal Revenue Service, we may be
able to rectify a resulting failure to meet the distribution requirement for a
year by paying “deficiency dividends” to stockholders in a later year, which
may be included in our deduction for distributions paid for the earlier year.
Thus, we may be able to avoid being taxed on amounts distributed as deficiency
dividends; however, we will be required to pay applicable penalties and
interest based upon the amount of any deduction taken for deficiency dividend
distributions.



Failure to Qualify as a REIT



If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any
taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax, including any
applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate
rates. Distributions to stockholders in any year in which we fail to qualify as
a REIT will not be deductible nor will any particular amount of distributions
be required to be made in any year. All distributions to stockholders will be
taxable as ordinary income to the extent of current and accumulated earnings
and profits allocable to these distributions and, subject to certain
limitations, will be eligible for the dividends received deduction for
corporate stockholders. Unless entitled to relief under specific statutory
provisions, we also will be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four
taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. It is not
possible to state whether in all circumstances we










would
be entitled to statutory relief. Failure to qualify for even one year could
result in our need to incur indebtedness or liquidate investments in order to
pay potentially significant resulting tax liabilities.



In addition to the relief described above under
“— Income Tests” and “— Asset Tests,” relief is available in the
event that we violate a provision of the Internal Revenue Code that would
result in our failure to qualify as a REIT if: (1) the violation is due to
reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect; (2) we pay a penalty of
$50,000 for each failure to satisfy the provision; and (3) the violation
does not include a violation described under “— Income Tests” or
“— Asset Tests” above. It is not now possible to determine the
circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief
provisions.



Federal Income Taxation of Holders of Our Stock



Treatment of Taxable U.S. Stockholders.The following summary applies to you only
if you are a “U.S. stockholder.” A “U.S. stockholder” is a holder of
shares of stock who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is:



•     a citizen or resident of the United States;



•     a corporation, partnership or other entity
classified as a corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or
organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any political
subdivision of the United States, including any state;



•     an estate, the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source; or



•     a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is
able to exercise primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one or
more U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code, has
the authority to control all of the trust’s substantial decisions.



So long as we qualify for taxation as a REIT,
distributions on shares of our stock made out of the current or accumulated
earnings and profits allocable to these distributions (and not designated as
capital gain dividends) will be includable as ordinary income for federal
income tax purposes. None of these distributions will be eligible for the
dividends received deduction for U.S. corporate stockholders.



Generally, for taxable years following the year ended
December 31, 2013, the maximum marginal rate of tax payable by individuals on
dividends received from corporations that are subject to a corporate level of
tax is 20%. Except in limited circumstances, this tax rate will not apply to
dividends paid to you by us on our shares, because generally we are not subject
to federal income tax on the portion of our REIT taxable income or capital
gains distributed to our stockholders. The reduced maximum federal income tax
rate will apply to that portion, if any, of dividends received by you with respect
to our shares that are attributable to: (1) dividends received by us from
non-REIT corporations or other taxable REIT subsidiaries; (2) income from
the prior year with respect to which we were required to pay federal corporate
income tax during the prior year (if, for example, we did not distribute 100%
of our REIT taxable income for the prior year); or (3) the amount of any
earnings and profits that were distributed by us and accumulated in a non-REIT
year.



Distributions that are designated as capital gain
dividends will be taxed as long-term capital gains (to the extent they do not
exceed our actual net capital gain for the taxable year), without regard to the
period for which you held our stock. However, if you are a corporation, you may
be required to treat a portion of some capital gain dividends as ordinary
income.



If we elect to retain and pay income tax on any net
long-term capital gain, you would include in income, as long-term capital gain,
your proportionate share of this net long-term capital gain. You would also
receive a refundable tax credit for your proportionate share of the tax paid by
us on such retained capital gains, and you would have an increase in the basis
of your shares of our stock in an amount equal to your includable capital gains
less your share of the tax deemed paid.



You may not include in your federal income tax return
any of our net operating losses or capital losses. Federal income tax rules may
also require that certain minimum tax adjustments and preferences be
apportioned to you. In addition, any distribution declared by us in October,
November or December of any year on a specified date in any such month shall be
treated as both paid by us and received by you on December 31 of that year,
provided that the distribution is actually paid by us no later than January 31
of the following year.



We will be treated as having sufficient earnings and
profits to treat as a dividend any distribution up to the amount required to be
distributed in order to avoid imposition of the 4% excise tax discussed under
“— General” and “— Qualification as a REIT — Annual Distribution
Requirements” above. As a result, you may be required to treat as taxable
dividends certain distributions that would










otherwise
result in a tax-free return of capital. Moreover, any “deficiency dividend”
will be treated as a dividend (an ordinary dividend or a capital gain dividend,
as the case may be), regardless of our earnings and profits. Any other distributions
in excess of current or accumulated earnings and profits will not be taxable to
you to the extent these distributions do not exceed the adjusted tax basis of
your shares of our stock. You will be required to reduce the tax basis of your
shares of our stock by the amount of these distributions until the basis has
been reduced to zero, after which these distributions will be taxable as
capital gain, if the shares of our stock are held as capital assets. The tax
basis as so reduced will be used in computing the capital gain or loss, if any,
realized upon sale of the shares of our stock. Any loss upon a sale or exchange
of shares of our stock which were held for six months or less (after
application of certain holding period rules) will generally be treated as a
long-term capital loss to the extent you previously received capital gain
distributions with respect to these shares of our stock.



Upon the sale or exchange of any shares of our stock
to or with a person other than us or a sale or exchange of all shares of our
stock (whether actually or constructively owned) with us, you will generally
recognize capital gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount
realized on the sale or exchange and your adjusted tax basis in these shares of
our stock. This gain will be capital gain if you held these shares of our stock
as a capital asset.



If we redeem any of your shares in us, the treatment
can only be determined on the basis of particular facts at the time of
redemption. In general, you will recognize gain or loss (as opposed to dividend
income) equal to the difference between the amount received by you in the
redemption and your adjusted tax basis in your shares redeemed if such
redemption: (1) results in a “complete termination” of your interest in
all classes of our equity securities; (2) is a “substantially
disproportionate redemption”; or (3) is “not essentially equivalent to a
dividend” with respect to you. In applying these tests, you must take into
account your ownership of all classes of our equity securities (e.g., common
stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants). You also must take
into account any equity securities that are considered to be constructively
owned by you.



If, as a result of a redemption by us of your shares, you
no longer own (either actually or constructively) any of our equity securities
or only own (actually and constructively) an insubstantial percentage of our
equity securities, then it is probable that the redemption of your shares would
be considered “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” and, thus, would
result in gain or loss to you. However, whether a distribution is “not
essentially equivalent to a dividend” depends on all of the facts and
circumstances, and if you rely on any of these tests at the time of redemption,
you should consult your tax advisor to determine their application to the
particular situation.



Generally, if the redemption does not meet the tests
described above, then the proceeds received by you from the redemption of your
shares will be treated as a distribution taxable as a dividend to the extent of
the allocable portion of current or accumulated earnings and profits. If the
redemption is taxed as a dividend, your adjusted tax basis in the redeemed
shares will be transferred to any other shareholdings in us that you own. If
you own no other shareholdings in us, under certain circumstances, such basis
may be transferred to a related person, or it may be lost entirely.



Gain from the sale or exchange of our
shares held for more than one year is generally taxed at a maximum long-term
capital gain rate of 20% in the case of stockholders who are individuals and
35% in the case of stockholders that are corporations.  Pursuant to Internal
Revenue Service guidance, we may classify portions of our capital gain
dividends as gains eligible for the long-term capital gains rate or as gain
taxable to individual stockholders at a maximum rate of 25%.  Capital losses
recognized by a stockholder upon the disposition of our shares held for more than
one year at the time of disposition will be considered long term capital
losses, and are generally available only to offset capital gain income of the
stockholder but not ordinary income (except in the case of individuals, who may
offset up to $3,000 of ordinary income each year).



An additional tax
of 3.8% generally will be imposed on the “net investment income” of U.S.
stockholders who meet certain requirements and are individuals, estates or
certain trusts for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012.  Among other items, “net investment
income” generally includes gross income from dividends and net gain
attributable to the disposition of certain property, such as shares of our
common stock or warrants. In the case of individuals, this tax will only apply
to the extent such individual’s modified adjusted gross income exceeds $200,000
($250,000 for married couples filing a joint return and surviving spouses, and
$125,000 for married individuals filing a separate return). U.S. stockholders
should consult their tax advisors regarding the possible applicability of this
additional tax in their particular circumstances.



Treatment of Tax-Exempt U.S. Stockholders.Tax-exempt
entities, including qualified employee pension and profit sharing trusts and
individual retirement accounts (“Exempt Organizations”), generally are exempt
from federal income taxation. However, they are subject to taxation on their
unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”). The Internal Revenue Service has
issued a published revenue ruling that dividend distributions from a REIT to an
exempt employee pension trust do not constitute UBTI, provided that the shares
of the REIT are not otherwise used in an unrelated trade or business of the
exempt employee pension trust. Based on this ruling, amounts distributed by us
to Exempt Organizations generally should not constitute UBTI. However, if an
Exempt Organization finances its acquisition of the shares of our stock with
debt, a portion of its income from us will constitute UBTI pursuant to the
“debt










financed property” rules. Likewise, a portion of
the Exempt Organization’s income from us would constitute UBTI if we held a
residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit.



In addition, in certain circumstances,
a pension trust that owns more than 10% of our stock is required to treat a
percentage of our dividends as UBTI. This rule applies to a pension trust
holding more than 10% of our stock only if: (1) the percentage of our
income that is UBTI (determined as if we were a pension trust) is at least 5%;
(2) we qualify as a REIT by reason of the modification of the Five or
Fewer Requirement that allows beneficiaries of the pension trust to be treated
as holding shares in proportion to their actuarial interests in the pension
trust; and (3) either (i) one pension trust owns more than 25% of the
value of our stock, or (ii) a group of pension trusts individually holding
more than 10% of the value of our stock collectively own more than 50% of the
value of our stock.



Backup Withholding and Information
Reporting.Under
certain circumstances, you may be subject to backup withholding at applicable
rates on payments made with respect to, or cash proceeds of a sale or exchange
of, shares of our stock. Backup withholding will apply only if you:
(1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer identification number, which if you
are an individual, is ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish
an incorrect taxpayer identification number; (3) are notified by the
Internal Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments of
interest or dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under penalties of perjury,
that you have furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the
Internal Revenue Service has not notified you that you are subject to backup
withholding.



Backup withholding will not apply with
respect to payments made to certain exempt recipients, such as corporations and
tax-exempt organizations. You should consult with a tax advisor regarding
qualification for exemption from backup withholding, and the procedure for
obtaining an exemption. Backup withholding is not an additional tax. Rather,
the amount of any backup withholding with respect to a payment to a stockholder
will be allowed as a credit against such stockholder’s United States federal income tax liability and may entitle such stockholder to a refund, provided
that the required information is provided to the Internal Revenue Service. In
addition, withholding a portion of capital gain distributions made to stockholders
may be required for stockholders who fail to certify their non-foreign status.



Taxation of Foreign Stockholders.The following summary
applies to you only if you are a foreign person. The federal taxation of
foreign persons is a highly complex matter that may be affected by many
considerations.



Except as discussed below,
distributions to you of cash generated by our real estate operations in the
form of ordinary dividends, but not by the sale or exchange of our capital
assets, generally will be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a rate of
30%, unless an applicable tax treaty reduces that tax and you file with us the
required form evidencing the lower rate.



In general, you will be subject to
United States federal income tax on a graduated rate basis rather than
withholding with respect to your investment in our stock if such investment is
“effectively connected” with your conduct of a trade or business in the United
States. A corporate foreign stockholder that receives income that is, or is
treated as, effectively connected with a United States trade or business may
also be subject to the branch profits tax, which is payable in addition to
regular United States corporate income tax. The following discussion will apply
to foreign stockholders whose investment in us is not so effectively connected.
We expect to withhold United States income tax, as described below, on the
gross amount of any distributions paid to you unless (1) you file an
Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI with us claiming that the distribution
is “effectively connected” or (2) certain other exceptions apply.



Distributions by us that are
attributable to gain from the sale or exchange of a United States real property
interest will be taxed to you under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax
Act of 1980 (“FIRPTA”) as if these distributions were gains “effectively
connected” with a United States trade or business. Accordingly, you will be
taxed at the normal capital gain rates applicable to a U.S. stockholder on these amounts, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and a
special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals.
Distributions subject to FIRPTA may also be subject to a branch profits tax in
the hands of a corporate foreign stockholder that is not entitled to treaty
exemption.



We will be required to withhold from distributions
subject to FIRPTA, and remit to the Internal Revenue Service, 35% of designated
capital gain dividends, or, if greater, 35% of the amount of any distributions
that could be designated as capital gain dividends. In addition, if we
designate prior distributions as capital gain dividends, subsequent
distributions, up to the amount of the prior distributions not withheld
against, will be treated as capital gain dividends for purposes of withholding.



Any capital gain dividend with respect to any class of
stock that is “regularly traded” on an established securities market will be
treated as an ordinary dividend if the foreign stockholder did not own more
than 5% of such class of stock at any time during the taxable year. Foreign
stockholders generally will not be required to report distributions received
from us on U.S. federal income tax returns and all distributions treated
as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes (including any such
capital gain dividends) will be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax
(unless reduced under an applicable income tax treaty) as discussed above. In
addition, the branch profits tax will not apply to such distributions.












Unless our shares
constitute a “United States real property interest” within the meaning of
FIRPTA or are effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business, a sale
of our shares by you generally will not be subject to United States taxation. Our shares will not constitute a United States real property interest if we
qualify as a “domestically controlled REIT.” We believe that we, and expect to
continue to, qualify as a domestically controlled REIT. A domestically
controlled REIT is a REIT in which at all times during a specified testing
period less than 50% in value of its shares is held directly or indirectly by
foreign stockholders. However, if you are a nonresident alien individual who is
present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year
and certain other conditions apply, you will be subject to a 30% tax on such
capital gains. In any event, a purchaser of our shares from you will not be
required under FIRPTA to withhold on the purchase price if the purchased shares
are “regularly traded” on an established securities market or if we are a
domestically controlled REIT. Otherwise, under FIRPTA, the purchaser may be
required to withhold 10% of the purchase price and remit such amount to the
Internal Revenue Service.



Backup withholding tax and information reporting will
generally not apply to distributions paid to you outside the United States that
are treated as: (1) dividends to which the 30% or lower treaty rate
withholding tax discussed above applies; (2) capital gains dividends; or (3) distributions
attributable to gain from the sale or exchange by us of U.S. real property
interests. Payment of the proceeds of a sale of stock within the United States
or conducted through certain U.S. related financial intermediaries is
subject to both backup withholding and information reporting unless the
beneficial owner certifies under penalties of perjury that he or she is not a
U.S. person (and the payor does not have actual knowledge that the
beneficial owner is a U.S. person) or otherwise established an exemption.
You may obtain a refund of any amounts withheld under the backup withholding
rules by filing the appropriate claim for refund with the Internal Revenue
Service.





U.S. Federal Income
Taxation of Holders of Depositary Shares



Owners of our depositary shares will be treated as if
you were owners of the series of preferred stock represented by the depositary
shares. Thus, you will be required to take into account the income and
deductions to which you would be entitled if you were a holder of the
underlying series of preferred stock.



Conversion or Exchange of Shares for Preferred Stock.No gain or loss will be recognized upon
the withdrawal of preferred stock in exchange for depositary shares and the tax
basis of each share of preferred stock will, upon exchange, be the same as the
aggregate tax basis of the depositary shares exchanged. If you held your
depositary shares as a capital asset at the time of the exchange for shares of
preferred stock, the holding period for your shares of preferred stock will
include the period during which you owned the depositary shares.



U.S. Federal Income
and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our Debt Securities



The following is a general summary of the United
States federal income tax consequences and, in the case that you are a holder
that is a non-U.S. holder, as defined below, the United States federal
estate tax consequences, of purchasing, owning and disposing of debt securities
periodically offered under one or more indentures (the “notes”). This summary assumes
that you hold the notes as capital assets. This summary applies to you only if
you are the initial holder of the notes and you acquire the notes for a price
equal to the issue price of the notes. The issue price of the notes is the
first price at which a substantial amount of the notes is sold other than to
bond houses, brokers or similar persons or organizations acting in the capacity
of underwriters, placement agents or wholesalers. In addition, this summary
does not consider any foreign, state, local or other tax laws that may be
applicable to us or a purchaser of the notes.



U.S. Holders












The following summary
applies to you only if you are a U.S. holder, as defined below.



Definition of a U.S. Holder.A “U.S. holder” is a beneficial owner
of a note or notes that is for United States federal income tax purposes:



•     a citizen or resident of the United States;



•     a corporation, partnership or other entity
classified as a corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or
organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any political
subdivision of the United States, including any state;



•     an estate, the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source; or



•     a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is
able to exercise primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one or
more U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code, has
the authority to control all of the trust’s substantial decisions.



Payments of Interest.Stated interest on the notes generally
will be taxed as ordinary interest income from domestic sources at the time it
is paid or accrues in accordance with your method of accounting for tax
purposes.



Sale,
Exchange or Other Disposition of Notes.The
adjusted tax basis in your note acquired at a premium will generally be your
cost. You generally will recognize taxable gain or loss when you sell or
otherwise dispose of your notes equal to the difference, if any, between:



•     the amount realized on the sale or other
disposition, less any amount attributable to any accrued interest, which will
be taxable in the manner described under “— Payments of Interest”
above; and



•     your adjusted tax basis in the notes.



Your gain or loss generally will be capital gain or
loss. This capital gain or loss will be long-term capital gain or loss if at
the time of the sale or other disposition you have held the notes for more than
one year. Subject to limited exceptions, your capital losses cannot be used to
offset your ordinary income (except in the case of individuals, who may offset
up to $3,000 of ordinary income each year).



Backup Withholding and Information Reporting.In general, “backup withholding” may apply
to any payments made to you of principal and interest on your note, and to
payment of the proceeds of a sale or other disposition of your note before
maturity, if you are a non-corporate U.S. holder and: (1) fail to
provide a correct taxpayer identification number, which if you are an
individual, is ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish an
incorrect taxpayer identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal
Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments of interest or
dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under penalties of perjury, that you
have furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the Internal
Revenue Service has not notified you that you are subject to backup
withholding.



The amount of any reportable payments, including
interest, made to you (unless you are an exempt recipient) and the amount of
tax withheld, if any, with respect to such payments will be reported to you and
to the Internal Revenue Service for each calendar year. You should consult your
tax advisor regarding your qualification for an exemption from backup
withholding and the procedures for obtaining such an exemption, if applicable.
The backup withholding tax is not an additional tax and will be credited
against your U.S. federal income tax liability, provided that correct
information is provided to the Internal Revenue Service.



Non-U.S. Holders



The following summary applies to you if you are a
beneficial owner of a note and are not a U.S. holder, as defined above (a
“non-U.S. holder”).



Special rules may apply to certain
non-U.S. holders such as “controlled foreign corporations,” “passive
foreign investment companies” and “foreign personal holding companies.” Such
entities are encouraged to consult their tax advisors to determine the United States federal, state, local and other tax consequences that may be relevant to
them.












U.S. Federal Withholding Tax.Subject to the discussion below,
U.S. federal withholding tax will not apply to payments by us or our
paying agent, in its capacity as such, of principal and interest on your notes
under the “portfolio interest” exception of the Internal Revenue Code, provided
that:



•     you do not, directly or indirectly, actually or
constructively, own 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all
classes of our stock entitled to vote;



•     you are not (1) a controlled foreign
corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is related, directly
or indirectly, to us through sufficient stock ownership, as provided in the
Internal Revenue Code, or (2) a bank receiving interest described in
Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code;



•     such interest is not effectively connected with
your conduct of a U.S. trade or business; and



•     you provide a signed written statement, under
penalties of perjury, which can reliably be related to you, certifying that you
are not a U.S. person within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code and
providing your name and address to:



•      us or our paying agent; or



•a securities clearing
organization, bank or other financial institution that holds customers’ securities
in the ordinary course of its trade or business and holds your notes on your
behalf and that certifies to us or our paying agent under penalties of perjury
that it, or the bank or financial institution between it and you, has received
from you your signed, written statement and provides us or our paying agent
with a copy of such statement.



Treasury regulations provide that:



•     if you are a foreign partnership, the
certification requirement will generally apply to your partners, and you will
be required to provide certain information;



•     if you are a foreign trust, the certification
requirement will generally be applied to you or your beneficial owners
depending on whether you are a “foreign complex trust,” “foreign simple trust,”
or “foreign grantor trust” as defined in the Treasury regulations; and



•     look-through rules will apply for tiered
partnerships, foreign simple trusts and foreign grantor trusts.



If you are a foreign partnership or a foreign trust,
you should consult your own tax advisor regarding your status under these
Treasury regulations and the certification requirements applicable to you.



If you cannot satisfy the portfolio interest
requirements described above, payments of interest will be subject to the 30%
United States withholding tax, unless you provide us with a properly executed
(1) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming an exemption from
or reduction in withholding under the benefit of an applicable treaty or
(2) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI stating that interest paid
on the note is not subject to withholding tax because it is effectively
connected with your conduct of a trade or business in the United States.
Alternative documentation may be applicable in certain circumstances.



If you are engaged in a trade or business in the
United States and interest on a note is effectively connected with the conduct
of that trade or business, you will be required to pay United States federal
income tax on that interest on a net income basis (although you will be exempt
from the 30% withholding tax provided the certification requirement described
above is met) in the same manner as if you were a U.S. person, except as
otherwise provided by an applicable tax treaty. If you are a foreign
corporation, you may be required to pay a branch profits tax on the earnings
and profits that are effectively connected to the conduct of your trade or
business in the United States.



Withholding tax at a rate of 30% will be imposed on payments of interest
(including original issue discount) and gross proceeds of sale in respect of
debt instruments to you or certain foreign financial institutions (including
investment funds) and other non-US persons receiving payments on your behalf,
if you or such institutions fail to comply with certain due diligence,
disclosure and reporting rules, as set forth in recently issued Treasury
regulations. However, the Treasury regulations generally exempt from such
withholding requirement obligations, such as debt instruments, issued before July
1, 2014, provided that any material modification of such an obligation made
after such date will result in such obligation being considered newly issued as
of the effective date of such modification. These withholding rules are
generally effective with respect to payments of interest made after June 30,
2014, and with respect to proceeds of sales received after December 31, 2016.
We will not pay any additional amounts to any holders or our debt










instruments in respect of any amounts withheld. You are
encouraged to consult with your tax advisor regarding U.S. withholding taxes
and the application of the recently issued Treasury regulations in light of
your particular circumstances.



Sale, Exchange or other Disposition of Notes.You generally will not have to pay U.S. federal income tax on any gain or income realized from the sale, redemption,
retirement at maturity or other disposition of your notes, unless:



•     in the case of gain, you are an individual who
is present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable
year of the sale or other disposition of your notes, and specific other
conditions are met;



•     you are subject to tax provisions applicable to
certain United States expatriates; or



•     the gain is effectively connected with your
conduct of a U.S. trade or business.



If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States, and gain with respect to your notes is effectively connected with the conduct of that
trade or business, you generally will be subject to U.S. income tax on a
net basis on the gain. In addition, if you are a foreign corporation, you may
be subject to a branch profits tax on your effectively connected earnings and
profits for the taxable year, as adjusted for certain items.



U.S. Federal
Estate Tax.If you are an
individual and are not a U.S. citizen or a resident of the United States,
as specially defined for U.S. federal estate tax purposes, at the time of
your death, your notes will generally not be subject to the U.S. federal
estate tax, unless, at the time of your death (1) you owned actually or
constructively 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all our
classes of stock entitled to vote, or (2) interest on the notes is
effectively connected with your conduct of a U.S. trade or business.



Backup Withholding and Information Reporting.Backup withholding will not apply to
payments of principal or interest made by us or our paying agent, in its
capacity as such, to you if you have provided the required certification that
you are a non-U.S. holder as described in “— U.S. Federal
Withholding Tax” above, and provided that neither we nor our paying agent have
actual knowledge that you are a U.S. holder, as described in
“— U.S. Holders” above. We or our paying agent may, however, report
payments of interest on the notes.



The gross proceeds from the disposition of your notes
may be subject to information reporting and backup withholding tax. If you sell
your notes outside the United States through a non-U.S. office of a
non-U.S. broker and the sales proceeds are paid to you outside the United States, then the U.S. backup withholding and information reporting requirements
generally will not apply to that payment. However, U.S. information
reporting, but not backup withholding, will apply to a payment of sales
proceeds, even if that payment is made outside the United States, if you sell
your notes through a non-U.S. office of a broker that:



•     is a U.S. person, as defined in the
Internal Revenue Code;



•     derives 50% or more of its gross income in
specific periods from the conduct of a trade or business in the United States;



•     is a “controlled foreign corporation” for U.S. federal income tax purposes; or



•     is a foreign partnership, if at any time during
its tax year, one or more of its partners are U.S. persons who in the
aggregate hold more than 50% of the income or capital interests in the
partnership, or the foreign partnership is engaged in a U.S. trade or
business, unless the broker has documentary evidence in its files that you are
a non-U.S. person and certain other conditions are met or you otherwise
establish an exemption. If you receive payments of the proceeds of a sale of
your notes to or through a U.S. office of a broker, the payment is subject
to both U.S. backup withholding and information reporting unless you
provide a Form W-8BEN certifying that you are a non-U.S. person or
you otherwise establish an exemption.



You should consult your own tax advisor regarding
application of backup withholding in your particular circumstance and the
availability of and procedure for obtaining an exemption from backup
withholding. Any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules from a
payment to you will be allowed as a refund or credit against your U.S. federal income tax liability, provided the required information is furnished to
the Internal Revenue Service.



U.S. Federal Income
and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our Warrants



Exercise of Warrants.You will not generally recognize gain or
loss upon the exercise of a warrant. Your basis in the debt securities,
preferred stock, depositary shares or common stock, as the case may be,
received upon the exercise of the warrant will be equal to the sum of your
adjusted tax basis in the warrant and the exercise price paid. Your holding
period in the debt securities,










preferred stock,
depositary shares or common stock, as the case may be, received upon the
exercise of the warrant will not include the period during which the warrant
was held by you.



Expiration of Warrants.Upon the expiration of a warrant, you will
recognize a capital loss in an amount equal to your adjusted tax basis in the
warrant.



Sale or
Exchange of Warrants.Upon
the sale or exchange of a warrant to a person other than us, you will recognize
gain or loss in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realized
on the sale or exchange and your adjusted tax basis in the warrant. Such gain
or loss will be capital gain or loss and will be long-term capital gain or loss
if the warrant was held for more than one year. Upon the sale of the warrant to
us, the Internal Revenue Service may argue that you should recognize ordinary
income on the sale. You are advised to consult your own tax advisors as to the
consequences of a sale of a warrant to us.



Potential Legislation or Other Actions Affecting Tax
Consequences



Current and prospective securities holders should
recognize that the present federal income tax treatment of an investment in us
may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time
and that any such action may affect investments and commitments previously
made. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under
review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue
Service and the Treasury Department, resulting in revisions of regulations and
revised interpretations of established concepts as well as statutory changes.
Revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations of these laws could adversely
affect the tax consequences of an investment in us.



State, Local and Foreign Taxes



We, and holders of our debt and equity securities, may
be subject to state, local or foreign taxation in various jurisdictions,
including those in which we or they transact business, own property or reside.
It should be noted that we own properties located in a number of state, local
and foreign jurisdictions, and may be required to file tax returns in some or
all of those jurisdictions. The state, local or foreign tax treatment of us and
holders of our debt and equity securities may not conform to the U.S. federal
income tax consequences discussed above. Consequently, you are urged to consult
your advisor regarding the application and effect of state, local and foreign
tax laws with respect to any investment in our securities.



Internet Access to Our SEC Filings



Our
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports
on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as our proxy
statements and other materials that are filed with, or furnished to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission are made available, free of charge, on the
Internet at www.hcreit.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are
filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.



Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements



This Annual Report
on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements
that constitute “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined in the
federal securities laws. When we use words such as “may,” “will,” “intend,”
“should,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,” “estimate” or similar
expressions that do not relate solely to historical matters, we are making
forward-looking statements. In particular, these forward-looking statements
include, but are not limited to, those relating to our opportunities to
acquire, develop or sell properties; our ability to close our anticipated
acquisitions, investments or dispositions on currently anticipated terms, or
within currently anticipated timeframes; the expected performance of our
operators/tenants and properties; our expected occupancy rates; our ability to
declare and to make distributions to stockholders; our investment and financing
opportunities and plans; our continued qualification as a real estate
investment trust (“REIT”); and our ability to access capital markets or other
sources of funds.



Forward-looking
statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and
uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from our
expectations discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result
of various factors, including, but not limited to:



•the status of the economy;

•the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of
capital;










•issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and
changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government
investigations and punitive settlements and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in
cost-effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other
insurance;

•changes in financing terms;

•competition within the health care, seniors housing and life science
industries;

•negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of
operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and
repay loans;

•our ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results;

•the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when
anticipated;

•natural disasters and other acts of God affecting our properties;

•our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur;

•our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets
sold;

•operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies;

•the cooperation of joint venture partners;

•government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement
rates and operational requirements;

•liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants;

•unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future
investments or acquisitions;

•environmental laws affecting our properties;

•changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting;

•the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates;

•our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT;

•key management personnel recruitment and retention; and

•the risks described under “Item 1A — Risk Factors.”



We undertake no
obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether
because of new information, future events, or otherwise.



