Item 1.Business



General



Welltower
Inc. (NYSE:HCN), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is
driving the transformation of health care infrastructure.  The company invests
with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems
to fund real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery
models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care experience. 
WelltowerTM, a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests
in properties concentrated in major, high-growth markets in the United States,
Canada and the United Kingdom, consisting of seniors housing and post-acute
communities and outpatient medical properties.  Our capital programs, when
combined with comprehensive planning, development and property management
services, make us a single-source solution for acquiring, planning, developing,
managing, repositioning and monetizing real estate assets.  More information is
available on the Internet at www.welltower.com.  The information on our website
is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our
web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.



Our
primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder
value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create
opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of
annual increases in net operating income and portfolio growth. To meet these
objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and health
care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type,
relationship and geographic location.



Depending
upon the availability and cost of external capital, we believe our liquidity is
sufficient to fund operations, meet debt service obligations (both principal
and interest), make dividend distributions and complete construction projects
in process. We also continuously evaluate opportunities to finance future
investments. New investments are generally funded from temporary borrowings
under our primary unsecured credit facility, internally generated cash and the
proceeds from investment dispositions. Our investments generate cash from net
operating income and principal payments on loans receivable. Permanent
financing for future investments, which replaces funds drawn under our primary
unsecured credit facility, has historically been provided through a combination
of the issuance of public debt and equity securities and the incurrence or
assumption of secured debt.



References
herein to “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” refer to Welltower Inc. and its
subsidiaries unless specifically noted otherwise.



Portfolio of Properties



Please
see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operation – Executive Summary – Company Overview” for a table that
summarizes our portfolio as of December 31, 2016.



Property Types



We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate and
evaluate our business on three reportable segments: triple-net, seniors housing
operating and outpatient medical.For additional information
regarding our segments, please see Note 17 to our consolidated financial
statements.The accounting policies of the segments
are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting
policies in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.The
following is a summary of our various property types.



Triple-Net



Our
triple-net properties include independent living facilities and independent
supportive living facilities (Canada), continuing care retirement communities,
assisted living facilities, care homes with and without nursing (United Kingdom),
Alzheimer’s/dementia care facilities and long-term/post-acute care facilities. 
We invest primarily through acquisitions, development and joint venture
partnerships. Our properties are primarily leased to operators under long-term,
triple-net master leases. We are not involved in property management.  Our
properties include stand-alone facilities that provide one level of service,
combination facilities that provide multiple levels of service, and communities
or campuses that provide a wide range of services.



Independent
Living Facilities and Independent Supportive Living Facilities (Canada).Independent
living facilities and independent supportive living facilities are
age-restricted, multifamily properties with central dining facilities that provide
residents access to meals and other services such as housekeeping, linen
service, transportation and social and recreational activities.



Continuing
Care Retirement Communities.Continuing care
retirement communities typically include a combination of detached homes, an
independent living facility, an assisted living facility and/or a
long-term/post-acute care facility on one campus. These communities appeal to
residents because there is no need to relocate when health and medical needs
change. Resident payment plans










vary, but can include
entrance fees, condominium fees and rental fees. Many of these communities also
charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some
health services.



Assisted
Living Facilities.  Assisted living facilities are state regulated rental
properties that provide the same services as independent living facilities, but
also provide supportive care from trained employees to residents who require
assistance with activities of daily living, including, but not limited to,
management of medications, bathing, dressing, toileting, ambulating and eating.



Care
Homes with Nursing (United Kingdom).  Care homes with nursing,
regulated by the Care Quality Commission are licensed daily rate or rental
properties where the majority of individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or
medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for various national and
local reimbursement programs.  Unlike the U.S., care homes with nursing in the
U.K. generally do not provide post-acute care.



Care
Homes (United Kingdom).  Care homes, regulated by the Care
Quality Commission, are rental properties that provide essentially the same
services as U.S. assisted living facilities.



Alzheimer’s/Dementia
Care Facilities.Certain assisted living facilities may include
state-licensed settings that specialize in caring for those afflicted with
Alzheimer’s disease and/or other types of dementia.



Long-Term/Post-Acute
Care Facilities.  Our long-term/post-acute care facilities generally include skilled
nursing/post-acute care facilities, inpatient rehabilitation facilities and
long-term acute care facilities.  Skilled nursing/post-acute care facilities
are licensed daily rate or rental properties where the majority of individuals
require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally, these properties are
licensed for Medicaid and/or Medicare reimbursement in the U.S. or provincial
reimbursement in Canada.  All facilities offer some level of rehabilitation
services.  Some facilities focus on higher acuity patients and offer
rehabilitation units specializing in cardiac, orthopedic, dialysis,
neurological or pulmonary rehabilitation.  Inpatient rehabilitation facilities
provide inpatient services for patients with intensive rehabilitation needs.  Long-term
acute care facilities provide inpatient services for patients with complex
medical conditions that require more intensive care, monitoring or emergency
support than is available in most skilled nursing/post-acute care facilities.



Our triple-net segment
accounted for 28%, 31% and 31% of total revenues for the years ended December
31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.  We lease 85 facilities to Genesis
Healthcare, LLC, an operator of long-term/post-acute care facilities, pursuant
to a long-term, triple-net master lease.  In addition to rent, the master lease
requires Genesis to pay all operating costs, utilities, real estate taxes,
insurance, building repairs, maintenance costs and all obligations under
certain ground leases.  All obligations under the master lease have been
guaranteed by FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC, a subsidiary of Genesis
Healthcare, LLC.  For the year ended December 31, 2016, our lease with Genesis
accounted for approximately 27% of our triple-net segment revenues and 8% of
our total revenues.



Seniors
Housing Operating



Our
seniors housing operating properties include several of the facility types
described in “Item 1 – Business – Property Types – Triple-Net”, including
independent living facilities and independent supportive living facilities,
assisted living facilities, care homes and Alzheimer’s/dementia care
facilities.  Properties are primarily held in consolidated joint venture
entities with operating partners. We utilize the structure proposed in the REIT
Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007, which is commonly
referred to as a “RIDEA” structure (the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
authorizing the RIDEA structure were enacted as part of the Housing and
Economic Recovery Act of 2008).  See Note 18 to our consolidated financial
statements for more information.



Our seniors housing
operating segment accounted for 59%, 56% and 57% of total revenues for the
years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.  We have
relationships with 16 operators to own and operate 420 facilities (plus 69
unconsolidated facilities).  In each instance, our partner provides management
services to the properties pursuant to an incentive-based management contract. 
We rely on our partners to effectively and efficiently manage these
properties.  For the year ended December 31, 2016, our relationship with
Sunrise Senior Living accounted for approximately 40% of our seniors housing
operating segment revenues and 23% of our total revenues.



Outpatient
Medical



Our
outpatient medical properties include outpatient medical buildings and, prior
to June 30, 2015, life science facilities.  We typically lease our outpatient
medical buildings to multiple tenants and provide varying levels of property
management.  Our life science investment represented an investment in an unconsolidated
joint venture entity.  Our outpatient medical segment accounted for 13%, 13%
and 12% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014,
respectively.  No single tenant exceeds 20% of segment revenues.












Outpatient
Medical Buildings.  The outpatient medical building portfolio consists of health
care related buildings that generally include physician offices, ambulatory
surgery centers, diagnostic facilities, outpatient services and/or labs. Our
portfolio has a strong affiliation with health systems. Approximately 95% of
our outpatient medical building portfolio is affiliated with health systems
(with buildings on hospital campuses or serving as satellite locations for the
health system and its physicians).



Life
Science Facilities.  The life science portfolio consisted of laboratory and office
facilities specifically designed and constructed for use by biotechnology and
pharmaceutical companies.  These facilities were located adjacent to The
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which is a well-established market known
for pharmaceutical and biotechnology research. They are similar to commercial
office buildings with advanced HVAC (heating, ventilation and air
conditioning), electrical and mechanical systems. On June 30, 2015, we disposed
of our life science investments.



Investments



Depending
upon market conditions, we believe that new investments will be available in
the future with spreads over our cost of capital that will generate appropriate
returns to our stockholders.  We invest in seniors housing and health care real
estate primarily through acquisitions, developments and joint venture
partnerships. For additional information regarding acquisition and development
activity, please see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements.  We
diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and
geographic location. In determining whether to invest in a property, we focus
on the following: (1) the experience of the obligor’s/partner’s management
team; (2) the historical and projected financial and operational
performance of the property; (3) the credit of the obligor/partner;
(4) the security for any lease or loan; (5) the real estate attributes of
the building and its location; (6) the capital committed to the property
by the obligor/partner; and (7) the operating fundamentals of the applicable
industry. We conduct market research and analysis for all potential
investments. In addition, we review the value of all properties, the interest
rates and covenant requirements of any facility-level debt to be assumed at the
time of the acquisition and the anticipated sources of repayment of any
existing debt that is not to be assumed at the time of the acquisition.



We
monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of
property. Our proactive and comprehensive asset management process for seniors
housing properties generally includes review of monthly financial statements
and other operating data for each property, review of obligor/partner creditworthiness,
property inspections, and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure,
real estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. Our internal
property management division actively manages and monitors the outpatient
medical portfolio with a comprehensive process including review of, among other
things, tenant relations, lease expirations, the mix of health service
providers, hospital/health system relationships, property performance, capital
improvement needs, and market conditions. In monitoring our portfolio, our
personnel use a proprietary database to collect and analyze property-specific
data. Additionally, we conduct extensive research to ascertain industry trends.



We
evaluate the operating environment in each property’s market to determine the
likely trend in operating performance of the facility.  When we identify
unacceptable trends, we seek to mitigate, eliminate or transfer the risk.
Through these efforts, we are generally able to intervene at an early stage to
address any negative trends, and in so doing, support both the collectability
of revenue and the value of our investment.



Investment Types



Real Property.Our properties
are primarily comprised of land, buildings, improvements and related rights. 
Our triple-net properties are generally leased to operators under long-term
operating leases.  The leases generally have a fixed contractual term of 12 to
15 years and contain one or more five to 15-year renewal options. Certain
of our leases also contain purchase options, a portion of which could result in
the disposition of properties for less than full market value.  Most of our
rents are received under triple-net leases requiring the operator to pay rent
and all additional charges incurred in the operation of the leased property.
The tenants are required to repair, rebuild and maintain the leased properties.
Substantially all of these operating leases are designed with escalating rent
structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized
on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a
collectability assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent
rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental
payments due for the period.



At
December 31, 2016, approximately 92% of our triple-net properties were subject
to master leases. A master lease is a lease of multiple properties to one
tenant entity under a single lease agreement. From time to time, we may acquire
additional properties that are then leased to the tenant under the master
lease. The tenant is required to make one monthly payment that represents rent
on all the properties that are subject to the master lease. Typically, the
master lease tenant can exercise its right to purchase the properties or to
renew the master lease only with respect to all leased properties at the same
time. This bundling feature benefits us because the tenant cannot limit the
purchase or renewal to the better performing properties and terminate the
leasing arrangement with respect to the poorer performing properties. This
spreads our risk among the entire group of properties within the master lease.
The bundling feature should provide a similar advantage to us if the master
lease tenant is in bankruptcy. Subject to certain restrictions, a debtor in
bankruptcy has the right to assume or reject each of its leases. It is our
intent that a tenant in bankruptcy would be required to assume or reject the
master lease as a whole, rather than deciding on a property by property basis.












Our outpatient medical portfolio is primarily self-managed and
consists principally of multi-tenant properties leased to health care
providers. Our leases typically include increasers and some form of operating
expense reimbursement by the tenant. As of December 31, 2016, 80% of our
portfolio included leases with full pass through, 17% with a partial expense
reimbursement (modified gross) and 3% with no expense reimbursement (gross).
Our outpatient medical leases are non-cancellable operating leases that have a
weighted-average remaining term of seven years at December 31, 2016 and are
often credit enhanced by security deposits, guaranties and/or letters of
credit.



Construction.We
occasionally provide for the construction of properties for tenants as part of
long-term operating leases. We capitalize certain interest costs associated
with funds used for the construction of properties owned by us. The amount
capitalized is based upon the amount advanced during the construction period
using the rate of interest that approximates our Company-wide cost of
financing. Our interest expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. We also
typically charge a transaction fee at the commencement of construction which we
defer and amortize to income over the term of the resulting lease. The
construction period commences upon funding and terminates upon the earlier of
the completion of the applicable property or the end of a specified period. During
the construction period, we advance funds to the tenants in accordance with
agreed upon terms and conditions which require, among other things, periodic
site visits by a Company representative. During the construction period, we
generally require an additional credit enhancement in the form of payment and
performance bonds and/or completion guaranties. At December 31, 2016, we had
outstanding construction investments of $506,091,000 and were committed to
provide additional funds of approximately $493,972,000 to complete construction
for investment properties.



Real
Estate Loans.Our real estate loans are typically structured to
provide us with interest income, principal amortization and transaction fees
and are generally secured by first/second mortgage liens, leasehold mortgages,
corporate guaranties and/or personal guaranties. At December 31, 2016, we had
outstanding real estate loans of $622,627,508.  The interest yield averaged
approximately 9.5% per annum on our outstanding real estate loan balances. Our
yield on real estate loans depends upon a number of factors, including the
stated interest rate, average principal amount outstanding during the term of
the loan and any interest rate adjustments. The real estate loans outstanding
at December 31, 2016 are generally subject to one to 15-year terms with
principal amortization schedules and/or balloon payments of the outstanding
principal balances at the end of the term. Typically, real estate loans are
cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with other real estate loans,
operating leases or agreements between us and the obligor and its affiliates.



Investments in
Unconsolidated Entities. Investments in entities that we do not consolidate
but have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and
financial policies are reported under the equity method of accounting.  Our
investments in unconsolidated entities generally represent interests ranging
from 10% to 50% in real estate assets.  Under the equity method of accounting,
our share of the investee’s earnings or losses is included in our consolidated
results of operations. To the extent that our cost basis is different from the
basis reflected at the entity level, the basis difference is generally
amortized over the lives of the related assets and liabilities, and such
amortization is included in our share of equity in earnings of the entity.  The
initial carrying value of investments in unconsolidated entities is based on
the amount paid to purchase the entity interest or the estimated fair value of
the assets prior to the sale of interests in the entity. We evaluate our equity
method investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the estimated fair
value of the equity method investment to its carrying value. When we determine
a decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment below its carrying
value is other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded.  See Note 7 to our
consolidated financial statements for more information.



Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint venture
entities that we control, through voting rights or other means. All material
intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.

At inception of joint venture
transactions, we identify entities for which control is achieved through means
other than voting rights (“variable interest entities” or “VIEs”) and determine
which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of its operations. A VIE
is broadly defined as an entity where either (i) the equity investors as a
group, if any, do not have a controlling financial interest, or (ii) the
equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities
without additional subordinated financial support. We consolidate investments
in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary.  Accounting
Standards Codification Topic 810, Consolidations, requires enterprises to
perform a qualitative approach to determining whether or not a VIE will need to
be consolidated on a continuous basis. This evaluation is based on an
enterprise’s ability to direct and influence the activities of a VIE that most
significantly impact that entity’s economic performance.

For investments in joint ventures, GAAP
may preclude consolidation by the sole general partner in certain circumstances
based on the type of rights held by the limited partner(s).  We assess the
limited partners’ rights and their impact on our consolidation conclusions, and
we reassess if there is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the
rights of the limited partners, the sole general partner increases or decreases
its ownership of limited partnership interests, or there is an increase or decrease
in the number of outstanding limited partnership interests. We similarly
evaluate the rights of managing members of limited liability companies.














Borrowing
Policies



We
utilize a combination of debt and equity to fund investments. Our debt and
equity levels are determined by management to maintain a conservative balance
sheet and credit profile. Generally, we intend to issue unsecured, fixed-rate
public debt with long-term maturities to approximate the maturities on our
triple-net leases and investment strategy. For short-term purposes, we may
borrow on our primary unsecured credit facility. We replace these borrowings
with long-term capital such as senior unsecured notes or common stock. When
terms are deemed favorable, we may invest in properties subject to existing
mortgage indebtedness. In addition, we may obtain secured financing for
unleveraged properties in which we have invested or may refinance properties
acquired on a leveraged basis. In certain agreements with our lenders, we are
subject to restrictions with respect to secured and unsecured indebtedness.



Competition



We
compete with other real estate investment trusts, real estate partnerships,
private equity and hedge fund investors, banks, insurance companies,
finance/investment companies, government-sponsored agencies, taxable and
tax-exempt bond funds, health care operators, developers and other investors in
the acquisition, development, leasing and financing of health care and seniors
housing properties. We compete for investments based on a number of factors
including relationships, certainty of execution, investment structures and
underwriting criteria. Our ability to successfully compete is impacted by
economic and demographic trends, availability of acceptable investment
opportunities, our ability to negotiate beneficial investment terms,
availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs and
applicable laws and regulations.



The
operators/tenants of our properties compete with properties that provide
comparable services in the local markets. Operators/tenants compete for
patients and residents based on a number of factors including quality of care,
reputation, physical appearance of properties, location, services offered,
family preferences, physicians, staff and price. We also face competition from
other health care facilities for tenants, such as physicians and other health
care providers that provide comparable facilities and services.



For
additional information on the risks associated with our business, please see
“Item 1A — Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



EmployeesAs of January 31, 2017, we had
466 employees.



Credit ConcentrationsPlease see Note 8 to our
consolidated financial statements.



Geographic ConcentrationsPlease see “Item 2 –
Properties” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 17 to our
consolidated financial statements.





Health Care Industry





Health
care real estate investment opportunities tend to increase as demand for health
care services increases.  We recognize the need for health care real estate as
it correlates to health care service demand.  Health care providers require
real estate to house their businesses and expand their services.  We believe
that investment opportunities in health care real estate will continue to be
present due to:

·The specialized nature of the industry, which enhances the
credibility and experience of the Company;

·The projected population growth combined with stable or increasing
health care utilization rates, which ensures demand; and

·The on-going merger and acquisition activity.



Certain
Government Regulations












United
States



Health Law Matters — Generally



Typically, operators of seniors housing facilities do not receive significant
funding from government programs and are largely subject to state laws, as
opposed to federal laws.  Operators of long-term/post-acute care facilities and
hospitals do receive significant funding from government programs, and these
facilities are subject to the federal and state laws that regulate the type and
quality of the medical and/or nursing care provided, ancillary services (

e.g



Licensing and Certification



The primary regulations that affect long-term and post-acute care facilities
are state licensing and registration laws.  For example, certain health care
facilities are subject to a variety of licensure and certificate of need
(“CON”) laws and regulations.  Where applicable, CON laws generally require,
among other requirements, that a facility demonstrate the need for (1)
constructing a new facility, (2) adding beds or expanding an existing facility,
(3) investing in major capital equipment or adding new services, (4) changing
the ownership or control of an existing licensed facility, or (5) terminating
services that have been previously approved through the CON process.  Certain
state CON laws and regulations may restrict the ability of operators to add new
properties or expand an existing facility’s size or services. In addition, CON
laws may constrain the ability of an operator to transfer responsibility for
operating a particular facility to a new operator.



With respect to licensure, generally our long-term/post-acute care facilities
and acute care facilities are required to be licensed and certified for
participation in Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state health care
programs.  The failure of our operators to maintain or renew any required
license or regulatory approval as well as the failure of our operators to
correct serious deficiencies identified in a compliance survey could require
those operators to discontinue operations at a property.  In addition, if a
property is found to be out of compliance with Medicare, Medicaid, or other
federal or state health care program conditions of participation, the property
operator may be excluded from participating in those government health care
programs.



Reimbursement



The reimbursement methodologies applied to health care facilities continue to
evolve.  Federal and state authorities have considered and may seek to
implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies, including value-based
reimbursement methodologies that may negatively impact health care property
operations.  The impact of any such changes, if implemented, may result in a
material adverse effect on our portfolio.  No assurance can be given that
current revenue sources or levels will be maintained.  Accordingly, there can
be no assurance that payments under a government health care program are
currently, or will be in the future, sufficient to fully reimburse the property
operators for their operating and capital expenses.

·Seniors Housing Facilities
(excluding long-term/post-acute care facilities).Approximately 55% of our overall revenues
for the year ended December 31, 2016 were attributable to U.S. seniors housing
facilities.  The majority of the revenues received by the operators of these
facilities are from private pay sources. The remaining revenue source is
primarily Medicaid under certain waiver programs.  As of September 30, 2016, 15
of our 44 seniors housing operators received Medicaid reimbursement pursuant to
Medicaid waiver programs. For the twelve months ended September 30, 2016,
approximately 1.7% of the revenues at our seniors housing facilities were from
Medicaid reimbursement.  There can be no guarantee that a state Medicaid
program operating pursuant to a waiver will be able to maintain its waiver status. 
Rates paid by self-pay residents are set by the facilities and are determined
by local market conditions and operating costs.  Generally, facilities receive
a higher payment per day for a private pay resident than for a Medicaid
beneficiary who requires a comparable level of care.  The level of Medicaid
reimbursement varies from state to state.  Thus, the revenues generated by
operators of our assisted living facilities may be adversely affected by payor
mix, acuity level, changes in Medicaid eligibility, and










reimbursement
levels.  In addition, a state could lose its Medicaid waiver and no longer be
permitted to utilize Medicaid dollars to reimburse for assisted living
services.

·Long-Term/Post-Acute Care
Facilities.  Approximately 13% of our
overall revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 were attributable to
long-term/post-acute care facilities.  The majority of the revenues received by
the operators of these facilities are from the Medicare and Medicaid programs,
with the balance representing reimbursement payments from private payors. 
Consequently, changes in federal or state reimbursement policies may adversely
affect an operator’s ability to cover its expenses, including our rent or debt
service.  Long-term/post-acute care facilities are subject to periodic pre- and
post-payment reviews, and other audits by federal and state authorities.  A
review or audit of a property operator’s claims could result in recoupments,
denials, or delay of payments in the future.  Due to the significant judgments
and estimates inherent in payor settlement accounting, no assurance can be
given as to the adequacy of any reserves maintained by our property operators
to cover potential adjustments to reimbursements, or to cover settlements made
to payors. Recent attention on billing practices, payments, and quality of
care, or ongoing government pressure to reduce spending by government health
care programs, could result in lower payments to long-term/post-acute care
facilities and, as a result, may impair an operator’s ability to meet its
financial obligations to us.

oMedicare Reimbursement.For the twelve months ended September 30, 2016,
approximately 39% of the revenues at our long-term/post-acute care facilities
were paid by Medicare. Generally, long-term/post-acute care facilities are
reimbursed under the Medicare Skilled Nursing Facility Prospective Payment
System (“SNF PPS”), the Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility Prospective Payment
System (“IRF PPS”), or the Long Term Care Hospital Prospective Payment System (“LTCH
PPS”), which generally provide reimbursement based upon a predetermined fixed
amount per episode of care and are updated by CMS, an agency of the Department
of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) annually.  CMS made some positive payment
updates for fiscal year (“FY”) 2017 under the SNF PPS, the IRF PPS and the LTCH
PPS, specifically:

§On August 5, 2016, CMS published a final rule regarding FY 2017
Medicare payment policies and rates for skilled nursing facilities (“SNFs”). 
Under the final SNF rule, CMS projects that aggregate payments to SNFs will
increase in FY 2017 by $920 million, or 2.4%, from payments in FY 2016.

§On August 5, 2016, CMS published a final rule regarding FY 2017
Medicare payment policies and rates for inpatient rehabilitation facilities
(“IRFs”).  Under the rule, CMS estimates that aggregate payments to IRFs will
increase in FY 2017 by $145 million, or 1.9%, relative to payments in FY 2016.

§On August 22, 2016, CMS published a final rule regarding FY 2017
Medicare payment policies and rates for long term care hospitals (“LTCHs”).  As
a result of the continuation of the phase-in of site neutral payment rates for
specified cases in LTCHs, CMS projects FY 2017 Medicare payments to LTCHs will
decrease by 7.1%, or approximately $363 million.  Payment rates will increase
by 0.7% for cases that qualify for the higher standard LTCH PPS rate.  In
response to a federal district court’s review of the “Two-Midnight” payment
policy,CMS finalized its proposal to remove the 0.2% Medicare Part A
hospital payment cut and also its effects for FYs 2014, 2015, and 2016 though
an approximate 0.8% increase to FY 2017 payment rates.

There is a risk under these payment systems that costs
will exceed the fixed payments, or that payments may be set below the costs to
provide certain items and services.  In addition, the HHS Office of Inspector
General has released recommendations to address SNF billing practices and
Medicare payment rates.  If followed, these recommendations regarding SNF
payment reform may impact our tenants and operators.

oMedicaid Reimbursement.  For the twelve months ended September 30, 2016,
approximately 33% of the revenues of long-term/post-acute care facilities were
paid by Medicaid.  Many states reimburse SNFs, for example, using fixed daily
rates, which are applied prospectively based on patient acuity and the
historical costs incurred in providing patient care.  In most states, Medicaid
does not fully reimburse the cost of providing services.  Certain states are
attempting to slow the rate of Medicaid growth by freezing rates or restricting
eligibility and benefits.  In addition, Medicaid reimbursement rates may
decline if revenues in a particular state are not sufficient to fund budgeted
expenditures.

·Medicare Reimbursement for Physicians,
Hospital Outpatient Departments, and Ambulatory Surgical Centers.Changes in reimbursement to physicians, Hospital
Outpatient Departments (“HOPDs”), and Ambulatory Surgical Centers (“ASCs”) may
further affect our tenants and operators.  Generally, Medicare reimburses
physicians under the Physician Fee Schedule, while HOPDs and ASCs are
reimbursed under prospective payment systems.  The Physician Fee Schedule and
the HOPD and ASC prospective payment systems are updated annually by CMS. 
These annual Medicare payment regulations have resulted in lower net pay
increases than providers of those services have often expected.  In addition,
Congress recently passed the Medicare and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015
(“MACRA”), which includes payment reductions for providers who do not meet
government quality standards.  The implementation of pay-for-quality models
like those required under MACRA is expected to produce funding disparities that
could adversely impact some provider tenants in medical buildings and other
health care properties.Changes in Medicare Advantage plan payments may also indirectly affect our
operators and tenants that contract with Medicare Advantage plans.

·Health Reform Laws.On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed into law the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education
Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Health Reform Laws”), which
dramatically














Fraud & Abuse Enforcement





Prosecutions, investigations, or whistleblower actions could have a material
adverse effect on a property operator’s liquidity, financial condition, and
operations, which could adversely affect the ability of the operator to meet
its financial obligations to us.  In addition, government investigations and
enforcement actions brought against the health care industry have increased
dramatically over the past several years and are expected to continue.  Although
the responsibility for enforcing these laws and regulations lies with a variety
of federal, state and local governmental agencies, some may be enforced by
private litigants through federal and state false claims acts and other laws,
including some state privacy laws, that allow for private individuals to bring
actions.  The costs for an operator of a health care property associated with
both defending such enforcement actions and the undertakings in settling these
actions can be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on the
ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us.



Federal and State Data Privacy and
Security Laws



The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by
Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, and
numerous other state and federal laws govern the collection, security,
dissemination, use, access to and confidentiality of individually identifiable
health information.  Violations of these laws may result in substantial civil
and/or criminal fines and penalties.



United
Kingdom



In England, care home services are principally regulated by the Health and
Social Care Act 2008 (as amended) and other regulations.  This legislation
subjects service providers to a number of legally binding "Fundamental
Standards" and requires, amongst other things, that all persons carrying
out "Regulated Activities" in England, and the managers of such
persons, be registered. Providers of care home services are also subject (as
data controllers) to laws governing their use of personal data (including in
relation










to their employees, clients and recipients of
their services).  These laws currently take the form of the UK's Data
Protection Act 1998, enforced by the UK's Information Commissioner's Office,
but this will be replaced in mid-2018 by the EU's new General Data Protection
Regulation (“GDPR”).  The GDPR will impose a significant number of new
obligations with the potential for fines of up to 4% of annual worldwide
turnover or €20 million, whichever is greater.  Entities incorporated in or carrying
on a business in the UK as well as individuals residing in the U.K. are also
subject to the UK Bribery Act 2010.  The UK recently introduced a new national minimum
wage with a maximum fine for non-payment of £20,000 per worker and employers
who fail to pay will be banned from being a company director for up to 15
years.  The UK recently voted to exit from the EU (“Brexit”).  Negotiations on
the exit agreement are underway but at present it is not possible to predict
whether Brexit will have a material impact on our operators' or tenants'
property or business.



Canada



Retirement homes and long-term care homes are subject to regulation, and
long-term care homes receive funding, under provincial law.  There is no
federal regulation in this area.  Set out below are summaries of the principal
regulatory requirements in the provinces where we have a material number of
facilities.



Licensing and Regulation



Alberta



In Alberta, there are three relevant designations for seniors’ living
arrangements, ordered below from the most independent to the highest level of
care.

·Retirement Homes(also called independent living) are designed for
older adults able to live on their own, and may offer various lifestyle
amenities.  These residences may be rented, privately owned, or life-leased,
and may be operated for profit or non-profit.  Support services are not usually
offered, but can be arranged by residents.  Retirement homes do not generally
receive government funding; residents pay for tenancy and services
received.  Rental subsidies may be available to qualified seniors.
Independent living residences are subject to provincial tenancy and housing
laws.

·



Supportive Living

·Nursing Homes(also called long-term care) are for residents who
have complex, unpredictable medical needs and who require 24-hour on-site
registered nurse assessment or treatment. Nursing homes are regulated by
Provincial laws, and governed by the Ministry of Health.  Operators are not
licensed, but enter into agreements with the Ministry for the operation of
nursing homes and must comply with certain accommodation standards.  Homes can
be operated by private for-profit or not-for-profit, or public operators.
Operators that receive public funds for health and personal care services must
also comply with certain health service standards and legislation aimed at
protecting residents.  Alberta Health regulates the maximum accommodation
fee in publicly-funded nursing homes.  Health services in long-term care are
publicly-funded, provided through Alberta Health Services.  Private sector
operators are eligible to apply for government funding, and the Minister may
make grants to an operator in respect of its operating or capital costs.



Ontario



Long-term care homes (also called nursing homes), receive government funding,
are licensed under provincial law aimed at resident protection, and are
governed by the Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care.  Retirement homes are
regulated and licensed under a provincial law aimed at protecting residents.
Retirement homes do not receive government funding; residents enter into
tenancy agreements under provincial tenancy law, and pay for tenancy and
services received.  Residents may access publicly-funded external care services
at the home from external suppliers.  Retirement home licenses are granted by
the Retirement Homes Regulatory Authority (“RHRA”), and are non-transferable.
The RHRA administers the law governing retirement homes, to ensure that
licensees are meeting certain standards, generally with respect to care and
safety.  The law requires any person to report to the RHRA when there are
reasonable grounds to suspect abuse of a resident by anyone, or neglect of a
resident by staff.  The RHRA conducts a










mandatory
inspection and issues a report that is posted on the RHRA’s public website, and
also must be posted in the subject home if it is the most recent report.  The
Registrar of the RHRA can receive complaints about a retirement home contravening
a provision of the law, and if such a complaint is received, it must be
reviewed promptly.  The Registrar has broad powers relating to complaint
investigation and action.  The RHRA Registrar has the power to inspect a
retirement home at any time without warning or issue a warrant to ensure
compliance.  Compliance inspections occur at least every three years. The
Registrar has the power to make a variety of orders including the imposition of
a fine or an order revoking the operator’s license.  The applicable law also
enumerates offenses, such as operating without a license, and provides for
penalties for offenses. All of the homes in which we have an interest in
Ontario are licensed as retirement homes. One of the homes also has some
licensed long-term care beds.



British Columbia



Provincial laws regulate and license “community care facilities” (long-term
care homes) in substantially the same manner as retirement homes are regulated
under Ontario laws. Community care facilities are defined as premises used for
the purpose of supervising vulnerable persons who require three or more
prescribed services (from a list that includes regular assistance with
activities of daily living; distribution of medication; management of cash
resources; monitoring of food intake; structured behavior management and
intervention; and psychosocial or physical rehabilitative therapy).



Provincial law also recognizes and regulates “assisted living residences,” for
seniors who can live independently, but require assistance with certain
activities. Services available can include meals, housekeeping, monitoring and
emergency support, social/recreational opportunities, and transportation. 
Assisted living residences do not require a license, but must be registered
with the registrar of assisted living residences and must be operated in a
manner that does not jeopardize the health or safety of residents. If the
registrar believes the standard is not being met, the registrar may inspect the
residence and may suspend or cancel a registration.



Independent living residences offer housing and hospitality services for
retired adults who are functionally independent and able to direct their own
care.   Most of the residences in which
we have an interest in B.C. are assisted living residences, with one being an
independent living residence.



Québec



Provincial laws in Québec regulate retirement homes (private seniors’
residences) as well as long-term care homes (residential and long-term care
centers). All homes in which we have an interest in Québec are private seniors’
residences which are required to obtain a certificate of compliance based on
prescribed operating standards.



A certificate of compliance is issued for a period of four years and is
renewable. The regional health and social agency may revoke or refuse to issue
or renew a certificate of compliance if, among other things, the operator fails
to comply with the applicable law. The agency may also order corrective
measures, further to an inspection, complaint or investigation. The agency is
authorized to inspect a residence, at any reasonable time of day, in order to
ascertain whether it complies with the law.



Private seniors’
residences may belong to either or both of the following categories: (i) those
offering services to independent elderly persons and (ii) those offering
services to semi-independent elderly persons. The operator must, for each
category, comply with the applicable criteria and standards, with some
exceptions for residences with fewer than six or ten rooms or apartments. There
are requirements with respect to residents’ health and safety, meal services
and recreation, content of residents’ files, disclosure of information to
residents, and staffing, among other things.



Other Related Laws



Privacy



The services provided in our facilities are subject to privacy legislation in
Canada, including, in certain provinces, privacy laws specifically related to
personal health information.  Although the obligations of custodians of
personal information in the various provinces differ, they all include the
obligation to protect the information.  The organizations with which we have
management agreements may be the custodian of personal information collected in
connection with the operation of our facilities.



Privacy laws in Canada are consent-based and require the implementation of a
privacy program involving policies, procedures and the designation of an
individual or team with primary responsibility for privacy law compliance. 
Mandatory breach notification to affected individuals is a requirement under
some laws.  Mandatory breach notification to the applicable regulator is a
requirement in some provinces.  Some laws require notification where personal
information is processed or stored outside of Canada.  One provincial law (in
Quebec) provides for fines where an organization fails to perform due diligence
before outsourcing activities involving personal information to a service
provider outside of the province.












The powers of privacy regulators and penalties
for violations of privacy law vary according to the applicable law or are left
to the courts.  To date, monetary penalties granted have been on the low side,
although that is changing with civil actions for breach of privacy and may
change further as a result of class action activity.  Regulators have the
authority to make public the identity of a custodian that has been found to
have committed a breach, so there is a reputational risk associated with
privacy law violations even where no monetary damages are incurred. The
notification of residents (mandatory under some privacy laws) and other
activities required to manage a privacy breach can give rise to significant
costs.



Other Legislation



Retirement homes may be
subject to residential tenancy laws, such that there can be restrictions on
rent increases and termination of tenancies, for instance.  Other provincial
and/or municipal laws applicable to fire safety, food services, zoning, occupational
health and safety, public health, and the provision of community health care
and funded long-term/post-acute care may also apply to retirement homes.





Taxation



Federal Income Tax Considerations



The following summary of the taxation of the Company
and the material federal tax consequences to the holders of our debt and equity
securities is for general information only and is not tax advice. This summary
does not address all aspects of taxation that may be relevant to certain types
of holders of stock or securities (including, but not limited to, insurance
companies, tax-exempt entities, financial institutions or broker-dealers,
persons holding shares of common stock as part of a hedging, integrated
conversion, or constructive sale transaction or a straddle, traders in
securities that use a mark-to-market method of accounting for their securities,
investors in pass-through entities and foreign corporations and persons who are
not citizens or residents of the United States).



This summary does not discuss all of the aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be relevant to you in light of your particular
investment or other circumstances. In addition, this summary does not discuss
any state or local income taxation or foreign income taxation or other tax
consequences. This summary is based on current U.S. federal income tax
law. Subsequent developments in U.S. federal income tax law, including
changes in law or differing interpretations, which may be applied
retroactively, could have a material effect on the U.S. federal income tax
consequences of purchasing, owning and disposing of our securities as set forth
in this summary. Before you purchase our securities, you should consult your
own tax advisor regarding the particular U.S. federal, state, local,
foreign and other tax consequences of acquiring, owning and selling our
securities.



General



We elected to be taxed as a real estate investment
trust (a “REIT”) commencing with our first taxable year. We intend to continue
to operate in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT, but there is no guarantee
that we will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for subsequent years.
Qualification and taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet a variety
of qualification tests imposed under federal income tax law with respect to
income, assets, distribution level and diversity of share ownership as
discussed below under “— Qualification as a REIT.” There can be no
assurance that we will be owned and organized and will operate in a manner so as
to qualify or remain qualified.



In any year in which we qualify as a REIT, in general,
we will not be subject to federal income tax on that portion of our REIT
taxable income or capital gain that is distributed to stockholders. We may,
however, be subject to tax at normal corporate rates on any taxable income or
capital gain not distributed. If we elect to retain and pay income tax on our
net long-term capital gains, stockholders are required to include their
proportionate share of our undistributed long-term capital gains in income, but
they will receive a refundable credit for their share of any taxes paid by us
on such gain.



Despite the REIT election, we may be subject to
federal income and excise tax as follows:

•     To the extent that we do not distribute all of
our net capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our
“REIT taxable income,” as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the
undistributed amount at regular corporate tax rates;

•     We may be subject to the “alternative minimum
tax” (the “AMT”) on certain tax preference items to the extent that the AMT
exceeds our regular tax;

•     If we have net income from the sale or other
disposition of “foreclosure property” that is held primarily for sale to
customers in the ordinary course of business or other non-qualifying income
from foreclosure property, such income will be taxed at the highest corporate
rate;

•     Any net income from prohibited transactions
(which are, in general, sales or other dispositions of property held primarily
for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, other than
dispositions of foreclosure property and dispositions of property due to an
involuntary conversion) will be subject to a 100% tax;










•     If we fail to
satisfy either the 75% or 95% gross income tests (as discussed below), but
nonetheless maintain our qualification as a REIT because certain other
requirements are met, we will be subject to a 100% tax on an amount equal to
(1) the gross income attributable to the greater of (i) 75% of our
gross income over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 75%
gross income test (discussed below) or (ii) 95% of our gross income over
the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test
(discussed below) multiplied by (2) a fraction intended to reflect our
profitability;

•     If we fail to distribute during each year at
least the sum of (1) 85% of our REIT ordinary income for the year,
(2) 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for such year (other than
capital gain that we elect to retain and pay tax on) and (3) any
undistributed taxable income from preceding periods, we will be subject to a 4%
excise tax on the excess of such required distribution over amounts actually
distributed;

•     We will be subject to a 100% tax on the amount
of any rents from real property, deductions or excess interest paid to us by
any of our “taxable REIT subsidiaries” that would be reduced through
reallocation under certain federal income tax principles in order to more
clearly reflect income of the taxable REIT subsidiary. See
“— Qualification as a REIT — Investments in Taxable REIT
Subsidiaries;” and

•     We may be subject to the corporate “alternative
minimum tax” on any items of tax preference, including any deductions of net
operating losses.





Qualification as a REIT



A REIT is defined as a corporation, trust or
association:

(1)     which is managed by one or more trustees or
directors;

(2)     the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced
by transferable shares or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest;

(3)     which would be taxable as a domestic
corporation but for the federal income tax law relating to REITs;

(4)     which is neither a financial institution nor
an insurance company;

(5)     the beneficial ownership of which is held by
100 or more persons in each taxable year of the REIT except for its first
taxable year;

(6)     not more than 50% in value of the outstanding
stock of which is owned during the last half of each taxable year, excluding
its first taxable year, directly or indirectly, by or for five or fewer
individuals (which includes certain entities) (the “Five or Fewer
Requirement”); and

(7)     which meets certain income and asset tests
described below.



Conditions (1) to (4), inclusive, must be met
during the entire taxable year and condition (5) must be met during at
least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a
proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months. For purposes
of conditions (5) and (6), pension funds and certain other tax-exempt
entities are treated as individuals, subject to a “look-through” exception in
the case of condition (6).



Based on publicly available information, we believe we
have satisfied the share ownership requirements set forth in (5) and
(6) above. In addition, Article VI of our by-laws provides for
restrictions regarding ownership and transfer of shares. These restrictions are
intended to assist us in continuing to satisfy the share ownership requirements
described in (5) and (6) above. These restrictions, however, may not
ensure that we will, in all cases, be able to satisfy the share ownership
requirements described in (5) and (6) above.



We have complied with, and will continue to comply
with, regulatory rules to send annual letters to certain of our stockholders
requesting information regarding the actual ownership of our stock. If, despite
sending the annual letters, we do not know, or after exercising reasonable
diligence would not have known, whether we failed to meet the Five or Fewer
Requirement, we will be treated as having met the Five or Fewer Requirement. If
we fail to comply with these regulatory rules, we will be subject to a monetary
penalty. If our failure to comply was due to intentional disregard of the
requirement, the penalty would be increased. However, if our failure to comply
were due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect, no penalty would be
imposed.












We may own a number of properties through wholly owned
subsidiaries. A corporation will qualify as a “qualified REIT subsidiary” if
100% of its stock is owned by a REIT, and the REIT does not elect to treat the
subsidiary as a taxable REIT subsidiary. A “qualified REIT subsidiary” will not
be treated as a separate corporation, and all assets, liabilities and items of
income, deductions and credits of a “qualified REIT subsidiary” will be treated
as assets, liabilities and items (as the case may be) of the REIT. A “qualified
REIT subsidiary” is not subject to federal income tax, and our ownership of the
voting stock of a qualified REIT subsidiary will not violate the restrictions
against ownership of securities of any one issuer which constitute more than
10% of the value or total voting power of such issuer or more than 5% of the
value of our total assets, as described below under “— Asset Tests.”



If we invest in a partnership, a limited liability
company or a trust taxed as a partnership or as a disregarded entity, we will be
deemed to own a proportionate share of the partnership’s, limited liability
company’s or trust’s assets. Likewise, we will be treated as receiving our
share of the income and loss of the partnership, limited liability company or
trust, and the gross income will retain the same character in our hands as it
has in the hands of the partnership, limited liability company or trust. These
“look-through” rules apply for purposes of the income tests and assets tests
described below.



Income Tests.There
are two separate percentage tests relating to our sources of gross income that
we must satisfy each taxable year.

•     At least 75% of our gross income (excluding
gross income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) must be
directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from “rents from real
property,” other income from investments relating to real property or mortgages
on real property or certain income from qualified temporary investments.

•     At least 95% of our gross income (excluding
gross income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) must be
directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from any of the sources
qualifying for the 75% gross income test and from dividends (including
dividends from taxable REIT subsidiaries) and interest.



As to transactions entered into in taxable years
beginning after October 22, 2004 and on or prior to July 30, 2008, any of
our income from a “clearly identified” hedging transaction that is entered into
by us in the normal course of business, directly or indirectly, to manage the
risk of interest rate movements, price changes or currency fluctuations with
respect to borrowings or obligations incurred or to be incurred by us, or such
other risks that are prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, is excluded
from the 95% gross income test.



For transactions entered into after July 30,
2008, any of our income from a “clearly identified” hedging transaction that is
entered into by us in the normal course of business, directly or indirectly, to
manage the risk of interest rate movements, price changes or currency
fluctuations with respect to borrowings or obligations incurred or to be
incurred by us is excluded from the 95% and 75% gross income tests. For
transactions entered into after July 30, 2008, any of our income from a
“clearly identified” hedging transaction entered into by us primarily to manage
risk of currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain that
is included in gross income in the 95% and 75% gross income tests is excluded
from the 95% and 75% gross income tests.



In general, a hedging transaction is “clearly
identified” if (1) the transaction is identified as a hedging transaction
before the end of the day on which it is entered into and (2) the items or
risks being hedged are identified “substantially contemporaneously” with the
hedging transaction. An identification is not substantially contemporaneous if
it is made more than 35 days after entering into the hedging transaction.





Generally, other than income from “clearly identified”
hedging transactions entered into by us in the normal course of business, any
foreign currency gain derived by us from dealing, or engaging in substantial
and regular trading, in securities will constitute gross income which does not
qualify under the 95% or 75% gross income tests.












Rents received by us will
qualify as “rents from real property” for purposes of satisfying the gross
income tests for a REIT only if several conditions are met:

•     The amount of rent must not be based in whole or
in part on the income or profits of any person, although rents generally will
not be excluded merely because they are based on a fixed percentage or
percentages of receipts or sales.

•     Rents received from a tenant will not qualify as
rents from real property if the REIT, or an owner of 10% or more of the REIT,
also directly or constructively owns 10% or more of the tenant, unless the
tenant is our taxable REIT subsidiary and certain other requirements are met
with respect to the real property being rented.

•     If rent attributable to personal property leased
in connection with a lease of real property is greater than 15% of the total
rent received under the lease, then the portion of rent attributable to such
personal property will not qualify as “rents from real property.”

•     For rents to qualify as rents from real
property, we generally must not furnish or render services to tenants, other
than through a taxable REIT subsidiary or an “independent contractor” from whom
we derive no income, except that we may directly provide services that are
“usually or customarily rendered” in the geographic area in which the property
is located in connection with the rental of real property for occupancy only,
or are not otherwise considered “rendered to the occupant for his convenience.”

•     For taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008,
the REIT may lease“qualified
health careproperties”on an
arm’s-length basis to a taxable REIT subsidiary if the property is operated on
behalf of such subsidiary by a person whoqualifies as an
“independent contractor” and who is, or is related to a person who is, actively
engaged in the trade or business of operating health care facilities for any
person unrelated to us or our taxable REIT subsidiary, an “eligible independent contractor.”Generally, the rent that the REIT
receives from the taxable REIT subsidiary will be treated as “rents from real
property.”A “qualified health care property” includes any
real property and any personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental
to the use of, a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility,
congregate care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed
facility that extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients and
is operated by a provider of such services that is eligible for participation
in the Medicare program with respect to such facility.



A REIT is permitted to render a de minimis amount of
impermissible services to tenants and still treat amounts received with respect
to that property as rent from real property. The amount received or accrued by
the REIT during the taxable year for the impermissible services with respect to
a property may not exceed 1% of all amounts received or accrued by the REIT
directly or indirectly from the property. The amount received for any service
or management operation for this purpose shall be deemed to be not less than
150% of the direct cost of the REIT in furnishing or rendering the service or
providing the management or operation. Furthermore, impermissible services may
be furnished to tenants by a taxable REIT subsidiary subject to certain
conditions, and we may still treat rents received with respect to the property
as rent from real property.



The term “interest” generally does not
include any amount if the determination of the amount depends in whole or in
part on the income or profits of any person, although an amount generally will
not be excluded from the term “interest” solely by reason of being based on a
fixed percentage of receipts or sales.



If we fail to satisfy one or both of
the 75% or 95% gross income tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless
qualify as a REIT for such year if we are eligible for relief.  These relief
provisions generally will be available if (1) following our identification
of the failure, we file a schedule for such taxable year describing each item
of our gross income, and (2) the failure to meet such tests was due to
reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect. It is not now possible to
determine the circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of
these relief provisions. If these relief provisions apply, a 100% tax is imposed
on an amount equal to (a) the gross income attributable to (1) 75% of
our gross income over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the
75% income test and (2) 95% of our gross income over the amount of
qualifying gross income for purposes of the 95% income test, multiplied by
(b) a fraction intended to reflect our profitability. The Secretary of the
Treasury is given broad authority to determine whether particular items of
income or gain qualify or not under the 75% and 95% gross income tests, or are
to be excluded from the measure of gross income for such purposes.



Asset Tests.

Within 30 days after
the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must also satisfy several
tests relating to the nature and diversification of our assets determined in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. At least 75% of the
value of our total assets must be represented by real estate assets, cash, cash
items (including receivables arising in the ordinary course of our operation),
government securities and qualified temporary investments. Although the
remaining 25% of our assets generally may be invested without restriction, we
are prohibited from owning securities representing more than 10% of either the
vote (the “10% vote test”) or value (the “10% value test”) of the outstanding
securities of any issuer other than a qualified REIT subsidiary, another REIT
or a taxable REIT subsidiary. Further, no more than 25% (20% for tax years
beginning after 2017) of the total assets may be represented by securities of
one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (the “25% asset test”) and no more than
5% of the value of our total assets may be represented by securities of any
non-governmental issuer other than a qualified REIT subsidiary (the “5% asset test”),
another REIT or a taxable REIT subsidiary. Each of the 10% vote test, the 10%
value test and the 25% and 5% asset tests must be satisfied at the end of each
quarter. There are special rules which provide relief if the value related
tests are not satisfied due to changes in the value of the assets of a REIT.



Certain items are excluded from the
10% value test, including: (1) straight debt securities (as defined in
Internal Revenue Code Section 1361(c)(5)) of an issuer (including straight debt
that provides certain contingent payments); (2) any loan to an individual
or an










estate; (3) any rental agreement described
in Section 467 of the Internal Revenue Code, other than with a “related
person”; (4) any obligation to pay rents from real property; (5) certain
securities issued by a state or any subdivision thereof, the District of
Columbia, a foreign government, or any political subdivision thereof, or the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; (6) any security issued by a REIT; and
(7) any other arrangement that, as determined by the Secretary of the
Treasury, is excepted from the definition of security (“excluded securities”).
Special rules apply to straight debt securities issued by corporations and
entities taxable as partnerships for federal income tax purposes. If a REIT, or
its taxable REIT subsidiary, holds (1) straight debt securities of a
corporate or partnership issuer and (2) securities of such issuer that are
not excluded securities and have an aggregate value greater than 1% of such
issuer’s outstanding securities, the straight debt securities will be included
in the 10% value test.



A REIT’s interest as a partner in a
partnership is not treated as a security for purposes of applying the 10% value
test to securities issued by the partnership. Further, any debt instrument
issued by a partnership will not be a security for purposes of applying the 10%
value test (1) to the extent of the REIT’s interest as a partner in the
partnership and (2) if at least 75% of the partnership’s gross income
(excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) would qualify for the 75%
gross income test.  For purposes of the 10% value test, a REIT’s interest in a
partnership’s assets is determined by the REIT’s proportionate interest in any
securities issued by the partnership (other than the excluded securities
described in the preceding paragraph).



For taxable years beginning after
July 30, 2008, if the REIT or its QBU uses a foreign currency as its
functional currency, the term “cash” includes such foreign currency, but only
to the extent such foreign currency is (i) held for use in the normal
course of the activities of the REIT or QBU which give rise to items of income
or gain that are included in the 95% and 75% gross income tests or are directly
related to acquiring or holding assets qualifying under the 75% asset test, and
(ii) not held in connection with dealing or engaging in substantial and
regular trading in securities.



With respect to corrections of
failures as to violations of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test or the 5%
asset test, a REIT may avoid disqualification as a REIT by disposing of
sufficient assets to cure a violation that does not exceed the lesser of 1% of
the REIT’s assets at the end of the relevant quarter or $10,000,000, provided
that the disposition occurs within six months following the last day of the
quarter in which the REIT first identified the assets. For violations of any of
the REIT asset tests due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect that
exceed the thresholds described in the preceding sentence, a REIT can avoid
disqualification as a REIT after the close of a taxable quarter by taking
certain steps, including disposition of sufficient assets within the six month
period described above to meet the applicable asset test, paying a tax equal to
the greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net
income generated by the non-qualifying assets during the period of time that
the assets were held as non-qualifying assets and filing a schedule with the
Internal Revenue Service that describes the non-qualifying assets.



Investments in Taxable REIT
Subsidiaries.REITs may own more than 10% of the voting power and value of securities in
taxable REIT subsidiaries. Unlike a qualified REIT subsidiary, other
disregarded entity or partnership, the income and assets of a taxable REIT
subsidiary are not attributable to the REIT for purposes of satisfying the
income and asset ownership requirements applicable to REIT qualification.  We
and any taxable corporate entity in which we own an interest are allowed to
jointly elect to treat such entity as a “taxable REIT subsidiary.”



Certain of our subsidiaries have
elected to be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary. Taxable REIT subsidiaries
are subject to full corporate level federal taxation on their earnings but are
permitted to engage in certain types of activities that cannot be performed
directly by REITs without jeopardizing their REIT status. Our taxable REIT
subsidiaries will attempt to minimize the amount of these taxes, but there can
be no assurance whether or the extent to which measures taken to minimize taxes
will be successful. To the extent our taxable REIT subsidiaries are required to
pay federal, state or local taxes, the cash available for distribution as
dividends to us from our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be reduced.



The amount of interest on
related-party debt that a taxable REIT subsidiary may deduct is limited.
Further, a 100% tax applies to any interest payments by a taxable REIT
subsidiary to its affiliated REIT to the extent the interest rate is not
commercially reasonable. A taxable REIT subsidiary is permitted to deduct
interest payments to unrelated parties without any of these restrictions.



The Internal Revenue Service may
reallocate costs between a REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiary where there is
a lack of arm’s-length dealing between the parties. Any deductible expenses
allocated away from a taxable REIT subsidiary would increase its tax liability.
Further, any amount by which a REIT understates its deductions and overstates
those of its taxable REIT subsidiary may, subject to certain exceptions, be
subject to a 100% tax. Additional taxable REIT subsidiary elections may be made
in the future for additional entities in which we obtain an interest.



Annual Distribution Requirements.In order to avoid being
taxed as a regular corporation, we are required to make distributions (other
than capital gain distributions) to our stockholders which qualify for the
dividends paid deduction in an amount at least equal to (1) the sum of
(i) 90% of our “REIT taxable income” (computed without regard to the
dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the
after-tax net income, if any, from foreclosure property, minus (2) a
portion of certain items of non-cash income. These distributions must be paid
in the taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable year if
declared before we timely file our tax return for that year and if paid on or
before the first regular distribution payment after such declaration.  Prior to
recently enacted legislation, with respect to all REITs the amount distributed
could not be preferential. This means that every stockholder of the class of
stock to which a distribution is made must be treated the same as every other
stockholder of that class, and










no class of stock may
be treated otherwise than in accordance with its dividend rights as a class
(the “preferential dividend rule”).  Beginning in tax years after 2014, the
preferential dividend rule no longer applies to publicly offered REITs,
however, the rule is still applicable to other entities taxed as REITs, which
would include several of our subsidiaries.  To the extent that we do not
distribute all of our net capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less
than 100%, of our “REIT taxable income,” as adjusted, we will be subject to tax
on the undistributed amount at regular corporate tax rates.  As discussed
above, we may be subject to an excise tax if we fail to meet certain other
distribution requirements. We believe we have satisfied the annual distribution
requirements for the year of our initial REIT election and each year thereafter
through the year ended December 31, 2016. Although we intend to make timely
distributions sufficient to satisfy these annual distribution requirements for
subsequent years, economic, market, legal, tax or other factors could limit our
ability to meet those requirements. See “Item 1A — Risk Factors.”



It is also possible that, from time to
time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90%
distribution requirement, or to distribute such greater amount as may be
necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, due to, among other things,
(1) timing differences between (i) the actual receipt of income and
actual payment of deductible expenses and (ii) the inclusion of income and
deduction of expenses in arriving at our taxable income, or (2) the
payment of severance benefits that may not be deductible to us. In the event
that timing differences occur, we may find it necessary to arrange for
borrowings or, if possible, pay dividends in the form of taxable stock
dividends in order to meet the distribution requirement.



Under certain circumstances, in the
event of a deficiency determined by the Internal Revenue Service, we may be
able to rectify a resulting failure to meet the distribution requirement for a
year by paying “deficiency dividends” to stockholders in a later year, which
may be included in our deduction for distributions paid for the earlier year.
Thus, we may be able to avoid being taxed on amounts distributed as deficiency
dividends; however, we will be required to pay applicable penalties and
interest based upon the amount of any deduction taken for deficiency dividend
distributions.



Failure to Qualify as a REIT



If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any
taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax, including any
applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate
rates. Distributions to stockholders in any year in which we fail to qualify as
a REIT will not be deductible nor will any particular amount of distributions
be required to be made in any year. All distributions to stockholders will be
taxable as ordinary income to the extent of current and accumulated earnings
and profits allocable to these distributions and, subject to certain
limitations, will be eligible for the dividends received deduction for
corporate stockholders. Unless entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions,
we also will be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years
following the year during which qualification was lost. It is not possible to
state whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to statutory relief.
Failure to qualify for even one year could result in our need to incur
indebtedness or liquidate investments in order to pay potentially significant
resulting tax liabilities.



In addition to the relief described above under
“— Income Tests” and “— Asset Tests,” relief is available in the
event that we violate a provision of the Internal Revenue Code that would
result in our failure to qualify as a REIT if: (1) the violation is due to
reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect; (2) we pay a penalty of
$50,000 for each failure to satisfy the provision; and (3) the violation
does not include a violation described under “— Income Tests” or
“— Asset Tests” above. It is not now possible to determine the
circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief
provisions.



Federal Income Taxation of Holders of Our Stock



Treatment of Taxable U.S. Stockholders.The following summary applies to you only
if you are a “U.S. stockholder.” A “U.S. stockholder” is a holder of
shares of stock who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is:

•     a citizen or resident of the United
  States;

•     a corporation, partnership or other entity
classified as a corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or
organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any political
subdivision of the United States, including any state;

•     an estate, the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source; or

•     a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is
able to exercise primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one or
more U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code, has
the authority to control all of the trust’s substantial decisions.



So long as we qualify for taxation as a REIT,
distributions on shares of our stock made out of the current or accumulated
earnings and profits allocable to these distributions (and not designated as
capital gain dividends) will be includable as ordinary income for federal
income tax purposes. None of these distributions will be eligible for the
dividends received deduction for U.S. corporate stockholders.



Generally, the current maximum marginal rate of tax
payable by individuals on dividends received from corporations that are subject
to a corporate level of tax is 20%. Except in limited circumstances, this tax
rate will not apply to dividends paid to you by us on our shares, because
generally we are not subject to federal income tax on the portion of our REIT
taxable income or capital gains










distributed to our
stockholders. The reduced maximum federal income tax rate will apply to that
portion, if any, of dividends received by you with respect to our shares that
are attributable to: (1) dividends received by us from non-REIT
corporations or other taxable REIT subsidiaries; (2) income from the prior
year with respect to which we were required to pay federal corporate income tax
during the prior year (if, for example, we did not distribute 100% of our REIT
taxable income for the prior year); or (3) the amount of any earnings and
profits that were distributed by us and accumulated in a non-REIT year.



Distributions that are designated as capital gain
dividends will be taxed as long-term capital gains (to the extent they do not
exceed our actual net capital gain for the taxable year), without regard to the
period for which you held our stock. However, if you are a corporation, you may
be required to treat a portion of some capital gain dividends as ordinary
income.



If we elect to retain and pay income tax on any net
long-term capital gain, you would include in income, as long-term capital gain,
your proportionate share of this net long-term capital gain. You would also
receive a refundable tax credit for your proportionate share of the tax paid by
us on such retained capital gains, and you would have an increase in the basis
of your shares of our stock in an amount equal to your includable capital gains
less your share of the tax deemed paid.



You may not include in your federal income tax return
any of our net operating losses or capital losses. Federal income tax rules may
also require that certain minimum tax adjustments and preferences be
apportioned to you. In addition, any distribution declared by us in October,
November or December of any year on a specified date in any such month shall be
treated as both paid by us and received by you on December 31 of that year,
provided that the distribution is actually paid by us no later than January 31
of the following year.





Upon the sale or exchange of any shares of our stock
to or with a person other than us or a sale or exchange of all shares of our
stock (whether actually or constructively owned) with us, you will generally
recognize capital gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount
realized on the sale or exchange and your adjusted tax basis in these shares of
our stock. This gain will be capital gain if you held these shares of our stock
as a capital asset.



If we redeem any of your shares in us, the treatment
can only be determined on the basis of particular facts at the time of
redemption. In general, you will recognize gain or loss (as opposed to dividend
income) equal to the difference between the amount received by you in the
redemption and your adjusted tax basis in your shares redeemed if such redemption:
(1) results in a “complete termination” of your interest in all classes of
our equity securities; (2) is a “substantially disproportionate
redemption”; or (3) is “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” with
respect to you. In applying these tests, you must take into account your
ownership of all classes of our equity securities (e.g., common stock,
preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants). You also must take into
account any equity securities that are considered to be constructively owned by
you.



If, as a result of a redemption by us of your shares,
you no longer own (either actually or constructively) any of our equity
securities or only own (actually and constructively) an insubstantial
percentage of our equity securities, then it is probable that the redemption of
your shares would be considered “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” and,
thus, would result in gain or loss to you. However, whether a distribution is
“not essentially equivalent to a dividend” depends on all of the facts and
circumstances, and if you rely on any of these tests at the time of redemption,
you should consult your tax advisor to determine their application to the
particular situation.



Generally, if the redemption does not meet the tests
described above, then the proceeds received by you from the redemption of your
shares will be treated as a distribution taxable as a dividend to the extent of
the allocable portion of current or accumulated earnings and profits. If the
redemption is taxed as a dividend, your adjusted tax basis in the redeemed
shares will be transferred to any other shareholdings in us that you own. If
you own no other shareholdings in us, under certain circumstances, such basis
may be transferred to a related person, or it may be lost entirely.












Gain from
the sale or exchange of our shares held for more than one year is generally
taxed at a maximum long-term capital gain rate of 20% in the case of
stockholders who are individuals and 35% in the case of stockholders that are
corporations.  Pursuant to Internal Revenue Service guidance, we may classify
portions of our capital gain dividends as gains eligible for the long-term
capital gains rate or as gain taxable to individual stockholders at a maximum
rate of 25%.  Capital losses recognized by a stockholder upon the disposition
of our shares held for more than one year at the time of disposition will be
considered long-term capital losses, and are generally available only to offset
capital gain income of the stockholder but not ordinary income (except in the
case of individuals, who may offset up to $3,000 of ordinary income each year).



An additional tax
of 3.8% generally will be imposed on the “net investment income” of U.S.
stockholders who meet certain requirements and are individuals, estates or
certain trusts. 
Among other items, “net investment income” generally includes gross income from
dividends and net gain attributable to the disposition of certain property,
such as shares of our common stock or warrants. In the case of individuals, this
tax will only apply to the extent such individual’s modified adjusted gross
income exceeds $200,000 ($250,000 for married couples filing a joint return and
surviving spouses, and $125,000 for married individuals filing a separate
return). U.S. stockholders should consult their tax advisors regarding the
possible applicability of this additional tax in their particular
circumstances.



Treatment of Tax-Exempt U.S. Stockholders.Tax-exempt
entities, including qualified employee pension and profit sharing trusts and
individual retirement accounts (“Exempt Organizations”), generally are exempt
from federal income taxation. However, they are subject to taxation on their
unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”). The Internal Revenue Service has
issued a published revenue ruling that dividend distributions from a REIT to an
exempt employee pension trust do not constitute UBTI, provided that the shares
of the REIT are not otherwise used in an unrelated trade or business of the
exempt employee pension trust. Based on this ruling, amounts distributed by us
to Exempt Organizations generally should not constitute UBTI. However, if an
Exempt Organization finances its acquisition of the shares of our stock with
debt, a portion of its income from us will constitute UBTI pursuant to the
“debt financed property” rules. Likewise, a portion of the Exempt
Organization’s income from us would constitute UBTI if we held a residual
interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit.



In addition, in certain circumstances,
a pension trust that owns more than 10% of our stock is required to treat a
percentage of our dividends as UBTI. This rule applies to a pension trust
holding more than 10% of our stock only if: (1) the percentage of our
income that is UBTI (determined as if we were a pension trust) is at least 5%;
(2) we qualify as a REIT by reason of the modification of the Five or
Fewer Requirement that allows beneficiaries of the pension trust to be treated
as holding shares in proportion to their actuarial interests in the pension
trust; and (3) either (i) one pension trust owns more than 25% of the
value of our stock, or (ii) a group of pension trusts individually holding
more than 10% of the value of our stock collectively own more than 50% of the
value of our stock.



Backup Withholding and Information
Reporting.Under
certain circumstances, you may be subject to backup withholding at applicable
rates on payments made with respect to, or cash proceeds of a sale or exchange
of, shares of our stock. Backup withholding will apply only if you:
(1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer identification number, which if you
are an individual, is ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish
an incorrect taxpayer identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal
Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments of interest or
dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under penalties of perjury, that you
have furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the Internal
Revenue Service has not notified you that you are subject to backup
withholding.



Backup withholding will not apply with
respect to payments made to certain exempt recipients, such as corporations and
tax-exempt organizations. You should consult with a tax advisor regarding
qualification for exemption from backup withholding, and the procedure for
obtaining an exemption. Backup withholding is not an additional tax. Rather,
the amount of any backup withholding with respect to a payment to a stockholder
will be allowed as a credit against such stockholder’s United
  States federal income tax liability and may entitle such stockholder to a
refund, provided that the required information is provided to the Internal
Revenue Service. In addition, withholding a portion of capital gain
distributions made to stockholders may be required for stockholders who fail to
certify their non-foreign status.



Taxation of Foreign Stockholders.The following summary
applies to you only if you are a foreign person. The federal taxation of
foreign persons is a highly complex matter that may be affected by many
considerations.



Except as discussed below,
distributions to you of cash generated by our real estate operations in the
form of ordinary dividends, but not by the sale or exchange of our capital
assets, generally will be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a rate of
30%, unless an applicable tax treaty reduces that tax and you file with us the
required form evidencing the lower rate.



In general, you will be subject to
United States federal income tax on a graduated rate basis rather than
withholding with respect to your investment in our stock if such investment is
“effectively connected” with your conduct of a trade or business in the United
States. A corporate foreign stockholder that receives income that is, or is
treated as, effectively connected with a United States trade or business may
also be subject to the branch profits tax, which is payable in addition to
regular United States corporate income tax. The following discussion will apply
to foreign stockholders whose investment in us is not so effectively connected.
We expect to withhold United States income tax, as described below, on the
gross amount of any distributions paid to you unless (1) you file an
Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI with us claiming that the
distribution is “effectively connected” or (2) certain other exceptions
apply.












Distributions by us that are
attributable to gain from the sale or exchange of a United States real property
interest will be taxed to you under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax
Act of 1980 (“FIRPTA”) as if these distributions were gains “effectively
connected” with a United States trade or business. Accordingly, you will be
taxed at the normal capital gain rates applicable to a U.S. stockholder on these amounts, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and a
special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals.
Distributions subject to FIRPTA may also be subject to a branch profits tax in
the hands of a corporate foreign stockholder that is not entitled to treaty
exemption.



We will be required to withhold from distributions
subject to FIRPTA, and remit to the Internal Revenue Service, 35% of designated
capital gain dividends, or, if greater, 35% of the amount of any distributions
that could be designated as capital gain dividends. In addition, if we
designate prior distributions as capital gain dividends, subsequent
distributions, up to the amount of the prior distributions not withheld
against, will be treated as capital gain dividends for purposes of withholding.



Any capital gain dividend with respect to any class of
stock that is “regularly traded” on an established securities market will be
treated as an ordinary dividend if the foreign stockholder did not own more
than 10% of such class of stock at any time during the taxable year. Foreign
stockholders generally will not be required to report distributions received
from us on U.S. federal income tax returns and all distributions treated
as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes (including any such
capital gain dividends) will be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax
(unless reduced under an applicable income tax treaty) as discussed above. In
addition, the branch profits tax will not apply to such distributions.





Backup withholding tax and information reporting will
generally not apply to distributions paid to you outside the United States that
are treated as: (1) dividends to which the 30% or lower treaty rate
withholding tax discussed above applies; (2) capital gains dividends; or
(3) distributions attributable to gain from the sale or exchange by us of
U.S. real property interests. Payment of the proceeds of a sale of stock
within the United States or conducted through certain U.S. related
financial intermediaries is subject to both backup withholding and information
reporting unless the beneficial owner certifies under penalties of perjury that
he or she is not a U.S. person (and the payor does not have actual
knowledge that the beneficial owner is a U.S. person) or otherwise
established an exemption. You may obtain a refund of any amounts withheld under
the backup withholding rules by filing the appropriate claim for refund with
the Internal Revenue Service.





U.S. Federal Income
Taxation of Holders of Depositary Shares












Owners of our depositary
shares will be treated as if you were owners of the series of preferred stock
represented by the depositary shares. Thus, you will be required to take into
account the income and deductions to which you would be entitled if you were a
holder of the underlying series of preferred stock.



Conversion or Exchange of Shares for Preferred Stock.No gain or loss will be recognized upon
the withdrawal of preferred stock in exchange for depositary shares and the tax
basis of each share of preferred stock will, upon exchange, be the same as the
aggregate tax basis of the depositary shares exchanged. If you held your
depositary shares as a capital asset at the time of the exchange for shares of
preferred stock, the holding period for your shares of preferred stock will
include the period during which you owned the depositary shares.



U.S. Federal Income
and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our Debt Securities



The following is a general summary of the United
States federal income tax consequences and, in the case that you are a holder
that is a non-U.S. holder, as defined below, the United States federal
estate tax consequences, of purchasing, owning and disposing of debt securities
periodically offered under one or more indentures (the “notes”). This summary
assumes that you hold the notes as capital assets. This summary applies to you
only if you are the initial holder of the notes and you acquire the notes for a
price equal to the issue price of the notes. The issue price of the notes is
the first price at which a substantial amount of the notes is sold other than
to bond houses, brokers or similar persons or organizations acting in the
capacity of underwriters, placement agents or wholesalers. In addition, this
summary does not consider any foreign, state, local or other tax laws that may
be applicable to us or a purchaser of the notes.



U.S. Holders



The following summary applies to you only if you are a
  U.S. holder, as defined below.



Definition of a U.S. Holder.A “U.S. holder” is a beneficial owner
of a note or notes that is for United States federal income tax purposes:

•     a citizen or resident of the United
  States;

•     a corporation, partnership or other entity
classified as a corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or
organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any political
subdivision of the United States, including any state;

•     an estate, the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source; or

•     a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is
able to exercise primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one or
more U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code, has
the authority to control all of the trust’s substantial decisions.



Payments of Interest.Stated interest on the notes generally
will be taxed as ordinary interest income from domestic sources at the time it
is paid or accrues in accordance with your method of accounting for tax
purposes.



Sale,
Exchange or Other Disposition of Notes.The
adjusted tax basis in your note acquired at a premium will generally be your cost.
You generally will recognize taxable gain or loss when you sell or otherwise
dispose of your notes equal to the difference, if any, between:

•     the amount realized on the sale or other
disposition, less any amount attributable to any accrued interest, which will
be taxable in the manner described under “— Payments of Interest”
above; and

•     your adjusted tax basis in the notes.



Your gain or loss generally will be capital gain or
loss. This capital gain or loss will be long-term capital gain or loss if at
the time of the sale or other disposition you have held the notes for more than
one year. Subject to limited exceptions, your capital losses cannot be used to
offset your ordinary income (except in the case of individuals, who may offset
up to $3,000 of ordinary income each year).



Backup Withholding and Information Reporting.In general, “backup withholding” may apply
to any payments made to you of principal and interest on your note, and to
payment of the proceeds of a sale or other disposition of your note before
maturity, if you are a non-corporate U.S. holder and: (1) fail to
provide a correct taxpayer identification number, which if you are an
individual, is ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish an
incorrect taxpayer identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal
Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments of interest or
dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under penalties of perjury, that you
have furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the Internal
Revenue Service has not notified you that you are subject to backup
withholding.



The amount of any reportable payments, including
interest, made to you (unless you are an exempt recipient) and the amount of
tax withheld, if any, with respect to such payments will be reported to you and
to the Internal Revenue Service for each calendar year.










You
should consult your tax advisor regarding your qualification for an exemption
from backup withholding and the procedures for obtaining such an exemption, if
applicable. The backup withholding tax is not an additional tax and will be
credited against your U.S. federal income tax liability, provided that
correct information is provided to the Internal Revenue Service.



Non-U.S. Holders



The following summary applies to you if you are a
beneficial owner of a note and are not a U.S. holder, as defined above (a
“non-U.S. holder”).



Special rules may apply to certain
non-U.S. holders such as “controlled foreign corporations,” “passive
foreign investment companies” and “foreign personal holding companies.” Such
entities are encouraged to consult their tax advisors to determine the United States federal, state, local and other tax consequences that may be relevant to
them.



U.S. Federal
Withholding Tax.Subject to
the discussion below, U.S. federal withholding tax will not apply to
payments by us or our paying agent, in its capacity as such, of principal and
interest on your notes under the “portfolio interest” exception of the Internal
Revenue Code, provided that:

•     you do not, directly or indirectly, actually or
constructively, own 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all
classes of our stock entitled to vote;

•     you are not (1) a controlled foreign
corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is related, directly
or indirectly, to us through sufficient stock ownership, as provided in the
Internal Revenue Code, or (2) a bank receiving interest described in
Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code;

•     such interest is not effectively connected with
your conduct of a U.S. trade or business; and

•     you provide a signed written statement, under
penalties of perjury, which can reliably be related to you, certifying that you
are not a U.S. person within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code and
providing your name and address to:

•      us or our paying agent; or

•a securities clearing
organization, bank or other financial institution that holds customers’
securities in the ordinary course of its trade or business and holds your notes
on your behalf and that certifies to us or our paying agent under penalties of
perjury that it, or the bank or financial institution between it and you, has
received from you your signed, written statement and provides us or our paying
agent with a copy of such statement.



Treasury regulations provide that:

•     if you are a foreign partnership, the
certification requirement will generally apply to your partners, and you will
be required to provide certain information;

•     if you are a foreign trust, the certification requirement
will generally be applied to you or your beneficial owners depending on whether
you are a “foreign complex trust,” “foreign simple trust,” or “foreign grantor
trust” as defined in the Treasury regulations; and

•     look-through rules will apply for tiered
partnerships, foreign simple trusts and foreign grantor trusts.



If you are a foreign partnership or a foreign trust,
you should consult your own tax advisor regarding your status under these
Treasury regulations and the certification requirements applicable to you.



If you cannot satisfy the portfolio interest
requirements described above, payments of interest will be subject to the 30%
United States withholding tax, unless you provide us with a properly executed
(1) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming an exemption from
or reduction in withholding under the benefit of an applicable treaty or
(2) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI stating that interest paid
on the note is not subject to withholding tax because it is effectively
connected with your conduct of a trade or business in the United States.
Alternative documentation may be applicable in certain circumstances.



If you are engaged in a trade or business in the
United States and interest on a note is effectively connected with the conduct
of that trade or business, you will be required to pay United States federal
income tax on that interest on a net income basis (although you will be exempt
from the 30% withholding tax provided the certification requirement described
above is met) in the same manner as if you were a U.S. person, except as
otherwise provided by an applicable tax treaty. If you are a foreign
corporation, you may be required to pay a branch profits tax on the earnings
and profits that are effectively connected to the conduct of your trade or
business in the United States.



Withholding tax at a rate of 30% will be imposed on payments of interest
(including original issue discount) and gross proceeds of sale in respect of
debt instruments to you or certain foreign financial institutions (including
investment funds) and other non-US persons receiving payments on your behalf,
if you or such institutions fail to comply with certain due diligence,
disclosure and reporting rules, as set forth in recently issued Treasury regulations.
However, the Treasury regulations generally exempt from such withholding
requirement obligations, such as debt instruments, issued before July 1, 2014,
provided that any material modification of such an obligation made after such
date will result in such obligation being considered newly issued as of the
effective date of such










modification. These withholding
rules are generally effective with respect to payments of interest made after
June 30, 2014, and with respect to proceeds of sales received after December
31, 2018. We will not pay any additional amounts to any holders or our debt
instruments in respect of any amounts withheld. You are encouraged to consult
with your tax advisor regarding U.S. withholding taxes and the application of
the recently issued Treasury regulations in light of your particular
circumstances.



Sale, Exchange or other Disposition of Notes.You generally will not have to pay U.S. federal income tax on any gain or income realized from the sale, redemption,
retirement at maturity or other disposition of your notes, unless:

•     in the case of gain, you are an individual who
is present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable
year of the sale or other disposition of your notes, and specific other
conditions are met;

•     you are subject to tax provisions applicable to
certain United States expatriates; or

•     the gain is effectively connected with your
conduct of a U.S. trade or business.



If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United
 States, and gain with respect to your notes is effectively connected with the
conduct of that trade or business, you generally will be subject to U.S. income tax on a net basis on the gain. In addition, if you are a foreign
corporation, you may be subject to a branch profits tax on your effectively
connected earnings and profits for the taxable year, as adjusted for certain
items.



U.S. Federal
Estate Tax.If you are an
individual and are not a U.S. citizen or a resident of the United States,
as specially defined for U.S. federal estate tax purposes, at the time of
your death, your notes will generally not be subject to the U.S. federal
estate tax, unless, at the time of your death (1) you owned actually or
constructively 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all our
classes of stock entitled to vote, or (2) interest on the notes is
effectively connected with your conduct of a U.S. trade or business.



Backup Withholding and Information Reporting.Backup withholding will not apply to
payments of principal or interest made by us or our paying agent, in its
capacity as such, to you if you have provided the required certification that
you are a non-U.S. holder as described in “— U.S. Federal
Withholding Tax” above, and provided that neither we nor our paying agent have
actual knowledge that you are a U.S. holder, as described in
“— U.S. Holders” above. We or our paying agent may, however, report
payments of interest on the notes.



The gross proceeds from the disposition of your notes
may be subject to information reporting and backup withholding tax. If you sell
your notes outside the United States through a non-U.S. office of a
non-U.S. broker and the sales proceeds are paid to you outside the United
 States, then the U.S. backup withholding and information reporting
requirements generally will not apply to that payment. However,
U.S. information reporting, but not backup withholding, will apply to a
payment of sales proceeds, even if that payment is made outside the United
States, if you sell your notes through a non-U.S. office of a broker that:

•     is a U.S. person, as defined in the
Internal Revenue Code;

•     derives 50% or more of its gross income in
specific periods from the conduct of a trade or business in the United States;

•     is a “controlled foreign corporation” for U.S. federal income tax purposes; or

•     is a foreign partnership, if at any time during
its tax year, one or more of its partners are U.S. persons who in the
aggregate hold more than 50% of the income or capital interests in the
partnership, or the foreign partnership is engaged in a U.S. trade or
business, unless the broker has documentary evidence in its files that you are
a non-U.S. person and certain other conditions are met or you otherwise
establish an exemption. If you receive payments of the proceeds of a sale of
your notes to or through a U.S. office of a broker, the payment is subject
to both U.S. backup withholding and information reporting unless you
provide a Form W-8BEN certifying that you are a non-U.S. person or
you otherwise establish an exemption.



You should consult your own tax advisor regarding
application of backup withholding in your particular circumstance and the
availability of and procedure for obtaining an exemption from backup
withholding. Any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules from a
payment to you will be allowed as a refund or credit against your U.S. federal income tax liability, provided the required information is furnished to
the Internal Revenue Service.



U.S. Federal Income
and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our Warrants



Exercise of Warrants.You will not generally recognize gain or
loss upon the exercise of a warrant. Your basis in the debt securities,
preferred stock, depositary shares or common stock, as the case may be,
received upon the exercise of the warrant will be equal to the sum of your
adjusted tax basis in the warrant and the exercise price paid. Your holding
period in the debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares or common
stock, as the case may be, received upon the exercise of the warrant will not
include the period during which the warrant was held by you.



Expiration of Warrants.Upon the expiration of a warrant, you will
recognize a capital loss in an amount equal to your adjusted tax basis in the
warrant.












Sale or Exchange of Warrants.Upon the sale or exchange of a warrant to
a person other than us, you will recognize gain or loss in an amount equal to
the difference between the amount realized on the sale or exchange and your
adjusted tax basis in the warrant. Such gain or loss will be capital gain or
loss and will be long-term capital gain or loss if the warrant was held for
more than one year. Upon the sale of the warrant to us, the Internal Revenue
Service may argue that you should recognize ordinary income on the sale. You
are advised to consult your own tax advisors as to the consequences of a sale
of a warrant to us.



Potential Legislation or Other Actions Affecting Tax
Consequences



Current and prospective securities holders should
recognize that the present federal income tax treatment of an investment in us
may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time
and that any such action may affect investments and commitments previously made.
The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by
persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Service
and the Treasury Department, resulting in revisions of regulations and revised
interpretations of established concepts as well as statutory changes. Revisions
in federal tax laws and interpretations of these laws could adversely affect
the tax consequences of an investment in us.



State, Local and Foreign Taxes



We, and holders of our debt and equity securities, may
be subject to state, local or foreign taxation in various jurisdictions,
including those in which we or they transact business, own property or reside.
It should be noted that we own properties located in a number of state, local
and foreign jurisdictions, and may be required to file tax returns in some or
all of those jurisdictions. The state, local or foreign tax treatment of us and
holders of our debt and equity securities may not conform to the U.S. federal
income tax consequences discussed above. Consequently, you are urged to consult
your advisor regarding the application and effect of state, local and foreign
tax laws with respect to any investment in our securities.



Changes in applicable tax regulations could negatively
affect our financial results



The Company is subject to taxation in the U.S. and
numerous foreign jurisdictions. Because the U.S. maintains a worldwide
corporate tax system, the foreign and U.S. tax systems are somewhat
interdependent. Longstanding international tax norms that determine each
country’s jurisdiction to tax cross-border international trade are evolving,
such as the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project (“BEPS") currently
being undertaken by the G8, G20, and Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  Tax changes pursuant to BEPS could reduce the ability of our
foreign subsidiaries to deduct for foreign tax purposes the interest they pay
on loans from the Company, thereby increasing the foreign tax liability of the
subsidiaries; it is also possible that foreign countries could increase their
withholding taxes on dividends and interest. Given the unpredictability of
these possible changes and their potential interdependency, it is very
difficult to assess the overall effect of such potential tax changes on our
earnings and cash flow, but such changes could adversely impact our financial
results.



Internet Access to Our SEC Filings



Our
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as our proxy
statements and other materials that are filed with, or furnished to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission are made available, free of charge, on the
Internet at www.welltower.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are
filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. We
routinely post important information on our website atwww.welltower.comin
the “Investors” section, including corporate and investor presentations and
financial information.  We intend to use our website as a means of
disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our
disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included
on our website under the heading “Investors.”  Accordingly, investors
should monitor such portion of our website in addition to following our press
releases, public conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The information on our website is not incorporated by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included
as an inactive textual reference only.



Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements



This Annual Report on Form
10-K and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements that
constitute “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined in the federal
securities laws. When we use words such as “may,” “will,” “intend,” “should,”
“believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,” “estimate” or similar expressions
that do not relate solely to historical matters, we are making forward-looking
statements. In particular, these forward-looking statements include, but are
not limited to, those relating to our opportunities to acquire, develop or sell
properties; our ability to close our anticipated acquisitions, investments or
dispositions on currently anticipated terms, or within currently anticipated
timeframes; the expected performance of our operators/tenants and properties;
our expected occupancy rates; our ability to declare and to make distributions
to stockholders; our investment and financing opportunities and plans; our
continued qualification as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”); and our
ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds.












Forward-looking statements are
not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that
may cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations
discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various
factors, including, but not limited to:

•the status of the economy;

•the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of
capital;

•issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and
changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government
investigations and punitive settlements and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in
cost-effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other
insurance;

•changes in financing terms;

•competition within the health care and seniors housing industries;

•negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of
operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and
repay loans;

•our ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results;

•the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when
anticipated;

•natural disasters and other acts of God affecting our properties;

•our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur;

•our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets
sold;

•operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies;

•the cooperation of joint venture partners;

•government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement
rates and operational requirements;

•liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants;

•unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future
investments or acquisitions;

•environmental laws affecting our properties;

•changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting;

•the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates;

•our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT;

•key management personnel recruitment and retention; and

•the risks described under “Item 1A — Risk Factors.”



We undertake no obligation to
update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of
new information, future events, or otherwise.



