10-K


y30259e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

10-K


UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission file number 001-13958

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

13-3317783

(State or other jurisdiction of

(I.R.S. Employer

incorporation or organization)

Identification No.)

One Hartford Plaza, Hartford, Connecticut 06155

(Address of principal executive offices)

(860) 547-5000

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: the following, all of which are listed
on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.

Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share

6.1% Notes due October 1, 2041

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

4.7% Notes due September 1, 2007

4.625% Notes due July 15, 2013

5.55% Notes due August 16, 2008

4.75% Notes due March 1, 2014

6.375% Notes due November 1, 2008

7.3% Debentures due November 1, 2015

5.663% Notes due November 16, 2008

5.50% Notes due October 15, 2016

7.9% Notes due June 15, 2010

5.95% Notes due October 15, 2036

5.25% Notes due October 15, 2011

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act. Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.

Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large accelerated filer” in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer

þ

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act). Yes

o

No

þ

The aggregate market value of the shares of Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant
as of June 30, 2006 was approximately $25,666,539,000, based on the closing price of $84.60 per
share of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on June 30, 2006.

As of
February 16, 2007, there were outstanding 320,217,940 shares of Common Stock, $0.01 par
value per share, of the registrant.

Documents Incorporated by Reference:

Portions of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for its 2007 annual meeting of shareholders
are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K.

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.

Annual Report on Form 10-K

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2006




PART I

Item 1. BUSINESS

(Dollar amounts in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise stated)

General

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “The Hartford” or the
“Company”) is a diversified insurance and financial services company. The Hartford, headquartered
in Connecticut, is among the largest providers of investment products, individual life, group life
and group disability insurance products, and property and casualty insurance products in the United
States. Hartford Fire Insurance Company, founded in 1810, is the oldest of The Hartford’s
subsidiaries. The Hartford writes insurance in the United States and internationally. At December
31, 2006, total assets and total stockholders’ equity of The Hartford were $326.7 billion and $18.9
billion, respectively.

Organization

The Hartford strives to maintain and enhance its position as a market leader within the financial
services industry and to maximize shareholder value. The Company pursues a strategy of developing
and selling diverse and innovative products through multiple distribution channels, continuously
developing and expanding those distribution channels, achieving cost efficiencies through economies
of scale and improved technology, maintaining effective risk management and prudent underwriting
techniques and capitalizing on its brand name and customer recognition of The Hartford Stag Logo,
one of the most recognized symbols in the financial services industry.

As a holding company that is separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, The Hartford Financial
Services Group, Inc. has no significant business operations of its own. Therefore, it relies on
the dividends from its insurance companies and other subsidiaries as the principal source of cash
flow to meet its obligations. Additional information regarding the cash flow and liquidity needs
of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. may be found in the Capital Resources and Liquidity
section of Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations (“MD&A”).

The Company maintains a retail mutual fund operation, whereby the Company, through wholly-owned
subsidiaries, provides investment management and administrative services to The Hartford Mutual
Funds, Inc. and The Hartford Mutual Funds II, Inc. (“The Hartford mutual funds”) families of 52
mutual funds and 1 closed end fund. Investors can purchase “shares” in The Hartford mutual funds,
all of which are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission in accordance with the
Investment Company Act of 1940. The Hartford mutual funds are owned by the shareholders of those
funds and not by the Company.

Reporting Segments

The Hartford is organized into two major operations: Life and Property & Casualty, each containing
reporting segments. Within the Life and Property & Casualty operations, The Hartford conducts
business principally in ten operating segments. Additionally, Corporate primarily includes the
Company’s debt financing and related interest expense, as well as certain capital raising
activities and purchase accounting adjustments.

Life is organized into six reportable operating segments: Retail Products Group (“Retail”),
Retirement Plans, Institutional Solutions Group (“Institutional”), Individual Life, Group Benefits
and International.

Retail offers individual variable and fixed market value adjusted (“MVA”) annuities, retail mutual
funds, 529 college savings plans, Canadian and offshore investment products.

Retirement Plans provides products and services to corporations pursuant to Section 401(k) and
products and services to municipalities and not-for-profit organizations under Section 457 and
403(b) of the IRS code. Retirement also offers mutual funds to individual investors.

Institutional primarily offers institutional liability products, including stable value products
and institutional annuities (primarily terminal funding cases), as well as variable Private
Placement Life Insurance (“PPLI”) owned by corporations and high net worth individuals. Within
stable value, Institutional has an investor note program that offers both institutional and retail
investor notes. Institutional and Retail notes are sold as funding agreement backed notes through
trusts and may also be issued directly from the company to investors. Institutional also offers
mutual funds to institutional investors. Furthermore, Institutional offers additional individual
products including structured settlements, consumer notes and single premium immediate annuities
and longevity assurance.

Individual Life sells a variety of life insurance products, including variable universal life,
universal life, interest sensitive whole life and term life.

Group Benefits provides employers, associations, affinity groups and financial institutions with
group life, accident and disability coverage, along with other products and services, including
voluntary benefits, group retiree health, and medical stop loss.



International, which has operations located in Japan, Brazil, Ireland and the United Kingdom,
provides investments, retirement savings and other insurance and savings products to individuals
and groups outside the United States and Canada.

Life includes in an Other category its leveraged PPLI product line of business; corporate items not
directly allocated to any of its reportable operating segments; net realized capital gains and
losses on fixed maturity sales generated from movements in interest rates, less amortization of
those gains or losses back to the reportable segments; net realized capital gains and losses
generated from credit related events, less a credit risk fee charged to the reportable segments;
net realized capital gains and losses from non-qualifying derivative strategies (including embedded
derivatives) other than the net periodic coupon settlements on credit derivatives and the net
periodic coupon settlements on the cross currency swaps used to economically hedge currency and
interest rate risk generated from sales of the Company’s yen based fixed annuity, which are
allocated to the reportable segments; the mark-to-market adjustment for the equity securities held
for trading reported in net investment income and the related change in interest credited reported
as a component of benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses since these items are not
considered by the Company’s chief operating decision maker in evaluating the International results
of operations; and intersegment eliminations.

Property & Casualty is organized into four reportable operating segments: the underwriting segments
of Business Insurance, Personal Lines, and Specialty Commercial (collectively “Ongoing
Operations”); and the Other Operations segment.

Business Insurance provides standard commercial insurance coverage to small commercial and middle
market commercial businesses primarily throughout the United States. This segment offers workers’
compensation, property, automobile, liability, umbrella and marine coverages. Commercial risk
management products and services are also provided.

Personal Lines provides automobile, homeowners’ and home-based business coverages to the members of
AARP through a direct marketing operation and to individuals who prefer local agent involvement
through a network of independent agents in the standard personal lines market. Personal Lines also
operates a member contact center for health insurance products offered through AARP’s Health Care
Options.

The Specialty Commercial segment offers a variety of customized insurance products and risk
management services. Specialty Commercial provides standard commercial insurance products
including workers’ compensation, automobile and liability coverages to large-sized companies.
Specialty Commercial also provides professional liability, fidelity, surety, specialty casualty and
livestock coverages, as well as core property and excess and surplus lines coverages not normally
written by standard lines insurers. Alternative markets, within Specialty Commercial, provides
insurance products and services primarily to captive insurance companies, pools and self-insurance
groups. In addition, Specialty Commercial provides third party administrator services for claims
administration, integrated benefits, loss control and performance measurement through Specialty
Risk Services, a subsidiary of the Company.

The Other Operations segment consists of certain property and casualty insurance operations of The
Hartford which have discontinued writing new business and includes substantially all of the
Company’s asbestos and environmental exposures.

The measure of profit or loss used by The Hartford’s management in evaluating the performance of
its Life segments is net income. Likewise, within Property & Casualty, net income is the measure
of profit or loss used in evaluating the performance of Total Property & Casualty, Ongoing
Operations and the Other Operations segment. Within Ongoing Operations, the underwriting segments
of Business Insurance, Personal Lines and Specialty Commercial are evaluated by The Hartford’s
management primarily based upon underwriting results. Underwriting results represent premiums
earned less incurred losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses. The sum of
underwriting results, other revenues, net investment income, net realized capital gains and losses,
other expenses, and related income taxes is net income (loss).

Life

Life’s business is conducted by Hartford Life, Inc. (“Hartford Life” or “Life”), an indirect
subsidiary of The Hartford, headquartered in Simsbury, Connecticut, a leading financial services
and insurance organization. Hartford Life provides (i) retail and institutional investment
products, including variable annuities, fixed market value adjusted (“MVA”) annuities, mutual
funds, private placement life insurance, which includes life insurance products purchased by a
company on the lives of its employees, and retirement plan services for the savings and retirement
needs of over 5.0 million customers, (ii) life insurance for wealth protection, accumulation and
transfer needs for approximately 754,000 customers, (iii) group benefits products such as group
life and group disability insurance for the benefit of millions of individuals, and (iv) fixed and
variable annuity products through its international operations for the savings and retirement needs
of approximately 450,000 customers. Life is one of the largest sellers of individual variable annuities,
variable universal life insurance and, group life and disability insurance in the United States.
Life’s strong position in each of its core businesses provides an opportunity to increase the sale
of Life’s products and services as individuals increasingly save and plan for retirement, protect
themselves and their families against the financial uncertainties associated with disability or
death and engage in estate planning.

Hartford Life is among the largest consolidated life insurance groups in the United States based on
statutory assets as of December 31, 2006. In the past year, Life’s total assets under management,
which include $43.7 billion of third party assets invested in Life’s mutual funds and 529 College
Savings Plans, increased 18% to $327.5 billion at December 31, 2006 from $276.5 billion at December
31, 2005.



Life generated revenues of $14.1 billion, $15.0 billion and $11.4 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Additionally, Life generated net income of $1.4 billion, $1.2 billion and $1.4
billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Customer Service, Technology and Economies of Scale

Life maintains advantageous economies of scale and operating efficiencies due to its growth,
attention to expense and claims management and commitment to customer service and technology.
These advantages allow Life to competitively price its products for its distribution network and
policyholders. In addition, Life utilizes technology to enhance communications within Life and
throughout its distribution network in order to improve Life’s efficiency in marketing, selling and
servicing its products and, as a result, provides high-quality customer service. In
recognition of excellence in customer service for individual annuities, Hartford Life was awarded
the 2006 Annuity Service Award by DALBAR Inc., a recognized independent financial services research
organization, for the eleventh consecutive year. Hartford Life is the only company to receive this
prestigious award in every year of the award’s existence. Also, in 2006 Life earned it’s fourth
DALBAR Award for Mutual Fund service, as well as, Retirement Plan Service which recognizes Hartford
Life as the No. 1 service provider of mutual funds and retirement plans in the industry.
Continuing the trend of service excellence, Life’s Individual Life segment won its sixth
consecutive DALBAR award for service of life insurance customers. Additionally, Life’s Individual
Life segment also won its fifth DALBAR Financial Intermediary Service Award in 2006.

Risk Management

Life’s product designs, prudent underwriting standards and risk management techniques are
structured to protect it against disintermediation risk, greater than expected mortality and
morbidity experience, foreign currency risk and, risks associated with certain product features,
specifically the guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit
(“GMWB”) and guaranteed minimum income benefit (“GMIB”) offered with variable annuity products. As
of December 31, 2006, Life had limited exposure to disintermediation risk on approximately 98% of
its domestic life insurance and annuity liabilities through the use of separate accounts, MVA
features, policy loans, surrender charges and non-surrenderability provisions. Life effectively
utilizes prudent underwriting to select and price insurance risks and regularly monitors mortality
and morbidity assumptions to determine if experience remains consistent with these assumptions and
to ensure that its product pricing remains appropriate. Life also enforces disciplined claims
management to protect itself against greater than expected morbidity experience. Life uses
reinsurance structures and has modified benefit features to mitigate the mortality exposure
associated with GMDB. Life also uses reinsurance and derivative instruments to attempt to minimize
equity risk volatility on GMWB and, to some degree, foreign currency risk associated with the GMIB
liability.

Retail

The Retail segment focuses, through the sale of individual variable and fixed annuities, mutual
funds and other investment products, on the savings and retirement needs of the growing number of
individuals who are preparing for retirement or who have already retired. This segment’s assets
under management grew to $164.9 billion at December 31, 2006 from $145.9 billion at December 31,
2005 and from $137.1 billion at December 31, 2004. Retail generated revenues of $3.5 billion, $3.2
billion and $3.0 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, of which individual annuities
accounted for $2.8 billion, $2.7 billion and $2.6 billion for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Net income in Retail was $628, $622 and $503 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Life sells both variable and fixed individual annuity products through a wide distribution network
of national and regional broker-dealer organizations, banks and other financial institutions and
independent financial advisors. Life is a market leader in the
annuity industry with deposits of $13.1 billion, $11.5 billion and $15.7 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Life was
among the largest sellers of individual retail variable annuities in
the United States with deposits of $12.1 billion, $11.2 billion and $15.0 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In
addition, Life continues to be the largest seller of individual retail variable annuities through
banks in the United States.

Life’s total account value related to individual annuity products was $124.3 billion as of December
31, 2006. Of this total account value, $114.4 billion, or 92%, related to individual variable
annuity products and $9.9 billion, or 8%, related primarily to fixed MVA annuity products. As of
December 31, 2005, Life’s total account value related to individual annuity products was $115.5
billion. Of this total account value, $105.3 billion, or 91%, related to individual variable
annuity products and $10.2 billion, or 9%, related primarily to fixed MVA annuity products. As of
December 31, 2004, Life’s total account value related to individual annuity products was $111.0
billion. Of this total account value, $99.6 billion, or 90%, related to individual variable
annuity products and $11.4 billion, or 10%, related primarily to fixed MVA annuity products.

Life continues to emerge as a significant participant in the mutual fund business. Retail mutual
fund assets were $38.5 billion, $29.1 billion and $25.2 billion as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively. Retail mutual fund sales were $11.1 billion, $5.8 billion and $5.9 billion in
2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively.



Principal Products

Individual Variable Annuities

— Life earns fees, based on policyholders’ account values, for
managing variable annuity assets, providing various death benefits and principal guarantees, and
maintaining policyholder accounts. Life uses specified portions of the periodic deposits paid by a
customer to purchase units in one or more mutual funds as directed by the customer, who then
assumes the investment performance risks and rewards. As a result, variable annuities permit
policyholders to choose aggressive or conservative investment strategies, as they deem appropriate,
without affecting the composition and quality of assets in Life’s general account. These products
offer the policyholder a variety of equity and fixed income options, as well as the ability to earn
a guaranteed rate of interest in the general account of Life. Life offers an enhanced guaranteed
rate of interest for a specified period of time (no longer than twelve months) if the policyholder
elects to dollar-cost average funds from Life’s general account into one or more separate accounts. Principal guarantees include guaranteed minimum death and withdrawal benefits.

The majority of the contracts with the guaranteed death benefit feature are sold by the Retail
Products Group segment. Hartford Life pays the greater of (1) account value at death, (2) the sum
of all premium payments less prior withdrawals; or (3) the maximum anniversary value of the
contract, plus any premium payments since the contract anniversary, minus any withdrawals following
the contract anniversary. For certain guaranteed death benefits sold with variable annuity
contracts beginning in June 2003, the Company pays the greater of (1) the account value at death;
or (2) the maximum anniversary value; not to exceed the account value plus the greater of (a) 25%
of premium payments, or (b) 25% of the maximum anniversary value of the contract. The GMWB
provides the policyholder with a guaranteed remaining balance (“GRB”) if the account value is
reduced to zero through a combination of market declines and withdrawals. The GRB is generally
equal to premiums less withdrawals. However, annual withdrawals that exceed a specific percentage
of the premiums paid may reduce the GRB by an amount greater than the withdrawals and may also
impact the guaranteed annual withdrawal amount that subsequently applies after the excess annual
withdrawals occur. For certain of the withdrawal benefit features, the policyholder also has the
option, after a specified time period, to reset the GRB to the then-current account value, if
greater. In addition, the Company has introduced features for contracts issued beginning in the
fourth quarter of 2005, that allows the policyholder to receive the guaranteed annual withdrawal
amount for as long as they are alive. In this new feature, in all cases the contract holder or
their beneficiary will receive the GRB and the GRB is reset on an annual basis to the maximum
anniversary account value subject to a cap.

Policyholders may make deposits of varying amounts at regular or irregular intervals and the value
of these assets fluctuates in accordance with the investment performance of the funds selected by
the policyholder. To encourage persistency, many of Life’s individual variable annuities are
subject to withdrawal restrictions and surrender charges. Surrender charges range up to 8% of the
contract’s deposits less withdrawals, and reduce to zero on a sliding scale, usually within seven
years from the deposit date. Individual variable annuity account values of $114.4 billion as of
December 31, 2006, have grown from $105.3 billion as of December 31, 2005, primarily due to equity
market appreciation. Approximately 95% and 94% of the individual variable annuity account values
were held in separate accounts as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

The assets underlying Life’s variable annuities are managed both internally and by independent
money managers, while Life provides all policy administration services. Life utilizes a select
group of money managers all of which are among the nation’s most successful investment managers.
Furthermore, each money manager is compensated on sales of Life’s products and enhance the
marketability of Life’s annuities and the strength of its product offerings. Hartford Leaders,
which is a multi-manager variable annuity that combines the product manufacturing, wholesaling and
service capabilities of Life with the investment management expertise of American Funds, Franklin
Templeton Group, AIM Investments and MFS Investment Management, is an industry leader in terms of
retail sales. In 2005, the Director M variable annuity was introduced to combine the product
manufacturing, wholesaling and service capabilities of Life with the investment management
expertise of Wellington Management Company, LLP (“Wellington”) and Hartford Investment Management
Company (“HIMCO”), the two money managers for the former Director product, as well as an additional
six premier investment firms: AllianceBernstein, Fidelity Investments, Lord Abbett, Oppenheimer
Funds, Putnam and Van Kampen.

Fixed MVA Annuities

— Fixed MVA annuities are fixed rate annuity contracts which guarantee a
specific sum of money to be paid in the future, either as a lump sum or as monthly income. In the
event that a policyholder surrenders a policy prior to the end of the guarantee period, the MVA
feature increases or decreases the cash surrender value of the annuity in respect of any interest
rate decreases or increases, respectively, thereby protecting Life from losses due to higher
interest rates at the time of surrender. The amount of the lump sum or monthly income payment will
not fluctuate due to adverse changes in other components of Life’s investment return, mortality
experience or expenses. Life’s primary fixed MVA annuities have terms varying from one to ten
years with an average term to maturity of approximately four years. Account values of fixed MVA
annuities were $9.9 billion, $10.2 billion and $11.4 billion as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively.

Mutual Funds

— Life launched a family of retail mutual funds for which Life provides investment
management and administrative services. The fund family has grown significantly from 8 funds at
inception to the current offering of 52 mutual funds and 1 closed end fund, including the addition
of 4 new funds in 2006, The Hartford Balanced Income Fund, The Hartford Large Cap Growth Fund, The
Hartford Mid Cap Growth Fund and the Hartford Select Small Cap Value Fund. Life’s funds are
managed by Wellington and HIMCO. Life has entered into agreements with over 1,200 financial
services firms to distribute these mutual funds.



Life charges fees to the shareholders of the mutual funds, which are recorded as revenue by Life.
Investors can purchase shares in the mutual funds, all of which are registered with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, in accordance with the Investment Company Act of 1940. The mutual funds
are owned by the shareholders of those funds and not by Life. As such, the mutual fund assets and
liabilities, as well as related investment returns, are not reflected in The Hartford’s
consolidated financial statements. Total retail mutual fund assets under management were $38.5
billion, $29.1 billion, and $25.2 billion as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Marketing and Distribution

Life’s distribution network is based on management’s strategy of utilizing multiple and competing
distribution channels to achieve the broadest distribution to reach target customers. The success
of Life’s marketing and distribution system depends on its product offerings, fund performance,
successful utilization of wholesaling organizations, quality of customer service, and relationships
with national and regional broker-dealer firms, banks and other financial institutions, and
independent financial advisors (through which the sale of Life’s retail investment products to
customers is consummated).

Life maintains a distribution network of approximately 1,500 broker-dealers and approximately 500
banks. As of December 31, 2006, Life was selling products through the 25 largest retail banks in
the United States. Life periodically negotiates provisions and terms of its relationships with
unaffiliated parties, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to Life
or such third parties. Life’s primary wholesaler of its individual annuities is PLANCO Financial
Services, LLC and its affiliate, PLANCO, LLC (collectively “PLANCO”) which are wholly owned
subsidiaries of Hartford Life and Accident Insurance Company (“HLA”). PLANCO is one of the
nation’s largest wholesalers of individual annuities and has played a significant role in The
Hartford’s growth over the past decade. As a wholesaler, PLANCO distributes Life’s fixed and
variable annuities, mutual funds, 529 plans and offshore products by providing sales support to
registered representatives, financial planners and broker-dealers at brokerage firms and banks
across the United States. Owning PLANCO secures an important distribution channel for Life and
gives Life a wholesale distribution platform which it can expand in terms of both the number of
individuals wholesaling its products and the portfolio of products which they wholesale.

Competition

Retail competes with numerous other insurance companies as well as certain banks, securities
brokerage firms, independent financial advisors and other financial intermediaries marketing
annuities, mutual funds and other retirement-oriented products. Product sales are affected by
competitive factors such as investment performance ratings, product design, visibility in the
marketplace, financial strength ratings, distribution capabilities, levels of charges and credited
rates, reputation and customer service.

Retirement Plans

Life is among the top providers of retirement products and services. Products and services offered
by Retirement include asset management and plan administration sold to municipalities and
not-for-profit organizations pursuant to Section 457 and 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (referred to as “Section 457” and “403(b)”, respectively). Life also provides retirement products and services, including asset management and plan administration sold to small-
and medium-size corporations pursuant to Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (referred to as “401(k)”).

Life’s total account values related to retirement plans were $23.6 billion, $19.3 billion and $16.5
billion as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Governmental account values were
$11.5 billion, $10.5 billion and $10.0 billion as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. 401(k) products account values were $12.0 billion, $8.8 billion and $6.5 billion as
of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Retirement Plans generated revenues of $538,
$470 and $434 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and net income of $109, $75 and $66 in 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively.

Principal Products

Governmental

— Life sells retirement plan products and services to municipalities under Section 457
plans. Life offers a number of different investment products, including variable annuities and
fixed products, to the employees in Section 457 plans. Generally, with the variable products, Life
manages the fixed income funds and certain other outside money managers act as advisors to the
equity funds offered in Section 457 plans administered by Life. As of December 31, 2006, Life
administered over 3,600 plans under Sections 457 and 403(b).


01(k)

— Life sells retirement plan products and services to corporations under 401(k) plans
targeting the small and medium case markets. Life believes these markets are under-penetrated in
comparison to the large case market. The number of 401(k) plans administered as of December 31,
2006 was over 12,700. Total assets under management were $13.2 billion, $9.8 billion and $7.3
billion as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Marketing and Distribution

In the Section 457 market, Retirement Plan’s distribution network uses internal personnel with
extensive experience to sell its products and services in the retirement plan and institutional
markets. The success of Life’s marketing and distribution system depends on its



product offerings, fund performance, successful utilization of wholesaling organizations, quality
of customer service, and relationships with national and regional broker-dealer firms, banks and
other financial institutions.

In the 401(k) market, Retirement Plan’s primary wholesaler of its plans is PLANCO. As a wholesaler,
PLANCO distributes Life’s 401(k) plans by providing sales support to registered representatives,
financial planners and broker-dealers at brokerage firms and banks across the United States. In
addition, Life uses internal personnel with extensive experience in the 401(k) market to sell its
products and services in the retirement plan market.

Competition

Retirement Plans competes with numerous other insurance companies as well as certain banks,
securities brokerage firms, independent financial advisors and other financial intermediaries
marketing annuities, mutual funds and other retirement-oriented products. Product sales are
affected by competitive factors such as investment performance ratings, product design, visibility
in the marketplace, financial strength ratings, distribution capabilities, levels of charges and
credited rates, reputation and customer service.

For the Section 457 and 403(b) as well as the 401(k) markets, which offer mutual funds wrapped in a
variable annuity or mutual fund retirement program (government markets), the variety of available
funds and their performance is most important to plan sponsors. The competitors tend to be the
major mutual fund companies.

Institutional

Life provides structured settlement contracts, institutional annuities, longevity assurance,
institutional mutual funds and stable value investment products such as funding agreements, funding
agreement backed notes, consumer notes, and guaranteed investment contracts (“GICs”) through the
Institutional Investment Products (“IIP”) business unit. Additionally, Life is a leader in the
variable PPLI market, which includes life insurance policies purchased by a company or a trust on
the lives of employees, with Life or a trust sponsored by Life named as the beneficiary under the
policy.

In 2005, Life introduced two new products for the high net worth markets. One is a specialized life
insurance contract for ultra-wealthy, high net worth investors. The other is a hedge fund designed
to leverage the strengths of The Hartford’s award-winning customer service and distribution
capability.

In 2006, Life introduced one new product for the retail market, longevity assurance. Longevity
assurance is designed to provide policyholders with the security that they will not outlive their
assets in the form of a deferred fixed annuity with life contingencies. Life also changed the
legal structure of its retail note platform by directly issuing retail registered notes (“consumer
notes”) to investors. In addition to consumer note offerings, Life issues funding agreements to
trusts, which, in turn, issues notes to retail and institutional investors.

Life’s total account values related to institutional investment products were $22.2 billion, $17.9
billion and $14.6 billion as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Variable PPLI
products account values were $26.1 billion, $23.8 billion and $22.5 billion as of December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Institutional generated revenues of $1.7 billion, $1.4 billion
and $1.3 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively and net income of $99, $88 and $68 in 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively.

Principal Products

Institutional Investment Products

— Life sells the following institutional investment products:
structured settlements, institutional mutual funds, GICs and other short-term funding agreements,
and other annuity contracts for special purposes such as funding of terminated defined benefit
pension plans (institutional annuities arrangements).

Structured Settlements

— Structured settlement annuity contracts provide for periodic payments to
an injured person or survivor, typically in settlement of a claim under a liability policy in lieu
of a lump sum settlement. Contracts pay either life contingent or period certain benefits, which
is at the discretion of the contract holder.

Institutional Mutual Funds

— Life sells institutional shares of The Hartford Mutual Funds (Class Y
shares) to both qualified (i.e., section 401(k) and 457 plans) and non-qualified (i.e., endowments
and foundations) institutional investors on an “investment only” basis. Life also sells its
Hartford HLS Funds and the Hartford HLS Series II Funds, to qualified retirement plans on an
“investment only” basis. That means that the funds are sold individually, with no recordkeeping
services included and not as a part of any bundled retirement program. The Hartford’s wholly-owned subsidiary, HL Investment Advisors, LLC, serves as
the investment advisor to these funds and contracts with sub-advisors to perform the day-to-day
management of the funds. The two primary sub-advisors to the Hartford HLS Funds are Wellington, of
Boston, Massachusetts for most of the equity funds and HIMCO for the fixed income funds.

Stable Value Products

— GICs are group annuity contracts issued to sponsors of qualified pension or
profit-sharing plans or stable value pooled fund managers. Under these contracts, the client
deposits a lump sum with The Hartford for a specified period of time for a



guaranteed interest rate. At the end of the specified period, the client receives principal plus
interest earned. Funding agreements are investment contracts that perform a similar function for
non-qualified assets. The Company issues fixed and variable rate funding agreements to Hartford
Life Global Funding trusts, that, in turn, issue registered notes to institutional and retail
investors. During 2006, the Company began issuing consumer notes directly to retail investors.

Institutional Annuities

— Institutional annuities arrangements are group annuity contracts used to
fund pension liabilities that exist when a qualified retirement plan sponsor decides to terminate
an existing defined benefit pension plan. Group annuity contracts are very long-term in nature,
since they must pay the pension liabilities typically on a monthly basis to all participants
covered under the pension plan which is being terminated.

Longevity assurance

— Longevity assurance is a fixed deferred-payout annuity that provides life
contingent benefits to individuals with the purpose of providing individuals with protection from
the risk of outliving retirement income.

Single Premium Immediate Annuities –

Single premium immediate annuities (“SPIA”) are individual
contracts that provide a fixed immediate payout annuity. Contracts pay either life contingent or
period certain benefits, at the discretion of the contract holder.

Variable PPLI Products

— Private Placement Variable Life Insurance (“PPVLI”) products continue to
be used by employers to fund non-qualified benefits or other post-employment benefit liabilities. A
key advantage to plan sponsors is the opportunity to select from a range of tax deferred investment
allocations. Recent clarifications in regulatory policy have made PPVLI products particularly
attractive to banks with postretirement medical obligations. PPVLI has also been widely used in
the high net worth marketplace due to its low costs, range of investment choices and ability to
accommodate a fund of funds management style. This institutionally priced hedge fund product is
aimed at the rapidly growing market composed of affluent investors unwilling to participate in
hedge funds directly due to minimum investment thresholds.

Marketing and Distribution

In the structured settlement market, the Institutional segment sells individual fixed immediate
annuity products through a small number of specialty brokerage firms that work closely with The
Hartford’s Property & Casualty operations. Life also works directly with the brokerage firms on
cases that do not involve The Hartford’s Property & Casualty operations.

In the institutional mutual fund market, the Institutional segment typically sells its products
through investment consulting firms employed by retirement plan sponsors. Institutional’s products
are also sold through 401(k) record keeping firms that offer a “platform” of mutual funds to their
plan sponsor clients. A third sales channel is direct sales to qualified plan sponsors, using
registered representatives employed by Hartford Equity Sales Company, Inc., a subsidiary.

In the stable value marketplace, the Institutional segment sells GICs, funding agreements, and
funding agreement backed notes to retirement plan sponsors or other large institutions either
through investment management firms or directly, using Hartford employees.

In the institutional annuities market, Life sells its group annuity products to retirement plan
sponsors through three different channels: (1) a small number of specialty brokers; (2) large
benefits consulting firms; and (3) directly, using Hartford employees.

In the PPVLI market, specialized strategic alliance partners with expertise in the large case
market assist in the placement of many cases. High net worth PPVLI is often placed with the
assistance of investment banking and wealth management specialists.

The hedge fund of funds product is positioned to be sold through family offices, wealth management
platforms and other specialists in the mass-affluent market.

The Institutional segment also distributes consumer notes through a purchasing agent and its
corresponding selling group of broker-dealers and securities firms.

Competition

The Institutional segment competes with numerous other insurance companies as well as certain
banks, securities brokerage firms, independent financial advisors and other financial
intermediaries marketing annuities, mutual funds and other retirement-oriented products. Product
sales are affected by competitive factors such as investment performance ratings, product design,
visibility in the marketplace, financial strength ratings, distribution capabilities, levels of
charges and credited rates, reputation and customer service.

For institutional product lines offering fixed annuity products (e.g., institutional annuities,
structured settlements, SPIAs, longevity assurance and stable value), financial strength, stability
and credit ratings are key buying factors. As a result, the competitors in those marketplaces tend
to be other large, long-established insurance companies.

For product lines offering mutual funds – either unbundled (institutional mutual funds) or wrapped
in a variable annuity or mutual fund retirement program (government markets) – the variety of
available funds and their performance is most important to plan sponsors. The competitors tend to
be the major mutual fund companies.



For PPVLI, competition in the large case market comes from other insurance carriers and from
specialized agents with expertise in the benefit funding marketplace. For high net worth programs,
the competition is often from other investment banking firms allied with other insurance carriers.

Individual Life

The Individual Life segment provides life insurance strategies to a wide array of business
intermediaries and partners to solve the wealth protection, accumulation and transfer needs of its
affluent, emerging affluent and business life insurance clients. As of December 31, 2006, life
insurance in force increased 9% to $164.2 billion, from $150.8 billion and $139.9 billion as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Account values increased 11% to $11.4 billion as of
December 31, 2006 from $10.3 billion and $9.5 billion as of December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Revenues were $1.2 billion, $1.1 billion and $1.1 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Net income in Individual Life was $170, $166 and $155 in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

Principal Products

Life holds a significant market share in the variable universal life product market and is a
leading seller of variable universal life insurance according to the Tillinghast VALUE Survey as of
September 30, 2006. Sales in the Individual Life segment were $284, $250 and $233 in 2006, 2005
and 2004, respectively.

Variable Universal Life

— Variable universal life provides life insurance with an investment return
linked to underlying investments as policyholders are allowed to invest premium dollars among a
variety of underlying mutual funds. As the return on the investment portfolios increase or
decrease, the surrender value of the variable universal life policy will increase or decrease, and,
under certain policyholder options or market conditions, the death benefit may also increase or
decrease. Life’s second-to-die products are distinguished from other products in that two lives
are insured rather than one, and the policy proceeds are paid upon the deaths of both insureds.
Second-to-die policies are frequently used in estate planning for a married couple as the policy
proceeds are paid out at the time an estate tax liability is incurred. Variable universal life
account values were $6.6 billion, $5.9 billion and $5.4 billion as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively.

Universal Life and Interest Sensitive Whole Life

— Universal life and interest sensitive whole life
insurance coverages provide life insurance with adjustable rates of return based on current
interest rates and on the returns of the underlying investment portfolios. Universal life provides
policyholders with flexibility in the timing and amount of premium payments and the amount of the
death benefit, provided there are sufficient policy funds to cover all policy charges for the
coming period, unless guaranteed no-lapse coverage is in effect. At December 31, 2006 and 2005,
guaranteed no-lapse universal life represented approximately 6% and 4% of life insurance in-force,
respectively. Life also sells second-to-die universal life insurance policies.

Marketing and Distribution

Consistent with Life’s strategy to access multiple distribution outlets, the Individual Life
distribution organization has been developed to penetrate multiple retail sales channels. Life
sells both variable and fixed individual life products through a wide distribution network of
national and regional broker-dealer organizations, banks and independent financial advisors. Life
is a market leader in selling individual life insurance through national stockbroker and financial
institutions channels. In addition, Life distributes individual life products through independent
life and property-casualty agents and Woodbury Financial Services, a subsidiary retail
broker-dealer. To wholesale Life’s products, Life has a group of highly qualified life insurance
professionals with specialized training in sophisticated life insurance sales. These individuals
are generally employees of Life who are managed through a regional sales office system.

Competition

Individual
Life competes with approximately 1,100 life insurance companies in the United States, as
well as other financial intermediaries marketing insurance products. Competitive factors related
to this segment are primarily the breadth and quality of life insurance products offered, pricing,
relationships with third-party distributors, effectiveness of wholesaling support, pricing and
availability of reinsurance, and the quality of underwriting and customer service.

Group Benefits

The Group Benefits segment provides employers, associations, affinity groups and financial
institutions with group life, accident and disability coverage, along with other products and
services, including voluntary benefits, group retiree health, and medical stop loss. Life ranks
number two in fully-insured group disability premium and number four in fully-insured life premium
of U.S. group carriers (according to LIMRA data as of June 30, 2006). The Company also offers
disability underwriting, administration, claims processing services and reinsurance to other
insurers and self-funded employer plans. Generally, policies sold in this segment are term
insurance. This allows the Company to adjust the rates or terms of its policies in order to
minimize the adverse effect of various market trends, including declining interest rates and other
factors. Typically policies are sold with one-, two- or three-year rate guarantees depending upon
the product. In the disability market, the Company focuses on its risk management expertise and on
efficiencies and economies of scale to derive a competitive advantage. Group Benefits generated
fully insured ongoing premiums of $4.1 billion, $3.7 billion and $3.6



billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, of which group disability insurance accounted for
$1.8 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and group life
insurance accounted for $1.8 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion for the year ended December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company held group disability reserves of $4.5 billion,
$4.4 billion and $4.2 billion and group life reserves of $1.3 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.2
billion, as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Net income in Group Benefits was
$303, $272 and $229 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Principal Products

Group Disability

— Life is one of the largest carriers in the “large case” market of the group
disability insurance business. Life’s strong market presence in the group disability markets is
the result of its well known brand recognition and reputation, financial strength and stability and
Life’s approach to claims management. Life also offers voluntary, or employee-paid, short-term and
long-term disability group benefits. Life’s efforts in the group disability market focus on early
intervention, return-to-work programs and successful rehabilitation, offering the support to help
claimants return to an active, productive life after a disability. Life also works with disability
claimants to improve their approval rate for Social Security Assistance (i.e., reducing payment of
benefits by the amount of Social Security payments received).

Life’s short-term disability benefit plans provide a weekly benefit amount (typically 60% to 70% of
the insured’s earned income up to a specified maximum benefit) to insureds when they are unable to
work due to an accident or illness. Long-term disability insurance provides a monthly benefit for
those extended periods of time not covered by a short-term disability benefit plan when insureds
are unable to work due to disability. Insureds may receive total or partial disability benefits.
Most of these policies begin providing benefits following a 90- or 180-day waiting period and
generally continue providing benefits until the insured reaches age 65. Long-term disability
benefits are paid monthly and are limited to a portion, generally 50-70%, of the insured’s earned
income up to a specified maximum benefit.

Group Life and Accident

— Group term life insurance provides term coverage to employees and members
of associations, affinity groups and financial institutions and their dependents for a specified
period and has no accumulation of cash values. Life offers options for its basic group life
insurance coverage, including portability of coverage and a living benefit and critical illness
option, whereby terminally ill policyholders can receive death benefits in advance. Life also
offers voluntary, or employee-paid, life group benefits and accidental death and dismemberment
coverage either packaged with life insurance or on a stand-alone basis.

Other

— Life offers a host of other products and services, such as Family and Medical Leave Act
Administration, group retiree health, and specialized insurance products for physicians. Life
provides excess of loss medical coverage (known as stop loss insurance) to employers who self-fund
their medical plans and pay claims using the services of a third party administrator. Life also
provides travel accident, hospital indemnity, supplemental health insurance for military personnel
and their families and other coverages to individual members of various associations, affinity
groups, financial institutions and employee groups.

Marketing and Distribution

Life uses an experienced group of Company employees, managed through a regional sales office
system, to distribute its group insurance products and services through a variety of distribution
outlets, including brokers, consultants, third-party administrators and trade associations.

Competition

The Group Benefits business remains highly competitive. Competitive factors primarily affecting
Group Benefits are the variety and quality of products and services offered, the price quoted for
coverage and services, Life’s relationships with its third-party distributors, and the quality of
customer service. Group Benefits competes with numerous other insurance companies and other
financial intermediaries marketing insurance products. However, many of these businesses have
relatively high barriers to entry and there have been few new entrants into the group benefits
insurance market over the past few years.

International

International, which has operations located in Japan, Brazil, Ireland and the United Kingdom,
provides investments, retirement savings and other insurance and savings products to individuals
and groups outside the United States and Canada. International revenues were $759, $524 and $250
in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Net income for International was $246, $96 and $39 in 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively. International’s total assets under
management were
$33.9 billion, $27.8 billion and $16.1 billion as of December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company’s Japan operation, Hartford Life Insurance K.K.
(“HLIKK”), which began selling variable annuities in December 2000, has continued to grow
significantly and remains the largest distributor of variable annuities in Japan, based on assets
under management. In August 2004, the Company began selling yen and U.S. dollar denominated fixed
annuities in Japan. With assets under management of $31.3 billion, $26.1 billion and $14.6 billion
as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, the Japan operation is the largest component
of International with net income of $267, $120 and $36 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

The Company’s Japan operation sells both variable and fixed individual annuity products through a
wide distribution network of Japan’s broker-dealer organizations, banks and other financial
institutions and independent financial advisors. The Company is one of the largest



sellers of individual retail variable annuities in Japan with sales of $5.8 billion, $10.7 billion
and $7.3 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

International’s other operations include a 50% owned joint venture in Brazil and a startup
operation in Europe. The Brazil joint venture operates under the name Icatu-Hartford and
distributes pension, life insurance and other insurance and savings products through broker-dealer
organizations and various partnerships. The Company’s European operation, Hartford Life Limited,
began selling unit-linked investment bonds in the United Kingdom in April 2005. Unit-linked bonds
are similar to variable annuities marketed in the United States and Japan. Hartford Life Limited
established its operations in Dublin, Ireland with a branch office in London to help market and
service its business in the United Kingdom.

Principal Products

Individual Variable Annuities

— The Company earns fees, based on policyholders’ account
values, for managing variable annuity assets and maintaining policyholder accounts. The Company
uses specified portions of the periodic deposits paid by a customer to purchase units in one or
more mutual funds as directed by the customer, who then assumes the investment performance risks
and rewards. These products offer the policyholder a variety of equity and fixed income options.
Additionally, International sells variable annuity contracts that offer various guaranteed minimum
death, investment, and living benefits.

Policyholders may make deposits of varying amounts at regular or irregular intervals, and the value
of these assets fluctuates in accordance with the investment performance of the funds selected by
the policyholder. To encourage persistency, many of the Company’s individual variable annuities are
subject to withdrawal restrictions and surrender charges. Surrender charges range up to 7% of the
contract’s deposits, less withdrawals, and reduce to zero on a sliding scale, usually within seven
years from the deposit date. In Japan, individual variable annuity account values of $29.7 billion,
as of December 31, 2006, have grown from $24.6 billion, as of December 31, 2005, and $14.1 billion,
as of December 31, 2004.

Fixed MVA Annuities

— Fixed MVA annuities are fixed rate annuity contracts that guarantee
a specific sum of money to be paid in the future, either as a lump sum or as monthly income. In the
event that a policyholder surrenders a policy prior to the end of the guarantee period, the MVA
feature adjusts the contract’s cash surrender value with respect to any changes in interest rates,
thereby protecting the Company from losses due to higher interest rates at the time of surrender.
The amount of lump sum or monthly income payments will not fluctuate due to adverse changes in the
Company’s investment return, mortality experience or expenses. The Company’s primary fixed MVA
annuities in Japan are yen and dollar denominated with terms varying from five to ten years with an
average term to maturity of approximately seven years. In Japan, account values of fixed MVA
annuities were $1.7 billion, $1.5 billion and $502 as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

Marketing and Distribution

The International distribution network is based on management’s strategy of developing and
utilizing multiple and competing distribution channels to achieve the broadest distribution to
reach target customers. The success of the Company’s marketing and distribution system depends on
its product offerings, fund performance, successful utilization of wholesaling, quality of customer
service, and relationships with securities firms, banks and other financial institutions, and
independent financial advisors (through which the sale of the Company’s retail investment products
to customers is consummated). As of December 31, 2006, the Japan operation employed a wholesaling
network that supports sales through 56 banks and securities firms.

Competition

The International segment competes with a number of domestic and international insurance companies
in Japan. Product sales are affected by competitive factors such as investment performance ratings,
product design, visibility in the marketplace, financial strength ratings, distribution
capabilities, levels of charges and credited rates, reputation and customer service. Competition
has continued to increase in the Japanese market with the most significant competition the result
of the strengthening of domestic competitors. This competition has resulted in changes in key
distribution relationships. The Company continues to focus efforts on strengthening distribution
relationships and improving wholesaling and servicing efforts.

Property & Casualty

Property & Casualty provides (1) workers’ compensation, property, automobile, liability, umbrella,
specialty casualty, marine, livestock and fidelity and surety coverages to commercial accounts
primarily throughout the United States; (2) professional liability coverage and directors and
officers liability coverage, as well as excess and surplus lines business not normally written by
standard commercial lines insurers; (3) automobile, homeowners and home-based business coverage to
individuals throughout the United States; and (4) insurance-related services.

The Hartford seeks to distinguish itself in the property and casualty market through its product
depth and innovation, distribution capacity, customer service expertise, and technology for ease of
doing business. The Hartford is the eleventh largest property and casualty insurance operation in
the United States based on direct written premiums for the year ended December 31, 2005, according
to



A.M. Best Company, Inc. (“A.M. Best”). Property & Casualty generated revenues of $12.4 billion,
$12.0 billion and $11.3 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Revenues include earned
premiums, servicing revenue, net investment income and net realized capital gains and losses.
Earned premiums for 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $10.4 billion, $10.2 billion and $9.5 billion,
respectively. Additionally, net income was $1.5 billion, $1.2 billion and $910 for 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively. Total assets for Property & Casualty were $41.0 billion, $40.3 billion and
$38.0 billion as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Business Insurance

Business Insurance provides standard commercial insurance coverage to small and middle market
commercial businesses primarily throughout the United States. Small commercial businesses
generally represent companies with up to $15 in annual revenues or total property values. Middle
market businesses generally represent companies with greater than $15 in annual revenues or total
property values. This segment also provides commercial risk management products and services as
well as marine coverage. Earned premiums for 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $5.1 billion, $4.8 billion
and $4.3 billion, respectively. The segment had underwriting income of $618, $396 and $360 in
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Principal Products

Business Insurance offers workers’ compensation, property, automobile, liability, umbrella and
marine coverages under several different products. Some of these coverages are sold together as
part of a single package policy for small business owners. Among the products sold within small
commercial, the Company offers the Select Xpand product, which is designed to meet the needs of
businesses with $5 to $15 in revenues. Workers’ compensation insurance accounts for the largest
share of the written premium in the Business Insurance segment. Commercial risk management
products and services are also provided.

Marketing and Distribution

Business Insurance provides insurance products and services through its home office located in
Hartford, Connecticut, and multiple domestic regional office locations and insurance centers. The
segment markets its products nationwide utilizing brokers and independent agents and involving
trade associations and employee groups. Brokers and independent agents are not employees of The
Hartford.

Competition

The commercial insurance industry is a highly competitive environment regarding product, price,
service and technology. The Hartford competes against a number of large, national carriers as well
as regional competitors in certain territories. Competitors include other stock companies, mutual
companies, alternative risk sharing groups and other underwriting organizations. These companies
sell through various distribution channels and business models, across a broad array of product
lines, and with a high level of variation regarding geographic, marketing and customer
segmentation.

The market for small commercial business has become more competitive as favorable loss costs in the
past couple of years have led carriers to expand coverage while maintaining relatively flat
pricing. While written premium growth rates in small commercial have been slowing, underwriting
margins have been strong driven, in part, by favorable claim frequency. Within the small
commercial segment of the business, a number of companies have sought to grow their business by
increasing their underwriting appetite and paying more commissions. In addition, a number of
companies, like The Hartford, are pursuing agency appointment strategies to increase premium
writings. The increase in exposure to catastrophe losses in many coastal areas have led a number
of carriers to be more aggressive in pursuing business in the Mid-West where exposure to
catastrophes is not as severe.

Middle market business is characterized as “high touch” with case-by-case underwriting and pricing
decisions. As such, compared to small commercial, the pricing of middle market accounts is prone
to more significant variation or cyclicality from year to year. Legislative reforms in a number of
states in recent years has helped to control indemnity costs on workers’ compensation claims, but
this has also led to downward pressure on rates. In a market of declining or “softening” prices,
carriers are competing to protect their profitable renewals. New business opportunities
increasingly involve more complex exposures and risk classes. In addition, there continue to be
constraints on the amount of catastrophe capacity available in the marketplace.

The Hartford is the fifth largest commercial lines insurer in the United States based on direct
written premiums for the year ended December 31, 2005 according to A.M. Best. The relatively large
size and underwriting capacity of The Hartford provide opportunities not available to smaller
companies. In addition, the marketplace is affected by available capacity of the insurance
industry as measured by statutory surplus. Surplus expands and contracts primarily in conjunction
with profit levels generated by the industry. National carriers continue to compete for the same
business, while regional carriers are broadening their target market and distribution. Many
carriers are focusing on technology to streamline the underwriting process, provide more efficient
customer service, introduce more sophisticated pricing models and increase the volume of business
sold through agents.



Personal Lines

Personal Lines provides automobile, homeowners’ and home-based business coverages to the members of
AARP through a direct marketing operation; to individuals who prefer local agent involvement
through a network of independent agents in the standard personal lines market. Up until the sale
of the business on November 30, 2006, the Company also sold non-standard auto insurance through the
Company’s Omni Insurance Group, Inc. (“Omni”) subsidiary. The Hartford’s exclusive licensing
arrangement with AARP continues until January 1, 2020 for automobile, homeowners and home-based
business. This agreement provides Personal Lines with an important competitive advantage.
Personal Lines also operates a member contact center for health insurance products offered through
AARP’s Health Care Options. The Health Care Options agreement continues through 2009. Personal
Lines had earned premiums of $3.8 billion, $3.6 billion and $3.4 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Underwriting income for 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $429, $460 and $138, respectively.
AARP had earned premiums of $2.5 billion, $2.3 billion and $2.1 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

Principal Products

Personal Lines provides standard and non-standard automobile, homeowners and home-based business
coverages to individuals across the United States, including a special program designed exclusively
for members of AARP. During 2006, the Company enhanced its new Dimensions automobile and homeowners
class plans for insurance sold through independent agents and brokers. “Dimensions with Packages”,
introduced in 2006, is a suite of products that offers coverages and competitive rates tailored to
a customer’s individual risk. Dimensions uses a large number of interactive rating variables to
determine a rate that most accurately reflects the customer’s individual characteristics.

Marketing and Distribution

Personal Lines reaches diverse markets through multiple distribution channels including brokers,
independent agents, direct marketing, the internet and advertising in publications. This segment
provides customized products and services to customers through a network of independent agents in
the standard personal lines market. Brokers and independent agents are not employees of The
Hartford. Personal Lines has an important relationship with AARP and markets directly to its
nearly 38 million members.

Competition

The personal lines automobile and homeowners businesses are highly competitive. Personal lines
insurance is written by insurance companies of varying sizes that sell products through various
distribution channels, including independent agents, captive agents and directly to the consumer.
The personal lines market competes on the basis of price; product; service, including claims
handling; stability of the insurer and name recognition. A number of carriers will likely continue
to increase their advertising in an effort to gain new business and retain profitable business. In
addition, carriers that distribute products mainly through agents are offering additional
incentives to those agents to attract new business. To distinguish themselves in the marketplace,
top tier carriers are offering on-line and self service capabilities to agents and consumers. In
addition, the capability to sell direct to the consumer has become increasingly important as a
greater number of consumers use the internet to research or shop for auto insurance. Through
information technology, carriers will likely further segment their pricing plans to expand market
share in what they believe to be the most profitable segments. Carriers with more efficient cost
structures will have an advantage in competing for new business through price. Some competitors
are introducing new products at substantially reduced rate levels and the Company expects that top
tier carriers will continue to capture a larger share of industry revenues and profits.

The Hartford is the twelfth largest personal lines insurer in the United States based on direct
written premiums for the year ended December 31, 2005 according to A.M. Best. A major competitive
advantage of The Hartford is the exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP to provide personal
automobile, homeowners and home-based business insurance products to its members. This arrangement
is in effect until January 1, 2020. Management expects favorable “baby boom” demographics to
increase AARP membership during this period.

Specialty Commercial

Specialty Commercial provides a wide variety of property and casualty insurance products and
services through retailers and wholesalers to large commercial clients and insureds requiring a
variety of specialized coverages. Excess and surplus lines coverages not normally written by
standard line insurers are also provided, primarily through wholesale brokers. Specialty
Commercial had earned premiums of $1.6 billion, $1.8 billion and $1.7 billion in 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively. Underwriting income (loss) was $64, ($165) and ($53) in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

Principal Products

Specialty Commercial offers a variety of customized insurance products and risk management
services. Specialty Commercial provides standard commercial insurance products including workers’
compensation, automobile and liability coverages to large-sized companies. Specialty Commercial
also provides bond, professional liability, specialty casualty and livestock coverages, as well as
core property and



excess and surplus lines coverages not normally written by standard lines insurers. A significant
portion of specialty casualty business, including workers’ compensation business, is written
through large deductible programs where the insured typically provides collateral to support loss
payments made within their deductible. Specialty Casualty also provides retrospectively-rated
programs where the premiums are adjustable based on loss experience. Alternative markets, within
Specialty Commercial, provides insurance products and services primarily to captive insurance
companies, pools and self-insurance groups. In addition, Specialty Commercial provides third-party
administrator services for claims administration, integrated benefits, loss control and performance
measurement through Specialty Risk Services, LLC, a subsidiary of the Company.

Marketing and Distribution

Specialty Commercial provides insurance products and services through its home office located in
Hartford, Connecticut and multiple domestic office locations. The segment markets its products
nationwide utilizing a variety of distribution networks including independent agents and brokers as
well as wholesalers. Brokers, independents agents and wholesalers are not employees of The
Hartford.

Competition

The commercial insurance industry is a highly competitive environment regarding product, price and
service. Specialty Commercial is comprised of a diverse group of businesses that are unique to
commercial lines. Each line of business operates independently with its own set of business
objectives, and focuses on the operational dynamics of their specific industry. These businesses,
while somewhat interrelated, have a unique business model and operating cycle. Specialty
Commercial is considered a transactional business and, therefore, competes with other companies for
business primarily on an account by account basis due to the complex nature of each transaction.

On specialty casualty business, written pricing competition is expected to be significant. With
national account business, carriers will likely offer more lower-deductible policies and guaranteed
cost policies. The Company expects competition among national carriers to continue to be very
strong and larger regional carriers will likely target specific accounts at renewal. Within
professional liability, in 2005 and 2006 there was a decrease in the number of securities class
actions suits and this has put some downward pressure on rates. While pricing for specialty
property increased significantly during 2006 as higher reinsurance costs were passed on to
insureds, pricing increases will likely be less significant in 2007. Carriers continue to manage
their aggregate exposure to property losses in catastrophe-prone areas.

Earned premium growth is not an objective of Specialty Commercial since premium writings may
fluctuate based on the segment’s view of perceived market opportunity. Specialty Commercial
competes with other stock companies, mutual companies, alternative risk sharing groups and other
underwriting organizations. The relatively large size and underwriting capacity of The Hartford
provide opportunities not available to smaller companies.

Other Operations

The Other Operations segment includes operations that are under a single management structure,
Heritage Holdings, which is responsible for two related activities. The first activity is the
management of certain subsidiaries and operations of The Hartford that have discontinued writing
new business. The second is the management of claims (and the associated reserves) related to
asbestos, environmental and other exposures.

Life Reserves

Life insurance subsidiaries of the Company establish and carry as liabilities, predominantly, three
types of reserves: (1) a liability equal to the balance that accrues to the benefit of the
policyholder as of the financial statement date, otherwise known as the account value, (2) a
liability for unpaid losses, including those that have been incurred but not yet reported, and (3)
a liability for future policy benefits, representing the present value of future benefits to be
paid to or on behalf of policyholders less the present value of future net premiums. The
liabilities for unpaid losses and future policy benefits are calculated based on actuarially
recognized methods using morbidity and mortality tables, which are modified to reflect Life’s
actual experience when appropriate. Liabilities for unpaid losses include estimates of amounts to
fully settle known reported claims as well as claims related to insured events that the Company
estimates have been incurred but have not yet been reported. Future policy benefit reserves are
computed at amounts that, with additions from estimated net premiums to be received and with
interest on such reserves compounded annually at certain assumed rates, are expected to be
sufficient to meet Life’s policy obligations at their maturities or in the event of an insured’s
disability or death. Other insurance liabilities include those for unearned premiums and benefits
in excess of account value. Reserves for assumed reinsurance are computed in a manner that is
comparable to direct insurance reserves.



Property & Casualty Reserves

The Hartford establishes property and casualty reserves to provide for the estimated costs of
paying claims under insurance policies written by The Hartford. These reserves include estimates
for both claims that have been reported and those that have been incurred but not reported to The
Hartford and include estimates of all expenses associated with processing and settling these
claims. This estimation process involves a variety of actuarial techniques and is primarily based
on historical experience and consideration of current trends. Examples of current trends include
increases in medical cost inflation rates, the changing use of medical care procedures, the
introduction of new products such as the Dimensions for auto product in Personal Lines, changes in
internal claim practices, changes in the legislative and regulatory environment over workers’
compensation claims, evolving exposures to claims asserted against religious institutions and
other organizations relating to molestation or abuse and other mass torts.

The Hartford continues to receive claims that assert damages from asbestos-related and
environmental-related exposures. Asbestos claims relate primarily to bodily injuries asserted by
those who came in contact with asbestos or products containing asbestos. Environmental claims
relate primarily to pollution related clean-up costs. As discussed further in the Critical
Accounting Estimates and Other Operations sections of the MD&A, significant uncertainty limits the
Company’s ability to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related
expenses with regard to environmental and particularly asbestos claims.

Most of the Company’s property and casualty reserves are not discounted. However, certain
liabilities for unpaid losses for permanently disabled claimants have been discounted to present
value using an average interest rate of 5.6% in 2006 and 2005. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005,
such discounted reserves totaled $707 and $680, respectively (net of discounts of $510 and $505,
respectively). In addition, certain structured settlement contracts that fund loss run-offs for
unrelated parties having payment patterns that are fixed and determinable have been discounted to
present value using an average interest rate of 5.5%. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, such
discounted reserves totaled $273 and $264, respectively (net of discounts of $95 and $103,
respectively). Accretion of these discounts was $32, $30, and $29 in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

As of December 31, 2006, net property and casualty reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses
reported under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) exceeded net reserves reported on
a statutory basis by $29. The difference primarily results from a portion of the GAAP provision
for uncollectible reinsurance not recognized under statutory accounting and the required exclusion
from statutory reserves of assumed retroactive reinsurance, largely offset by the discounting of
GAAP-basis workers’ compensation reserves at rates no higher than risk-free interest rates; such
rates generally exceed the statutory discount rates set by regulators.

Further discussion on The Hartford’s property and casualty reserves, including asbestos and
environmental claims reserves, may be found in the Reserves section of the MD&A– Critical
Accounting Estimates.



A reconciliation of liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses is herein referenced
from Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A table depicting the historical
development of the liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, net of reinsurance,
follows.

Loss Development Table

Property And Casualty Loss And Loss Adjustment Expense Liability Development — Net of Reinsurance

For the years ended December 31, [1]












Liabilities for unpaid
losses and loss
adjustment expenses,
net of reinsurance

$

12,702

$

12,770

$

12,902

$

12,476

$

12,316

$

12,860

$

13,141

$

16,218

$

16,191

$

16,863

$

17,604

Cumulative paid losses and
loss

expenses

One year later

2,625

2,472

2,939

2,994

3,272

3,339

3,480

4,415

3,594

3,702

Two years later

4,188

4,300

4,733

5,019

5,315

5,621

6,781

6,779

6,035

—

Three years later

5,540

5,494

6,153

6,437

6,972

8,324

8,591

8,686

—

—

Four years later

6,418

6,508

7,141

7,652

9,195

9,710

10,061

—

—

—

Five years later

7,201

7,249

8,080

9,567

10,227

10,871

—

—

—

—

Six years later

7,800

8,036

9,818

10,376

11,140

—

—

—

—

—

Seven years later

8,499

9,655

10,501

11,137

—

—

—

—

—

—

Eight years later

10,044

10,239

11,246

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Nine years later

10,576

10,933

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Ten years later

11,237

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Liabilities re-estimated

One year later

12,752

12,615

12,662

12,472

12,459

13,153

15,965

16,632

16,439

17,159

Two years later

12,653

12,318

12,569

12,527

12,776

16,176

16,501

17,232

16,838

—

Three years later

12,460

12,183

12,584

12,698

15,760

16,768

17,338

17,739

—

—

Four years later

12,380

12,138

12,663

15,609

16,584

17,425

17,876

—

—

—

Five years later

12,317

12,179

15,542

16,256

17,048

17,927

—

—

—

—

Six years later

12,322

15,047

16,076

16,568

17,512

—

—

—

—

—

Seven years later

15,188

15,499

16,290

17,031

—

—

—

—

—

—

Eight years later

15,594

15,641

16,799

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Nine years later

15,713

16,165

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Ten years later

16,244

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Deficiency
(redundancy), net of
reinsurance

$

3,542

$

3,395

$

3,897

$

4,555

$

5,196

$

5,067

$

4,735

$

1,521

$


$


[1]

The above table excludes Hartford Insurance, Singapore as a result of its sale in September
2001, Hartford Seguros as a result of its sale in February 2001, Zwolsche as a result of its
sale in December 2000 and London & Edinburgh as a result of its sale in November 1998.

The table above shows the cumulative deficiency (redundancy) of the Company’s reserves, net of
reinsurance, as now estimated with the benefit of additional information. Those amounts are
comprised of changes in estimates of gross losses and changes in estimates of related reinsurance
recoveries.

The table below, for the periods presented, reconciles the net reserves to the gross reserves, as
initially estimated and recorded, and as currently estimated and recorded, and computes the
cumulative deficiency (redundancy) of the Company’s reserves before reinsurance.

Property
And Casualty Loss And Loss Adjustment Expense Liability Development — Gross

For the years ended December 31, [1]











Net reserve, as initially estimated

$

12,770

$

12,902

$

12,476

$

12,316

$

12,860

$

13,141

$

16,218

$

16,191

$

16,863

$

17,604

Reinsurance and other recoverables,
as initially estimated

3,996

3,275

3,706

3,871

4,176

3,950

5,497

5,138

5,403

4,387

Gross reserve, as initially estimated

$

16,766

$

16,177

$

16,182

$

16,187

$

17,036

$

17,091

$

21,715

$

21,329

$

22,266

$

21,991

Net reestimated reserve

$

16,165

$

16,799

$

17,031

$

17,512

$

17,927

$

17,876

$

17,739

$

16,838

$

17,159

Reestimated and other reinsurance
recoverables

5,051

4,552

5,465

5,502

5,684

5,052

4,964

4,906

5,417

Gross reestimated reserve

$

21,216

$

21,351

$

22,496

$

23,014

$

23,611

$

22,928

$

22,703

$

21,744

$

22,576

Gross deficiency (redundancy)

$

4,450

$

5,174

$

6,314

$

6,827

$

6,575

$

5,837

$


$


$


[1]

The above table excludes Hartford Insurance, Singapore as a result of its sale in September
2001, Hartford Seguros as a result of its sale in February 2001, Zwolsche as a result of its
sale in December 2000 and London & Edinburgh as a result of its sale in November 1998.



The following table is derived from the Loss Development table and summarizes the effect of
reserve re-estimates, net of reinsurance, on calendar year operations for the ten-year period ended
December 31, 2006. The total of each column details the amount of reserve re-estimates made in the
indicated calendar year and shows the accident years to which the re-estimates are applicable. The
amounts in the total accident year column on the far right represent the cumulative reserve
re-estimates during the ten year period ended December 31, 2006 for the indicated accident year(s).

Effect of Net Reserve Re-estimates on Calendar Year Operations

Calendar Year











Total

By Accident year

1996 & Prior

$


$

(99

)

$

(193

)

$

(80

)

$

(63

)

$


$

2,866

$


$


$


$

3,542


—

(56

)

(104

)

(55

)






(7

)

(97

)


—

—








(15

)



—

—

—







(46

)



—

—

—

—









—

—

—

—

—

(24

)


(232

)





—

—

—

—

—

—

(199

)

(56

)



(39

)


—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(122

)

(237

)

(31

)

(390

)


—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(352

)

(108

)

(460

)


—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(103

)

(103

)

Total

$


$

(155

)

$

(240

)

$

(4

)

$


$


$

2,824

$


$


$


$

3,869

The largest impacts of net reserve re-estimates are shown in the “1996 & Prior” accident years.
The reserve re-estimates in calendar year 2003 include an increase in reserves of $2.6 billion
related to reserve strengthening based on the Company’s evaluation of its asbestos reserves. The
reserve evaluation that led to the strengthening in calendar year 2003 confirmed the Company’s view
of the existence of a substantial long-term deterioration in the asbestos litigation environment.
The reserve re-estimates in calendar years 2004 and 2006 were largely attributable to reductions in
the reinsurance recoverable asset associated with older, long-term casualty liabilities. Excluding
the impacts of asbestos and environmental strengthening, over the past ten years, reserve
re-estimates for total Property & Casualty ranged from (3.0%) to 1.6% of total net recorded
reserves.

Reserves for accident year 1997 show the effects of favorable reestimation in subsequent years. A
contributing factor to this improvement, spread over several calendar years, was an unexpected
improvement in the environment for workers’ compensation. With the benefit of hindsight, annual
changes in loss cost trends were very low during this period as compared to historical experience.
Because it took several years for this improvement to emerge in the data, it similarly took several
years for this to be recognized in the Company’s estimates of liabilities.

Until calendar year 2006, there was also reserve deterioration, spread over several calendar years,
on accident years 1998-2000. Assumed casualty reinsurance contributed in part to this
deterioration. Numerous actuarial assumptions on assumed casualty reinsurance turned out to be
low, including loss cost trends, particularly on excess of loss business, and the impact of
deteriorating terms and conditions. Workers’ compensation also contributed to this deterioration,
as medical inflation trends were above initial expectations.

Accident years 2001 and 2002 are reasonably close to original estimates. However, each year shows
some swings by calendar period, with some favorable development later offset by unfavorable
development. The release for accident year 2001 during calendar year 2004 relates primarily to
reserves for September 11. Subsequent adverse developments on accident year 2001 relate to assumed
casualty reinsurance and unexpected development on mature claims in both general liability and
workers’ compensation. Reserve releases for accident year 2002 during calendar years 2003 and 2004
come largely from short-tail lines of business, where results emerge quickly and actual reported
losses are predictive of ultimate losses. Reserve increases on accident year 2002 during calendar
year 2005 were recognized, as unfavorable development on accident years prior to 2002 caused the
Company to increase its estimate of unpaid losses for the 2002 accident year. Further increases
occurred in 2006 due to unexpected development in general liability and workers’ compensation
losses.

Accident years 2003 through 2005 show favorable development in calendar years 2004 through 2006. A
portion of the release comes from short-tail lines of business, where results emerge quickly.
During calendar year 2005 and 2006, favorable re-estimates occurred in Personal Lines for both loss
and allocated loss adjustment expenses. Workers’ compensation also experienced favorable
re-estimates of both loss and allocated loss adjustment expenses as the latest evaluations of
workers’ compensation claims indicate that expense reduction initiatives and reform in states such
as California have had a greater impact in controlling costs than was originally estimated. In
addition, catastrophe reserves related to the 2004 and 2005 hurricanes developed favorably in 2006.

Within professional liability business, during calendar year 2005, reserves were released for
directors and officers insurance on accident years 2003 and 2004 due to favorable developments,
while prior accident year reserves were strengthened for contracts that provide auto



financing gap coverage and auto lease residual value coverage. In 2003, the Company stopped
writing contracts that provide auto financing gap coverage and auto lease residual value coverage.

Ceded Reinsurance

Consistent with industry practice, The Hartford cedes insurance risk to reinsurance companies.
Reinsurance does not relieve The Hartford of its primary liability and, as such, failure of
reinsurers to honor their obligations could result in losses to The Hartford. The Hartford
evaluates the risk transfer of its reinsurance contracts, the financial condition of its reinsurers
and monitors concentrations of credit risk. The Company’s monitoring procedures include careful
initial selection of its reinsurers, structuring agreements to provide collateral funds where
possible, and regularly monitoring the financial condition and ratings of its reinsurers.
Reinsurance accounting is followed for ceded transactions when the risk transfer provisions of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 113, “Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance of
Short-Duration and Long-Duration Contracts,” (“SFAS 113”) have been met. For further discussion
see Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

For Property & Casualty operations, these reinsurance arrangements are intended to provide greater
diversification of business and limit The Hartford’s maximum net loss arising from large risks or
catastrophes. A major portion of The Hartford’s property and casualty reinsurance is effected
under general reinsurance contracts known as treaties, or, in some instances, is negotiated on an
individual risk basis, known as facultative reinsurance. The Hartford also has in-force excess of
loss contracts with reinsurers that protect it against a specified part or all of a layer of losses
over stipulated amounts.

In accordance with normal industry practice, Life is involved in both the cession and assumption of
insurance with other insurance and reinsurance companies. As of
December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company’s policy for the largest
amount of life insurance retained on any one life by any one of the
life operations was approximately $5. In addition, Life has reinsured the majority of the minimum death benefit guarantees as well
as 23% of the guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits offered in connection with its variable annuity
contracts. Life also assumes reinsurance from other insurers. For the
years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, Life did not make any significant changes in the
terms under which reinsurance is ceded to other insurers.

Investment Operations

The Hartford’s investment portfolios are primarily divided between Life and Property & Casualty.
The investment portfolios of Life and Property & Casualty are managed by Hartford Investment
Management Company (“HIMCO”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Hartford. HIMCO manages the
portfolios to maximize economic value, while attempting to generate the income necessary to support
the Company’s various product obligations, within internally established objectives, guidelines and
risk tolerances. The portfolio objectives and guidelines are developed based upon the
asset/liability profile, including duration, convexity and other characteristics within specified
risk tolerances. The risk tolerances considered include, for example, asset and credit issuer
allocation limits, maximum portfolio below investment grade holdings and foreign currency exposure.
The Company attempts to minimize adverse impacts to the portfolio and the Company’s results of
operations from changes in economic conditions through asset allocation limits, asset/liability
duration matching and through the use of derivatives. For further discussion of HIMCO’s portfolio
management approach, see the Investments — General section of the MD&A.

In addition to managing the general account assets of the Company, HIMCO is also a Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”) registered investment advisor for third party institutional clients, a
sub-advisor for certain mutual funds offered by Life and serves as the sponsor and collateral
manager for synthetic collateralized loan obligations. HIMCO specializes in investment management
that incorporates proprietary research and active management within a disciplined risk framework to
provide value added returns versus peers and benchmarks. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the
fair value of HIMCO’s total assets under management was approximately $131.2 billion and $115.9
billion, respectively, of which $7.2 billion and $4.7 billion, respectively, were held in HIMCO
managed third party accounts.

Regulation and Premium Rates

Insurance companies are subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision throughout
the United States. The extent of such regulation varies, but generally has its source in statutes
which delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to state insurance departments.
Such powers relate to, among other things, the standards of solvency that must be met and
maintained; the licensing of insurers and their agents; the nature of and limitations on
investments; establishing premium rates; claim handling and trade practices; restrictions on the
size of risks which may be insured under a single policy; deposits of securities for the benefit of
policyholders; approval of policy forms; periodic examinations of the affairs of companies; annual
and other reports required to be filed on the financial condition of companies or for other
purposes; fixing maximum interest rates on life insurance policy loans and minimum rates for
accumulation of surrender values; and the adequacy of reserves and other necessary provisions for
unearned premiums, unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and other liabilities, both reported
and unreported.

Most states have enacted legislation that regulates insurance holding company systems such as The
Hartford. This legislation provides that each insurance company in the system is required to
register with the insurance department of its state of domicile and furnish



information concerning the operations of companies within the holding company system which may
materially affect the operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the
system. All transactions within a holding company system affecting insurers must be fair and
equitable. Notice to the insurance departments is required prior to the consummation of
transactions affecting the ownership or control of an insurer and of certain material transactions
between an insurer and any entity in its holding company system. In addition, certain of such
transactions cannot be consummated without the applicable insurance department’s prior approval.
In the jurisdictions in which the Company’s insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled, the
acquisition of more than 10% of The Hartford’s outstanding common stock would require the acquiring
party to make various regulatory filings.

The extent of insurance regulation on business outside the United States varies significantly among
the countries in which The Hartford operates. Some countries have minimal regulatory requirements,
while others regulate insurers extensively. Foreign insurers in many countries are faced with
greater restrictions than domestic competitors domiciled in that particular jurisdiction. The
Hartford’s international operations are comprised of insurers licensed in their respective
countries.

Employees

The Hartford had approximately 31,000 employees as of December 31, 2006.

Available Information

The Hartford makes available, free of charge, on or through its Internet website
(http://www.thehartford.com) The Hartford’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after The Hartford
electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC.

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS

Investing in The Hartford involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in The Hartford, you
should carefully consider the following risk factors, any of which could have a significant or
material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity of The
Hartford. This information should be considered carefully together with the other information
contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by The Hartford with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.

It is difficult for us to predict our potential exposure for asbestos and environmental claims and
our ultimate liability may exceed our currently recorded reserves, which may have a material
adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.

We continue to receive asbestos and environmental claims. Significant uncertainty limits the
ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses
and related expenses for both environmental and particularly asbestos claims. We believe that the
actuarial tools and other techniques we employ to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more
traditional kinds of insurance exposure are less precise in estimating reserves for our asbestos
and environmental exposures. Traditional actuarial reserving techniques cannot reasonably estimate
the ultimate cost of these claims, particularly during periods where theories of law are in flux.
Accordingly, the degree of variability of reserve estimates for these exposures is significantly
greater than for other more traditional exposures. It is also not possible to predict changes in
the legal and legislative environment and their effect on the future development of asbestos and
environmental claims. Although potential Federal asbestos-related legislation has been considered
in the Senate, it is uncertain whether such legislation will be considered or be enacted in the
future and, if so, what its effect would be on our aggregate asbestos liabilities. Because of the
significant uncertainties that limit the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the
ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related expenses for both environmental and
particularly asbestos claims, the ultimate liabilities may exceed the currently recorded reserves.
Any such additional liability cannot be reasonably estimated now but could have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.

The occurrence of one or more terrorist attacks in the geographic areas we serve or the threat of
terrorism in general may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating
results, financial condition or liquidity.

The occurrence of one or more terrorist attacks in the geographic areas we serve could result in
substantially higher claims under our insurance policies than we have anticipated. Private sector
catastrophe reinsurance is extremely limited and generally unavailable for terrorism losses caused
by attacks with nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological weapons. Reinsurance coverage from
the federal government under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, as extended through 2007, is
also limited. Moreover, it is uncertain whether a federal terrorism risk insurance program similar
to the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005 will be enacted to cover events occurring
after December 31, 2007. Accordingly, the effects of a terrorist attack in the geographic areas we
serve may result in claims and related losses for which we do not have adequate reinsurance. This
would likely cause us to increase our reserves, adversely affect our earnings during the period or
periods affected and, if significant enough, could adversely affect our liquidity and financial
condition. Further, the continued threat of terrorism and the occurrence of terrorist attacks, as
well as heightened security measures and military action in response to these threats and attacks,
may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, disruptions to commerce and reduced
economic activity. These consequences could have an adverse effect on the value of the assets in
our investment portfolio as well as those in our separate accounts. The continued threat of
terrorism also could result in increased



reinsurance prices and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if
we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. Terrorist attacks also could disrupt our
operations centers in the U.S. or abroad. As a result, it is possible that any, or a combination
of all, of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating
results, financial condition and liquidity.

We may incur losses due to our reinsurers being unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under
reinsurance contracts and the availability, pricing and adequacy of reinsurance may not be
sufficient to protect us against losses.

As an insurer, we frequently seek to reduce the losses that may arise from catastrophes, or other
events that can cause unfavorable results of operations, through reinsurance. Under these
reinsurance arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of our losses and related expenses;
however, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Consequently, ceded
reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims and we are subject to our
reinsurers’ credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from them. Although we
evaluate periodically the financial condition of our reinsurers to minimize our exposure to
significant losses from reinsurer insolvencies, our reinsurers may become financially unsound or
choose to dispute their contractual obligations by the time their financial obligations become due.
The inability or unwillingness of any reinsurer to meet its financial obligations to us could
negatively affect our consolidated operating results. In addition, market conditions beyond our
control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we are able to purchase. Recently,
the price of reinsurance has increased significantly, and may continue to increase. No
assurances can be made that reinsurance will remain continuously available to us to the same extent
and on the same terms and rates as are currently available. If we were unable to maintain our
current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider
sufficient and at prices that we consider acceptable, we would have to either accept an increase in
our net liability exposure, reduce the amount of business we write, or develop other alternatives
to reinsurance.

We are exposed to significant capital markets risk related to changes in interest rates, equity
prices and foreign exchange rates which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial
condition or cash flows.

We are exposed to significant capital markets risk related to changes in interest rates, equity
prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily
to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. A rise in
interest rates will reduce the net unrealized gain position of our investment portfolio, increase
interest expense on our variable rate debt obligations and, if long-term interest rates rise
dramatically within a six to twelve month time period, certain of our Life businesses may be
exposed to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders
may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate
assets in an unrealized loss position. Due to the long-term nature of
the liabilities associated with certain of our Life businesses, such
as structured settlements and guaranteed benefits on variable
annuities, sustained declines in long term interest rates may subject
us to reinvestment risks and  increased hedging costs. Our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the
potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our Life businesses, such as variable
annuities, where fee income is earned based upon the fair value of the assets under management. In
addition, certain of our Life products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our potential
benefit exposure should equity markets decline. We are also exposed to interest rate and equity
risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with
our pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations. Sustained declines in long-term
interest rates or equity returns likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of these
plans. Our primary foreign currency exchange risks are related to net income from foreign
operations, non–U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries, the yen
denominated individual fixed annuity product, and certain guaranteed benefits associated with the
Japan variable annuity. These risks relate to the potential decreases in value and income
resulting from a strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates
versus the U.S. dollar. In
general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will unfavorably affect net
income from foreign operations, the value of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments
in foreign subsidiaries and realized gains or losses on the yen denominated individual fixed
annuity product. In comparison, a strengthening of the Japanese yen in comparison to the U.S.
dollar and other currencies may increase our exposure to the guarantee benefits associated with the
Japan variable annuity. If significant, declines in equity prices, changes in U.S. interest rates
and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, individually or
in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations,
financial condition or cash flows.

We may be unable to effectively mitigate the impact of equity market volatility on our financial
position and results of operations arising from obligations under annuity product guarantees, which
may affect our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.

Our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with
certain of our life businesses where fee income is earned based upon the fair value of the assets
under management. In addition, some of the products offered by these businesses, especially
variable annuities, offer certain guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit exposure
as the equity markets decline. We are subject to equity market volatility related to these
benefits, especially the guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”), guaranteed minimum withdrawal
benefit (“GMWB”) and guaranteed minimum income benefit (“GMIB”) offered with variable annuity
products. We use reinsurance structures and have modified benefit features to mitigate the
exposure associated with GMDB. We also use reinsurance in combination with derivative instruments
to minimize the claim exposure and the volatility of net income associated with the GMWB liability.
While we believe that these and other actions we have taken mitigate the risks related to these
benefits, we are subject to the risks that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or
unwilling to pay, that other risk management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated
policyholder behavior, combined with adverse market events, produces



economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed, which individually or
collectively may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations,
financial condition or cash flows.

Regulatory proceedings or private claims relating to incentive compensation or payments made to
brokers or other producers, alleged anti-competitive conduct and other sales practices could have a
material adverse effect on us.

We have received multiple regulatory inquiries regarding our compensation arrangements with brokers
and other producers. For example, in June 2004, the Company received a subpoena from the New York
Attorney General’s Office in connection with its inquiry into compensation arrangements between
brokers and carriers. In mid-September 2004 and subsequently, the Company has received additional
subpoenas from the New York Attorney General’s Office, which relate more specifically to possible
anti-competitive activity among brokers and insurers. On October 14, 2004, the New York Attorney
General’s Office filed a civil complaint against Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., and Marsh, Inc.
(collectively, “Marsh”). The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain insurance
companies, including the Company, participated with Marsh in arrangements to submit inflated bids
for business insurance and paid contingent commissions to ensure that Marsh would direct business
to them. The Company was not joined as a defendant in the action, which has since settled.

Since the beginning of October 2004, the Company has received subpoenas or other information
requests from Attorneys General and regulatory agencies in more than a dozen jurisdictions
regarding broker compensation, possible anti-competitive activity and sales practices. These
inquiries have concerned lines of business in both our Property & Casualty and Life operations.
The Company may continue to receive additional subpoenas and other information requests from
Attorneys General or other regulatory agencies regarding similar issues. The Company intends to
continue cooperating fully with these investigations, and is conducting an internal review, with
the assistance of outside counsel, regarding broker compensation issues in its Property & Casualty
and Group Benefits operations. Although no regulatory action has been initiated against the
Company in connection with the allegations described in the civil complaint, it is possible that
one or more other regulatory agencies may pursue action against the Company or one or more of its
employees in the future on this matter or on other similar matters. If such an action is brought,
it could have a material adverse effect on the Company.

Regulatory and market-driven changes may affect our practices relating to the payment of incentive
compensation to brokers and other producers, including changes that have been announced and those
which may occur in the future, and could have a material adverse effect on us in the future.

We pay brokers and independent agents commissions and other forms of incentive compensation in
connection with the sale of many of our insurance products. Since the New York Attorney General’s
Office filed a civil complaint against Marsh on October 14, 2004, several of the largest national
insurance brokers, including Marsh, Aon Corporation and Willis Group Holdings Limited, have
announced that they have discontinued the use of contingent compensation arrangements. Other
industry participants may make similar, or different, determinations in the future. In addition,
legal, legislative, regulatory, business or other developments may require changes to industry
practices relating to incentive compensation.

Pursuant to settlement agreements reached with regulators, several insurance companies have agreed
to restrictions on the payment of contingent compensation relating to the placement of excess
casualty insurance policies. These insurers have agreed that the restrictions may be extended in
time, and to other property and casualty lines, if insurers in a given line or segment, that
together represent more than 65% of the market share in the insurance line (based upon national
gross written premiums), do not pay contingent compensation. On November 30, 2006, the New York
Attorney General’s Office notified these insurers that the 65% threshold had been reached for a
number of insurance lines, including personal automobile and homeowners insurance. As a result,
beginning January 1, 2007, these insurers were prohibited from paying contingent compensation
relating to the placement of these types of insurance. In addition, on December 21, 2006, Chubb
Corporation agreed to forego the payment of contingent compensation for all P&C insurance lines
pursuant to a settlement agreement reached with regulators. These insurers, including Chubb, have
also agreed to support legislation and regulations to abolish contingent compensation and to
require greater disclosure of compensation. At this time, it is not possible to predict the effect
of these announced or potential future changes on our business or distribution strategies, but such
changes could have a material adverse effect on us in the future.

Our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows in a particular period or
periods may be adversely affected by unfavorable loss development.

Our success depends upon our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses
that we insure. We establish loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all
unpaid losses and loss expenses incurred with respect to premiums earned on the policies that we
write. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, loss reserves
are estimates of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost,
less what has been paid to date. These estimates are based upon actuarial and statistical
projections and on our assessment of currently available data, as well as estimates of claims
severity and frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Loss reserve estimates are
refined periodically as experience develops and claims are reported and settled. Establishing an
appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process. Because of this
uncertainty, it is possible that our reserves at any given time will prove inadequate.
Furthermore, since estimates of aggregate loss costs



for prior accident years are used in pricing our insurance products, we could later determine that
our products were not priced adequately to cover actual losses and related loss expenses in order
to generate a profit. To the extent we determine that actual losses and related loss expenses
exceed our expectations and reserves recorded in our financial statements, we will be required to
increase reserves. Increases in reserves would be recognized as an expense during the period or
periods in which these determinations are made, thereby adversely affecting our results of
operations for the related period or periods. Depending on the severity and timing of these
determinations, this could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of
operations, financial condition or cash flows in a particular quarterly or annual period.

We are particularly vulnerable to losses from the incidence and severity of catastrophes, both
natural and man-made, the occurrence of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, consolidated results of operations or cash flows in a particular quarterly or annual
period.

Our property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophes.
Catastrophes can be caused by various unpredictable events, including earthquakes, hurricanes,
hailstorms, severe winter weather, fires, tornadoes, explosions and other natural or man-made
disasters. We also face substantial exposure to losses resulting from acts of terrorism, disease
pandemics and political instability. The geographic distribution of our business subjects us to
catastrophe exposure for natural events occurring in a number of areas, including, but not limited
to, hurricanes in Florida, the Gulf Coast, the Northeast and the Atlantic coast regions of the
United States, and earthquakes in California and the New Madrid region of the United States.
Further we expect that increases in the values and concentrations of insured property in these
areas will increase the severity of catastrophic events in the future. In addition, in the
aftermath of the 2004 and 2005 hurricane season, third-party catastrophe loss models for hurricane
loss events were updated to incorporate medium-term forecasts of increased hurricane frequency and
severity. Our life insurance operations are also exposed to risk of loss from catastrophes. For
example, natural or man-made disasters or a disease pandemic such as could arise from avian flu,
could significantly increase our mortality and morbidity experience. Policyholders may be unable
to meet their obligations to pay premiums on our insurance policies or make deposits on our
investment products. Our liquidity could be constrained by a catastrophe, or multiple
catastrophes, which result in extraordinary losses or a downgrade of our debt or financial strength
ratings. In addition, in part because accounting rules do not permit insurers to reserve for such
catastrophic events until they occur, claims from catastrophic events could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition, consolidated results of operations or cash flows in a particular
quarterly or annual period.

Competitive activity may adversely affect our market share and profitability, which could have an
adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.

The insurance industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include other insurers and, because
many of our products include an investment component, securities firms, investment advisers, mutual
funds, banks and other financial institutions. In recent years, there has been substantial
consolidation and convergence among companies in the insurance and financial services industries
resulting in increased competition from large, well-capitalized insurance and financial services
firms that market products and services similar to ours. Many of these firms also have been able
to increase their distribution systems through mergers or contractual arrangements. These
competitors compete with us for producers such as brokers and independent agents. Larger
competitors may have lower operating costs and an ability to absorb greater risk while maintaining
their financial strength ratings, thereby allowing them to price their products more competitively.
These highly competitive pressures could result in increased pricing pressures on a number of our
products and services, particularly as competitors seek to win market share, and may harm our
ability to maintain or increase our profitability. Because of the highly competitive nature of the
insurance industry, there can be no assurance that we will continue to effectively compete with our
industry rivals, or that competitive pressure will not have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations or financial condition.

We may experience unfavorable
judicial or legislative developments that would adversely affect our results of operations,
financial condition or liquidity.

The Hartford is involved in
claims litigation arising in the
ordinary course of business, both as a liability insurer defending or
providing indemnity for third-party claims brought against
insureds and as an insurer defending coverage claims brought against it.
The Hartford accounts for such activity through the establishment of
unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense reserves.
The Company is also involved in legal actions that do not arise in the ordinary course of
business, some of which assert claims for substantial amounts.  It is not possible to predict
changes in the judicial and legislative environment and their impact on the future development
of the adequacy of our loss reserves, particularly reserves for longer-tailed lines of
business, including asbestos and environmental reserves.
Pervasive or dramatic changes in the judicial environment relating to matters such as trends
in the size of jury awards, developments in the law relating to the liability of insurers or
tort defendants, and rulings concerning the availability or amount of certain types of damages
could cause our ultimate liabilities to change from our current expectations.
Similarly, changes in federal or state tort litigation laws or other applicable
laws could have the same effect.
To the extent that
judicial or legislative developments cause our ultimate liabilities to
increase from our current expectations, they could have a material adverse effect on
the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial condition
or liquidity.



Potential changes in domestic and foreign regulation may increase our business costs and required
capital levels, which could adversely affect our business, consolidated operating results,
financial condition or liquidity.

We are subject to extensive laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex and
subject to change. Moreover, they are administered and enforced by a number of different
governmental authorities, including foreign regulators, state insurance regulators, state
securities administrators, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the New York Stock Exchange, the
National Association of Securities Dealers, the U.S. Department of Justice, and state attorneys
general, each of which exercises a degree of interpretive latitude. Consequently, we are subject
to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s
interpretation of a legal issue may not result in compliance with another regulator’s or
enforcement authority’s interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in
hindsight. In addition, there is risk that any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s
interpretation of a legal issue may change over time to our detriment, or that changes in the
overall legal environment may, even absent any particular regulator’s or enforcement authority’s
interpretation of a legal issue changing, cause us to change our views regarding the actions we
need to take from a legal risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our practices
that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow and improve the profitability of our business.

State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our insurance
subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled
and licensed. State laws in the U.S. grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative
powers with respect to, among other things:

State insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC,
regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their
products. Our international operations are subject to regulation in the relevant jurisdictions in
which they operate, which in many ways is similar to the state regulation outlined above, with
similar related restrictions. Our asset management operations are also subject to extensive
regulation in the various jurisdictions where they operate. These regulations are primarily
intended to protect investors in the securities markets or investment advisory clients and
generally grant supervisory authorities broad administrative powers. Changes in all of these laws
and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at
the expense of the insurer and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business,
consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Compliance with these laws and
regulations is also time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and
regulations may increase materially our direct and indirect compliance costs and other expenses of
doing business, thus having an adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results,
financial condition and liquidity.



Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by general
domestic and international economic and business conditions that are less favorable than
anticipated.

Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and
strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment
and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of business we conduct. For example, in an economic
downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower
business investment and consumer spending, the demand for financial and insurance products could be
adversely affected. Further, given that we offer our products and services in North America,
Japan, Europe and South America, we are exposed to these risks in multiple geographic locations.
Our operations are subject to different local political, regulatory, business and financial risks
and challenges which may affect the demand for our products and services, the value of our
investment portfolio, the required levels of our capital and surplus, and the credit quality of
local counterparties. These risks include, for example, political, social or economic instability
in countries in which we operate, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, credit risks of
our local borrowers and counterparties, lack of local business experience in certain markets, and,
in certain cases, risks associated with the potential incompatibility with partners. Additionally,
some of our recent growth is due to our expansion into new markets for our investment products,
primarily in Japan. During 2006, our sales of investment products in Japan declined significantly
from the prior year, as competition increased from both domestic and foreign competitors. Looking
forward, our overall success in these new markets will depend on our ability to succeed despite
differing and dynamic economic, social and political conditions. We may not succeed in developing
and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business
and we cannot guarantee that the inability to successfully address the risks related to economic
conditions in all of the geographic locations where we conduct business will not have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.

We may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our current and future
distribution channels.

We distribute our annuity, life and certain property and casualty insurance products through a
variety of distribution channels, including brokers, independent agents, broker-dealers, banks,
wholesalers, affinity partners, our own internal sales force and other third party organizations.
In some areas of our business, we generate a significant portion of our business through individual
third party arrangements. For example, we generated approximately 66% of our personal lines earned
premium in 2006 under an exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP that continues until January 1,
2020. We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships and there can be no
assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. An interruption in
our continuing relationship with certain of these third parties could materially affect our ability
to market our products.

Our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely affected by
the emergence of unexpected and unintended claim and coverage issues.

As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change,
unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may
either extend coverage beyond our underwriting intent or increase the frequency or severity of
claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have
issued insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of
liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued
and this liability may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations,
financial condition or liquidity at the time it becomes known.

We may experience a downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings which may make our
products less attractive, increase our cost of capital, and inhibit our ability to refinance our
debt, which would have an adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial
condition and liquidity.

Financial strength and credit ratings, including commercial paper ratings, have become an
increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies.
Rating organizations assign ratings based upon several factors. While most of the factors relate
to the rated company, some of the factors relate to the views of the rating organization, general
economic conditions, and circumstances outside the rated company’s control. In addition, rating
organizations may employ different models and formulas to assess the financial strength of a rated
company, and from time to time rating organizations have, in their discretion, altered these
models. Changes to the models, general economic conditions, or circumstances outside our control
could impact a rating organization’s judgment of its rating and the subsequent rating it assigns
us. We cannot predict what actions rating organizations may take, or what actions we may be
required to take in response to the actions of rating organizations, which may adversely affect us.
Our financial strength ratings, which are intended to measure our ability to meet policyholder
obligations, are an important factor affecting public confidence in most of our products and, as a
result, our competitiveness. A downgrade in our financial strength ratings, or an announced
potential downgrade, of one of our principal insurance subsidiaries could affect our competitive
position in the insurance industry and make it more difficult for us to market our products, as
potential customers may select companies with higher financial strength ratings. The interest
rates we pay on our borrowings are largely dependent on our credit ratings. A downgrade of our
credit ratings, or an announced potential downgrade, could affect our ability to raise additional
debt with terms and conditions similar to our current debt, and accordingly, likely increase our
cost of capital. In addition, a downgrade of our credit ratings could make it more difficult to
raise capital to refinance any maturing debt obligations, to support business growth at our
insurance subsidiaries and to maintain or improve the current financial strength ratings of our
principal insurance subsidiaries described above. As a result, it is possible that any, or a



combination of all, of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business,
consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.

Limits on the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us may adversely affect our
liquidity.

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. is a holding company with no significant operations.
Our principal asset is the stock of our insurance subsidiaries. State insurance regulatory
authorities limit the payment of dividends by insurance subsidiaries. In addition, competitive
pressures generally require certain of our insurance subsidiaries to maintain financial strength
ratings. These restrictions and other regulatory requirements affect the ability of our insurance
subsidiaries to make dividend payments. Limits on the ability of the insurance subsidiaries to pay
dividends could adversely affect our liquidity, including our ability to pay dividends to
shareholders and service our debt.

As a property and casualty insurer, the premium rates we are able to charge and the profits we are
able to obtain are affected by the actions of state insurance departments that regulate our
business, the cyclical nature of the business in which we compete and our ability to adequately
price the risks we underwrite, which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results
of operations in a particular quarterly or annual period or periods.

Pricing adequacy depends on a number of factors, including the ability to obtain regulatory
approval for rate changes, proper evaluation of underwriting risks, the ability to project future
loss cost frequency and severity based on historical loss experience adjusted for known trends, our
response to rate actions taken by competitors, and expectations about regulatory and legal
developments and expense levels. We seek to price our property and casualty insurance policies
such that insurance premiums and future net investment income earned on premiums received will
provide for an acceptable profit in excess of underwriting expenses and the cost of paying claims.

State insurance departments that regulate us often propose premium rate changes for the benefit of
the consumer at the expense of the insurer, and may not allow us to reach targeted levels of
profitability. In addition to regulating rates, certain states have enacted laws that require a
property and casualty insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk
plans, reinsurance facilities, joint underwriting associations and other residual market plans, or
to offer coverage to all consumers, often restricting an insurer’s ability to charge the price it
might otherwise charge. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of
business at lower than desired rates, participate in the operating losses of residual market plans
or pay assessments to fund operating deficits of state-sponsored funds, possibly leading to an
unacceptable returns on equity. Laws and regulations of many states also limit an insurer’s
ability to withdraw from one or more lines of insurance in the state, except pursuant to a plan
that is approved by the state insurance department. Additionally, certain states require insurers
to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These funds
periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the state. Any of
these factors could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in a
particular quarterly or annual period or periods.

Additionally, the property and casualty insurance market is historically cyclical, experiencing
periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, less restrictive underwriting
standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively low levels of
competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates. Prices tend
to increase for a particular line of business when insurance carriers have incurred significant
losses in that line of business in the recent past or when the industry as a whole commits less of
its capital to writing exposures in that line of business. Prices tend to decrease when recent
loss experience has been favorable or when competition among insurance carriers increases. In a
number of product lines and states, we are currently experiencing premium rate reductions. In
these product lines and states, there is a risk that the premium we charge may ultimately prove to
be inadequate as reported losses emerge. Even in a period of rate increases, there is a risk that
regulatory constraints, price competition or incorrect pricing assumptions could prevent us from
achieving targeted returns. Inadequate pricing could have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated results of operations in a particular quarterly or annual period or periods.

If we are unable to maintain the availability of our systems and safeguard the security of our data
due to the occurrence of disasters or other unanticipated events, our ability to conduct business
may be compromised, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results
of operations, financial condition or cash flows.

We use computer systems to store, retrieve, evaluate and utilize customer and company data and
information. Our computer, information technology and telecommunications systems, in turn,
interface with and rely upon third-party systems. Our business is highly dependent on our ability,
and the ability of certain affiliated third parties, to access these systems to perform necessary
business functions, such as providing insurance quotes, processing premium payments, making changes
to existing policies, filing and paying claims, and providing customer support. Systems failures
or outages could compromise our ability to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could
harm our ability to conduct business and hurt our relationships with our business partners and
customers. In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a
blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack or war, our systems may be inaccessible to our
employees, customers or business partners for an extended period of time. Even if our employees
are able to report to work, they may be unable to perform their duties for an extended period of
time if our data or systems are disabled or destroyed. Our systems could also be subject to
physical and electronic break-ins, and subject to similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering
with our systems. This may impede or interrupt our business operations and may have a material
adverse effect on our business, consolidated operating results, financial condition or liquidity.



If we experience difficulties arising from outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct
business may be compromised.

We outsource certain technology and business functions to third parties and expect to do so
selectively in the future. If we do not effectively develop and implement our outsourcing
strategy, third party providers do not perform as anticipated, or we experience problems with a
transition, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business that
may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in a particular
quarterly or annual period or periods.

Potential changes in Federal or State tax laws could adversely affect our business, consolidated
operating results or financial condition.

Many of the products that the Company sells currently benefit from one or more forms of tax-favored
status under current federal and state income tax regimes. For example, the Company sells life
insurance policies which benefit from the deferral or elimination of taxation on earnings accrued
under the policy, as well as permanent exclusion of certain death benefits that may be paid to
policyholders’ beneficiaries. We also sell annuity contracts which allow the policyholders to defer
the recognition of taxable income earned within the contract. Other products that the Company sells
also enjoy similar, as well as other, types of tax advantages. The Company also benefits from
certain tax benefits, including but not limited to, tax-exempt bond interest, dividends-received
deductions, tax credits (such as foreign tax credits), and insurance reserve deductions.

There is risk that federal and/or state tax legislation could be enacted that would lessen or
eliminate some or all of the tax advantages currently benefiting the Company or its policyholders.
This could occur in the context of deficit reduction or several types of fundamental tax reform.
The effects of any such changes could result in materially lower product sales, lapses of policies
currently held, and/or materially higher corporate taxes that would be incurred by the Company.

Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

Item 2. PROPERTIES

The Hartford owns the land and buildings comprising its Hartford location and other properties
within the greater Hartford, Connecticut area which total approximately 1.9 million of the 2.1
million square feet owned by the Company in the aggregate. In addition, The Hartford leases
approximately 5.4 million square feet throughout the United States and approximately 175,000 square
feet in other countries. All of the properties owned or leased are used by one or more of all ten
operating segments, depending on the location. For more information on operating segments, see
Part 1, Item 1, Business of The Hartford – Reporting Segments. The Company believes its properties
and facilities are suitable and adequate for current operations.

Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Hartford is involved in claims litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, both
as a liability insurer defending or providing indemnity for third-party claims brought against insureds and as an insurer
defending coverage claims brought against it. The Hartford accounts for such activity through the
establishment of unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. Subject to the uncertainties
discussed below under the caption “Asbestos and Environmental Claims,” management expects that the
ultimate liability, if any, with respect to such ordinary-course claims litigation, after
consideration of provisions made for potential losses and costs of defense, will not be material to
the consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of The Hartford.

The Hartford is also involved in other kinds of legal actions, some of which assert claims for
substantial amounts. These actions include, among others, putative state and federal class actions
seeking certification of a state or national class. Such putative class actions have alleged, for
example, underpayment of claims or improper underwriting practices in connection with various kinds
of insurance policies, such as personal and commercial automobile, property, life and inland
marine; improper sales practices in connection with the sale of life insurance and other investment
products; and improper fee arrangements in connection with mutual funds and structured settlements.
The Hartford also is involved in individual actions in which punitive damages are sought, such as
claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. Like many other insurers, The
Hartford also has been joined in actions by asbestos plaintiffs asserting that insurers had a duty
to protect the public from the dangers of asbestos and in a putative class action filed in West
Virginia state court by asbestos plaintiffs alleging that insurers committed unfair trade practices
by asserting defenses on behalf of their policyholders in the underlying asbestos cases.
Management expects that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to such lawsuits, after
consideration of provisions made for estimated losses, will not be material to the consolidated
financial condition of The Hartford. Nonetheless, given the large or indeterminate amounts sought
in certain of these actions, and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, an adverse outcome in
certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
consolidated results of operations or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.



Broker Compensation Litigation

– On October 14, 2004, the New York Attorney General’s Office filed
a civil complaint (the “NYAG Complaint”) against Marsh Inc. and Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
(collectively, “Marsh”) alleging, among other things, that certain insurance companies, including
The Hartford, participated with Marsh in arrangements to submit inflated bids for business
insurance and paid contingent commissions to ensure that Marsh would direct business to them. The
Hartford was not joined as a defendant in the action, which has since settled. Since the filing of
the NYAG Complaint, several private actions have been filed against the Company asserting claims
arising from the allegations of the NYAG Complaint.

Two securities class actions, now consolidated, have been filed in the United States District Court
for the District of Connecticut alleging claims against the Company and certain of its executive
officers under Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act and SEC Rule 10b-5. The consolidated
amended complaint alleges on behalf of a putative class of shareholders that the Company and the
four named individual defendants, as control persons of the Company, failed to disclose to the
investing public that The Hartford’s business and growth was predicated on the unlawful activity
alleged in the NYAG Complaint. The class period alleged is August 6, 2003 through October 13,
2004, the day before the NYAG Complaint was filed. The complaint seeks damages and attorneys’
fees. Defendants filed a motion to dismiss in June 2005, and, on July 13, 2006, the district court
granted the motion. The plaintiffs have noticed an appeal of the dismissal.

Two corporate derivative actions, now consolidated, also have been filed in the same court. The
consolidated amended complaint, brought by shareholders on behalf of the Company against its
directors and an executive officer, alleges that the defendants knew adverse non-public information
about the activities alleged in the NYAG Complaint and concealed and misappropriated that
information to make profitable stock trades, thereby breaching their fiduciary duties, abusing
their control, committing gross mismanagement, wasting corporate assets, and unjustly enriching
themselves. The complaint seeks damages, injunctive relief, disgorgement, and attorneys’ fees.
Defendants filed a motion to dismiss in May 2005, and the plaintiffs thereafter agreed to stay
further proceedings pending resolution of the motion to dismiss the securities class action. All
defendants dispute the allegations and intend to defend these actions vigorously.

The Company is also a defendant in a multidistrict litigation in federal district court in New
Jersey. There are two consolidated amended complaints filed in the multidistrict litigation, one
related to alleged conduct in connection with the sale of property-casualty insurance and the other
related to alleged conduct in connection with the sale of group benefits products. The Company and
various of its subsidiaries are named in both complaints. The actions assert, on behalf of a class
of persons who purchased insurance through the broker defendants, claims under the Sherman Act, the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (“RICO”), state law, and in the case of the
group benefits complaint, claims under ERISA arising from conduct similar to that alleged in the
NYAG Complaint. The class period alleged is 1994 through the date of class certification, which
has not yet occurred. The complaints seek treble damages, injunctive and declaratory relief, and
attorneys’ fees. On October 3, 2006, the court denied in part the defendants’ motions to dismiss
the two consolidated amended complaints but found the complaints deficient in other respects and
ordered the plaintiffs to file supplemental pleadings. After the plaintiffs filed their
supplemental pleadings, the defendants renewed their motions to dismiss. The renewed motions to
dismiss and the plaintiffs’ motions for class certification are pending. The Company also has been
named in two similar actions filed in state courts, which the defendants have removed to federal
court. Those actions currently are transferred to the court presiding over the multidistrict
litigation. The Company disputes the allegations in all of these actions and intends to defend the
actions vigorously. In addition, the Company was joined as a defendant in an action by the
California Commissioner of Insurance alleging similar conduct by various insurers in connection
with the sale of group benefits products. The Commissioner’s action asserted claims under
California insurance law and sought injunctive relief only. The Company has settled the
Commissioner’s action.

Additional complaints may be filed against the Company in various courts alleging claims under
federal or state law arising from the conduct alleged in the NYAG Complaint. The Company’s
ultimate liability, if any, in the pending and possible future suits is highly uncertain and
subject to contingencies that are not yet known, such as how many suits will be filed, in which
courts they will be lodged, what claims they will assert, what the outcome of investigations by the
New York Attorney General’s Office and other regulatory agencies will be, the success of defenses
that the Company may assert, and the amount of recoverable damages if liability is established. In
the opinion of management, it is possible that an adverse outcome in one or more of these suits
could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or cash
flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.

Fair Credit Reporting Act Putative Class Action

– In October 2001, a complaint was filed in the
United States District Court for the District of Oregon, on behalf of a putative class of
homeowners and automobile policyholders from 1999 to the present, alleging that the Company
willfully violated the Fair Credit Reporting Act (“FCRA”) by failing to send appropriate notices to
new customers whose initial rates were higher than they would have been had the customer had a more
favorable credit report. In July 2003, the district court granted summary judgment for the
Company, holding that FCRA’s adverse action notice requirement did not apply to the rate first
charged for an initial policy of insurance.

The plaintiff appealed and, in August 2005, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit reversed the district court, holding that the adverse action notice requirement
applies to new business and that the Company’s notices, even when sent, contained inadequate
information. Although no court previously had decided the notice requirements applicable to
insurers under FCRA, and the district court had not addressed whether the Company’s alleged
violations of FCRA were willful because it had agreed with the Company’s interpretation of FCRA and
found no violation, the Court of Appeals further held, over a dissent by one of the



judges, that the Company’s failure to send notices conforming to the Court’s opinion constituted a
willful violation of FCRA as a matter of law. FCRA provides for a statutory penalty of $100 to
$1,000 per willful violation. Simultaneously, the Court of Appeals issued decisions in related
cases against four other insurers, reversing the district court and holding that those insurers
also had violated FCRA in similar ways. On October 3, 2005, the Court of Appeals withdrew its
opinion in the Hartford case and issued a revised opinion, which changed certain language of the
opinion but not the outcome.

On October 31, 2005, the Company timely filed a petition for rehearing and for rehearing en banc in
the Ninth Circuit. While that petition was pending, on January 25, 2006, the Court of Appeals
again withdrew its opinion in the Hartford case and issued a second revised opinion. The new
opinion vacated the Court’s earlier ruling that the Company had willfully violated FCRA as a matter
of law and remanded the case to the district court for further proceedings. On February 15, 2006,
the Company filed a new petition for rehearing and rehearing en banc, and on April 20, 2006, the
Court of Appeals denied the petition. On July 19, 2006, the Company filed a petition for a writ of
certiorari in the United States Supreme Court. On September 26, 2006, the Supreme Court granted
petitions filed by insurers in two of the related cases, and on January 16, 2007, it heard argument
in those cases. The Supreme Court has not yet acted on the Company’s petition.

On July 25, 2006, the parties entered into a memorandum of understanding setting forth the
essential terms of a class settlement in this action, and, on September 8, 2006, the parties
executed and filed with the district court a Stipulation of Settlement. On September 11, 2006, the
district court preliminarily approved the settlement and scheduled a hearing for final approval of
the settlement for February 26, 2007. The settlement is subject to certain contingencies,
including final approval by the district court. If the settlement is completed, management expects
that the Company’s ultimate obligations under the settlement agreement, after consideration of
provisions made for this matter, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
consolidated results of operations or cash flows in any particular quarterly or annual period.

Blanket Casualty Treaty Litigation

– The Company is engaged in pending litigation in Connecticut
Superior Court against certain of its upper-layer reinsurers under its Blanket Casualty Treaty
(“BCT”). The BCT is a multi-layered reinsurance program providing excess-of-loss coverage in
various amounts from the 1930s through the 1980s. The upper layers were first placed in 1950,
predominantly with London Market reinsurers, including Lloyd’s syndicates reinsured by Equitas.
The action seeks, among other relief, damages for the reinsurer defendants’ failure to pay certain
billings for asbestos and pollution claims.

In December 2003, the Company entered into a global settlement with MacArthur Company, an asbestos
insulation distributor and installer then in bankruptcy, for $1.15 billion. The Company then billed
the reinsurer defendants under the BCT for $117 of the settlement amount. After the reinsurers
refused to pay the MacArthur billing, the Company amended its complaint to add, among other things,
claims related to that billing. Most of the reinsurer defendants counterclaimed, seeking a
declaration that they did not owe reinsurance for the MacArthur settlement.

The litigation concerns under what circumstances losses arising from multiple claims against a
single insured may be combined and ceded as a single “accident” under the BCT so as to reach the
upper layers of the program. The BCT contains a unique definition of “accident.” The application
of this definition to the ceded losses is the crux of the dispute.

In April 2005, the Superior Court phased the proceedings, providing for a trial of the MacArthur
billing first, in April 2006, with other billings to follow in subsequent trial settings. In
September 2005, the London Market reinsurer defendants moved for summary judgment on the
MacArthur-related claims. After briefing and oral argument, the Superior Court issued a decision
on December 13, 2005, granting the defendants’ motion. The Company noticed an appeal to the
Connecticut Appellate Court; the appeal has since been transferred to the Connecticut Supreme
Court. The Company intends to prosecute its appeal vigorously.

On June 15, 2006, the Company announced an agreement with Equitas and all Lloyd’s syndicates
reinsured by Equitas (collectively, “Equitas”) that resolved, with minor exception, all of the
Company’s ceded and assumed domestic reinsurance exposures with Equitas, including the Company’s
reinsurance recoveries from Equitas under the BCT. Those recoveries consist predominantly of
asbestos and pollution losses, including the billing for the MacArthur settlement. The pending
litigation and appeal continue with other upper-layer reinsurers under the BCT.

The outcome of the appeal is uncertain. If the decision of the Superior Court is affirmed on
appeal, the Company may be unable to collect from the nonsettling reinsurers not only its billing
for the MacArthur settlement but also other current and future billings to which the same relevant
facts and legal analysis would apply. The Company has considered the risk of non-collection of
these recoveries in its allowance for all uncollectible reinsurance recoverables associated with
older, long-term casualty liabilities reported in the Other Operations segment. After
consideration of this allowance, management expects that a negative outcome in the BCT litigation
would not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or
cash flows in any particular quarterly or annual period.

Asbestos and Environmental Claims

– As discussed in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption “Other Operations (Including
Asbestos and Environmental Claims)”, The Hartford continues to receive asbestos and environmental
claims that involve significant uncertainty regarding policy coverage issues. Regarding these
claims, The Hartford continually reviews its overall reserve levels and reinsurance coverages, as
well as the methodologies it uses to



estimate its exposures. Because of the significant uncertainties that limit the ability of
insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid losses and related
expenses, particularly those related to asbestos, the ultimate liabilities may exceed the currently
recorded reserves. Any such additional liability cannot be reasonably estimated now but could be
material to The Hartford’s consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.

Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders of The Hartford Financial Services
Group, Inc. during the fourth quarter of 2006.

PART II

Item 5. MARKET FOR THE HARTFORD’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

The Hartford’s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the
trading symbol “HIG”.

The following table presents the high and low closing prices for the common stock of The Hartford
on the NYSE for the periods indicated, and the quarterly dividends declared per share.


st

Qtr.


nd

Qtr.


rd

Qtr.


th

Qtr.


Common Stock Price

High

$

88.83

$

92.22

$

87.84

$

93.61

Low

79.24

80.63

79.86

84.73

Dividends Declared

0.40

0.40

0.40

0.50


Common Stock Price

High

$

73.76

$

77.26

$

81.89

$

89.00

Low

66.06

65.51

73.05

73.75

Dividends Declared

0.29

0.29

0.29

0.30

As of
February 16, 2007, the Company had approximately 350,000 shareholders. The closing price of
The Hartford’s common stock on the NYSE on February 16,
2007 was $97.09.

On February 22, 2007, The Hartford’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.50 per
share payable on April 2, 2007 to shareholders of record as of March 1, 2007. Dividend decisions
are based on and affected by a number of factors, including the operating results and financial
requirements of The Hartford and the impact of regulatory restrictions discussed in Item 7,
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Capital
Resources and Liquidity – Liquidity Requirements.

There are also various legal and regulatory limitations governing the extent to which The
Hartford’s insurance subsidiaries may extend credit, pay dividends or otherwise provide funds to
The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. as discussed in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Capital Resources and Liquidity –
Liquidity Requirements.

See Part III, Item 12, Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters, for information related to securities authorized for issuance under equity
compensation plans.

Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer

The following table summarizes the Company’s repurchases of its common stock for each of the three
months in the period ended December 31, 2006:

Total Number of Shares

Maximum Number

Total Number

Purchased as Part of

of Shares that May Yet

of Shares

Average Price

Publicly Announced

Be Purchased as Part

Period

Purchased

Paid Per Share

Plans or Programs

of the Plans or Programs

October 2006

[1]  1,832

$

86.96

N/A

[2]

November 2006

—

$

—

N/A

[2]

December 2006

—

$

—

N/A

[2]

[1]

Represents shares acquired from employees of the Company for tax withholding purposes in
connection with the Company’s benefit plans.

[2]

$1 billion of the Company’s securities were eligible
for repurchase pursuant to the Company’s repurchase program.

In February 2007, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase
up to an additional $1 billion of its securities. This brings the
Company’s total share repurchase
authorization to $2 billion. The Company’s repurchase authorization permits purchases of common stock, which may be in the open market or through
 privately negotiated transactions. The Company also may enter into derivative transactions to
facilitate future repurchases of common stock. The timing of repurchases will be dependent upon
several factors, including the market price of the Company’s securities, the Company’s
capital position, consideration of the effect of any repurchases on the Company’s financial
strength or credit ratings, and other corporate considerations. The repurchase program may be
modified, extended or terminated by the Board of Directors at any time. Through February 16, 2007, The
Hartford had repurchased approximately $363 (3.8 million shares) under this program.



Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

(In millions, except for per share data and combined ratios)






Income Statement Data

Total revenues

$

26,500

$

27,083

$

22,708

$

18,719

$

16,410

Income (loss) before cumulative effect
of accounting changes

[1]

2,745

2,274

2,138

(91

)

1,000

Net income (loss)

[1] [2]

2,745

2,274

2,115

(91

)

1,000

Balance Sheet Data

Total assets

$

326,710

$

285,557

$

259,735

$

225,850

$

181,972

Long-term debt

3,504

4,048

4,308

4,610

4,061

Total stockholders’ equity

18,876

15,325

14,238

11,639

10,734

Earnings (Loss) Per Share Data

Basic earnings (loss) per share

[1]

Income (loss) before cumulative
effect of accounting changes

[1]

$

8.89

$

7.63

$

7.32

$

(0.33

)

$

4.01

Net income (loss)

[1] [2]

8.89

7.63

7.24

(0.33

)

4.01

Diluted earnings (loss) per share

[1] [3]

Income (loss) before cumulative
effect of accounting changes

[1]

8.69

7.44

7.20

(0.33

)

3.97

Net income (loss)

[1] [2]

8.69

7.44

7.12

(0.33

)

3.97

Dividends declared per common share

1.70

1.17

1.13

1.09

1.05

Other Data

Mutual fund assets

[4]

$

43,732

$

32,705

$

28,068

$

22,462

$

15,321

Operating Data

Combined ratios

Ongoing Property & Casualty Operations

89.3

93.2

95.3

96.5

99.1

[1]

2004 includes a $216 tax benefit related to agreement with the IRS
on the resolution of matters pertaining to tax years prior to
2004. 2003 includes an after-tax charge of $1.7 billion related
to the Company’s 2003 asbestos reserve addition, $40 of after-tax
expense related to the settlement of a certain litigation dispute,
$30 of tax benefit in Life primarily related to the favorable
treatment of certain tax items arising during the 1996-2002 tax
years, and $27 of after-tax severance charges in Property &
Casualty. 2002 includes $76 tax benefit in Life, $11 after-tax
expense in Life related to a certain litigation dispute and an $8
after-tax benefit in Life’s September 11 exposure.

[2]

2004 includes a $23 after-tax charge related to the cumulative
effect of accounting change for the Company’s adoption of the
AICPA issued Statement of Position 03-1, “Accounting and Reporting
by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long-Duration
Contracts and for Separate Accounts”.

[3]

As a result of the net loss for the year ended December 31, 2003,
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128,”Earnings per
Share“ requires the Company to use basic weighted average common
shares outstanding in the calculation of the year ended December
31, 2003 diluted earnings (loss) per share, since the inclusion of
options of 1.8 would have been antidilutive to the earnings per
share calculation. In the absence of the net loss, weighted
average common shares outstanding and dilutive potential common
shares would have totaled 274.2.

[4]

Mutual funds are owned by the shareholders of those funds and not
by the Company. As a result, they are not reflected in total
assets on the Company’s balance sheet.



Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

(Dollar amounts in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise stated)

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”)
addresses the financial condition of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and its
subsidiaries (collectively, “The Hartford” or the “Company”) as of December 31, 2006, compared
with December 31, 2005, and its results of operations for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2006. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
Financial Statements and related Notes beginning on page F-1. Certain reclassifications have been
made to prior year financial information to conform to the current year presentation.

Certain of the statements contained herein are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking
statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995 and include estimates and assumptions related to economic, competitive and
legislative developments. These forward-looking statements are subject to change and uncertainty
which are, in many instances, beyond the Company’s control and have been made based upon
management’s expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effect
upon the Company. There can be no assurance that future developments will be in accordance with
management’s expectations or that the effect of future developments on The Hartford will be those
anticipated by management. Actual results could differ materially from those expected by the
Company, depending on the outcome of various factors, including, but not limited to, those set
forth in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors. These factors include: the difficulty in predicting the
Company’s potential exposure for asbestos and environmental claims; the possible occurrence of
terrorist attacks; the response of reinsurance companies under reinsurance contracts and the
availability, pricing and adequacy of reinsurance to protect the Company against losses; changes
in the stock markets, interest rates or other financial markets, including the potential effect on
the Company’s statutory capital levels; the inability to effectively mitigate the impact of equity
market volatility on the Company’s financial position and results of operations arising from
obligations under annuity product guarantees; the Company’s potential exposure arising out of
regulatory proceedings or private claims relating to incentive compensation or payments made to
brokers or other producers and alleged anti-competitive conduct; the uncertain effect on the
Company of regulatory and market-driven changes in practices relating to the payment of incentive
compensation to brokers and other producers, including changes that have been announced and those
which may occur in the future; the possibility of unfavorable loss development; the incidence and
severity of catastrophes, both natural and man-made; stronger than anticipated competitive
activity; unfavorable judicial or legislative developments; the potential effect of domestic and
foreign regulatory developments, including those which could increase the Company’s business costs
and required capital levels; the possibility of general economic and business conditions that are
less favorable than anticipated; the Company’s ability to distribute its products through
distribution channels, both current and future; the uncertain effects of emerging claim and
coverage issues; a downgrade in the Company’s financial strength or credit ratings; the ability of
the Company’s subsidiaries to pay dividends to the Company; the Company’s ability to adequately
price its property and casualty policies; the ability to recover the Company’s systems and
information in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated event; potential for difficulties
arising from outsourcing relationships; potential changes in Federal or State tax laws; and other
factors described in such forward-looking statements.

INDEX

Overview


Critical Accounting Estimates


Consolidated Results of Operations


Life


Retail


Retirement Plans


Institutional


Individual Life


Group Benefits


International


Other


Property & Casualty


Total Property & Casualty


Ongoing Operations


Business Insurance


Personal Lines


Specialty Commercial


Other Operations (Including Asbestos and

Environmental Claims)


Investments


Investment Credit Risk


Capital Markets Risk Management


Capital Resources and Liquidity


Impact of New Accounting Standards


OVERVIEW

The Hartford is a diversified insurance and financial services company with operations dating
back to 1810. The Company is headquartered in Connecticut and is organized into two major
operations: Life and Property & Casualty, each containing reporting segments. Within the Life and
Property & Casualty operations, The Hartford conducts business principally in ten operating
segments. Additionally, Corporate primarily  includes the Company’s debt financing and related
interest expense, as well as certain capital raising activities and purchase accounting
adjustments.



Life is organized into six reportable operating segments: Retail Products Group (“Retail”),
Retirement Plans, Institutional Solutions Group (“Institutional”), Individual Life, Group Benefits
and International. Through Life the Company provides retail and institutional investment products
such as variable and fixed annuities, mutual funds, private placement life insurance and retirement
plan services, individual life insurance products including variable universal life, universal
life, interest sensitive whole life and term life; and group benefit products, such as group life
and group disability insurance.

Property & Casualty is organized into four reportable operating segments: the underwriting segments
of Business Insurance, Personal Lines and Specialty Commercial (collectively “Ongoing Operations”),
and the Other Operations segment. Through Property & Casualty the Company provides a number of
coverages, as well as insurance-related services, to businesses throughout the United States,
including workers’ compensation, property, automobile, liability, umbrella, specialty casualty,
marine, livestock, fidelity and surety, professional liability and director’s and officer’s
liability coverages. Property & Casualty also provides automobile, homeowners, and home-based
business coverage to individuals throughout the United States, as well as insurance-related
services to businesses.

Many of the principal factors that drive the profitability of The Hartford’s Life and Property &
Casualty operations are separate and distinct. Management considers this diversification to be a
strength of The Hartford that distinguishes the Company from many of its peers. To present its
operations in a more meaningful and organized way, management has included separate overviews
within the Life and Property & Casualty sections of MD&A. For further overview of Life’s
profitability and analysis, see page 51. For further overview of Property & Casualty’s
profitability and analysis, see page 70.

Broker Compensation

As the Company has disclosed previously, the Company pays brokers and independent agents
commissions and other forms of incentive compensation in connection with the sale of many of the
Company’s insurance products. Since the New York Attorney General’s Office filed a civil complaint
against Marsh on October 14, 2004, several of the largest national insurance brokers, including
Marsh, Aon Corporation and Willis Group Holdings Limited, have announced that they have
discontinued the use of contingent compensation arrangements. Other industry participants may make
similar, or different, determinations in the future. In addition, legal, legislative, regulatory,
business or other developments may require changes to industry practices relating to incentive
compensation.

Pursuant to settlement agreements reached with regulators, several insurance companies have agreed
to restrictions on the payment of contingent compensation relating to the placement of excess
casualty insurance policies. These insurers have agreed that the restrictions may be extended in
time, and to other property and casualty lines, if insurers in a given line or segment, that
together represent more than 65% of the market share in the insurance line (based upon national
gross written premiums), do not pay contingent compensation. On November 30, 2006, the New York
Attorney General’s Office notified these insurers that the 65% threshold had been reached for a
number of insurance lines, including personal automobile and homeowners insurance. As a result,
beginning January 1, 2007, these insurers were prohibited from paying contingent compensation
relating to the placement of these types of insurance. In addition, on December 21, 2006, Chubb
Corporation agreed to forego the payment of contingent compensation for all P&C insurance lines
pursuant to a settlement agreement reached with regulators. These insurers, including Chubb, have
also agreed to support legislation and regulations to abolish contingent compensation and to
require greater disclosure of compensation. At this time, it is not possible to predict the effect
of these announced or potential future changes on our business or distribution strategies, but such
changes could have a material adverse effect on us in the future.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues
and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

The Company has identified the following estimates as critical in that they involve a higher degree
of judgment and are subject to a significant degree of variability: property and casualty reserves
for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, net of reinsurance; Life deferred policy
acquisition costs and present value of future profits associated with variable annuity and other
universal life-type contracts; the evaluation of other-than-temporary impairments on investments in
available-for-sale securities; the valuation of guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit derivatives;
pension and other postretirement benefit obligations; and contingencies relating to corporate
litigation and regulatory matters. In developing these estimates management makes subjective and
complex judgments that are inherently uncertain and subject to material change as facts and
circumstances develop. Although variability is inherent in these estimates, management believes
the amounts provided are appropriate based upon the facts available upon compilation of the
financial statements.



Property & Casualty Reserves, Net of Reinsurance

The Hartford establishes property and casualty reserves to provide for the estimated costs of
paying claims under insurance policies written by the Company. These reserves include estimates
for both claims that have been reported and those that have been incurred but not reported, and
include estimates of all expenses associated with processing and settling these claims. Estimating
the ultimate cost of future losses and loss adjustment expenses is an uncertain and complex
process. This estimation process is based largely on the assumption that past developments are an
appropriate predictor of future events and involves a variety of actuarial techniques that analyze
experience, trends and other relevant factors. Reserve estimates can change over time because of
unexpected changes in the external environment. Potential external factors include (1) changes in
the inflation rate for goods and services related to covered damages such as medical care, hospital
care, auto parts, wages and home repair, (2) changes in the general economic environment that could
cause unanticipated changes in the claim frequency per unit insured, (3) changes in the litigation
environment as evidenced by changes in claimant attorney representation in the claims negotiation
and settlement process, (4) changes in the judicial environment regarding the interpretation of
policy provisions relating to the determination of coverage and/or the amount of damages awarded
for certain types of damages, (5) changes in the social environment regarding the general attitude
of juries in the determination of liability and damages, (6) changes in the legislative environment
regarding the definition of damages and (7) new types of injuries caused by new types of injurious
exposure: past examples include breast implants, lead paint and construction defects. Reserve
estimates can also change over time because of changes in internal company operations. Potential
internal factors include (1) periodic changes in claims handling procedures, (2) growth in new
lines of business where exposure and loss development patterns are not well established or (3)
changes in the quality of risk selection in the underwriting process. In the case of assumed
reinsurance, all of the above risks apply. In addition, changes in ceding company case reserving
and reporting patterns can create additional factors that need to be considered in estimating the
reserves. Due to the inherent complexity of the assumptions used, final claim settlements may vary
significantly from the present estimates, particularly when those settlements may not occur until
well into the future.

Through both facultative and treaty reinsurance agreements, the Company cedes a share of the risks
it has underwritten to other insurance companies. The Company’s net reserves for loss and loss
adjustment expenses include anticipated recovery from reinsurers on unpaid claims. The estimated
amount of the anticipated recovery, or reinsurance recoverable, is net of an allowance for
uncollectible reinsurance.

Reinsurance recoverables include an estimate of the amount of gross loss and loss adjustment
expense reserves that may be ceded under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, including
incurred but not reported unpaid losses. The Company calculates its ceded reinsurance projection
based on the terms of any applicable facultative and treaty reinsurance, including an estimate of
how incurred but not reported losses will ultimately be ceded by reinsurance agreement.
Accordingly, the Company’s estimate of reinsurance recoverables is subject to similar risks and
uncertainties as the estimate of the gross reserve for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses.

The Company provides an allowance for uncollectible reinsurance, reflecting management’s best
estimate of reinsurance cessions that may be uncollectible in the future due to reinsurers’
unwillingness or inability to pay. The Company analyzes recent developments in commutation
activity between reinsurers and cedants, recent trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes in
disputes between reinsurers and cedants and the overall credit quality of the Company’s reinsurers.
Where its contracts permit, the Company secures future claim obligations with various forms of
collateral, including irrevocable letters of credit, secured trusts, funds held accounts and
group-wide offsets. The allowance for uncollectible reinsurance was $412 as of December 31, 2006,
including $294 related to Other Operations and $118 related to Ongoing Operations.

Due to the inherent uncertainties as to collection and the length of time before reinsurance
recoverables become due, it is possible that future adjustments to the Company’s reinsurance
recoverables, net of the allowance, could be required, which could have a material adverse effect
on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or cash flows in a particular quarter or annual
period.

The Hartford, like other insurance companies, categorizes and tracks its insurance reserves for its
segments by “line of business”, such as property, auto physical damage, auto liability, commercial
multi-peril package business, workers’ compensation, general liability professional liability and
fidelity and surety. Furthermore, The Hartford regularly reviews the appropriateness of reserve
levels at the line of business level, taking into consideration the variety of trends that impact
the ultimate settlement of claims for the subsets of claims in each particular line of business.
In addition, within the Other Operations segment, the Company has reserves for asbestos and
environmental (A&E) claims. Adjustments to previously established reserves, which may be material,
are reflected in the operating results of the period in which the adjustment is determined to be
necessary. In the judgment of management, information currently available has been properly
considered in the reserves established for losses and loss adjustment expenses. Incurred
but not reported (IBNR) reserves represent the difference between the estimated ultimate cost of
all claims and the actual reported loss and loss adjustment expenses (“reported losses”). Reported
losses represent cumulative loss and loss adjustment expenses paid plus case reserves for
outstanding reported claims. Company actuaries evaluate the total reserves (IBNR and case
reserves) on an accident year basis. An accident year is the calendar year in which a loss is
incurred, or, in the case of claims-made policies, the calendar year in which a loss is reported.



The following table shows loss and loss adjustment expense reserves by line of business and by
operating segment as of December 31, 2006, net of reinsurance:

Business

Personal

Specialty

Other

Total

Insurance

Lines

Commercial

Operations

P&C

Reserve Line of Business

Property

$


$


$


$

—

$


Auto physical damage




—


Auto liability


1,526


—

2,245

Package business

2,028

—

—

—

2,028

Workers’ compensation

3,816


1,830

—

5,653

General liability



1,504

—

2,130

Professional liability

—

—


—


Fidelity and surety

—

—


—


Assumed Reinsurance [1]

—

—

—



All other non-A&E

—

—

—

1,045

1,045

A&E




2,558

2,573

Total reserves-net

7,144

1,825

4,219

4,416

17,604

Reinsurance and other recoverables



2,303

1,300

4,387

Total reserves-gross

$

7,794

$

1,959

$

6,522

$

5,716

$

21,991

[1]

These net loss and loss adjustment expense reserves relate to assumed reinsurance
underwritten by Reinsurance operations that were moved into Other Operations (formerly known
as “HartRe”).

Reserving for non-A&E reserves within Ongoing and Other Operations

How non-A&E reserves are set

Reserves are set by line of business within the various operating segments. As indicated in the
above table, a single line of business may be written in one or more of the segments. Case
reserves are established by a claims handler on each individual claim and are adjusted as new
information becomes known during the course of handling the claim. Lines of business for which loss
data (e.g., paid losses and case reserves) emerge (i.e., is reported) over a long period of time
are referred to as long-tail lines of business. Lines of business for which loss data emerge more
quickly are referred to as short-tail lines of business. Within the Company’s Ongoing Operations
the shortest-tail lines of business are property and auto physical damage. The longest tail lines
of business within Ongoing Operations include workers’ compensation, general liability, and
professional liability. Assumed reinsurance, which is within Other Operations, is also long-tail
business.

For short-tail lines of business, emergence of paid loss and case reserves is credible and likely
indicative of ultimate losses. For long-tail lines of business, emergence of paid losses and case
reserves is less credible in the early periods and, accordingly may not be indicative of ultimate
losses.

An expected loss ratio is used in initially recording the reserves for both short-tail and
long-tail lines of business. This expected loss ratio is determined through a review of prior
accident years’ loss ratios and expected changes to earned pricing, loss costs, mix of business,
ceded reinsurance and other factors that are expected to impact the loss ratio for the current
accident year. For short-tail lines, IBNR for the current accident year is initially recorded as
the product of the expected loss ratio for the period, earned premium for the period and the
proportion of losses expected to be reported in future calendar periods for the current accident
period. For long-tailed lines, IBNR reserves for the current accident year are initially recorded
as the product of the expected loss ratio for the period and the earned premium for the period,
less reported losses for the period.

Company reserving actuaries, who are independent of the business units, regularly review reserves
for both current and prior accident years using the most current claim data. These reserve reviews
incorporate a variety of actuarial methods and judgments and involve rigorous analysis. Most
non-A&E reserves are reviewed fully each quarter, including loss reserves for property, auto
physical damage, auto liability, package business, workers’ compensation, most general liability,
professional liability and fidelity and surety. Other non-A&E reserves are reviewed semi-annually
(twice per year) or annually. These include, but are not limited to, reserves for allocated loss
adjustment expenses, assumed reinsurance, latent exposures such as construction defects,
unallocated loss adjustment expense and all other non-A&E exposures within Other Operations. For
reserves that are reviewed semi-annually and annually, management monitors the emergence of paid
and reported losses in the intervening quarters to either confirm that its estimate of ultimate
losses should not change or, if necessary, perform a reserve review to determine whether the
reserve estimate should change.

For most lines of business, a variety of actuarial methods are reviewed and the actuaries select
methods and specific assumptions appropriate for each line of business based on the current
circumstances affecting that line of business. These selections incorporate input, as judged by
the reserving actuaries to be appropriate, from claims personnel, pricing actuaries and operating
management on



reported loss cost trends and other factors that could affect the reserve estimates. The output of
the reserve reviews are reserve estimates that are referred to herein as the “actuarial
indication”.

The actuarial techniques or methods used include paid and reported loss development, frequency /
severity, expected loss ratio and Bornhuetter-Ferguson techniques. Within any one line of
business, a variety of techniques are used. Within any one line of business, certain methods are
generally given more influence in determining the actuarial indication. The methods that are given
more influence vary within a line of business based primarily on the maturity of the accident year,
the mix of business and the particular internal and external influences impacting the claims
experience or the methods. The following is a discussion of the most common methods used; these
methods are not used for every line of business or every accident year within a line of business.

Paid Development method

. Historical data, organized by accident period and calendar period, is
used to develop paid loss development patterns, which are then applied to current paid losses by
accident period to estimate ultimate losses. The paid development method is also used to estimate
reserves for allocated loss adjustments expenses (ALAE).

Paid development techniques do not use information about case reserves and, therefore, are not
affected by changes in case reserving practices. Paid development techniques can, however, be
significantly affected by changes in claim closure patterns. Paid development techniques for
longer-tailed lines are generally less useful for more recent accident years since a low percentage
of ultimate losses are paid to date in early periods of development and small changes in paid
losses can have a large impact on estimated ultimate losses.

Reported Development method.

Historical data, organized by accident period and calendar period, is
used to develop reported loss development patterns, which are then applied to current reported
losses by accident period to estimate ultimate losses. The reported losses used in this analysis
refer to cumulative paid losses plus case reserves and do not include IBNR.

Compared to the paid development technique, the reported development technique has the advantage
that a higher percentage of ultimate losses are reflected in reported losses than in cumulative
paid losses. The reported development technique estimates only the unreported losses rather than
the total unpaid losses. While the reported development technique takes advantage of information
contained in the case reserves, estimates determined from this technique are affected by changes in
case reserving practices.

Both paid and reported development techniques assume that historical development patterns are
predictive of future development patterns.

Frequency / Severity methods

. Historical data is used to develop claim count development patterns
and those patterns are applied to the number of current reported claims to estimate ultimate claim
counts. Estimated ultimate claim counts are multiplied by an estimated average severity (i.e., an
average cost per claim) to calculate estimated ultimate losses. Average severity is estimated by
fitting historical severity data to a trend line and making assumptions about how the current
environment would affect claim severity. In making assumptions about the current environment,
industry data is used where such data is available and appropriate.

The advantage of frequency / severity techniques is that frequency estimates are generally easier
to predict and external information can be used to supplement internal data in making severity
estimates.

Expected Loss Ratio method

. Loss ratios for prior accident years are used to determine the
appropriate expected loss ratio for the current accident year after applying anticipated changes in
rates, pricing and loss costs. The current accident year expected loss ratio is multiplied by
earned premium to calculate estimated ultimate losses.

Expected Loss Ratio techniques are useful for early periods of maturity on long-tailed lines of
business, where very little paid or reported loss information is available.

Bornhuetter-Ferguson method

. This method is a combination of the expected loss ratio method and
the reported development method, where the reported loss development method is given more weight as
an accident year matures.

For all lines of business, variations of the above methods are used. Examples of variation within
the paid and reported development methods include:

•

The accident period used may vary (e.g., year, quarter, or month)

•

The Company may analyze the data by coverage (e.g., bodily injury separate from property damage)

•

There may be adjustments for unusual loss activity

•

For ALAE, the Company uses patterns of the relationship between paid ALAE and paid losses.

Examples of variation within the frequency /severity methods include:

•

For one sub-set of professional liability business, management estimates frequency, not
through historical claim count development, but through an analysis of the securities class
actions filed and policy listings

•

For some methods, management projects severity on only open claims

•

In the commercial liability lines, the Company performs the frequency / severity technique only on claims over a certain size



•

For allocated loss adjustment expenses (ALAE), the Company analyzes ALAE on claims in suit
and associated legal expenses separately from ALAE on other claims.

For each line of business, certain methods are given more influence than other methods. The
discussion below gives a general indication of which methods are preferred by line of business.
Because the actuarial estimates are generated at a much finer level of detail than line of business
(e.g., by distribution channel, coverage, accident period), this description should not be assumed
to apply to each coverage and accident year within a line of business. Also, as circumstances
change, the methods that are given more influence will change. For example, for Personal Lines
auto liability claims, reported development techniques are currently not given significant
influence in making estimates for recent accident years because case reserving practices have been
changing in the recent past. If case reserving practices become more stable, reported development
techniques may be given more weight.

Property and Auto Physical Damage.

These lines are fast-developing and paid and reported
development techniques are used. The Company performs and relies primarily on reported development
techniques and frequency/severity and Bornhuetter-Ferguson techniques for the most immature
accident months.

Auto Liability – Personal Lines.

For auto liability, and bodily injury in particular, the Company
performs a greater number of techniques than it does for property and auto physical damage,
including paid and reported development, and several frequency / severity approaches. The Company
generally uses the reported development method for older accident years and the frequency /
severity methods for more recent accident years. Recent periods are heavily influenced by changes
in case reserve practices and changing disposal rates, and the frequency / severity techniques are
not affected as much by these changes.

Auto Liability – Commercial Lines, Package Business and Short-Tailed General Liability.

As with
Personal Lines auto liability, the Company performs a variety of techniques, including the paid and
reported development methods and frequency / severity techniques. For older, more mature accident
years, management finds that reported development techniques are best. For more recent accident
years, management typically prefers frequency / severity techniques that allow it to make
assumptions about the frequency of larger claims.

Long-Tailed General Liability, Fidelity and Surety and Large Deductible Workers’ Compensation

.
For these very long-tailed lines of business, the Company generally relies on the expected loss
ratio, Bornhuetter-Ferguson and reported development techniques. Management generally weights
these techniques together, relying more heavily on the expected loss ratio method at early ages of
development and more on the reported development method as an accident year matures.

Workers’ Compensation

. Workers’ compensation is the Company’s single largest reserve line of
business and management does the largest amount of actuarial analysis on this line of business.
Methods performed include paid and reported development, variations on expected loss ratio methods,
and an in-depth analysis on the largest states. Paid development patterns are historically very
stable in the Company’s workers’ compensation business, so paid techniques are preferred for older
accident periods. For more recent periods, paid techniques are less predictive of the ultimate
liability since such a low percentage of ultimate losses are paid in early periods of development.
Accordingly, for more recent accident periods, the Company generally relies more heavily on a
state-by-state analysis and the expected loss ratio approach.

Professional Liability.

Reported and paid loss developments patterns for this line tend to be
volatile. Therefore, the Company typically relies on frequency and severity techniques.

Assumed Reinsurance and All Other within Other Operations.

For these lines, management tends to
rely on the reported development techniques. In assumed reinsurance, assumptions are influenced by
information gained from claim and underwriting audits.

Allocated Loss Adjustment Expenses (ALAE).

For some lines of business (e.g., professional
liability and assumed reinsurance), ALAE and losses are analyzed together. For most lines of
business, however, ALAE is analyzed separately, using paid development and frequency / severity
techniques.

The final step in the reserve review process involves a comprehensive review by senior reserving
actuaries who apply their judgment and, in concert with senior management, determine the
appropriate level of reserves based on the various information that has been accumulated. Numerous
factors are considered in this determination process including, but not limited to, the assessed
reliability of key loss trends and assumptions that may be significantly influencing the current
actuarial indications, the maturity of the accident year, pertinent trends observed over the recent
past, the level of volatility within a particular line of business, and the improvement or
deterioration of actuarial indications in the current period as compared to the prior periods. In
general, changes are made more quickly to more mature accident years and less volatile lines of
business. At year-end 2006, total recorded net reserves excluding asbestos and environmental and
excluding the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance were 2.2% higher than the actuarial
indication of the reserves. Annually, as part of the statutory reporting requirements, IBNR is
allocated to accident year by statutory line of business. This work forms the basis for the loss
development table and reserve re-estimates table shown in the “Business” section.

During 2006, there were numerous changes to non-A&E reserve estimates. Among other loss
developments in 2006, these changes included an $83 reduction in catastrophe reserves related to
the 2005 and 2004 hurricanes, a $58 release of Business Insurance allocated



loss adjustment expense reserves for workers’ compensation and package business related to accident
years 2003 to 2005, and a $45 strengthening of Specialty Commercial construction defect claim
reserves for accident years 1997 and prior. See “Reserves” within the Property and Casualty MD&A
for further discussion of reserve developments.

Current trends contributing to reserve uncertainty

The Hartford is a multi-line company in the property and casualty business. The Hartford is
therefore subject to reserve uncertainty stemming from a number of conditions, including but not
limited to those noted above, any of which could be material at any point in time for any segment.
Certain issues may become more or less important over time as conditions change. As various market
conditions develop, management must assess whether those conditions constitute a long-term trend
that should result in a reserving action (i.e., increasing or decreasing the reserve).

Within the commercial segments and the Other Operations segment, the Company has exposure to
claims asserted for bodily injury as a result of long-term or continuous exposure to harmful
products or substances. Examples include, but are not limited to, pharmaceutical products, latex
gloves, silica and lead paint. The Company also has exposure to claims from construction defects,
where property damage or bodily injury from negligent construction is alleged. The Company also
has exposure to claims asserted against religious institutions and other organizations relating to
molestation or abuse. Such exposures may involve potentially long latency periods and may
implicate coverage in multiple policy periods. These factors make reserves for such claims more
uncertain than other bodily injury or property damage claims. With regard to these exposures, the
Company is monitoring trends in litigation, the external environment, the similarities to other
mass torts and the potential impact on the Company’s reserves.

In Personal Lines, reserving estimates are generally less variable than for the Company’s other
property and casualty segments. This is largely due to the coverages having relatively shorter
periods of loss emergence. Estimates, however, can still vary due to a number of factors,
including interpretations of frequency and severity trends and their impact on recorded reserve
levels. Severity trends can be impacted by changes in internal claim handling and case reserving
practices in addition to changes in the external environment. These changes in claim practices
increase the uncertainty in the interpretation of case reserve data, which increases the
uncertainty in recorded reserve levels. In addition, the success of the Company’s new Dimensions
class plan for automobile first introduced in 2004 has lead to a different mix of business by type
of insured than the Company experienced in the past. In general, the Company now has a lower
proportion of preferred risks than in the past. Such a change in mix increases the uncertainty of
the reserve projections, since historical data and reporting patterns may not be applicable to the
new business.

In Business Insurance, workers’ compensation is the Company’s single biggest line of business and
the line of business with the longest pattern of loss emergence. Reserve estimates for workers’
compensation are particularly sensitive to assumptions about medical inflation and the changing
use of medical care procedures. In addition, changes in state legislative and regulatory
environments impact the Company’s estimates. These changes increase the uncertainty in the
application of development patterns.

In the Specialty Commercial segment, many lines of insurance, such as excess insurance and large
deductible workers’ compensation insurance are “long-tail” lines of insurance. For long-tail
lines, the period of time between the incidence of the insured loss and either the reporting of the
claim to the insurer, the settlement of the claim, or the payment of the claim can be substantial,
and in some cases, several years. As a result of this extended period of time for losses to
emerge, reserve estimates for these lines are more uncertain (i.e. more variable) than reserve
estimates for shorter-tail lines of insurance. Estimating required reserve levels for large
deductible workers’ compensation insurance is further complicated by the uncertainty of whether
losses that are attributable to the deductible amount can be paid by the insured; if such losses
are not paid by the insured due to financial difficulties, the Company would be contractually
liable. Another example of reserve variability relates to reserves for directors and officers
insurance. There is uncertainty in the required level of reserves due to the impact of recent
allegations within the financial services industry, including those in the mutual fund, investment
banking and insurance industries.

Impact of changes in key assumptions on reserve volatility

As stated above, the Company’s practice is to estimate reserves using a variety of methods,
assumptions and data elements. Within its reserve estimation process for reserves other than
asbestos and environmental, the Company does not derive statistical loss distributions or
confidence levels around its reserve estimate and, as a result, does not have reserve range
estimates to disclose.

The reserve estimation process includes explicit assumptions about a number of factors in the
internal and external environment. Across most lines of business, the most important assumptions
are future loss development factors applied to paid or reported losses to date. For most lines,
the reported loss development factor is most important. In workers’ compensation, paid loss
development factors are also important. The trend in loss costs is also a key assumption,
particularly in the most recent accident years, where loss development factors are less credible.

The following discussion includes disclosure of possible variation from current estimates of loss
reserves due to a change in certain key assumptions. Each of the impacts described below is
estimated individually, without consideration for any correlation among key assumptions or among
lines of business. Therefore, it would be inappropriate to take each of the amounts described
below and add them together in an attempt to estimate volatility for the Company’s reserves in
total. The estimated variation in reserves due to changes



in key assumptions is a reasonable estimate of possible variation that may occur in the future,
likely over a period of several calendar years. It is important to note that the variation
discussed is not meant to be a worst-case scenario, and therefore, it is possible that future
variation may be more than the amounts discussed below.

Recorded reserves for workers’ compensation, net of reinsurance, are $5.7 billion across Business
Insurance and Specialty Commercial. The two most important assumptions for workers’ compensation
reserves are loss development factors and loss cost trends, particularly medical cost inflation.
Loss development patterns are dependent on medical cost inflation. Approximately half of the
workers’ compensation net reserves are related to future medical costs. A review of National
Council on Compensation Insurance (“NCCI”) data suggests that the annual growth in industry
medical claim costs has varied from -2% to +12% since 1991. This data shows that medical inflation
has been highly variable over the past decade. Across the entire workers’ compensation reserve
base, a 1 point change in calendar year medical inflation would change the estimated net reserve
by $600, in either direction.

Recorded reserves for auto liability, net of reinsurance, are $2.2 billion across all lines, $1.5
billion of which is in Personal Lines. Personal auto liability reserves are shorter-tailed than
other lines of business (such as workers’ compensation) and, therefore, less volatile. However,
the size of the reserve base means that future changes in estimates could be material to the
Company’s results of operations in any given period. The key assumption for Personal Lines auto
liability is the annual loss cost trend, particularly the severity trend component of loss costs.
A review of Insurance Services Office (“ISO”) data suggests that annual growth in industry
severity since 1999 has varied from +1% to +6%. The ISO data shows recent severity changes to be
in the middle of this range. A 2.5 point change in assumed annual severity is within historical
variation for the industry and for the Company. A 2.5 point change in assumed annual severity for
the two most recent accident years would change the estimated net reserve need by $70, in either
direction. Assumed annual severity for accident years prior to the two most recent accident years
is likely to have minimal variability.

Recorded reserves for general liability, net of reinsurance, are $2.1 billion across Business
Insurance and Specialty Commercial. Reported loss development patterns are a key assumption for
this line of business, particularly for more mature accident years. Historically, assumptions on
reported loss development patterns have been impacted by, among other things, emergence of new
types of claims (e.g. construction defect claims) or a shift in the mixture between smaller, more
routine claims and larger, more complex claims. The Company has reviewed the historical variation
in reported loss development patterns. If the reported loss development patterns change by 10%, a
change that is within historical variation, the estimated net reserve need would change by $300,
in either direction. A 10% change in reported loss development patterns is within historical
variation, as measured by the variation around the average development factors as reported in
statutory accident year reports.

Similar to general liability, assumed casualty reinsurance is affected by reported loss development
pattern assumptions. In addition to the items identified above that would affect both direct and
reinsurance liability claim development patterns, there is also an impact to assumed reporting
patterns for any changes in claim notification from ceding companies to the reinsurer. Recorded
net reserves for HartRe assumed reinsurance business, excluding asbestos and environmental
liabilities, within Other Operations were $813 as of December 31, 2006. If the reported loss
development patterns underlying the Company’s net reserves for HartRe assumed casualty reinsurance
change by 10%, the estimated net reserve need would change by $254, in either direction. A
10% change in reported loss development patterns is within historical variation, as measured by the
variation around the average development factors as reported in statutory accident year reports.

Reserving for Asbestos and Environmental Claims within Other Operations

How A&E reserves are set

The Company continues to receive asbestos and environmental claims. Asbestos claims relate
primarily to bodily injuries asserted by people who came in contact with asbestos or products
containing asbestos. Environmental claims relate primarily to pollution and related clean-up costs.

The Company wrote several different categories of insurance contracts that may cover asbestos and
environmental claims. First, the Company wrote primary policies providing the first layer of
coverage in an insured’s liability program. Second, the Company wrote excess policies providing
higher layers of coverage for losses that exhaust the limits of underlying coverage. Third, the
Company acted as a reinsurer assuming a portion of those risks assumed by other insurers writing
primary, excess and reinsurance coverages. Fourth, subsidiaries of the Company participated in the
London Market, writing both direct insurance and assumed reinsurance business.

In establishing reserves for asbestos claims, the Company evaluates its insureds’ estimated
liabilities for such claims using a ground-up approach. The Company considers a variety of
factors, including the jurisdictions where underlying claims have been brought, past, pending and
anticipated future claim activity, disease mix, past settlement values of similar claims, dismissal
rates, allocated loss adjustment expense, and potential bankruptcy impact.

Similarly, a ground-up exposure review approach is used to establish environmental reserves. The
Company’s evaluation of its insureds’ estimated liabilities for environmental claims involves
consideration of several factors, including historical values of similar claims, the number of
sites involved, the insureds’ alleged activities at each site, the alleged environmental damage at
each site, the



respective shares of liability of potentially responsible parties at each site, the appropriateness
and cost of remediation at each site, the nature of governmental enforcement activities at each
site, and potential bankruptcy impact.

Having evaluated its insureds’ probable liabilities for asbestos and/or environmental claims, the
Company then evaluates its insureds’ insurance coverage programs for such claims. The Company
considers its insureds’ total available insurance coverage, including the coverage issued by the
Company. The Company also considers relevant judicial interpretations of policy language and
applicable coverage defenses or determinations, if any.

Evaluation of both the insureds’ estimated liabilities and the Company’s exposure to the insureds
depends heavily on an analysis of the relevant legal issues and litigation environment. This
analysis is conducted by the Company’s lawyers and is subject to applicable privileges.

For both asbestos and environmental reserves, the Company also compares its historical direct net
loss and expense paid and incurred experience, and net loss and expense paid and incurred
experience year by year, to assess any emerging trends, fluctuations or characteristics suggested
by the aggregate paid and incurred activity.

Once the gross ultimate exposure for indemnity and allocated loss adjustment expense is determined
for its insureds by each policy year, the Company calculates its ceded reinsurance projection based
on any applicable facultative and treaty reinsurance and the Company’s experience with reinsurance
collections.

Uncertainties Regarding Adequacy of Asbestos and Environmental Reserves

With regard to both environmental and particularly asbestos claims, significant uncertainty limits
the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid
losses and related expenses. Traditional actuarial reserving techniques cannot reasonably estimate
the ultimate cost of these claims, particularly during periods where theories of law are in flux.
The degree of variability of reserve estimates for these exposures is significantly greater than
for other more traditional exposures. In particular, the Company believes there is a high degree
of uncertainty inherent in the estimation of asbestos loss reserves.

In the case of the reserves for asbestos exposures, factors contributing to the high degree of
uncertainty include inadequate loss development patterns, plaintiffs’ expanding theories of
liability, the risks inherent in major litigation, and inconsistent emerging legal doctrines.
Furthermore, over time, insurers, including the Company, have experienced significant changes in
the rate at which asbestos claims are brought, the claims experience of particular insureds, and
the value of claims, making predictions of future exposure from past experience uncertain.
Plaintiffs and insureds also have sought to use bankruptcy proceedings, including “pre-packaged”
bankruptcies, to accelerate and increase loss payments by insurers. In addition, some
policyholders have asserted new classes of claims for coverages to which an aggregate limit of
liability may not apply. Further uncertainties include insolvencies of other carriers and
unanticipated developments pertaining to the Company’s ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos
and environmental claims. Management believes these issues are not likely to be resolved in the
near future.

In the case of the reserves for environmental exposures, factors contributing to the high degree of
uncertainty include expanding theories of liability and damages; the risks inherent in major
litigation; inconsistent decisions concerning the existence and scope of coverage for environmental
claims; and uncertainty as to the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the insured.

It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their
effect on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. It is unknown whether
potential Federal asbestos-related legislation will be enacted or what its effect would be on the
Company’s aggregate asbestos liabilities.

The reporting pattern for assumed reinsurance claims, including those related to asbestos and
environmental claims is much longer than for direct claims. In many instances, it takes months or
years to determine that the policyholder’s own obligations have been met and how the reinsurance in
question may apply to such claims. The delay in reporting reinsurance claims and exposures adds to
the uncertainty of estimating the related reserves.

Given the factors described above, the Company believes the actuarial tools and other techniques it
employs to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional kinds of insurance exposure
are less precise in estimating reserves for its asbestos and environmental exposures. For this
reason, the Company relies on exposure-based analysis to estimate the ultimate costs of these
claims and regularly evaluates new information in assessing its potential asbestos and
environmental exposures.

A number of factors affect the variability of estimates for asbestos and environmental reserves
including assumptions with respect to the frequency of claims, the average severity of those claims
settled with payment, the dismissal rate of claims with no payment and the expense to indemnity
ratio. The uncertainty with respect to the underlying reserve assumptions for asbestos and
environmental adds a greater degree of variability to these reserve estimates than reserve
estimates for more traditional exposures. While this variability is reflected in part in the size
of the range of reserves developed by the Company, that range may still not be indicative of the
potential variance between the ultimate outcome and the recorded reserves. The recorded net
reserves as of December 31, 2006 of $2.57 billion ($2.25 billion and $322 for asbestos and
environmental, respectively) is within an estimated range, unadjusted for covariance, of $1.99
billion to $3.05 billion. The process of estimating asbestos and environmental reserves remains
subject to a wide variety of



uncertainties, which are detailed in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Due to
these uncertainties, further developments could cause the Company to change its estimates and
ranges of its asbestos and environmental reserves, and the effect of these changes could be
material to the Company’s consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.

Total Property & Casualty Reserves, Net of Reinsurance

In the opinion of management, based upon the known facts and current law, the reserves recorded for
the Company’s property and casualty businesses at December 31, 2006 represent the Company’s best
estimate of its ultimate liability for losses and loss adjustment expenses related to losses
covered by policies written by the Company. However, because of the significant uncertainties
surrounding reserves, and particularly asbestos exposures, it is possible that management’s
estimate of the ultimate liabilities for these claims may change and that the required adjustment
to recorded reserves could exceed the currently recorded reserves by an amount that could be
material to the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

Life Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Present Value of Future Profits Associated with Variable
Annuity and Other Universal Life-Type Contracts

Accounting Policy and Assumptions

Life policy acquisition costs include commissions and certain other expenses that vary with and are
primarily associated with acquiring business. Present value of future profits (“PVFP”) is an
intangible asset recorded upon applying purchase accounting in an acquisition of a life insurance
company. Deferred policy acquisition costs and the present value of future profits intangible asset
are amortized in the same way. Both are amortized over the estimated life of the contracts
acquired. Within the following discussion, deferred policy acquisition costs and the present value
of future profits intangible asset will be referred to as “DAC”. At December 31, 2006 and December
31, 2005, the carrying value of the Company’s Life DAC asset was $9.1 billion and $8.6 billion,
respectively. Of those amounts, $4.4 billion and $4.5 billion related to individual variable
annuities sold in the U.S., $1.4 billion and $1.2 billion related to individual variable annuities
sold in Japan and $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion related to universal life-type contracts sold by
Individual Life.

The Company amortizes DAC related to investment contracts and universal life-type contracts
(including individual variable annuities) using the retrospective deposit method. Under the
retrospective deposit method, acquisition costs are amortized in proportion to the present value of
estimated gross profits (“EGPs”). EGPs are also used to amortize other assets and liabilities on
the Company’s balance sheet, such as sales inducement assets and unearned revenue reserves.
Components of EGPs are used to determine reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits.
For most contracts, the Company evaluates EGPs over a 20 year horizon as estimated profits
emerging subsequent to year 20 are immaterial. The Company uses other measures for amortizing DAC,
such as gross costs (net of reinsurance), as a replacement for EGPs when EGPs are expected to be
negative for multiple years of the contract’s life. The Company also adjusts the DAC balance,
through other comprehensive income, by an amount that represents the amortization of DAC that would
have been required as a charge or credit to operations had unrealized gains and losses on
investments been realized. Actual gross profits, in a given reporting period, that vary from
management’s initial estimates result in increases or decreases in the rate of amortization,
commonly referred to as a “true-up”, which are recorded in the current period. The true-up
recorded for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was an increase to amortization of
$41, $18 and $16, respectively.

Each year, the Company develops future EGPs for the products sold during that year. The EGPs for
products sold in a particular year are aggregated into cohorts. Future gross profits are projected
for the estimated lives of the contracts, and are, to a large extent, a function of future account
value projections for individual variable annuity products and to a lesser extent for variable
universal life products. The projection of future account values requires the use of certain
assumptions. The assumptions considered to be important in the projection of future account value,
and hence the EGPs, include separate account fund performance, which is impacted by separate
account fund mix, less fees assessed against the contract holder’s account balance, surrender and
lapse rates, interest margin, and mortality. The assumptions are developed as part of an annual
process and are dependent upon the Company’s current best estimates of future events. The Company’s
current aggregate separate account return assumption is approximately 8.0% (after fund fees, but
before mortality and expense charges) for U.S. products and 5.0% (after fund fees, but before
mortality and expense charges) in aggregate for all Japanese products, but varies from product to
product. The overall actual return generated by the separate account is dependent on several
factors, including the relative mix of the underlying sub-accounts among bond funds and equity
funds as well as equity sector weightings. The Company’s overall U.S. separate account fund
performance has been reasonably correlated to the overall performance of the S&P 500 Index (which
closed at 1,418 on December 29, 2006), although no assurance can be provided that this correlation
will continue in the future.

Estimating future gross profits is a complex process requiring considerable judgment and the
forecasting of events well into the future. Estimating future gross profits is important not only
for determining the amortization of DAC but also in the accounting and valuation of sales
inducement assets, unearned revenue reserves and guaranteed minimum death and income benefit
reserves. The estimation process, the underlying assumptions and the resulting EGPs, are evaluated
regularly.



During the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company refined its estimation process for DAC amortization
and completed a comprehensive study of assumptions. The Company plans to complete a comprehensive
assumption study and refine its estimate of future gross profits in the third quarter of 2007 and
at least annually thereafter.

Upon completion of an assumption study, the Company revises its assumptions to reflect its current
best estimate, thereby changing its estimate of projected account values and the related EGPs in
the DAC, sales inducement and unearned revenue reserve amortization models as well as the
guaranteed minimum death and income benefit reserving models. The cumulative balance of DAC as
well as sales inducement assets, unearned revenue reserves and guaranteed minimum death and income
benefit reserves are adjusted with an offsetting benefit or charge to income to reflect such
changes in the period of the revision, a process known as “unlocking”. An unlock that results in
an after-tax benefit generally occurs as a result of actual experience or future expectations being
favorable compared to previous estimates of account value growth and EGPs. An unlock that results
in an after-tax charge generally occurs as a result of actual experience or future expectations
being unfavorable compared to previous estimates of account value growth and EGPs.

In addition to when a comprehensive assumption study is completed, revisions to best estimate
assumptions used to estimate future gross profits are necessary when the EGPs in the Company’s
models fall outside of a reasonable range of EGPs. The Company performs a quantitative process
each quarter to determine the reasonable range of EGPs. This process involves the use of
internally developed models, which run a large number of stochastically determined scenarios of
separate account fund performance. Incorporated in each scenario are assumptions with respect to
lapse rates, mortality, and expenses, based on the Company’s most recent assumption study. These
scenarios are run for individual variable annuity business in the U.S. and independently for
individual variable annuity business in Japan and are used to calculate statistically significant
ranges of reasonable EGPs. The statistical ranges produced from the stochastic scenarios are
compared to the present value of EGPs used in the Company’s models. If EGPs used in the Company’s
models fall outside of the statistical ranges of reasonable EGPs, an “unlock” would be necessary. A
similar approach is used for variable universal life business.

Unlock and Sensitivity Analysis

As described above, during the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company completed a comprehensive study
of assumptions underlying EGPs, resulting in an “unlock”. The study covered all assumptions,
including mortality, lapses, expenses and separate account returns, in substantially all product
lines. The new best estimate assumptions were applied to the current in-force to project future
gross profits. The impact on the Company’s assets and liabilities as a result of the unlock during
the fourth quarter was as follows:

Death and

Unearned

Income

Sales

Segment

DAC and

Revenue

Benefit

Inducement

After-tax (charge) benefit

PVFP

Reserves

Reserves [1]

Assets

Total

Retail Products Group

$

(70

)

$


$

(10

)

$


$

(72

)

Retirement Plans


—

—

—


Individual Life

(49

)


—

—

(18

)

International — Japan Annuity


—


—


Life — Other

(46

)

—

—

—

(46

)

Corporate

(13

)

—

—

—

(13

)

Total

$

(132

)

$


$


$


$

(76

)

[1]

As a result of the unlock, death benefit reserves, in the Retail Products Group,
increased $294, offset by an increase of $279 in reinsurance recoverables.

As a result of the unlock in the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company expects total Company DAC
amortization to be lower than it would have been in 2007 if the unlock had not occurred. This
effect of the lower DAC amortization in 2007 is expected to result in an increase to net income of
approximately $12, after-tax, of which approximately $6 relates to Retail Products Group. The
impact on amortization in 2007 for other segments is immaterial.

The Company performs sensitivity analyses with respect to the effect certain assumptions have on
our DAC balances. Each of the sensitivities illustrated below are estimated individually, without
consideration for any correlation among the key assumptions. Therefore, it would be inappropriate
to take each of the sensitivity amounts below and add them together in an attempt to estimate
volatility for the respective DAC balances in total. The following tables depict the estimated
sensitivities for U.S. variable annuities and Japan variable
annuities DAC:



U.S. Variable Annuities

(Increasing separate account returns and decreasing lapse rates result in benefits.
Decreasing separate accounts and increasing lapse rates result in charges.)

Effect on DAC if

unlocked (after-tax)[1]

If actual
separate account returns were 1% above or
below our estimated return

$20 - $30

If actual
lapse rates were 1% above or below our
estimated aggregate lapse rate

$20 - $30 [2]

If we changed our future separate account return rate by 1% from our estimated future return

$60 - $70

If we changed our future lapse rate by 1% from our estimated aggregate future lapse rate

$70 - $80 [2]

Japan Variable Annuities

(Increasing separate account returns
and decreasing lapse rates result in benefits. Decreasing separate accounts and increasing lapse rates result in charges.)

Effect on DAC if

unlocked (after-tax)[1]

If actual separate account returns were 1% above or
below our aggregated estimated return

$1 - $10

If actual lapse rates were 1% above or below our
estimated aggregate lapse rate

$1 - $10 [2]

If we changed our future separate account return rate by 1% from our aggregated estimated future return

$1 - $10

If we changed our future lapse rate by 1% from our estimated aggregate future lapse rate

$12 - $22 [2]

[1]

These sensitivities do not include the estimated impacts on sales inducement assets, unearned revenue reserves and death
and income benefit reserves and are not reflective of any future refinements to the Company’s gross profit estimation
process. The Company’s DAC models assume that separate account returns are earned linearly and that lapses occur linearly
(except for certain dynamic lapse features) throughout the year. Similarly, the sensitivities assume that differential
separate account and lapse rates are linear and parallel and persist
throughout a full 12 month period. These
sensitivities are not perfectly linear nor perfectly symmetrical for
increases and decreases and are most accurate for small changes in assumptions.
As such, extrapolating results over a wide range will decrease the accuracy of the sensitivities’ predictive ability.
Sensitivity results are, in part, based on the current “in-the-moneyness” of various guarantees offered with the products.
Future market conditions could significantly change the sensitivity results.

[2]

Sensitivity around lapses assumes lapses increase or decrease
consistently across all cohort years and products.

An “unlock” only revises EGPs to reflect current best estimate assumptions. The Company must also
test the aggregate recoverability of the DAC asset by comparing the amounts deferred to the present
value of total EGPs. In addition, the Company routinely stress tests its DAC asset for
recoverability against severe declines in its separate account assets, which could occur if the
equity markets experienced a significant sell-off, as the majority of policyholders’ funds in the
separate accounts is invested in the equity market. As of December 31, 2006, the Company believed
U.S. individual and Japan individual variable annuity separate account assets could fall, through a
combination of negative market returns, lapses and mortality, by at
least 53% and 70%,
respectively, before portions of its DAC asset would be unrecoverable.

Valuation of Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit Derivatives

The Company offers certain variable annuity products with a guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit
(“GMWB”) rider. The fair value of the GMWB is calculated based on actuarial and capital market
assumptions related to the projected cash flows, including benefits and related contract charges,
over the lives of the contracts, incorporating expectations concerning policyholder behavior.
Because of the dynamic and complex nature of these cash flows, best estimate assumptions and
stochastic techniques under a variety of market return scenarios are used. Estimating these cash
flows involves numerous estimates and subjective judgments including those regarding expected
market rates of return, market volatility, correlations of market returns and discount rates. At
each valuation date, the Company assumes expected returns based on risk-free rates as represented
by the current LIBOR forward curve rates; market volatility assumptions for each underlying index
based on a blend of observed market “implied volatility” data and annualized standard deviations of
monthly returns using the most recent 20 years of observed market performance; correlations of
market returns across underlying indices based on actual observed market returns and relationships
over the ten years preceding the valuation date; and current risk-free spot rates as represented by
the current LIBOR spot curve to determine the present value of expected future cash flows produced
in the stochastic projection process. Changes in capital market assumptions can significantly
change the value of the GMWB. For example, independent future decreases in equity market returns,
future decreases in interest rates and future increases in equity index volatility will all have
the effect of decreasing the GMWB asset as of December 31, 2006 resulting in a realized loss in net
income. Furthermore, changes in policyholder behavior can also significantly change the value of
the GMWB. For example, independent future increases in fund mix towards equity based funds vs.
bond funds, future increases in withdrawals, future increasing mortality, future increasing usage
of the step-up feature and decreases in lapses will all have the effect of decreasing the GMWB
asset as of December 31, 2006 resulting in a realized loss in net income. Independent changes in
any one of these assumptions moving in the opposite direction will have the effect of increasing
the GMWB asset as of December 31, 2006 resulting in a realized gain in net



income. As markets change, mature and evolve and actual policyholder behavior emerges, management
continually evaluates the appropriateness of its assumptions. In addition, management regularly
evaluates the valuation model, incorporating emerging valuation techniques where appropriate,
including drawing on the expertise of market participants and valuation experts. Upon adoption of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements”, (SFAS 157) the
Company will revise many of the assumptions used to value GMWB. See Note 1 in Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of SFAS 157.

Evaluation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments on Available-for-Sale Securities

The Hartford’s investments in fixed maturities, which include bonds, redeemable preferred stock and
commercial paper; and certain equity securities, which include common and non-redeemable preferred
stocks, are classified as “available-for-sale” and accordingly are carried at fair value with the
after-tax difference from cost or amortized cost, as adjusted for the effect of deducting the life
and pension policyholders’ share of the immediate participation guaranteed contracts; and certain
life and annuity deferred policy acquisition costs and reserve adjustments, reflected in
stockholders’ equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”).

One of the significant estimates related to available-for-sale securities is the evaluation of
investments for other-than-temporary impairments. If a decline in the fair value of an
available-for-sale security is judged to be other-than-temporary, a charge is recorded in net
realized capital losses equal to the difference between the fair value and cost or amortized cost
basis of the security. In addition, for securities expected to be sold, an other-than-temporary
impairment charge is recognized if the Company does not expect the fair value of a security to
recover to cost or amortized cost prior to the expected date of sale. The fair value of the
other-than-temporarily impaired investment becomes its new cost basis. For fixed
maturities, the Company amortizes the new cost basis to par or to estimated future value over the
remaining life of the security based on future estimated cash flows.

The evaluation of impairments is a quantitative and qualitative process, which is subject to risks
and uncertainties and is intended to determine whether declines in the fair value of investments
should be recognized in current period earnings. The risks and uncertainties include changes in
general economic conditions, the issuer’s financial condition or near term recovery prospects and
the effects of changes in interest rates. The Company has a security monitoring process overseen
by a committee of investment and accounting professionals (“the committee”) that identifies
securities that, due to certain characteristics, as described below, are subjected to an enhanced
analysis on a quarterly basis.

Securities not subject to Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 99-20, “Recognition of
Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased Beneficial Interests and Beneficial Interests That
Continued to Be Held by a Transferor in Securitized Financial Assets” (“non-EITF Issue No. 99-20
securities”) that are in an unrealized loss position, are reviewed at least quarterly to determine
if an other-than-temporary impairment is present based on certain quantitative and qualitative
factors. The primary factors considered in evaluating whether a decline in value for non-EITF
Issue No. 99-20 securities is other-than-temporary include: (a) the length of time and the extent
to which the fair value has been less than cost or amortized cost, (b) the financial condition,
credit rating and near-term prospects of the issuer, (c) whether the debtor is current on
contractually obligated interest and principal payments and (d) the intent and ability of the
Company to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery.

Each quarter, during this analysis, the Company asserts its intent and ability to retain until
recovery those securities judged to be temporarily impaired. Once identified, these securities are
systematically restricted from trading unless approved by the committee. The committee will only
authorize the sale of these securities based on predefined criteria that relate to events that
could not have been foreseen. Examples of the criteria include, but are not limited to, the
deterioration in the issuer’s creditworthiness, a change in regulatory requirements or a major
business combination or major disposition.

For certain securitized financial assets with contractual cash flows including asset-backed
securities, (“ABS”), EITF Issue No. 99-20 requires the Company to periodically update its best
estimate of cash flows over the life of the security. If the fair value of a securitized financial
asset is less than its cost or amortized cost and there has been a decrease in the present value of
the estimated cash flows since the last revised estimate, considering both timing and amount, an
other-than-temporary impairment charge is recognized. The Company also considers its intent and
ability to retain a temporarily depressed security until recovery. Estimating future cash flows is
a quantitative and qualitative process that incorporates information received from third party
sources along with certain internal assumptions and judgments regarding the future performance of
the underlying collateral. In addition, projections of expected future cash flows may change based
upon new information regarding the performance of the underlying collateral.

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Obligations

The Company maintains a U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan (the “Plan”) that covers
substantially all employees, as well as unfunded excess plans to provide benefits in excess of
amounts permitted to be paid to participants of the Plan under the provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code. The Company has also entered into individual retirement agreements with certain
retired directors providing for unfunded supplemental pension benefits. In addition, the Company
provides certain health care and life insurance benefits for eligible retired employees. The
Company maintains international plans which represent an immaterial percentage of total pension
assets, liabilities and expense and, for reporting purposes, are combined with domestic plans.



Pursuant to accounting principles related to the Company’s pension and other postretirement
obligations to employees under its various benefit plans, the Company is required to make a
significant number of assumptions in order to calculate the related liabilities and expenses each
period. The two economic assumptions that have the most impact on pension and other
postretirement expense are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan
assets. In determining the discount rate assumption, the Company utilizes a discounted cash flow
analysis of the Company’s pension and other postretirement obligations, currently available market
and industry data and consultation with its plan actuaries. The yield curve utilized in the cash
flow analysis is comprised of bonds rated Aa or higher with maturities primarily between zero and
thirty years. Based on all available information, it was determined that 5.75% was the
appropriate discount rate as of December 31, 2006 to calculate the Company’s benefit liability.
Accordingly, the 5.75% discount rate will also be used to determine the Company’s 2007 pension and
other postretirement expense. At December 31, 2005, the discount rate was 5.50%.

The Company determines the expected long-term rate of return assumption based on an analysis of the
Plan portfolio’s historical compound rates of return since 1979 (the earliest date for which
comparable portfolio data is available) and over rolling 5 year and 10 year periods, balanced along
with future long-term return expectations that generally anticipate an investment mix of 60% equity
securities and 40% fixed income securities. The Company selected these periods, as well as shorter
durations, to assess the portfolio’s volatility, duration and total returns as they relate to
pension obligation characteristics, which are influenced by the Company’s workforce demographics.
In addition, the Company also applies market return assumptions, utilized in Life’s DAC analysis,
to an investment mix that generally anticipates 60% equity securities and 40% fixed income
securities to derive an expected long-term rate of return. Based upon this analysis, the
portfolio’s historical rates of return and management’s outlook with respect to market returns and
the planned asset mix, management maintained the long-term rate of return assumption at 8.00% as of
December 31, 2006. This assumption is used to determine the Company’s 2007 expense. The long-term
rate of return assumption at December 31, 2005 was 8.00%.

To illustrate the impact of these assumptions on annual pension and other postretirement expense
for 2007 and going forward, a 25 basis point change in the discount rate will increase/decrease
pension and other postretirement expense by approximately $15 and a 25 basis point change in the
long-term asset return assumption will increase/decrease pension and other postretirement expense
by approximately $9.

Contingencies Relating to Corporate Litigation and Regulatory Matters

Management follows the requirements of SFAS No. 5 “Accounting for Contingencies”. This statement
requires management to evaluate each contingent matter separately. A loss is recorded if probable
and reasonably estimable. Management establishes reserves for these contingencies at its “best
estimate”, or, if no one number within the range of possible losses is more probable than any
other, the Company records an estimated reserve at the low end of the range of losses.

The Company has a quarterly monitoring process involving legal and accounting professionals. Legal
personnel first identify outstanding corporate litigation and regulatory matters posing a
reasonable possibility of loss. These matters are then jointly reviewed by accounting and legal
personnel to evaluate the facts and changes since the last review in order to determine if a
provision for loss should be recorded or adjusted, the amount that should be recorded, and the
appropriate disclosure. The outcomes of certain contingencies currently being evaluated by the
Company, which relate to corporate litigation and regulatory matters, are inherently difficult to
predict, and the reserves that have been established for the estimated settlement amounts are
subject to significant changes. In view of the uncertainties regarding the outcome of these
matters, as well as the tax-deductibility of payments, it is possible that the ultimate cost to the
Company of these matters could exceed the reserve by an amount that would have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or cash flows in a particular quarterly
or annual period.



CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

For the Years Ended December 31,

Operating Summary




Earned premiums

$

15,023

$

14,359

$

13,566

Fee income

4,739

4,012

3,471

Net investment income

Securities available-for-sale and other

4,691

4,384

4,144

Equity securities held for trading [1]

1,824

3,847


Total net investment income

6,515

8,231

4,943

Other revenues




Net realized capital gains (losses)

(251

)



Total revenues

26,500

27,083

22,708

Benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses [1]

15,042

16,776

13,640

Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and present value of future profits

3,558

3,169

2,843

Insurance operating costs and expenses

3,252

3,227

2,776

Interest expense




Other expenses




Total benefits, losses and expenses

22,898

24,098

20,185

Income
before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change

3,602

2,985

2,523

Income tax expense




Income before cumulative effect of accounting change

2,745

2,274

2,138

Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax [2]

—

—

(23

)

Net income

$

2,745

$

2,274

$

2,115

[1]

Includes investment income and mark-to-market effects of equity securities held for
trading supporting the international variable annuity business, which are classified in net
investment income with corresponding amounts credited to policyholders within benefits,
losses and loss adjustment expenses.

[2]

For the year ended December 31, 2004, represents the cumulative impact of the Company’s
adoption of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”) issued Statement
of Position (“SOP”) 03-1, “Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain
Nontraditional Long-Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts” (“SOP 03-1”).

Net Income (Loss) by Operation and Life Segment




Life

Retail

$


$


$


Retirement Plans




Institutional




Individual Life




Group Benefits




International




Other

(114

)

(115

)


Total Life

1,441

1,204

1,382

Property & Casualty

Ongoing Operations

1,554

1,165


Other Operations

(35

)


(45

)

Total Property & Casualty

1,519

1,236


Corporate

(215

)

(166

)

(177

)

Net income

$

2,745

$

2,274

$

2,115

Ongoing Operations Underwriting Results by Segment




Business Insurance

$


$


$


Personal Lines




Specialty Commercial


(165

)

(53

)



Operating Results

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Net income increased $471 due to the following:

•

Property & Casualty net income increased
$283, as a result of a $389 increase in Ongoing
Operations’ net income, partially offset by a
decrease in Other Operations’ results from net
income of $71 in 2005 to a net loss of $35 in
2006. Ongoing Operations’ net income increased
due to increases in underwriting results and net
investment income, partially offset by a decrease
in net realized capital gains. The increase in
Ongoing Operations’ underwriting results was
principally due to lower current accident year
catastrophe losses, lower insurance operating
costs and expenses due to a change in estimated
Florida Citizens assessments, a change to net
favorable prior accident year loss development
and the effect of catastrophe treaty
reinstatement premium recorded as a reduction of
earned premium in 2005. The net loss in Other
Operations was primarily a result of prior year
reserve development of $243, pre-tax, recorded in
2006, resulting from the agreement with Equitas
and the Company’s evaluation of the reinsurance
recoverables and allowance for uncollectible
reinsurance associated with older, long-term
casualty liabilities.

•

Life’s net income increased $237 primarily
due to growth in assets under management
resulting from market growth and strong sales
along with higher earned premiums. Also
contributing to Life’s increased net income were
the following:

•

During 2006, the Company achieved favorable settlements in several cases
brought against the Company by policyholders regarding their purchase of broad-based
leveraged corporate owned life insurance policies in the early to mid-1990s. The Company
reduced its estimate of the ultimate cost of these cases in 2006. This reserve reduction
resulted in an after-tax benefit of $34.

•

A charge of $102, after-tax, recorded in 2005 in Life to reserve for
investigations related to market timing by the SEC and New York Attorney General’s Office,
directed brokerage by the SEC and single premium group annuities by the New York Attorney
General’s Office and the Connecticut Attorney General’s Office.

•

During 2005, the Company recorded an after-tax expense of $46, related to the
termination of a provision of an agreement with a mutual fund distribution partner of the
Company’s retail mutual funds.

•

Partially offsetting the increase in Life’s net income was a $63, after-tax,
charge related to the DAC unlock. See the Critical Accounting Estimates section of the
MD&A for further information on the DAC unlock.

Total revenues decreased $583 primarily due to the following:

•

A decrease in net investment income of $1.7 billion, driven primarily by a $2.0
billion decrease in net investment income on the Company’s equity securities, held for
trading. The underlying fund performance of assets supporting the Company’s Japanese
variable annuity business was not as strong in 2006 as compared to 2005, resulting in a
decrease in net investment income from equity securities, held for trading. The increase
in net investment income on securities available-for-sale and other of $307 was primarily
due to income earned on higher average invested assets base, increase in interest rates
and a change in asset mix to a greater investment in mortgage loans and limited
partnerships.

•

Net realized capital losses occurred in 2006 as compared to gains in 2005, primarily
as a result of a higher interest rate environment. The components that drove the
increase in net losses during the year ended December 31, 2006 included net losses on
sales of fixed maturity securities and other-than-temporary impairments.

Partially offsetting the decrease in total revenues were the following:

•

Fee income increased $727 as a result of increases in the Life operation’s Retail
and International segments. The increase in fee income occurred primarily as the result
of growth in average account values.

•

Earned premium increased $664 as a result of $387 from Life operations and $277 from
Property & Casualty operations. The increase in Life earned premiums was primarily
related to Group Benefits where the increase was driven by year-to-date sales (excluding
buyouts) growth, particularly in group life insurance. Contributing to the growth in
Property & Casualty earned premium was a $73 reduction of earned premium in 2005 due to
catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium payable to reinsurers as a result of losses from
the 2005 hurricanes. Apart from the effect of the reinstatement premium in 2005, the
growth was primarily driven by new business premium outpacing non-renewals over the last
six months of 2005 and the full year of 2006 and the effect of earned pricing increases
in homeowners, partially offset by an increase in reinsurance costs. Growth in Business
Insurance and Personal Lines earned premium was partially offset by a decrease in
Specialty Commercial earned premium.

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Net income increased $159 primarily due to the following:

•

An increase in Property & Casualty net income of $326, driven primarily by improved
underwriting results in the Personal Lines and Other Operations segments, increased net
investment income, and a reduction in other expenses; partially offset by a decrease in
net realized capital gains. The improved underwriting results in Personal Lines was
driven primarily by a reduction in current year catastrophe losses, a reduction in net
unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development and earned premium growth.



The improvement in underwriting results for Other Operations was primarily due to a reduction in net unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development.
The increase in net investment income was primarily due to higher assets under management resulting from increased cash flows from underwriting, higher
investment yields on fixed maturity investments and an increase in income from limited partnership investments.

•

An increase in net income for Retail of $119, principally driven by higher fee income from growth in the
variable annuity and mutual fund businesses as a result of higher assets under management as compared to the prior
year periods.

•

An increase in net income for International of $57, principally driven by higher fee income and investment
spread in Japan derived from a 78% increase in the assets under management.

•

An increase in net income for the Group Benefits segment of $43, driven primarily by higher earned premiums and
net investment income as well as a favorable loss ratio.

Partially offsetting these increases were:

•

A $216 tax benefit recorded in 2004 to reflect the effect of the IRS audit settlement on tax years prior to 2004.

•

A charge of $102, after-tax, recorded in 2005 in Life to reserve for investigations related to market timing by
the SEC and New York Attorney General’s Office, directed brokerage by the SEC and single premium group annuities by
the New York Attorney General’s Office and the Connecticut Attorney General’s Office.

•

An after-tax expense of $46 recorded in Life during 2005, related to the termination of a provision of an
agreement with a mutual fund distribution partner of the Company’s retail mutual funds.

Total revenues increased $4.4 billion primarily due to the following:

•

An increase of $3.3 billion in net investment income, driven primarily by a $3.0 billion increase in net
investment income on the Company’s equity securities, held for trading. Also contributing to the increase was a
higher average invested asset base.

•

An increase of $793 in earned premiums. Earned premium growth of $486 in Business Insurance was primarily
driven by new business premium growth outpacing non-renewals in the prior 12 months. Earned premium growth of $165
in Personal Lines was primarily driven by new business growth outpacing non-renewals in auto and the effect of earned
pricing increases in homeowners. Earned premiums and other increased $158 in Group Benefits primarily due to
increased sales, particularly in group disability, and continued strong persistency.

•

An increase of $541 in fee income primarily driven by increased individual annuity assets under management in
the United States and Japan.

Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease of $274 in net realized capital gains primarily
due to lower net gains on the sale of fixed maturity securities, losses associated with GMWB
derivatives, Japanese fixed annuity contract hedges and periodic net coupon settlements. These
losses were offset in part by changes in the value of non-qualifying foreign currency swaps.

Net Realized Capital Gains and Losses

See “Investment Results” in the Investments section.

Income Taxes

The effective tax rate for 2006, 2005 and 2004 was 24%, 24% and 15%, respectively. The principal
causes of the difference between the effective rate and the U.S. statutory rate of 35% for 2006 and
2005 were tax-exempt interest earned on invested assets and the separate account dividends received
deduction (“DRD”). For 2004, the principal causes were tax exempt interest earned on invested
assets, the separate account DRD and the tax benefit associated with the settlement of the
1998-2001 IRS audit. Income taxes paid in 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $179, $447 and $32,
respectively. For additional information, see Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

The separate account DRD is estimated for the current year using information from the prior
year-end, adjusted for current year equity market performance. The estimated DRD is generally
updated in the third quarter for the provision-to-filed-return adjustments, and in the fourth
quarter based on current year ultimate mutual fund distributions and fee income from the Company’s
variable insurance products. The actual current year DRD can vary from the estimates based on, but
not limited to, changes in eligible dividends received by the mutual funds, amounts of
distributions from these mutual funds, the utilization of capital loss carry forwards at the mutual
fund level and appropriate levels of taxable income.

The Company receives a foreign tax credit (“FTC”) against its U.S. tax liability for foreign taxes
paid by the Company including payments from its separate account assets. The separate account FTC
is estimated for the current year using information from the most recent filed return, adjusted for
the change in the allocation of separate account investments to the international equity markets
during the current year. The actual current year FTC can vary from the estimates due to the actual
FTC’s passed through by the mutual funds.



Earnings Per Common Share

The following table represents earnings per common share data for the past three years:




| | |

Basic earnings per share

$

8.89

$

7.63

$

7.24

Diluted earnings per share

$

8.69

$

7.44

$

7.12

Weighted average common shares outstanding (basic)

308.8

298.0

292.3

Weighted average common shares outstanding and

dilutive potential common shares (diluted)

315.9

305.6

297.0

Outlooks

The Hartford provides projections and other forward-looking information in the “Outlook” sections
within MD&A. The “Outlook” sections contain many forward-looking statements, particularly relating
to the Company’s future financial performance. These forward-looking statements are estimates
based on information currently available to the Company, are made pursuant to the safe harbor
provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are subject to the
precautionary statements set forth in the introduction to MD&A above. Actual results are likely to
differ materially from those forecast by the Company, depending on the outcome of various factors,
including, but not limited to, those set forth in each “Outlook” section and in Item 1A, Risk
Factors.

Outlook

Life

To a large extent, the future profitability of Life will depend on Life’s ability to increase
assets under management across all businesses and maintain its investment spread on general account
products. Management believes the market for retirement products continues to expand as
individuals increasingly save and plan for retirement. Demographic trends suggest that as the
“baby boom” generation matures, a significant portion of the United States population will allocate
a greater percentage of their disposable incomes to saving for their retirement years due to
uncertainty surrounding the Social Security system and increases in average life expectancy.

Competition has increased substantially in the variable annuities market with most major variable
annuity writers now offering living benefits such as GMWB riders. The highly competitive
environment in this market and the success of these riders and any new product will ultimately be
based on customer acceptance. Future sales and revenues will be largely dependent on the Company’s
ability to attract new customers and to retain contract holder’s account values in existing or new
product offerings as they reach the end of the surrender charge period of their contract. The
Company’s strategy in 2007 revolves around introducing new products and continually evaluating the
portfolio of products currently offered. As a result, sales may be lower than the level of sales
attained in 2006 when considering the highly competitive environment, the risk of disruption on new
sales from product offering changes, customer acceptance of new products and the effect on the
distribution related to product offering changes.

In 2007, Life will begin selling mutual fund based products in the 401(k) market that will
increase Life’s ability to grow assets under management in the medium size 401(k) market. Life
will also be selling mutual fund based products in the 403(b) market as it looks to grow assets in
a highly competitive environment. Disciplined expense management will continue to be a focus;
however, as Life looks to expand its reach in these markets, additional investments in service and
technology will occur.

The Institutional Investment Products (“IIP”) markets are highly competitive from a pricing
perspective, and a small number of cases often account for a significant portion of deposits,
therefore the Company may not be able to sustain the level of assets under management growth
attained in 2006. The Company’s success depends in part on the level of credited interest rates
and the Company’s credit rating.

IIP has launched new products in 2006 to provide solutions that deal specifically with longevity
risk, and will continue to introduce products in 2007. Longevity risk is defined as the likelihood
of an individual outliving their assets. IIP is also designing innovative solutions to
corporation’s defined benefit liabilities. The focus of the PPLI business is variable PPLI
products to fund non-qualified benefits or other post employment benefit liabilities. The market
served by PPLI is subject to extensive legal and regulatory review that could have an adverse
effect on its business.

Individual Life continues to focus on its core distribution model of sales through financial
advisors, while also pursuing growth opportunities through other distribution sources such as
independent life professionals. Variable universal life sales and account values remain sensitive
to equity market levels and returns. Individual Life continues to face uncertainty surrounding
estate tax legislation, a high level of competition from other life insurance providers, reduced
availability and higher price of reinsurance, and the current regulatory environment related to
reserving for universal life products with no-lapse guarantees, which may negatively affect
Individual Life’s future earnings.

The increased scale of the group life and disability operations and the expanded distribution
network for its products and services has generated strong premium and sales growth in 2006.
Management is committed to selling competitively priced products that meet the



Company’s internal rate of return guidelines and sales may be negatively affected by the
competitive pricing environment in the marketplace. Although sales may fluctuate from year to
year, the Company has experienced consistent premium growth over the past few years which results
from the combination of sales, renewal pricing and persistency.

Despite the current market conditions, including rising medical costs, the changing regulatory
environment and cost containment pressure on employers, the Company continues to leverage its
strength in claim practices risk management, service and distribution, enabling the Company to
capitalize on market opportunities. Additionally, employees continue to look to the workplace for
a broader and ever expanding array of insurance products. As employers design benefit strategies
to attract and retain employees, while attempting to control their benefit costs, management
believes that the need for the Company’s products will continue to expand. This combined with the
significant number of employees who currently do not have coverage or adequate levels of coverage,
creates opportunities for our products and services.

Management continues to be optimistic about growth potential of the retirement savings market in
Japan. Several trends such as an aging population, longer life expectancies and declining birth
rate leading to a smaller number of younger workers to support each retiree have resulted in
greater need for an individual to plan and adequately fund retirement savings.

Competition has continued to increase in the Japanese market with the most significant competition
the result of the strengthening of domestic competitors. This competition has resulted in changes
in key distribution relationships that have negatively impacted current year deposits and could
potentially impact future deposits. The Company continues to focus its efforts on strengthening our
distribution relationships and improving our wholesaling and servicing efforts. In addition, the
Company continues to evaluate product designs that meet customers’ needs while maintaining prudent
risk management. In the first quarter 2007, the Company is launching a new variable annuity
product to complement its existing variable annuity product offerings. The success of the
Company’s enhanced product offering will ultimately be based on customer acceptance in an highly
competitive environment.

The
Company will adopt Statement of Position 05-1, “Accounting by
Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection
with Modifications of Exchanges of Insurance Contracts”
(“SOP 05-1”) on January 1, 2007. The Company expects the
cumulative effect upon adoption of SOP 05-1 to be $50 to $65,
after-tax, which will be recorded as a reduction in retained earnings
as of January 1, 2007. In addition, the Company expects an after-tax
reduction in net income, in 2007, of $15 to $25 assuming the level of
internal replacement activity in 2007 is consistent with prior
years.

Property & Casualty

In 2007, management expects continued growth in written and earned premiums in Business Insurance
and Personal Lines and a return to written premium growth in Specialty Commercial.

Within Business Insurance, management expects written premium to grow 2% to 5% in 2007, comprised
of 4% to 7% growth in small commercial and no growth in middle market. Growth in small commercial
is expected to primarily come from an increase in agency appointments, better segmented pricing and
improved product features. As competition among P&C insurers puts downward pressure on prices in
Business Insurance, the Company’ may non-renew some accounts or decide to write less new business.

The Personal Lines segment is expected to deliver written premium growth of 4% to 7% in 2007,
including growth from both AARP and Agency. The Company expects personal auto written premium to
increase 3% to 6% and homeowners’ written premium to increase 7% to 10% as management expects that
growth from Agency business will be largely driven by an increase in the number of agency
appointments and growth in AARP business will be largely driven an increase in marketing to AARP
members.

Within Specialty Commercial, management expects written premium growth of 3% to 6% in 2007, driven
by increases in property, casualty and professional liability, fidelity and surety.

Lines of business within Business Insurance and Personal Lines experienced either lower written
price increases or a continuation of written price declines in 2006. Despite the downward pressure
on rates, the Company expects market pricing to remain largely rational in 2007, although
underwriting margins will likely lessen as loss costs outpace earned pricing increases. Management
believes that 2006 represented the peak year of profitability in the underwriting cycle. Across
Business Insurance and Personal Lines, management expects that loss costs will increase in 2007 as
claim frequency is expected to be less favorable than in 2006 and claim severity is expected to
increase. Due to the earned pricing and loss cost trends, management expects that, in 2007, the
current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio before catastrophes will increase in
Business Insurance. While Personal Lines earned pricing and loss cost trends are expected to be
less favorable in 2007, the current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio before
catastrophes is expected to remain relatively unchanged as underwriting results will benefit from
the sale of Omni, which generated an underwriting loss of $52 in 2006. Within Specialty
Commercial, management expects that current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes
in 2007 will be relatively consistent with results in 2006.

Current accident year catastrophe losses in 2006, at 1.9 percent of Ongoing Operations’ earned
premium, were lower than the long-term historical average. While catastrophe losses vary
significantly from year to year and are unpredictable, management has assumed that catastrophe
losses in 2007 will be closer to 3.0% to 3.5% of earned premium. Despite a mild hurricane season
and a relatively low level of catastrophe losses in 2006, the Company will continue to manage its
exposure to catastrophe losses through the ongoing assessment of its risk, disciplined underwriting
and the use of reinsurance and other risk transfer alternatives, as appropriate. As of January 1,
2007, the Company’s retention under its principal property catastrophe reinsurance program was
increased from $175 to $250 per catastrophe event, although under certain conditions, the Company’s
loss retention from a single event could be reduced to



$200 for a second or subsequent event. With the January 1 renewal, the cost of the company’s
principal property catastrophe reinsurance program increased by approximately 28%.

The expense ratio is expected to increase slightly in 2007 since the 2006 expense ratio benefited
from a $41 reduction in Florida Citizens assessments. In addition, the expense ratio in 2007 will
likely reflect an increase in spending for AARP marketing initiatives and investments in
technology. As a result of less favorable or unfavorable earned pricing changes and increases in
loss costs and underwriting expenses, the Company expects an Ongoing Operations’ combined ratio
before catastrophes and prior accident year development of between 87.5 and 90.5 in 2007, compared
to 88.0 in 2006. Likewise, P&C operating cash flow is expected to be less favorable than in 2006,
although still very positive. Management expects a mid-single digit increase in net investment
income in 2007, driven by net underwriting cash inflows and a change in asset mix. Based upon
current market forward interest rate expectations and an expectation of moderating partnership
income, management expects the after-tax investment yield for Property & Casualty to be about 4.0%
in 2007, consistent with an after-tax yield of 4.1% in 2006.

The Other Operations segment will continue to manage the discontinued operations of the Company as
well as claims (and associated reserves) related to asbestos, environmental and other exposures.
The Company will continue to review various components of all of its reserves on a regular basis.

LIFE

Executive Overview

Life provides retail and institutional investment products such as variable and fixed annuities,
mutual funds, PPLI, and retirement plan services, individual life insurance and group benefit
products, such as group life and group disability insurance.

Retail offers individual variable and fixed market value adjusted (“MVA”) annuities, retail mutual
funds, 529 college savings plans, Canadian and offshore investment products.

Retirement Plans offers retirement plan products and services to corporations and municipalities
under Section 401(k), 403(b) and 457 plans.

Institutional primarily offers institutional liability products, including stable value products
and institutional annuities (primarily terminal funding cases), as well as variable Private
Placement Life Insurance (“PPLI”) owned by corporations and high net worth individuals. Within
stable value, Institutional has an investor note program that offers both institutional and retail
investor notes. Institutional and Retail notes are sold as funding agreement backed notes through
trusts and may also be issued directly from the Company to investors. Institutional also offers
mutual funds to institutional investors. Furthermore, Institutional offers additional individual
products including structured settlements, consumer notes and single premium immediate annuities
and longevity assurance.

Individual Life sells a variety of life insurance products, including variable universal life,
universal life, interest sensitive whole life and term life.

Group Benefits provides employers, associations, affinity groups and financial institutions with
group life, accident and disability coverage, along with other products and services, including
voluntary benefits, group retiree health, and medical stop loss.

International, which has operations located in Japan, Brazil, Ireland and the United Kingdom,
provides investments, retirement savings and other insurance and savings products to individuals
and groups outside the United States and Canada.

Life charges direct operating expenses to the appropriate segment and allocates the majority of
indirect expenses to the segments based on an intercompany expense arrangement. Intersegment
revenues primarily occur between Life’s Other category and the operating segments. These amounts
primarily include interest income on allocated surplus, interest charges on excess separate account
surplus, the allocation of certain net realized capital gains and losses and the allocation of
credit risk charges.

Life derives its revenues principally from: (a) fee income, including asset management fees, on
separate account and mutual fund assets and mortality and expense fees, as well as cost of
insurance charges; (b) net investment income on general account assets; (c) fully insured premiums;
and (d) certain other fees. Asset management fees and mortality and expense fees are primarily
generated from separate account assets, which are deposited with Life through the sale of variable
annuity and variable universal life products and from mutual funds. Cost of insurance charges are
assessed on the net amount at risk for investment-oriented life insurance products. Premium
revenues are derived primarily from the sale of group life, group disability and individual term
insurance products.

Life’s expenses essentially consist of interest credited to policyholders on general account
liabilities, insurance benefits provided, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs,
expenses related to selling and servicing the various products offered by the Company, dividends to
policyholders, and other general business expenses.

Life’s profitability in its variable annuity, mutual fund and, to a lesser extent, variable
universal life businesses, depends largely on the amount of the contract holder account value or
assets under management on which it earns fees and the level of fees charged. Changes



in account value or assets under management are driven by two main factors: net flows, which
measure the success of the Company’s asset gathering and retention efforts, and the market return
of the funds, which is heavily influenced by the return realized in the equity markets. Net flows
are comprised of new sales and other deposits less surrenders, death benefits, policy charges and
annuitizations of investment type contracts, such as: variable annuity contracts. In the mutual
fund business, net flows are known as net sales. Net sales are comprised of new sales less
redemptions by mutual fund customers. Life uses the average daily value of the S&P 500 Index as an
indicator for evaluating market returns of the underlying account portfolios in the United States.
Relative profitability of variable products is highly correlated to the growth in account values or
assets under management since these products generally earn fee income on a daily basis. An
immediate significant downturn in the financial markets could result in a charge against deferred
acquisition costs. See the Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD&A for further
information on DAC unlocks.

The profitability of Life’s fixed annuities and other “spread-based” products depends largely on
its ability to earn target spreads between earned investment rates on its general account assets
and interest credited to policyholders. Profitability is also influenced by operating expense
management including the benefits of economies of scale in the administration of its United States
variable annuity businesses in particular. In addition, the size and persistency of gross profits
from these businesses is an important driver of earnings as it affects the rate of amortization of
deferred policy acquisition costs.

Life’s profitability in its individual life insurance and group benefits businesses depends largely
on the size of its in force block, the adequacy of product pricing and underwriting discipline,
actual mortality and morbidity experience, and the efficiency of its claims and expense management.

Performance Measures

Fee Income

Fee income is largely driven from amounts collected as a result of contractually defined
percentages of assets under management on investment type contracts. These fees are generally
collected on a daily basis from the contract holder’s account. For individual life insurance
products, fees are contractually defined percentages based on levels of insurance, age, premiums
and deposits collected and contractholder account value. Life insurance fees are generally
collected on a monthly basis. Therefore, the growth in assets under management either through
positive net flows or net sales and favorable equity market performance will have a favorable
impact on fee income. Conversely, negative net flows or net sales and unfavorable equity market
performance will reduce fee income generated from investment type contracts.

As of and for the years ended December 31,

Product/Key Indicator Information




United States Individual Variable Annuities

Account value, beginning of period

$

105,314

$

99,617

$

86,501

Net flows

(3,150

)

(881

)

5,471

Change in market value and other

12,201

6,578

7,645

Account value, end of period

$

114,365

$

105,314

$

99,617

Retail Mutual Funds

Assets under management, beginning of period

$

29,063

$

25,240

$

20,301

Net sales

5,659

1,335

2,505

Change in market value and other

3,814

2,488

2,434

Assets under management, end of period

$

38,536

$

29,063

$

25,240

Retirement Plans

Account value, beginning of period

$

19,317

$

16,493

$

13,571

Net flows

2,545

1,618

1,636

Change in market value and other

1,713

1,206

1,286

Account value, end of period

$

23,575

$

19,317

$

16,493

Individual Life Insurance

Variable universal life account value, end of period

$

6,637

$

5,902

$

5,356

Total life insurance in-force

164,227

150,801

139,889

S&P 500 Index

Year end closing value

1,418

1,248

1,212

Daily average value

1,310

1,208

1,131

Japan Annuities

Account value, beginning of period

$

26,104

$

14,631

$

6,220

Net flows

4,393

10,857

7,249

Change in market value and other



1,162

Account value, end of period

$

31,343

$

26,104

$

14,631



Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to year ended December 31, 2005

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to year ended December 31, 2004

•

The increase in U.S. variable annuity account values can be attributed to market
growth during 2005.

•

Net flows and net deposits for the U.S. variable annuity and retail mutual fund
businesses decreased in particular, as variable annuity net flows and mutual fund net sales
were negatively affected due to lower sales levels and higher surrenders due to increased
competition.

•

Changes in market value were based on market conditions and investment management performance in 2005.

•

Japan annuity account values and net flows grew as a result of strong deposits and significant market growth in 2005.

Net Investment Income and Interest Credited

Certain investment type contracts such as fixed annuities and other spread-based contracts generate
deposits that the Company collects and invests to earn investment income. These investment type
contracts use this investment income to credit the contract holder an amount of interest specified
in the respective contract; therefore, management evaluates performance of these products based on
the spread between net investment income and interest credited. Net investment income and interest
credited can be volatile period over period, which can have a significant positive or negative
effect on the operating results of each segment. The volatile nature of net investment income is
driven primarily by prepayments on securities and earnings on partnership investments. In
addition, insurance type contracts such as those sold by Group Benefits (discussed below) collect
and invest premiums to pay for losses specified in the particular insurance contract and those sold
by Institutional, collect and invest premiums for certain life contingent benefits. For these
insurance products the investment spread is reflected in net investment income and policyholder
benefits. Finally, the return of the funds underlying the Japan variable annuities is reported in
net investment income in Other with an offsetting amount credited to those contractholders in
interest credited. The net investment income and interest credited from the Japan variable
annuities will be volatile due to the volatile performance of the funds and, similar to returns on
U.S. separate account assets, accrues to the benefit of the policyholders, not the Company.

For the years ended December 31,

Net Investment Income




| | |

Retail

$


$


$

1,011

Retirement Plans




Institutional

1,003



Individual Life




Group Benefits




International




Other

1,978

4,021

1,007

Total net investment income

$

5,008

$

6,845

$

3,675

Interest Credited on General Account Assets

Retail

$


$


$


Retirement Plans




Institutional




Individual Life




International



(1

)

Other

1,925

4,135


Total interest credited on general account assets

$

3,553

$

5,671

$

2,481



Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to year ended December 31, 2005

•

Net investment income and
interest credited on general account
assets in Retail declined due to a
decline in general account assets as a
result of surrenders on market value
adjusted (“MVA”) fixed annuity
products at the end of the guarantee
period. Also contributing to the
decline in general account assets were
transfers within variable annuity
products from the general account to
separate account funds.

•

Net investment income and
interest credited on general account
assets in Institutional increased
primarily due to an increase in
general account assets as a result of
sales in the Company’s funding
agreement backed Investor Notes
program.

•

Net investment income and
interest credited in Other decreased
due to a decrease in the
mark-to-market effects of trading
account securities supporting the
Japanese variable annuity business.

•

In addition to interest credited
on general account assets,
Institutional also had other contract
benefits for limited payment contracts
of $345 and $212 for the years ended December
31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These amounts need to be
deducted from net investment income to
understand the net interest spread on
these businesses because these
contracts are accounted for as
traditional insurance products.

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to year ended December 31, 2004

•

Net investment income and
interest credited in Other increased
due to $3.8 billion increase in the
mark-to-market effects of trading
account securities supporting the
Japanese variable annuity business.

•

Net investment income and
interest credited on general account
assets in Retail declined due to lower
assets under management from
surrenders on market value adjusted
(“MVA”) fixed annuity products at the
end of their guarantee period.

•

Net investment income and
interest credited on general account
assets in Institutional increased as a
result of the Company’s funding
agreement backed Investor Notes
program, partially offset by
surrenders in the PPLI business.

•

In addition to interest credited
on general account assets,
Institutional also had other contract
benefits for limited payment contracts
of $292 and  $279 for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. These amounts need to
be deducted from net investment income to
understand the net interest spread on
these businesses because these
contracts are accounted for as
traditional insurance products.

Premiums

As discussed above, traditional insurance type products, such as those sold by Group Benefits,
collect premiums from policyholders in exchange for financial protection for the policy holder from
a specified insurable loss, such as death or disability. These premiums together with net
investment income earned from the overall investment strategy are used to pay the contractual
obligations under these insurance contracts. Two major factors, new sales and persistency, impact
premium growth. Sales can increase or decrease in a given year based on a number of factors,
including but not limited to, customer demand for the Company’s product offerings, pricing
competition, distribution channels and the Company’s reputation and ratings. A majority of sales
correspond with the open enrollment periods of employers’ benefits, typically January 1 or July 1.
Persistency is the percentage of insurance policies remaining in force from year to year as
measured by premiums.

For the years ended December 31,

Group Benefits




| | |

Total premiums and other considerations

$

4,150

$

3,810

$

3,652

Fully insured ongoing sales (excluding buyouts)




Persistency [1]


%


%


%

[1]

The persistency rate represents group life and disability
business sold to employer groups, which accounts for, on
average, 72% to 75% of in-force premiums.

•

Earned premiums and other considerations include $12,
$27 and $4 in buyout premiums for the years ended December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004 respectively. The increase in premiums
and other considerations for Group Benefits in 2006 compared
to 2005 was driven by sales growth of 11%. The increase in
premiums and other considerations for Group Benefits in 2005
compared to 2004 was driven by sales growth of 23%.

Expenses

There are three major categories for expenses. The first major category of expenses is benefits
and losses. These include the costs of mortality and morbidity, particularly in the group benefits
business, and mortality in the individual life businesses, as well as other contractholder benefits
to policyholders. In addition, traditional insurance type products generally use a loss ratio
which is expressed as the amount of benefits incurred during a particular period divided by total
premiums and other considerations, as a key indicator of underwriting performance. Since Group
Benefits occasionally buys a block of claims for a stated premium amount, the Company excludes this
buyout from the loss ratio used for evaluating the underwriting results of the business as buyouts
may distort the loss ratio.

The second major category is insurance operating costs and expenses, which is commonly expressed in
a ratio of a revenue measure depending on the type of business. The third category is the
amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and the present value of



future profits, which is typically expressed as a percentage of pre-tax income before the cost of
this amortization. The individual annuity business within Retail accounts for the majority of the
amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and present value of future profits for Life.

For the years ended December 31,

Retail




General insurance expense ratio (individual annuity)

17.2

bps

17.9

bps

18.3

bps

DAC amortization ratio (individual annuity)

58.1

%

49.6

%

50.9

%

Insurance expenses, net of deferrals

$


$


$


Individual Life

Death benefits

$


$


$


Insurance expenses, net of deferrals

$


$


$


Group Benefits

Total benefits and losses

$

3,002

$

2,794

$

2,703

Loss ratio (excluding buyout premiums)

72.3

%

73.1

%

74.0

%

Insurance expenses, net of deferrals

$

1,102

$

1,022

$


Expense ratio (excluding buyout premiums)

27.6

%

27.8

%

27.7

%

International — Japan

General insurance expense ratio

49.1

bps

68.6

bps

92.1

bps

DAC amortization ratio

29.0

%

41.4

%

56.6

%

Insurance expenses, net of deferrals

$


$


$


Profitability

Management evaluates the rates of return various businesses can provide as an input in determining
where additional capital should be invested to increase net income and shareholder returns.
Specifically, because of the importance of its individual annuity products, the Company uses the
return on assets for the individual annuity business for evaluating profitability. In Group
Benefits, after tax margin is a key indicator of overall profitability.

Ratios




Retail

Individual annuity return on assets (“ROA”)

47.6 bps

54.6 bps

44.8 bps

Group Benefits

After-tax margin (excluding buyouts)

7.3

%

7.2

%

6.3

%

International — Japan

International return on assets (“ROA”)

93.0 bps

59.2 bps

34.5 bps

•

Individual annuity’s ROA decreased primarily due to the DAC unlock in 2006.
Excluding the DAC unlock, ROA was 53.6 bps in 2006. Contributing to the decline was an
increase in trail commissions. Individual annuity’s ROA increased for 2005, compared to the
prior year. In particular, variable annuity fees and fixed annuity general account spreads
each increased for 2005 compared to the prior year. The increase in the ROA can be attributed
to the increase in account values and resulting increased fees including GMWB rider fees
without a corresponding increase in expenses, while the increase in fixed annuity general
account spread resulted



from fixed annuity contracts that were repriced upon the contract reaching
maturity. Also, contributing to a higher ROA in 2005 is an increase in the
separate account dividends received deduction (“DRD”) tax benefit compared to
2004.

•

The improvement in the Group Benefits after-tax
margin for 2006 was primarily due to an improvement
in the loss and expense ratios partially offset by a
lower net investment income rate and higher income
tax expense. The improvement in the Group Benefits
after tax margin for 2005 as compared to 2004 was
primarily due to the favorable loss ratios and higher
net investment income.

•

International’s ROA increased significantly in
2006 primarily due to the DAC unlock and the
leveraging of its existing infrastructure through
disciplined expense management. Excluding the DAC
unlock, ROA was 74 bps in 2006.

Life Operating Summary




Earned premiums

$

4,590

$

4,203

$

4,072

Fee income

4,726

4,000

3,464

Net investment income

Securities available-for-sale and other

3,184

2,998

2,876

Equity securities held for trading [1]

1,824

3,847


Total net investment income

5,008

6,845

3,675

Other revenues

—

—

—

Net realized capital gains (losses)

(260

)

(25

)


Total revenues

14,064

15,023

11,375

Benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses [1]

8,040

9,809

6,630

Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and present value of future profits

1,452

1,172


Insurance operating costs and other expenses

2,708

2,522

2,145

Total benefits, losses and expenses

12,200

13,503

9,768

Income before income taxes and cumulative effect
of accounting change

1,864

1,520

1,607

Income tax expense




Income before cumulative effect of accounting change

1,441

1,204

1,405

Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax [2]

—

—

(23

)

Net income

$

1,441

$

1,204

$

1,382

[1]

Includes investment income and mark-to-market effects of equity securities held for trading
supporting the international variable annuity business, which are classified in net investment
income with corresponding amounts credited to policyholders within benefits, losses and loss
adjustment expenses.

[2]

For the year ended December 31, 2004, represents the cumulative impact of the
Company’s adoption of SOP 03-1.

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

The change in Life’s net income was due to the following:



Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

The change in Life’s net income was due to the following:

•

Life recorded an after-tax charge
of $102 in 2005 to establish reserves
for regulatory matters for
investigations related to market timing
by the SEC and New York Attorney
General’s Office, directed brokerage by
the SEC, and single premium group
annuities by the New York Attorney
General’s Office and the Connecticut
Attorney General’s Office.

•

Life recorded an after-tax expense
of $46 in 2005, which related to the
termination of a provision of an
agreement with a mutual fund
distribution partner.

•

The effective tax rate was 21% for
Life operations for the current year as
compared to an effective tax rate of
13% for Life operations for the
respective prior year period. The 2005
higher effective tax rate was
attributed to the absence of the 2004
tax benefit of $190 offset by an
increase in the DRD tax benefit of $50.

Partially offsetting the decreases to earnings discussed above was:

•

Net income increased due to growth
in assets under management resulting
from sales as well as higher premium
and favorable loss ratios in Group
Benefits.

•

Net investment income increased
for all Life segments during 2005,
driven by a higher asset base and
increased partnership income, as
compared to the prior year.

Income Taxes

The effective tax rate for 2006, 2005 and 2004 was 23%, 21% and 13%, respectively. The principal
causes of the difference between the effective rate and the U.S. statutory rate of 35% for 2006 and
2005 were tax-exempt interest earned on invested assets and the separate account dividends received
deduction (“DRD”). For 2004, the principal causes were tax exempt interest earned on invested
assets, the separate account DRD and the tax benefit associated with the settlement of the
1998-2001 IRS audit. For additional information, see Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

The separate account DRD is estimated for the current year using information from the prior
year-end, adjusted for current year equity market performance. The estimated DRD is generally
updated in the third quarter for the provision-to-filed-return adjustments, and in the fourth
quarter based on current year ultimate mutual fund distributions and fee income from the Company’s
variable insurance products. The actual current year DRD can vary from the estimates based on, but
not limited to, changes in eligible dividends received by the mutual funds, amounts of
distributions from these mutual funds, the utilization of capital loss carry forwards at the mutual
fund level and appropriate levels of taxable income.

The Company receives a foreign tax credit (“FTC”) against its U.S. tax liability for foreign taxes
paid by the Company including payments from its separate account assets. The separate account FTC
is estimated for the current year using information from the most recent filed return, adjusted for
the change in the allocation of separate account investments to the international equity markets
during the current year. The actual current year FTC can vary from the estimates due to the actual
FTC’s passed through by the mutual funds.



A description of each segment as well as an analysis of the operating results summarized above is
included on the following pages.

RETAIL

Operating Summary




Fee income and other

$

2,697

$

2,325

$

2,019

Earned premiums

(86

)

(52

)


Net investment income



1,011

Net realized capital gains



—

Total revenues

3,457

3,215

3,035

Benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses



1,074

Insurance operating costs and other expenses




Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs

and present value of future profits




Total benefits, losses and expenses

2,744

2,508

2,408

Income before income taxes and cumulative effect
of accounting change




Income tax expense




Income before cumulative effect of accounting change




Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax [1]

—

—

(19

)

Net income

$


$


$


Assets Under Management




Individual variable annuity account values

$

114,365

$

105,314

$

99,617

Individual fixed annuity and other account values

9,937

10,222

11,384

Other retail products account values




Total account values [2]

124,827

115,872

111,183

Retail mutual fund assets under management

38,536

29,063

25,240

Other mutual fund assets under management

1,489

1,004


Total mutual fund assets under management

40,025

30,067

25,881

Total assets under management

$

164,852

$

145,939

$

137,064

[1] Represents the cumulative impact of the Company’s adoption of SOP 03-1.

[2] Includes policyholders’ balances for investment contracts and reserve for future policy
benefits for insurance contracts.

Retail focuses on the savings and retirement needs of the growing number of individuals who
are preparing for retirement, or have already retired, through the sale of individual variable and
fixed annuities, mutual funds and other investment products. Life is both a leading writer of
individual variable annuities and a top seller of individual variable annuities through banks in
the United States.

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Net income in the Retail segment for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased primarily due to
improved fee income partially offset by higher amortization of DAC resulting from the DAC unlock
during the fourth quarter of 2006. Higher fee income was driven by higher assets under management
resulting primarily from market growth. A more expanded discussion of earnings can be found below:

•

The increase in fee income in the variable annuity business for the year ended December 31, 2006 was mainly a result of
growth in average account values. The year-over-year increase in average account values of 7% or $7.4 billion can be
attributed to market appreciation of $12.2 billion during 2006. Variable annuities had net outflows of $3.2 billion
for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to net outflows of $881 for the year ended December 31, 2005. Net
outflows from additional surrender activity were due to increased deposits competition, particularly from competitors
offering variable annuity products with guaranteed living benefits.

•

Mutual fund fee income increased 26% for the year ended December 31, 2006 due to increased assets under management
driven by market appreciation of $3.9 billion and net deposits of $5.7 billion during the year. This increase was
primarily attributable to focused wholesaling efforts.

•

Despite stable general account investment spread during the year, net investment income has steadily declined for the
year ended December 31, 2006 due to variable annuity transfers from the fixed account to the separate account combined
with surrenders in the fixed MVA contracts. Despite these outflows, a more favorable interest rate environment during
2006 has resulted in increased deposits and a lower surrender rate due to fewer contracts up for renewal for the year
ended December 31, 2006 resulting in a decrease in net outflows of $1.3 billion compared to the prior year.



•

Benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses have decreased for the year ended December 31, 2006 due to a decline in
interest credited as a result of fixed annuity outflows which decreased fixed annuity account values.

•

Insurance operating costs and other expenses increased for the year ended December 31, 2006 primarily due to an
increase in mutual fund commissions due to significant growth in deposits. In addition, variable annuity asset based
commissions increased due to 9% growth in assets under management, as well as an increase in the number of contracts
reaching anniversaries when trail commission payments begin. During 2005, the Company recorded an after-tax expense of
$46, for the termination of a provision of an agreement with a distribution partner of the Company’s retail mutual
funds.

•

Higher amortization of DAC resulted from the DAC unlock during the fourth quarter of 2006. The earnings impact of the
DAC unlock was an increase to amortization of $72 after-tax. (For further discussion, see DAC Unlock Analysis in the
Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD&A).

•

The effective tax rate remained steady for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the prior year.

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Net income in Retail increased for the year ended December 31, 2005 primarily due to improved fee
income driven by higher assets under management. Assets under management increased primarily as a
result of market growth. A more expanded discussion of earnings growth can be found below:

Partially offsetting these positive earnings drivers were the following items:

•

Throughout Retail, insurance operating costs and other expenses increased for the year
ended December 31, 2005 compared to the prior year. General insurance expenses
increased due to increased costs related to technology services as
well as sales and
marketing. In addition, the Company recorded an after-tax expense of $46, for the
termination of a provision of an agreement with a mutual fund distribution partner.

•

There was higher amortization of DAC, which resulted from higher gross profits due to
the positive earnings drivers as discussed above.

Outlook

Management believes the market for retirement products continues to expand as individuals
increasingly save and plan for retirement. Demographic trends suggest that as the “baby boom”
generation matures, a significant portion of the United States population will allocate a greater
percentage of their disposable incomes to saving for their retirement years due to uncertainty
surrounding the Social Security system and increases in average life expectancy. Competition has
increased substantially in the variable annuities market with most major variable annuity writers
now offering living benefits such as GMWB riders. The Company’s strategy in 2007 revolves around
introducing new products and continually evaluating the portfolio of products currently offered.
As a result, deposits may be lower than the level of deposits attained in 2006 due to the
increasingly competitive environment, the risk of disruption on new deposits from product offering
changes, customer acceptance of new products and the effect on the distribution related to product
offering changes.

Individual annuity deposits of $13.1 billion in 2006 increased 14% compared to prior year levels of
$11.5 billion. Significantly contributing to the Company’s variable annuity deposits since August
of 2002 are GMWB riders. The highly competitive environment in this market and the success of
these riders and new product development will ultimately be based on customer acceptance. Future



deposits and revenues will be largely dependent on the Company’s ability to attract new customers
and to retain contract holder’s account values in existing or new product offerings as they reach
the end of the surrender charge period of their contracts.

The growth and profitability of the individual annuity and mutual fund businesses is dependent to a
large degree on the performance of the equity markets. In periods of favorable equity market
performance, Life may experience stronger deposits and higher net flows, which will increase assets
under management and thus increase fee income earned on those assets. In addition, higher equity
market levels will generally reduce certain costs to Life of individual annuities, such as
guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”) and GMWB benefits. Conversely, weak equity markets may
dampen deposits activity and increase surrender activity causing declines in assets under
management and lower fee income. Such declines in the equity markets will also increase the cost
to Retail of GMDB and GMWB benefits associated with individual annuities. Life attempts to
mitigate some of the volatility associated with the GMDB and GMWB benefits using reinsurance or
other risk management strategies, such as hedging. Future net income for Life will be affected by
the effectiveness of the risk management strategies Life has implemented to mitigate the net income
volatility associated with the GMDB and GMWB benefits of variable annuity contracts. For
spread-based products sold in the Life segment, the future growth will depend on the ability to
earn targeted returns on new business given competition, retention of account values in the fixed
annuity business when the contract holder’s rate guarantee expires and the future interest rate
environment.

Management’s current full year projections for 2007 are as follows:

RETIREMENT PLANS

Operating Summary




| | |

Fee income and other

$


$


$


Earned premiums




Net investment income




Net realized capital gains (losses)


(3

)

(3

)

Total revenues




Benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses




Insurance operating costs and other expenses




Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs




Total benefits, losses and expenses




Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of account change




Income tax expense




Income before cumulative effect of accounting change




Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax [1]

—

—

(1

)

Net income

$


$


$


Assets Under Management




Governmental account values

$

11,540

$

10,475

$

9,962

401(k) account values

12,035

8,842

6,531

Total account values [2]

23,575

19,317

16,493

Government mutual fund assets under management [3]

—



401(k) mutual fund assets under management

1,140



Total mutual fund assets under management

1,140

1,110

1,511

Total assets under management

$

24,715

$

20,427

$

18,004

[1]

Represents the cumulative impact of the Company’s adoption of SOP 03-1.

[2]

Includes policyholder balances for investment contracts and reserves for future policy benefits for insurance contracts.

[3]

Government Mutual Fund assets declined to zero due to a large case surrender in 2005 and the remaining business being
transferred to the Institutional segment.



The Retirement Plans segment primarily offers customized wealth creation and financial
protection for corporate and government employers through its two business units, Government and
401(k).

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Net income in the Retirement segment for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased primarily due
to improved fee income combined with lower amortization of DAC resulting from the DAC unlock during
the fourth quarter of 2006. Higher fee income was driven by higher assets under management
resulting primarily from net flows and market growth. A more expanded discussion of earnings can
be found below:

•

Fee income for 401(k) increased 34%, or $37 for the year ended
December 31, 2006 compared to the prior year due to the growth in
average account values. This growth is primarily driven by
positive net flows of $2.0 billion during the year resulting from
strong deposits. Total 401(k) deposits and net flows increased by
22% and 16%, respectively, over the prior year. The increase in
average account values can also be attributed to market
appreciation of $1.1 billion during the year.

•

General account spread remained stable for the year ended December
31, 2006 compared to the prior year. Overall, net investment
income and the associated interest credited within benefits,
losses and loss adjustment expenses each increased as a result of
the growth in general account assets under management.
Additionally, benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses
increased for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the
prior year due to a large case annuitization in the 401(k)
business which also resulted in a corresponding increase in earned
premiums of $12.

•

Insurance operating costs and other expenses increased for the
year ended December 31, 2006 primarily driven by the 401(k)
business. The additional costs can be attributed to greater
assets under management resulting in higher trail commissions and
maintenance expenses.

•

Lower amortization of DAC resulted from a $20 benefit due to the
unlocking of Retirement Plans DAC assumptions during the fourth
quarter of 2006 in both the 401(k) and Government businesses of
$25 and ($5) after-tax, respectively. (For further discussion,
see DAC Unlock and Sensitivity Analysis in this section of the
MD&A).

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Net income in the Retirement Plans segment increased for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared
to the prior year end primarily due to higher earnings in the 401(k) business while net income for
the Government business was relatively stable as positive market appreciation was largely offset by
negative net flows resulting in little growth in assets under management. A more expanded
discussion of earnings growth can be found below.

•

Fee income for 401(k) increased 39% or $30 for year ended December 31, 2005 compared to
the prior year. This increase is a result of positive net flows from the 401(k) business
of $1.8 billion over the prior year driven by strong deposits and increasing ongoing
deposits contributing to the growth in 401(k) assets under management of 34% to $9.7
billion. Total 401(k) deposits and net flows increased substantially by 32% and 26%,
respectively, over the prior year primarily due to the full year impact of 2004’s
expansion of wholesaling capabilities and new product offerings.

•

The DAC amortization rate decreased in 2005 compared to 2004 as a result of higher profits.

Partially offsetting these positive earnings drivers were the following items:

•

General account spread decreased for both 401(k) and Governmental businesses for December
31, 2005 compared to prior year. The decrease is attributable to a decrease in the net
investment income earned rate for both businesses. Average general account assets for
the Retirement segment increased approximately 7% in 2005 compared to 2004, while net
investment income increased only 2%. Benefits and claims expense, which mainly consists
of interest credited, increased 5% for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to prior
year.

•

An increase in insurance operating costs and other expenses of $19 for the year ended
December 31, 2005 was principally driven by the 401(k) business. The additional costs can
be attributed to greater deposits and assets under management, resulting in a 20% increase
in commissions, technology expenditures, and marketing and servicing costs supporting the
segment’s business. However, the increase in 401(k) deposits has driven down the overall
general insurance expense per case by over 4% compared to prior year.

Outlook

The future profitability of this segment will depend on Life’s ability to increase assets under
management across all businesses and maintain its investment spread earnings on the general account
products sold largely in the Government business. As the “baby boom” generation approaches
retirement, management believes these individuals will contribute more of their income to
retirement plans due to the uncertainty of the Social Security system and the increase in average
life expectancy. In 2007, Life will begin selling mutual fund based products in the 401(k) market
that will increase Life’s ability to grow assets under management in the medium size 401(k) market.
Life will also be selling mutual fund based products in the 403(b) market as they look to grow
assets in a highly competitive environment. Disciplined expense management will continue to be a
focus; however, as Life looks to expand its reach in these markets, additional investments in
service and technology will occur.



Management’s current full year projections for 2007 are as follows:

•

Deposits of $5.5 billion to $6.5 billion

•

Net flows of $2.0 billion to $3.0 billion

•

Return on assets of 36 to 38 basis points

INSTITUTIONAL

Operating Summary




Fee income and other

$


$


$


Earned premiums




Net investment income

1,003



Net realized capital gains (losses)

(5

)

(5

)


Total revenues

1,729

1,420

1,291

Benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses

1,484

1,212

1,116

Insurance operating costs and expenses




Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and
present value of future profits




Total benefits, losses and expenses

1,594

1,300

1,197

Income before income taxes




Income tax expense




Net income

$


$


$


Assets Under Management




Institutional account values [1]

$

22,214

$

17,917

$

14,599

Private Placement Life Insurance account values

26,131

23,836

22,498

Mutual fund assets under management [2]

2,567

1,528


Total assets under management

$

50,912

$

43,281

$

37,773

[1]

Institutional investment product account values include transfers from  Retirement
Plans and Retail of $763 during 2006.

[2]

Mutual fund assets under management include transfers from the Retirement Plan segment of
$178 during 2006.

Institutional primarily offers customized wealth creation and financial protection for
institutions, corporate and high net worth individuals through its two business units:
Institutional Investment Products (“IIP”) and PPLI.

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Net income in Institutional increased for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the prior
year driven by higher earnings in both the IIP and PPLI businesses. A more expanded discussion of
earnings can be found below:

•

Higher net investment income increased in Institutional driven by positive net flows of
$2.2 billion during the year, which resulted in higher assets under management. Net
flows for IIP were strong primarily as a result of the Company’s funding agreement
backed Investor Notes program. Investor Note deposits for the years ended December 31,
2006 and 2005 were $2.3 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively.

•

General account spread is one of the main drivers of net income for the Institutional
line of business. The increase in spread income in 2006 was driven by higher assets
under management as noted above, combined with improved partnership income. For the
year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, income from partnership investments were $15 and
$6 after-tax, respectively.

•

For the year ended December 31, 2006, earned premiums increased as a result of two large
terminal funding cases that were sold during the period. This increase in earned
premiums was offset by a corresponding increase in benefits, losses and loss adjustment
expenses.

•

PPLI’s net income increased compared to prior year primarily due to asset growth in the
variable business combined with increased tax benefits.

Partially offsetting these positive earnings drivers was the following item:

•

IIP operating expenses increased in the year ended December 31, 2006 due to higher
costs related to the launch of new retirement products targeting the “baby boom”
generation in 2006.

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Net income in Institutional increased for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the prior
year driven by higher earnings in both the IIP and PPLI businesses. A more expanded discussion of
earnings can be found below:



•

Total revenues increased in Institutional driven by positive net
flows of $2.4 billion during 2005, which resulted in higher assets
under management. Net flows for Institutional increased for the
year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the prior year, primarily
as a result of the Company’s funding agreement backed Investor
Notes program, which was launched in the third quarter of 2004.
Investor Note deposits for the years ended December 31, 2005 and
2004 were $2.0 billion and $643, respectively.

•

General account spread is one of the main drivers of net income
for the Institutional line of business. An increase in spread
income in 2005 was driven by higher assets under management noted
above, combined with improved partnership income and mortality
gains related to terminal funding and structured settlement
contracts that include life contingencies. For the year ended
December
31, 2005 and 2004, gains related to mortality, investments or other activity were $10 and $3 after-tax, respectively. During 2005,
the Company invested in more variable rate assets to back the increasing block of variable rate liabilities sold under the stable
value product line. This asset/liability matching strategy decreased portfolio yields, as variable rate assets had lower initial
coupon yields then fixed rate assets. At the same time, the stable value variable rate liabilities have lower crediting rates in
2005 than stable value fixed rate liabilities, which allowed the Company to maintain-to-slightly-increase its general account spread
on a yield basis.

•

PPLI’s net income increased $3 or 17% compared to prior year primarily due to asset
growth in the variable business combined with favorable mortality experience.

Partially offsetting these positive earnings drivers was the following item:

•

PPLI’s cost of insurance charges has decreased due to reductions in the face amount of
certain cases. These face reductions have also resulted in lower death benefits. This
impact combined with favorable mortality, which increases the provision for future
experience rate credits has led to the year over year decrease in fee income and other.

Outlook

The future net income of this segment will depend on Institutional’s ability to increase assets
under management across all businesses and maintain its investment spread earnings on the products
sold largely in the IIP business. The IIP markets are highly competitive from a pricing
perspective, and a small number of cases often account for a significant portion of deposits,
therefore the Company may not be able to sustain the level of assets under management growth
attained in 2006. In 2004, IIP introduced the Hartford Income Notes which is a product that
provides the Company with opportunity for future growth. This product provides access to both a
multi-billion dollar retail market, and a nearly trillion dollar institutional market. These
markets are highly competitive and the Company’s success depends in part on the level of credited
interest rates and the Company’s credit rating.

As the “baby boom” generation approaches retirement, management believes these individuals will
seek investment and insurance vehicles that will give them steady streams of income throughout
retirement. IIP has launched new products in 2006 to provide solutions that deal specifically with
longevity risk, and will continue to introduce products in 2007. Longevity risk is defined as the
likelihood of an individual outliving their assets. IIP is also designing innovative solutions to
corporations’ defined benefit liabilities. The focus of the PPLI business is variable PPLI
products to fund non-qualified benefits or other post employment benefit liabilities. The market
served by PPLI is subject to extensive legal and regulatory review that could have an adverse
effect on its business.

Management’s current full year projections for 2007 are as follows:

•

Deposits (includes mutual funds)

$5.0 billion — $6.0 billion

•

Net flows (excludes mutual funds)

$2.0 billion — $3.0 billion

•

Return on assets (includes mutual funds)

18 to 20 basis points



INDIVIDUAL LIFE

Operating Summary




Fee income and other

$


$


$


Earned premiums

(53

)

(33

)

(21

)

Net investment income




Net realized capital gains




Total revenues

1,159

1,079

1,056

Benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses




Insurance operating costs and other expenses




Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and
present value of future profits




Total benefits, losses and expenses




Income
before income taxes and

cumulative effect of accounting
change




Income tax expense




Income before cumulative effect of accounting change




Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax [1]

—

—

(1

)

Net income

$


$


$


Account Values




Variable universal life insurance

$

6,637

$

5,902

$

5,356

Universal life/interest sensitive whole life

4,035

3,696

3,402

Modified guaranteed life and other




Total account values

$

11,371

$

10,314

$

9,487

Life Insurance Inforce

Variable universal life insurance

$

73,770

$

71,365

$

69,089

Universal life/interest sensitive whole life

45,230

41,714

39,109

Modified guaranteed life and other

45,227

37,722

31,691

Total life insurance inforce

$

164,227

$

150,801

$

139,889

[1]

Represents the cumulative impact of the Company’s adoption of SOP 03-1.

Individual Life provides life insurance strategies to a wide array of business intermediaries
to solve the wealth protection, accumulation and transfer needs of their affluent, emerging
affluent and small business insurance clients.

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Net Income in Individual Life for 2006, includes an unfavorable $18 after tax impact related to the
DAC unlock in the fourth quarter of 2006, partially offset by $7,
after-tax, favorable revisions to prior
year net DAC estimates reflected in the first half of 2006. Excluding these net impacts of $11,
net income increased $15 or 9% for 2006 primarily due to growth in life insurance and account
values, and favorable mortality experience in 2006 compared to 2005. The following factors
contributed to the earnings results:

•

Cost of insurance charges, the largest component of fee income, increased $30 for the year ended December 31, 2006,
driven by growth in the variable universal and universal life insurance inforce. Variable fee income increased,
consistent with the growth in the variable universal life insurance account value. Other fee income, another component
of total fee income, increased primarily due to additional amortization of deferred revenues of $48 associated with the
DAC unlock.

•

Earned premiums, which include premiums for ceded reinsurance, decreased primarily due to increased ceded reinsurance
premiums for the year ended December 31, 2006.

•

Net investment income increased primarily due to increased general account assets from sales growth.

•

Benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses increased for 2006 consistent with the growth in account values and life
insurance inforce, and also reflect favorable mortality experience in
2006 compared to 2005.

•

Insurance operating costs and other expenses increased for the year ended December 31, 2006 consistent with the growth
of life insurance inforce.

•

Amortization of DAC for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased $76 related to the DAC unlock, partially offset by
revisions to prior year  estimates. Excluding the impacts of the DAC unlock and revisions, the amortization of
DAC decreased for the year ended December 31, 2006, consistent with the mix of products and the level and mix of
product profitability.



Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Net income increased for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004, primarily due to
increases in both life insurance inforce and account values. The following factors contributed to
the earnings results:

•

Fee income increased $35 for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. Cost of
insurance charges, a component of total fee income, increased $22 in 2005, driven by business
growth and aging of the prior year block of variable universal, universal, and
interest-sensitive whole life insurance inforce. Other fee income, another component of total
fee income, increased $7 in 2005 primarily due to growth and improved product performance primarily in interest-sensitive whole life and variable
universal life insurance products. Variable fee income grew $6 in 2005, as equity market performance and premiums in excess of
withdrawals added to the variable universal life account value.

•

Net investment income increased moderately for the year ended December 31, 2005
compared to 2004 due to increased general account assets from business growth,
partially offset by lower interest rates on new investments and reduced prepayments on
bonds in 2005.

•

Benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses decreased for the year ended December 31,
2005 compared to 2004 consistent with growth in account values and life insurance
inforce.

•

Income tax expense and the resulting tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2005 was
impacted by a DRD tax benefit of $7, whereas income tax expense for the year ended
December 31, 2004 included a DRD tax benefit of $5.

Partially offsetting these positive earnings drivers were the following items:

•

Amortization of DAC increased for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 2004
primarily as a result of product mix and higher gross margins within variable universal
and interest-sensitive whole life insurance products.

•

Insurance operating costs and other expenses increased for the year ended December 31,
2005 compared to 2004 as a result of business growth.

Outlook

Individual Life sales were $284 in 2006, an increase of $34 or 14% over sales of $250 in 2005.
Sales results in 2006 were strong across major distribution channels
and product lines. Individual
Life continues to focus on its core distribution model of sales through financial advisors, while
also pursuing growth opportunities through other distribution sources such as independent life
professionals. The variable universal life mix remains strong at 40% of total sales in 2006.
Overall, product sales were enhanced by new product launches in each quarter in 2006. In the first
quarter of 2006, Individual Life introduced a new variable life product that blends the benefits of
universal life insurance and variable annuities and in the second quarter launched Hartford Term,
which has additional term insurance durations and new competitive features. In late June 2006,
Individual Life launched a flexible premium last survivor variable universal life product. In
early October 2006, Individual Life introduced a new product rider to its existing Stag Whole Life
product for the employer market.

Variable universal life sales and account values remain sensitive to equity market levels and
returns. Individual Life continues to face uncertainty surrounding estate tax legislation,
 a high level of competition from other life insurance providers, reduced availability and higher price
of reinsurance, and the current regulatory environment related to reserving for universal life
products with no-lapse guarantees, which may negatively affect Individual Life’s future earnings.

Management’s full year 2007 projections are as follows:

•

Sales of $305 to $315

•

Life insurance inforce increase of 8% to 10%

•

After tax margin on total revenues of 15% to 16%



GROUP BENEFITS

Operating Summary




Earned premiums and other

$

4,150

$

3,810

$

3,652

Net investment income




Net realized capital gains (losses)

(6

)



Total revenues

4,559

4,209

4,027

Benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses

3,002

2,794

2,703

Insurance operating costs and other expenses

1,102

1,022


Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs




Total benefits, losses and expenses

4,145

3,847

3,715

Income before income taxes




Income tax expense




Net income

$


$


$


Earned Premiums and Other




Fully insured — ongoing premiums

$

4,100

$

3,747

$

3,611

Buyout premiums




Other




Total earned premiums and other

$

4,150

$

3,810

$

3,652

The Group Benefits segment provides employers, associations, affinity groups and financial
institutions with group life, accident and disability coverage, along with other products and
services, including voluntary benefits, group retiree health, and medical stop loss. The Company
also offers disability underwriting, administration, claims processing services and reinsurance to
other insurers and self-funded employer plans.

Group Benefits has a block of financial institution business that is experience rated. This
business comprised approximately 10%, 9% and 9% of the segment’s 2006, 2005 and 2004 premiums and
other considerations (excluding buyouts) respectively, and, on average, 4% to 5% of the segment’s
2006, 2005 and 2004 net income.

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Net income increased for the year ended December 31, 2006, primarily due to higher earned premiums
and a lower expense ratio excluding the financial institution business. The results for the year
ended December 31, 2006 included a net benefit of $11 resulting from the completion of life reserve
studies during the fourth quarter. The results for the year ended December 31, 2005 included a
non-recurring tax benefit of $9 related to the CNA Acquisition. The following factors contributed
to the earnings increase:

•

Earned premiums increased driven by year-to-date sales (excluding
buyouts) growth of 11%, particularly in group life insurance.

•

The loss ratio (defined as benefits, losses and loss adjustment
expenses as a percentage of premiums and other considerations
excluding buyouts) was 72.3% for the year ended December 31, 2006,
down from 73.1% in the prior year period. For the year ended
December 31, 2006, the loss ratio excluding financial institutions
was 77.2% as compared to 77.3% in the prior year period.

•

The expense ratio was 27.6% for the year ended December 31, 2006
as compared to 27.8% in the prior year period. Excluding
financial institutions, the expense ratio for the year ended
December 31, 2006 was 22.9%, down from 24.0% in the prior year
period. The decline in expense ratio excluding financial
institutions for the year ended December 31, 2006 was due to
growth in premiums outpacing growth in expenses.

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Net income of $272 included a non-recurring tax benefit of $9 related to the CNA Acquisition.
Excluding this tax benefit, net income increased 15% to $263 for the year ended December 31, 2005
as compared to $229 for the prior year due primarily to higher earned premiums and net investment
income as well as a favorable loss ratio. The following factors contributed to the earnings
increase:

•

Earned premiums, excluding buyouts, increased 4% driven by sales growth of 23%, particularly in disability, for the year
ended December 31, 2005 and continued strong persistency during 2005.

•

Net investment income increased due to higher average asset balances as well as slightly higher average investment yields.

•

The segment’s loss ratio (defined as benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses as a percentage of premiums and other
considerations excluding buyouts) was 73.1% for the year ended December 31, 2005, down from 74.0% in the prior year due to
improved morbidity experience as well as favorable mortality experience. Excluding financial institutions, the loss ratio was
77.3%, down from 78.7% in the prior year.



Partially offsetting the positive earnings drivers noted above was the following item:

•

Operating costs were higher for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the prior year primarily due to higher
operating expenses related to business growth.

Outlook

The increased scale of the group life and disability operations and the expanded distribution
network for its products and services has generated strong premium and sales growth in 2006. Fully
insured ongoing premiums for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $4.1 billion, a 9% increase over
the prior year. Sales for the year ended December 31, 2006 were $861 (excluding buyout premiums
and premium equivalents) representing an increase of 11% over the prior year. Management is
committed to selling competitively priced products that meet the Company’s internal rate of return
guidelines and sales may be negatively affected by the competitive pricing environment in the
marketplace. Although sales may fluctuate from year to year, the Company has experienced
consistent premium growth over the past few years which results from the combination of sales,
renewal pricing and persistency.

Despite the current market conditions, including rising medical costs, the changing regulatory
environment and cost containment pressure on employers, the Company continues to leverage its
strength in claim practices risk management, service and distribution, enabling the Company to
capitalize on market opportunities. Additionally, employees continue to look to the workplace for
a broader and ever expanding array of insurance products. As employers design benefit strategies
to attract and retain employees, while attempting to control their benefit costs, management
believes that the need for the Company’s products will continue to expand. This combined with the
significant number of employees who currently do not have coverage or adequate levels of coverage,
creates opportunities for our products and services.

Management’s current 2007 full year projections are as follows:

•

Fully insured ongoing premiums (excluding buyout premiums and
premium equivalents) $4.4 billion to $4.5 billion

•

Sales (excluding buyout premiums and premium equivalents) $800 to $850

•

Loss ratio (excluding buyout premiums) between 72% and 74%

•

Expense ratio (excluding buyout premiums) between 27% and 29%

•

After tax margin, on earned premiums and other (excluding
buyout premiums), between 6.8% and 7.2%, which reflects the estimated impact of adopting SOP 05-1 “Accounting by
Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connections with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance
Contracts.”

INTERNATIONAL

Operating Summary




Fee income and other

$


$


$


Net investment income




Net realized capital losses

(64

)

(34

)

(1

)

Total revenues




Benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses




Insurance operating costs and other expenses




Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and
present value of future profits




Total benefits, losses and expenses




Income before income taxes and cumulative effect
of accounting change




Income tax expense




Income before cumulative effect of accounting change




Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax [1]

—

—

(4

)

Net income

$


$


$


Assets Under Management




Japan variable annuity account values

$

29,653

$

24,641

$

14,129

Japan MVA fixed annuity account values

1,690

1,463


Total
Japan assets under management

$

31,343

$

26,104

$

14,631

[1]

Represents the cumulative impact of the Company’s adoption of SOP 03-1.

International, with operations in Japan, Brazil, Ireland and the United Kingdom, focuses on
the savings and retirement needs of the growing number of individuals outside the United States who
are preparing for retirement, or have already retired, through the sale of variable annuities,
fixed annuities and other insurance and savings products. The Company’s Japan operation, which
began selling



variable annuities at the end of 2000, has grown significantly to become a
significant distributor of variable annuities and is the market leader in variable annuity assets
under management in Japan and is the largest component of the International segment.

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Net income in International increased for the year ended December 31, 2006, principally driven by
higher fee income in Japan, which was derived from an increase in average assets under management.
A more expanded discussion of earnings growth can be found below:

•

Fee income increased $217 or 45%, for the year ended December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2006, Japan’s variable
annuity assets under management were $29.7 billion, a 20% increase from the prior year period. The increase in
average assets under management was driven by positive net flows of $4.2 billion and market appreciation of $1.2
billion during the year. The amount of variable annuity deposits has declined for the year ended December 31, 2006
by 46%, compared to the prior year periods primarily due to increased competition and changes in key distribution
relationships.

•

Also contributing to the higher fee income was increased surrender activity as some customers surrendered policies in
order to lock in favorable market appreciation in their account balances. Surrender fees increased by $19, or 53%
from the prior year.

•

The decrease in benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses by 93% over prior year can be attributed to the unlock
of the GMDB/GMIB reserve of $27 after-tax. For further discussion, see DAC Unlock and Sensitivity Analysis in the
Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD&A.

•

Contributing to the increase in net income for the year ended December 31, 2006 was a cumulative tax benefit of $9,
that resulted from a change in the effective tax rate on Japan earnings resulting from a change in management’s
intent under APB 23.

•

The increase in fixed annuity assets under management can be attributed to positive net flows of $224 during the year.

Partially offsetting the positive earnings drivers discussed above were the following items:

•

DAC amortization was higher due to higher actual gross profits consistent with growth in the Japan operation, off-set
by $26 after-tax amortization benefit associated with the DAC amortization “unlock.” For further discussion, see DAC
Unlock and Sensitivity Analysis in the Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD&A.

•

Insurance operating costs and other expenses increased for the year ended December 31, 2006 by 11%. These increases
are due to higher maintenance costs and non-deferred asset-based commissions resulting from the growth in the Japan
operation.

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Net income increased significantly for the year ended December 31, 2005, principally driven by
higher fee income and investment spread in Japan, derived from a 78% increase in the assets under
management. A more expanded discussion of earnings growth can be found below:

•

The increase in fee income in 2005 was mainly a result of growth in Japan’s
variable annuity assets under management. As of December 31, 2005, Japan’s
variable annuity assets under management were $24.6 billion, a 74% increase from
the prior year. The increase in assets under management was driven by positive
net flow of $9.8 billion and favorable market appreciation of $3.4 billion,
partially offset by a ($2.6) billion impact of foreign currency exchange.

•

Higher fees in 2005 were also the result of increased surrender activity, as
customers surrendered policies in order to take advantage of significant
appreciation in their account balances.

•

The Japan MVA fixed annuity business contributed $13 of higher investment spread
income, including net periodic coupon settlements included in realized losses,
in 2005 compared to 2004. This increase in investment spread was driven by
higher assets under management. As of December 31, 2005, Japan’s MVA assets
under management increased to $1.5 billion compared to $502 in the prior year.
The increase in fixed annuity assets under management can be attributed to
deposits of $1.2 billion for the year ending December 31, 2005 as compared to
$521 for the prior year.

Partially offsetting the positive earnings drivers discussed above were the following items:

•

The increase in operating costs in 2005 was primarily due to the significant
growth in the Japan operation and investment in our Ireland operation.

•

DAC amortization was higher in the current year as compared to the prior year
due to higher EGP’s consistent with the growth in the Japan operation.

•

Tax rates increased in 2005 primarily due to a deferred tax valuation allowance
established for losses on the United Kingdom operation.

Outlook

Management continues to be optimistic about growth potential of the retirement savings market in
Japan. Several trends such as an aging population, longer life expectancies and declining birth
rates leading to a smaller number of younger workers to support each retiree, have resulted in
greater need for an individual to plan and adequately fund retirement savings.



Profitability depends on the account values of our customers, which are affected by equity, bond
and currency markets. Periods of favorable market performance will increase assets under management
and thus increase fee income earned on those assets. In addition, higher account value levels will
generally reduce certain costs for individual annuities to the Company, such as guaranteed minimum
death benefits (“GMDB”) and guaranteed minimum income benefits (“GMIB”). Expense management is
also an important component of product profitability.

Competition has continued to increase in the Japanese market with the most significant competition
the result of the strengthening of domestic competitors. This competition has resulted in changes
to key distribution relationships that have negatively impacted current year deposits and could
potentially impact future deposits. The Company continues to focus its efforts on strengthening our
distribution relationships and improving our wholesaling and servicing efforts. In addition, the
Company continues to evaluate product designs that meet customers’ needs while maintaining prudent
risk management. In the first quarter 2007, the company is launching a new variable
annuity product to complement its existing variable annuity product offerings. The success of the
Company’s enhanced product offering will ultimately be based on customer acceptance in an
increasingly competitive environment. International continues to invest in its operations outside of Japan.
In the short term, the Company expects losses in these operations outside of
Japan to be relatively consistent with 2006.

Management’s full year projections for Japan for 2007 are now as follows (using ¥118/$1 exchange rate for 2007):

•

Variable annuity deposits of ¥530 billion to ¥825 billion ($4.5 billion to $7.0 billion)

•

Variable annuity net flows of ¥350 billion to ¥650 billion ($3.0 billion to $5.5 billion)

•

Return on assets of 68 to 72 basis points

OTHER

Operating Summary




Fee income and other

$


$


$


Net investment income

Securities available-for-sale and other




Equity securities held for trading [1]

1,824

3,847


Total net investment income

1,978

4,021

1,007

Net realized capital gains (losses)

(198

)



Total revenues

1,863

4,106

1,282

Benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses [1]

1,985

4,166

1,017

Insurance operating costs and other expenses




Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and
present value of future profits




Total benefits, losses and expenses

2,036

4,272

1,079

Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect
of accounting change

(173

)

(166

)


Income tax benefit

(59

)

(51

)

(117

)

Income (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change

(114

)

(115

)


Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax [2]

—

—


Net income (loss)

$

(114

)

$

(115

)

$


[1]

Includes investment income and mark-to-market effects of equity securities held for trading
supporting the international variable annuity business, which are classified in net investment
income with corresponding amounts credited to policyholders within benefits, losses and loss
adjustment expenses.

[2]

Represents the cumulative impact of the Company’s adoption of SOP 03-1.

Net investment income includes the mark-to-market adjustment for equity securities held for
trading which decreased primarily due to decreased fund performance in International. This
decrease in net investment income is offset by a decrease in benefit, losses and loss adjustment
expenses which reflects the interest credited on the Japan account balance liability.

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

The change in Other’s net income was due to the following:

•

Net realized capital losses occurred in the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to net
realized capital gains in the prior year period due primarily to rising interest rates.
Components of the increased realized losses included increased other than temporary impairments
(see the Other-Than-Temporary Impairments discussion within Investment Results for more
information on the increase in impairments), losses on non-qualifying derivatives and net losses
on sales of investments.

•

Life recorded an after-tax charge of $102 for the year ended December 31, 2005 to establish
reserves for regulatory matters for investigations related to market timing by the SEC and New
York Attorney General’s Office, directed brokerage by the SEC, and single premium group annuities
by the New York Attorney General’s Office and the Connecticut Attorney General’s Office.



•

During 2006, the Company achieved favorable settlements in several cases brought against the
Company by policyholders regarding their purchase of broad-based leveraged corporate owned life
insurance (“leveraged COLI”) policies in the early to mid-1990s. The Company ceased offering this
product in 1996. Based on the favorable outcome of these cases, together with the Company’s
current assessment of the few remaining leveraged COLI cases, the Company reduced its estimate of
the ultimate cost of these cases during 2006. This reserve reduction, recorded in insurance
operating costs and other expenses, resulted in an after-tax benefit of $34.

•

Also contributing to the insurance operating costs and other expenses decreases for the year
ended December 31, 2006 was a lower level of dividends to leveraged COLI policyholders.

•

During 2005, the Company recorded a charge of $18, after-tax,
related to the settlement of certain annuity contracts.

•

The increase in the DAC amortization in 2006 was due to the DAC unlock of $46, after-tax.

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Net income decreased for the year ended December 31, 2005. The following factors contributed to
the change in earnings:

•

Net realized capital gains decreased for the year ended December
31, 2005 due to increasing interest rates and the realized loss
associated with the GMWB derivatives.

•

Income tax benefit decreased for the year ended December 31, 2005
due to the absence of a $190 tax benefit recorded during 2004.

•

Other than the impact of Japan interest credited, benefits,
losses, and loss adjustment expenses increased for the year ended
December 31, 2005 primarily due to the establishment of a $102
after-tax reserve for investigations related to market timing by
the SEC and the New York Attorney General’s Office, directed
brokerage by the SEC and single premium group annuities by the New
York Attorney General’s Office and the Connecticut Attorney
General’s Office.

PROPERTY & CASUALTY

Executive Overview

Property & Casualty is organized into four reportable operating segments: the underwriting
segments of Business Insurance, Personal Lines and Specialty Commercial (collectively “Ongoing
Operations”); and the Other Operations segment.

Property & Casualty provides a number of coverages, as well as insurance related services, to
businesses throughout the United States, including workers’ compensation, property, automobile,
liability, umbrella, specialty casualty, marine, livestock, fidelity, surety, professional
liability and directors and officers’ liability coverages. Property & Casualty also provides
automobile, homeowners and home-based business coverage to individuals throughout the United States
as well as insurance-related services to businesses.

Property & Casualty derives its revenues principally from premiums earned for insurance coverages
provided to insureds, investment income, and, to a lesser extent, from fees earned for services
provided to third parties and net realized capital gains and losses. Premiums charged for
insurance coverages are earned principally on a pro rata basis over the terms of the related
policies in force.

Service fees principally include revenues from third party claims administration services provided
by Specialty Risk Services and revenues from member contact center services provided through AARP’s
Health Care Options program.

Total Property & Casualty Financial Highlights

Premium revenue




Earned premiums

$

10,433

$

10,156

$

9,494

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Earned premiums grew $277, or 3%, primarily due to:

•

A $436 increase in Business Insurance and Personal Lines earned premium before considering catastrophe treaty
reinstatement premium, primarily driven by new business outpacing non-renewals in Personal Lines auto, Personal Lines
homeowners and small commercial,

•

$73 of catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium related to the 2005 hurricanes that depressed 2005 earned premium, and

•

Earned pricing increases in Personal Lines homeowners.

Partially offsetting these favorable drivers were factors that decreased earned premium:

•

Non-renewal of a single captive insurance program in specialty casualty that accounted for $241 of earned premium in
2005, and

•

Higher property catastrophe treaty reinsurance costs.



Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Earned premiums grew $662, or 7%, primarily due to:

•

A $651 increase in Business Insurance and Personal Lines earned premium before considering catastrophe treaty
reinstatement premium, primarily driven by new business outpacing non-renewals,

•

A $90 decrease in 2004 earned premiums under retrospectively-rated policies, and

•

Earned pricing increases in small commercial and Personal Lines homeowners.

Partially offsetting these favorable drivers was a $56 increase in catastrophe treaty reinstatement
premium as a result of the 2005 hurricanes.

Net income




Underwriting results

$


$


$

(3

)

Net servicing and other income [1]




Net investment income

1,486

1,365

1,248

Other expenses

(223

)

(203

)

(235

)

Net realized capital gains




Income tax expense

(551

)

(484

)

(275

)

Net income

$

1,519

$

1,236

$


[1]

Net of expenses related to service business.

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Net income increased $283 for the year ended December 31, 2006, primarily due to:

•

A $152 decrease in current accident year catastrophe losses,

•

A $121 increase in net investment income,

•

A $41 reduction of estimated Citizens’ assessments in 2006 related to the 2005 hurricanes compared to a charge of $64 for
Citizens assessments in 2005 related to the 2005 and 2004 hurricanes,

•

$73 of catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium recorded as a reduction of earned premium in 2005, and

•

A $51 increase in underwriting results from earned premium growth in Business Insurance and Personal Lines before considering
catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium.

Partially offsetting these favorable drivers were factors reducing net income:

•

A $67 increase in income tax expense, reflecting an increase in income before income taxes, partially offset by a $49 income
tax benefit resulting from the sale of Omni,

•

A $48 increase in net unfavorable prior accident year development,

•

A $35 decrease in net realized capital gains, primarily due to a $24, pre-tax, realized capital loss from the sale of Omni, and

•

A $20 increase in other expenses, primarily due to lower bad debt expense in 2005.

The $152 decrease in current accident year catastrophe losses was largely due to $264 of losses in
2005 related to hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, partially offset by an increase in
non-hurricane catastrophe losses in 2006. The current accident year loss and loss adjustment
expense ratio before catastrophes of 62.4 for Ongoing Operations was relatively flat from 2005 to
2006 as a lower current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio for workers’
compensation business in small commercial was largely offset by an increase in non-catastrophe
property loss costs in middle market Business Insurance and Personal Lines homeowners.

Primarily driving the $121 increase in net investment income was a larger investment base due to
increased cash flows from underwriting as well as an increase in interest rates and a change in
asset mix (i.e., a greater share of investments in mortgage loans and limited partnerships). The
$35 decrease in net realized capital gains was primarily due to a $24 pre-tax realized capital loss
from the sale of Omni, an increase in other-than-temporary-impairments and losses on the sale of
fixed maturity investments, partially offset by an increase in income from other sources. (See the
Other-Than-Temporary Impairments discussion within Investment Results for more information on the
increase in impairments).

The $48 increase in net unfavorable prior accident year development was primarily due to a $148
increase in net unfavorable loss development in Other Operations, partially offset by a change in
Ongoing Operations from $36 of net unfavorable prior accident year development in 2005 to $64 of
net favorable prior accident year development in 2006. The $148 increase in net unfavorable prior
accident year development in Other Operations was primarily due to a $243 reduction of reinsurance
recoverables in 2006 resulting from an agreement with Equitas and the Company’s evaluation of the
reinsurance recoverables and allowance for uncollectible reinsurance associated with older,
long-term casualty liabilities. The $64 of net favorable prior accident year development in 2006
for



Ongoing Operations was primarily due to an $83 release of prior accident year hurricane
reserves and a $58 release of allocated loss adjustment expense reserves for workers’ compensation
and package business, partially offset by reserve strengthenings in Specialty Commercial. See the
“Reserves” section for a discussion of prior accident year reserve development.

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Net income increased $326 for the year ended December 31, 2005 primarily due to:

•

A $172 decrease in current accident year catastrophe losses,

•

A $166 decrease in net unfavorable prior accident year development,

•

A $117 increase in net investment income,

•

A $90 decrease in 2004 earned premiums under retrospectively-rated policies,

•

An improvement in current accident year loss costs before catastrophes,

•

A $32 decrease in other expenses, primarily due to lower bad debt expense in 2005, and

•

A $76 increase in underwriting results from earned premium growth in Business Insurance and Personal
Lines at a combined ratio less than 100.0.

Partially offsetting these improvements were factors reducing net income:

•

An $89 decrease in net realized capital gains,

•

$64 of Citizens assessments in 2005 related to the 2005 and 2004 hurricanes,

•

A $56 increase in catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium recorded as a reduction of earned premium, and

•

A $209 increase in income tax expense, reflecting an increase in income before income taxes.

The $172 decrease in current accident year catastrophe losses was primarily due to $264 of losses
from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma in 2005 compared to $394 of losses from Hurricanes Charley,
Frances, Ivan and Jeanne in 2004. The $166 decrease in net unfavorable prior accident year
development was primarily due to $181 of unfavorable development in 2004 related to a reduction in
the reinsurance recoverable asset associated with older, long-term casualty liabilities, including
asbestos liabilities.

Primarily driving the $117 increase in net investment income was a larger investment base due to
increased cash flows from underwriting, higher investment yields on fixed maturity investments and
an increase in income from limited partnership investments.

The $89 decrease in net realized capital gains was primarily due to lower net realized gains on the
sale of fixed maturity investments and net losses on non-qualifying derivatives during 2005
compared to net gains during 2004.



Key Performance Ratios and Measures

The Company considers several measures and ratios to be the key performance indicators for the
property and casualty underwriting businesses. The following table and the segment discussions for
the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 include various ratios and measures of
profitability. Management believes that these ratios and measures are useful in understanding the
underlying trends in The Hartford’s property and casualty insurance underwriting business.
However, these key performance indicators should only be used in conjunction with, and not in lieu
of, underwriting income for the underwriting segments of Business Insurance, Personal Lines and
Specialty Commercial and net income for the Property & Casualty business as a whole, Ongoing
Operations and Other Operations. These ratios and measures may not be comparable to other
performance measures used by the Company’s competitors.

Ongoing Operations earned premium growth




Business Insurance


%


%


%

Personal Lines


%


%


%

Specialty Commercial

(12

%)


%


%

Ongoing Operations


%


%


%

Ongoing Operations combined ratio

Combined ratio before catastrophes and prior year development

88.0

89.4

89.7

Catastrophe ratio

Current year

1.9

3.5

5.5

Prior years [1]

(0.7

)

0.1

(3.3

)

Total catastrophe ratio

1.2

3.6

2.2

Non-catastrophe prior year development

0.1

0.2

3.4

Combined ratio

89.3

93.2

95.3

Other Operations net income (loss)

$

(35

)

$


$

(45

)

Total Property & Casualty measures of net investment income

Investment
yield, after-tax

4.1

%

4.1

%

4.1

%

Average annual invested assets at cost

$

27,324

$

25,148

$

23,437

[1]

Included in the prior year catastrophe ratio is the net reserve release of (3.1) points
related to September 11 in 2004.

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Ongoing Operations earned premium growth

•

The lower growth rate in Business Insurance was
primarily attributable to a decrease in new business
written premium, lower earned pricing increases in small
commercial, larger earned pricing decreases in middle
market and higher property catastrophe treaty
reinsurance costs.

•

The lower growth in Personal Lines was primarily
due to unfavorable changes in earned pricing and the
effect of higher property catastrophe treaty reinsurance
costs. Partially offsetting the lower growth rate was
the effect of $31 of catastrophe treaty reinstatement
premium recorded as a reduction of earned premium in
2005 and an increase in new business written premium in
auto and homeowners. During 2006, there was a decline
in earned pricing increases in homeowners and a change
from slight earned pricing increases for auto in 2005 to
flat earned pricing for auto in 2006.

•

The decline in Specialty Commercial earned premium
primarily resulted from the non-renewal of a single
captive insurance program within specialty casualty that
accounted for $241 of earned premium in 2005 and a
decrease in specialty property earned premium, partially
offset by the effect of $26 of catastrophe treaty
reinstatement recorded as a reduction of earned premium
in 2005 and a higher growth rate in professional
liability, fidelity and surety business.

Ongoing Operations combined ratio

•

For 2006, the combined ratio before catastrophes
and prior accident year development decreased by 1.4
points, to 88.0, driven largely by the effect of $73 of
catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium recorded as a
reduction of earned premium in 2005 and an improvement
in the expense ratio. Before the effect of
reinstatement premium in 2005, the combined ratio before
catastrophes and prior accident year development
decreased by 0.7 points, primarily due to a 0.8 point
decrease in the expense ratio and a lower current
accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio for
workers’ compensation business in small commercial,
partially offset by an increase in non-catastrophe
property loss costs in middle market and Personal Lines
homeowners. The decrease in the expense ratio was
primarily driven by a reduction of $41 for Citizens’
assessments in 2006 and a charge of $64 for Citizens
assessments in 2005.



•

The decrease in the current accident year
catastrophe ratio for 2006 was primarily due to $264 of
net losses incurred in 2005 for hurricanes Katrina, Rita
and Wilma, partially offset by an increase in
non-hurricane catastrophe losses. Catastrophe losses
for 2006 included tornadoes and hail storms in the
Midwest and windstorms in Texas and on the East coast.

•

Prior accident year catastrophe reserves were
reduced by $70 in 2006 primarily due to $83 of favorable
development related to the 2005 and 2004 hurricanes.
Net prior accident year development for non-catastrophe
claims was not significant as reserve
strengthenings were largely offset by reserve releases. See the “Reserves” section for a
discussion of prior accident year reserve development for Ongoing Operations in 2006.

Other Operations net income (loss)

•

Other Operations reported a net loss of $35 for 2006 compared to net income of $71 for 2005. The change from net
income to a net loss was primarily due to a $148 increase in unfavorable prior accident year development and a $22 decrease
in net investment income, partially offset by a change to an income tax benefit in 2006 as a result of a pre-tax loss in
2006. The $148 increase in prior accident year development was primarily due to a $243 reduction in net reinsurance
recoverables as a result of the agreement with Equitas and the Company’s evaluation of the reinsurance recoverables and
allowance for uncollectible reinsurance associated with older, long-term casualty liabilities. Partially offsetting the
increase in prior accident year development in 2006 was $85 of unfavorable reserve development for assumed reinsurance in
2005. The $22 decrease in net investment income was primarily due to lower invested assets as a result of loss and loss
adjustment expense payments and the reallocation of capital from Other Operations to Ongoing Operations.

Investment yield and average invested assets

•

The after-tax investment yield remained flat at 4.1% from 2005 to 2006. An increase in the yield on investments in
fixed maturities was offset by a decrease in the yield on limited partnerships.

•

The average annual invested assets at cost increased as a result of net underwriting cash inflows and investment income.

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Ongoing Operations earned premium growth

•

Contributing to the decrease in the earned premium growth rate for Business Insurance were lower
earned pricing increases in small commercial, earned pricing decreases in middle market and a decrease
in new business growth, partially offset by increased renewal retention.

•

The decrease in the earned premium growth rate for Personal Lines was primarily due to lower earned
pricing increases in both auto and homeowners business, a decrease in premium renewal retention and a
decline in Omni and Other Affinity earned premium.

•

The decline in the Specialty Commercial earned premium growth rate primarily resulted from a
decrease in property business due to a decline in new business and the Company’s exit from the
multi-peril crop insurance business.

Ongoing Operations combined ratio

•

Before catastrophes and prior accident year development, the combined ratio improved from 2004 to
2005 principally due to improved current accident year performance for auto bodily injury and workers’
compensation claims, partially offset by the effect of an increase in non-catastrophe loss costs for
property coverages and an increase in the expense ratio, which was largely due to the hurricane-related
assessments of $64 in 2005.

•

The decrease in the current accident year catastrophe ratio
for 2005 was primarily due to $264 of
net losses incurred for hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma in 2005 compared to $394 of losses from
Hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne in 2004.

•

Net prior accident year development was not significant in 2005 as reserve strengthenings were
largely offset by reserve releases. In 2004, strengthening of non-catastrophe loss reserves was almost
entirely offset by a release of catastrophe reserves. Prior accident year catastrophe reserves related
to September 11 were reduced by $298 in 2004. Net prior accident year reserve increases in 2004 for
non-catastrophe losses included $190 for construction defects claims, $38 for small commercial package
business and $25 for auto liability claims. See the “Reserves” section for a discussion of net
favorable prior accident year reserve development for Ongoing Operations in 2006.

Other Operations net income (loss)

•

Other Operations reported net income of $71 for 2005 compared to a net loss of $45 for 2004. The
change from a net loss to net income was primarily due to a $233 decrease in unfavorable prior accident
year development, partially offset by a $62 decrease in net investment income and a change to income tax
expense due to the pre-tax income in 2005. The $233 decrease in net reserve strengthening was primarily
due to $181 of unfavorable development in 2004 related to a reduction in the reinsurance recoverable
asset associated with older, long-term casualty liabilities, including asbestos liabilities, as well as
$85 more of unfavorable prior accident year reserve development in 2004 on assumed reinsurance reserves.
The $62 decrease in net investment income was



primarily due to lower invested assets as a result of
loss and loss adjustment expense payments and the reallocation of capital from Other Operations to
Ongoing Operations.

Investment yield and average invested assets

•

The after-tax investment yield of 4.1% for 2005 was consistent with the after-tax yield in 2004.

•

The average annual invested assets increased over the same period as a result of net underwriting
cash inflows and investment income.

How Property & Casualty seeks to earn income

Net income is the measure of profit or loss used in evaluating the performance of Total Property &
Casualty and the Ongoing Operations and Other Operations segments. Within Ongoing Operations, the
underwriting segments of Business Insurance, Personal Lines and Specialty Commercial are evaluated
by The Hartford’s management primarily based upon underwriting results. Underwriting results
within Ongoing Operations are influenced significantly by earned premium growth and the adequacy of
the Company’s pricing. Underwriting profitability over time is also greatly influenced by the
Company’s underwriting discipline, which seeks to manage exposure to loss through favorable risk
selection and diversification, its management of claims, its use of reinsurance and its ability to
manage its expense ratio which it accomplishes through economies of scale and its management of
acquisition costs and other underwriting expenses.

Pricing adequacy depends on a number of factors, including the ability to obtain regulatory
approval for rate changes, proper evaluation of underwriting risks, the ability to project future
loss cost frequency and severity based on historical loss experience adjusted for known trends, the
Company’s response to rate actions taken by competitors, and expectations about regulatory and
legal developments and expense levels. Property & Casualty seeks to price its insurance policies
such that insurance premiums and future net investment income earned on premiums received will
cover underwriting expenses and the ultimate cost of paying claims reported on the policies and
provide for a profit margin. For many of its insurance products, Property & Casualty is required
to obtain approval for its premium rates from state insurance departments.

In setting its pricing, Property & Casualty assumes an expected level of losses from natural or
man-made catastrophes that will cover the Company’s exposure to catastrophes over the long-term.
In most years, however, Property & Casualty’s actual losses from catastrophes will be more or less
than that assumed in its pricing due to the significant volatility of catastrophe losses. ISO
defines a catastrophe loss as an event that causes $25 or more in industry insured property losses
and affects a significant number of property and casualty policyholders and insurers.

Given the lag in the period from when claims are incurred to when they are reported and paid, final
claim settlements may vary from current estimates of incurred losses and loss expenses,
particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. Reserves for lines of
business with a longer lag (or “tail”) in reporting are more difficult to estimate. Reserve
estimates for longer tail lines are initially set based on loss and loss expense ratio assumptions
estimated when the business was priced and are adjusted as the paid and reported claims develop,
indicating that the ultimate loss and loss expense ratio will differ from the initial assumptions.
Adjustments to previously established loss and loss expense reserves, if any, are reflected in
underwriting results in the period in which the adjustment is determined to be necessary.

The investment return, or yield, on Property & Casualty’s invested assets is an important element
of the Company’s earnings since insurance products are priced with the assumption that premiums
received can be invested for a period of time before loss and loss adjustment expenses are paid.
For longer tail lines, such as workers’ compensation and general liability, claims are paid over
several years and, therefore, the premiums received for these lines of business can generate
significant investment income. Due to the emphasis on preservation of capital and the need to
maintain sufficient liquidity to satisfy claim obligations, the vast majority of Property &
Casualty’s invested assets have been held in fixed maturities, including, among other asset
classes, corporate bonds, municipal bonds, government debt, short-term debt, mortgage-backed
securities and asset-backed securities.

Through its Other Operations segment, Property & Casualty is responsible for managing operations of
The Hartford that have discontinued writing new or renewal business as well as managing the claims
related to asbestos and environmental exposures.

Definitions of key ratios and measures

Written and earned premiums

Written premium is a statutory accounting financial measure which represents the amount of premiums
charged for policies issued, net of reinsurance, during a fiscal period. Earned premium is a GAAP
and statutory measure. Premiums are considered earned and are included in the financial results on
a pro rata basis over the policy period. Management believes that written premium is a performance
measure that is useful to investors as it reflects current trends in the Company’s sale of property
and casualty insurance products. Written and earned premium are recorded net of ceded reinsurance
premium.



Reinstatement premiums

Reinstatement premium represents additional ceded premium paid for the reinstatement of the amount
of reinsurance coverage that was reduced as a result of a reinsurance loss payment.

Policies in force as of year end

Policies in force represent the number of policies with coverage in effect as of the end of the
period. The number of policies in force is a growth measure used for Personal Lines only and is
affected by both new business growth and premium renewal retention, including growth in both AARP
and Agency lines of business.

Written pricing increase (decrease)

Written pricing increase (decrease) over the comparable period of the prior year includes the
impact of rate filings, the impact of changes in the value of the rating bases and individual risk
pricing decisions. A number of factors impact written pricing increases
(decreases) including expected loss costs as projected by the Company’s pricing actuaries, rate
filings approved by state regulators, risk selection decisions made by the Company’s underwriters
and marketplace competition. Written pricing changes reflect the property and casualty insurance
market cycle. Prices tend to increase for a particular line of business when insurance carriers
have incurred significant losses in that line of business in the recent past or the industry as a
whole commits less of its capital to writing exposures in that line of business. Prices tend to
decrease when recent loss experience has been favorable or when competition among insurance
carriers increases.

Earned pricing increase (decrease)

Written premiums are earned over the policy term, which is six months for certain Personal Lines
auto business and 12 months for substantially all of the remainder of the Company’s business.
Because the Company earns premiums over the 6 to 12 month term of the policies, earned pricing
increases (decreases) lag written pricing increases (decreases) by 6 to 12 months.

Premium renewal retention

Premium renewal retention represents the ratio of net written premium in the current period that is
not derived from new business divided by total net written premium of the prior period.
Accordingly, premium renewal retention includes the effect of written pricing changes on renewed
business. In addition, the renewal retention rate is affected by a number of other factors,
including the percentage of renewal policy quotes accepted and decisions by the Company to
non-renew policies because of specific policy underwriting concerns or because of a decision to
reduce premium writings in certain lines of business or states. Premium renewal retention is also
affected by advertising and rate actions taken by competitors.

Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio

The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio is a measure of the cost of claims incurred in the
calendar year divided by earned premium and includes losses incurred for both the current and prior
accident years. Among other factors, the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio needed for the
Company to achieve its targeted return on equity fluctuates from year to year based on changes in
the expected investment yield over the claim settlement period, the timing of expected claim
settlements and the targeted returns set by management based on the competitive environment.

The loss and loss adjustment expense ratio is affected by claim frequency and claim severity,
particularly for shorter-tail property lines of business, where the emergence of claim frequency
and severity is credible and likely indicative of ultimate losses. Claim frequency represents the
percentage change in the average number of reported claims per unit of exposure in the current
accident year compared to that of the previous accident year. Claim severity represents the
percentage change in the estimated average cost per claim in the current accident year compared to
that of the previous accident year. As one of the factors used to determine pricing, the Company’s
practice is to first make an overall assumption about claim frequency and severity for a given line
of business and then, as part of the ratemaking process, adjust the assumption as appropriate for
the particular state, product or coverage.

Current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio

The current year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio is a measure of the cost of claims incurred
in the current accident year divided by earned premiums. The current accident year loss and loss
adjustment expense ratio includes both the current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense
ratio before catastrophes and the current accident year catastrophe ratio. Management believes
that the current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio before catastrophes is a
performance measure that is useful to investors as it removes the impact of volatile and
unpredictable catastrophe losses and prior accident year reserve development.

Prior accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio

The prior year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio represents the increase (decrease) in the
estimated cost of settling catastrophe and non-catastrophe claims incurred in prior accident years
as recorded in the current calendar year divided by earned premiums.



Expense ratio

The expense ratio is the ratio of underwriting expenses, excluding bad debt expense, to earned
premiums. Underwriting expenses include the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and
insurance operating costs and expenses. Deferred policy acquisition costs include commissions,
taxes, licenses and fees and other underwriting expenses and are amortized over the policy term.

Policyholder dividend ratio

The policyholder dividend ratio is the ratio of policyholder dividends to earned premium.

Combined ratio

The combined ratio is the sum of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio, the expense ratio and
the policyholder dividend ratio. This ratio is a relative measurement that describes the related
cost of losses and expense for every $100 of earned premiums. A combined ratio below 100.0
demonstrates underwriting profit; a combined ratio above 100.0 demonstrates underwriting losses.

Catastrophe ratio

The catastrophe ratio (a component of the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio) represents the
ratio of catastrophe losses (net of reinsurance) to earned premiums. A catastrophe is an event
that causes $25 or more in industry insured property losses and affects a significant number of
property and casualty policyholders and insurers. By their nature, catastrophe losses vary
dramatically from year to year. Based on the mix and geographic dispersion of premium written and
estimates derived from various catastrophe loss models, the Company’s expected catastrophe ratio
over the long-term is 3.0 to 3.5 points. See “Risk Management Strategy” below for a discussion of
the Company’s property catastrophe risk management program that serves to mitigate the Company’s
net exposure to catastrophe losses. The catastrophe ratio includes the effect of catastrophe
losses, but does not include the effect of reinstatement premiums.

Combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development

The combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development represents the combined
ratio for the current accident year, excluding the impact of catastrophes. The Company believes
this ratio is an important measure of the trend in profitability since it removes the impact of
volatile and unpredictable catastrophe losses and prior accident year reserve development.

Underwriting results

Underwriting results is a before-tax measure that represents earned premiums less incurred losses,
loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses. The Hartford believes that underwriting
results provides investors with a valuable measure of before-tax profitability derived from
underwriting activities, which are managed separately from the Company’s investing activities.
Underwriting results is also presented for Ongoing Operations and Other Operations. A
reconciliation of underwriting results to net income for Ongoing Operations and Other Operations is
set forth in their respective discussions herein.

Investment yield

The
investment yield, or return, on the Company’s invested assets
primarily includes interest income on fixed
maturity investments. Based upon the fair value
of Property & Casualty’s investments as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, approximately 93% and 94%,
respectively, of invested assets were held in fixed maturities. A number of factors affect the
yield on fixed maturity investments, including fluctuations in
interest rates and the level of
prepayments. The Company also invests in equity securities,
 mortgage loans and limited partnership arrangements.

Property & Casualty’s insurance business has been written by a number of writing companies that,
under a pooling arrangement, participate in the Hartford Fire Insurance Pool, the lead company of
which is the Hartford Fire Insurance Company (“Hartford Fire”).

Property & Casualty maintains one portfolio of invested assets for all business written by the
Hartford Fire Insurance Pool companies, including business reported in both the Ongoing Operations
and Other Operations segments. Separate investment portfolios are maintained within Other
Operations for the runoff of international assumed reinsurance claims and for the runoff business
of Heritage Holdings, Inc., including its subsidiaries, Excess Insurance Company Ltd., First State
Insurance Company and Heritage Reinsurance Company, Ltd. Within the Hartford Fire Insurance Pool,
invested assets are attributed to Ongoing Operations and Other Operations pursuant to the Company’s
capital attribution process.

The Hartford attributes capital to each line of business or segment using an internally-developed,
risk-based capital attribution methodology that incorporates management’s assessment of the
relative risks within each line of business or segment, as well as the capital requirements of
external parties, such as regulators and rating agencies.

Net investment income earned on the Hartford Fire invested asset portfolio is allocated between
Ongoing Operations and Other Operations based on the allocation of invested assets to each segment
and the expected investment yields earned by each segment. Net investment income earned on the
separate portfolios within Other Operations is recorded entirely within Other Operations. Based on



the Company’s method of allocating net investment income for the Hartford Fire Insurance Pool and
the net investment income earned by Other Operations on its separate investment portfolios, in
2006, the after-tax investment yield for Ongoing Operations was 4.2% and the after-tax investment
yield for Other Operations was 3.9%.

Net realized capital gains (losses)

When fixed maturity or equity investments are sold, any gain or loss is reported in net realized
capital gains (losses). Individual securities may be sold for a variety of reasons, including a
decision to change the Company’s asset allocation in response to market conditions and the need to
liquidate funds to meet large claim settlements. Accordingly, net realized capital gains (losses)
for any particular period are not predictable and can vary significantly. In addition, net
realized capital gains (losses) include the pre-tax loss from the sale of Omni (see Ongoing
Operations segment MD&A for further discussion). Refer to the Investment section of MD&A for
further discussion of net investment income and net realized capital gains (losses).

Reserves

Reserving for property and casualty losses is an estimation process. As additional experience and
other relevant claim data become available, reserve levels are adjusted accordingly. Such
adjustments of reserves related to claims incurred in prior years are a natural occurrence in the
loss reserving process and are referred to as “reserve development”. Reserve development that
increases previous estimates of ultimate cost is called “reserve strengthening”. Reserve
development that decreases previous estimates of ultimate cost is called “reserve releases”.
Reserve development can influence the comparability of year over year underwriting results and is
set forth
in the paragraphs and tables that follow. The “prior accident year development” in the following
table represents the ratio of reserve development to earned premiums. For a detailed discussion of
the Company’s reserve policies, see Notes 1, 11 and 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements and the discussion in Critical Accounting Estimates.

Based on the results of the quarterly reserve review process, the Company determines the
appropriate reserve adjustments, if any, to record. Recorded reserve estimates are changed after
consideration of numerous factors, including but not limited to, the magnitude of the difference
between the actuarial indication and the recorded reserves, improvement or deterioration of
actuarial indications in the period, the maturity of the accident year, trends observed over the
recent past and the level of volatility within a particular line of business. In general, changes
are made more quickly to more mature accident years and less volatile lines of business. For
information regarding reserving for asbestos and environmental claims within Other Operations,
refer to the Other Operations segment discussion.

As part of its quarterly reserve review process, the Company is closely monitoring reported loss
development in certain lines where the recent emergence of paid losses and case reserves could
indicate a trend that may eventually lead the Company to change its estimate of ultimate losses in
those lines. If, and when, the emergence of reported losses is determined to be a trend that
changes the Company’s estimate of ultimate losses, prior accident year reserves would be adjusted
in the period the change in estimate is made. For example, for both Personal Lines homeowners’
claims and Business Insurance workers’ compensation claims, during the latter half of 2006 there
was an increase in severity in reported losses for recent accident years. While it is too early to
tell whether this increase in severity constitutes a reliable trend, if reported losses continue to
emerge unfavorably in 2007, prior accident year reserves may be strengthened. For Personal Lines
auto liability claims, the Company’s estimates of ultimate losses include assumptions about
frequency and severity trends. These assumptions are updated each quarter as the Company’s
actuaries complete a review of reserves. During 2005 and 2006, these updates resulted in
improvements in estimates of both frequency and severity trends and, as a result, the Company
released reserves in the first, second, and fourth quarters of 2006. If, during 2007, frequency
and severity trends continue to improve and the development of reported losses indicates that the
assumptions made in the prior reserve review are too high, prior accident years may develop
favorably.



A rollforward of liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses by segment for Property
& Casualty for the year ended December 31, 2006 follows:

For the year ended December 31, 2006

Business

Personal

Specialty

Ongoing

Other

Total

Insurance

Lines

Commercial

Operations

Operations

P&C

Beginning liabilities for unpaid
losses and loss adjustment
expenses-gross

$

7,066

$

2,152

$

6,202

$

15,420

$

6,846

$

22,266

Reinsurance and other recoverables



2,354

3,448

1,955

5,403

Beginning liabilities for unpaid
losses and loss adjustment
expenses-net

6,357

1,767

3,848

11,972

4,891

16,863

Provision for unpaid losses and
loss adjustment expenses

Current year

3,127

2,516

1,063

6,706

—

6,706

Prior years

(61

)

(38

)


(64

)



Total provision for unpaid losses
and loss adjustment expenses

3,066

2,478

1,098

6,642


7,002

Less: Payments

(2,279

)

(2,309

)

(727

)

(5,315

)

(835

)

(6,150

)

Less: Net reserves of Omni business
sold

—

(111

)

—

(111

)

—

(111

)

Ending liabilities for unpaid
losses and loss adjustment
expenses-net

7,144

1,825

4,219

13,188

4,416

17,604

Reinsurance and other recoverables



2,303

3,087

1,300

4,387

Ending liabilities for unpaid
losses
and loss adjustment
expenses-gross

$

7,794

$

1,959

$

6,522

$

16,275

$

5,716

$

21,991

Earned premiums

$

5,118

$

3,760

$

1,550

$

10,428

$


$

10,433

Loss and loss expense paid ratio [1]

44.6

61.4

46.8

51.0

Loss and loss expense incurred ratio

59.9

65.9

70.8

63.7

Prior accident year development
(pts.) [2]

(1.2

)

(1.0

)

2.3

(0.6

)

[1]

The “loss and loss expense paid ratio” represents the ratio of paid loss and loss
adjustment expenses to earned premiums.

[2]

“Prior accident year development (pts)” represents the ratio of prior accident year development
to earned premiums.



Prior accident year development recorded in 2006

Included within prior accident year development for the year ended December 31, 2006 were the
following reserve strengthenings (releases).

Business

Personal

Specialty

Ongoing

Other

Total

Insurance

Lines

Commercial

Operations

Operations

P&C

Net release of catastrophe loss reserves for
2004 and 2005 hurricanes

$

(25

)

$

(23

)

$

(35

)

$

(83

)

$

—

$

(83

)

Release of Personal Lines auto liability
reserves for accident year 2005

—

(31

)

—

(31

)

—

(31

)

Strengthening of Personal Lines auto
liability reserves for claims with exposure
in excess of policy limits

—


—


—


Release of Business Insurance allocated loss
adjustment expense reserves for workers’
compensation and package business for
accident years 2003 to 2005

(58

)

—

—

(58

)

—

(58

)

Release of Personal Lines auto liability
reserves for accident year 2003 to 2005

—

(22

)

—

(22

)

—

(22

)

Strengthening of Specialty Commercial
construction defect claim reserves for
accident years 1997 and prior

—

—



—


Strengthening of Specialty Commercial workers’
compensation allocated loss adjustment expense
reserves

—

—



—


Effect of Equitas agreement and strengthening of
allowance for uncollectible reinsurance

—

—

—

—



Strengthening of environmental reserves

—

—

—

—



Other reserve re-estimates, net [1]







Total prior accident year development for the year
ended December 31, 2006

$

(61

)

$

(38

)

$


$

(64

)

$


$


[1]

Includes reserve discount accretion of $32, including $14 in Business Insurance, $11 in
Specialty Commercial and $7 in Other Operations.

During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company’s reestimates of prior accident year
reserves included the following significant reserve changes.

Ongoing Operations

•

Released net reserves related to prior year hurricanes by a total
of $83, including $57 for hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005 and
$26 for hurricanes Charley, Frances and Jeanne in 2004. Initial
reserve estimates for the 2005 and 2004 hurricanes were higher
because of the difficulty claim adjusters had in accessing the
most significantly impacted areas and initially higher estimates
of the cost of building materials and contractors due to “demand
surge”. As the reported claims have matured, the estimated
settlement value of the claims has decreased from the initial
estimates. The ultimate estimate for hurricane Katrina was
increased in the first quarter of 2006 because of higher than
expected claim reporting, particularly in Personal Lines. Net
loss reserves within Specialty Commercial decreased, primarily
because hurricane Katrina losses on specialty property business
were reimbursable under a specialty property reinsurance treaty as
well as under the Company’s principal property catastrophe
reinsurance program. After the first quarter of 2006, Katrina new
claim intake abated and settlement percentages increased,
resulting in a reduction of reserves in the last nine months of
2006. In addition, the rate of newly reported compensable claims
for Rita and the 2004 hurricanes was less than expected, resulting
in a reduction of reserves for these hurricanes.

•

Released Personal Lines auto liability reserves by $31 related to
the fourth accident quarter of 2005 as a result of better than
expected frequency trends. During the third and fourth quarter of
2005, the Company had reduced the 2005 accident year loss and loss
adjustment expense ratio for Personal Lines auto liability claims
related to the first three accident quarters of 2005. Favorable
frequency for the fourth accident quarter of 2005 emerged during
the fourth quarter of 2005. However, the Company did not release
reserves at that time, since reserve indications at only three
months of development were not reliable. The Company released
reserves in 2006 after further development indicated that early
indications of reduced frequency were representative of a real
trend. The $31 reserve release represented 2% of the Company’s
net reserves for Personal Lines auto liability claims as of
December 31, 2005.



•

Strengthened reserves for personal auto liability claims by $30
due to an increase in estimated severity on claims where the
Company is exposed to losses in excess of policy limits. From the
Company’s reserve review during the first quarter of 2006, the
Company determined that the facts and circumstances necessitated
an increase in the reserve estimate. The $30 of reserve
strengthening represented 2% of the Company’s net reserves for
Personal Lines auto liability claims as of December 31, 2005.

•

Released Business Insurance allocated loss adjustment expense
reserves by $58 for accident years 2003 to 2005, primarily for
workers’ compensation business and package business, as a result
of cost reduction initiatives implemented by the Company to reduce
allocated loss adjustment expenses for both legal and non-legal
expenses. The Company began implementing cost reduction
initiatives in late 2003. It was initially uncertain what effect
those efforts would have on controlling allocated loss adjustment
expenses. During 2004, favorable trends started to emerge,
particularly on shorter-tailed auto liability claims, but it was
not clear if these trends would be sustained. In early 2005,
favorable trends continued and the Company analyzed claims
involving legal expenses separate from claims that do not involve
legal expenses. This analysis included a review of the trends in
the number of claims involving legal expenses, the average
expenses incurred and trends in legal expenses. During the second
quarter of 2005, the Company released allocated loss adjustment
expense reserves on shorter-tailed auto liability claims as the
favorable trends on shorter-tailed business emerged more quickly
and were determined to be reliable. During both the second and
fourth quarter of 2006, the Company determined that the favorable
development on package business and workers’ compensation business
had become a verifiable trend and, accordingly, reserves were
reduced. The $58 reserve release represented 1% of Business
Insurance net reserves as of December 31, 2005.

•

Released Personal Lines auto liability reserves related to AARP
and other affinity business by $22. AARP auto liability reserves
for accident year 2004 were reduced as a result of favorable loss
cost severity trends. AARP auto liability severity, as measured
by reported data, began declining in 2005; however, the Company
was uncertain whether this trend would prove persistent over time
since paid loss data did not support a decline. During the second
quarter of 2006, the Company determined that all the metrics
supported a decline in severity estimates and, therefore, the
Company released reserves. Auto liability reserves for other
affinity business related to accident years 2003 to 2005 were
reduced to recognize favorable developments in loss costs that
have emerged. The $22 reserve release represented 1% of the
Company’s net reserves for Personal Lines auto liability claims as
of December 31, 2005.

•

Strengthened Specialty Commercial construction defect claim
reserves by $45 for accident years 1997 and prior as a result of
an increase in claim severity trends. In 2004, two large
construction defects claims were reported, but these were not
viewed as an indication of an increase in the severity trend for
all claims. In 2005, two additional large cases were reported.
Management performed an expanded review of construction defects
claims in the second quarter of 2006. Based on the expanded
review and additional reported claim experience, management
concluded that reported losses would likely continue at a higher
level in the future and this resulted in strengthening the
recorded reserves. The $45 of reserve strengthening represented
16% of the Company’s net reserves for Specialty Commercial
property claims as of December 31, 2005.

•

Strengthened Specialty Commercial workers’ compensation allocated
loss adjustment expense reserves by $20 for loss adjustment
expense payments expected to emerge after 20 years of development.
During 2005, the Company had done an in-depth study of loss
payments expected to emerge after 20 years of development. At
that time, it was believed that allocated loss adjustment expenses
for a particular subset of business (primary policies on national
accounts business) developed more quickly than allocated loss
adjustment expenses for smaller insureds and that a similar
reserve strengthening for national accounts business was not
required. During the second quarter of 2006, the Company’s
reserve review indicated that the development pattern for this
business should be adjusted to be more consistent with that for
smaller insureds. Because the Company has written very little of
this business in recent years, the increase in reserves affects
accident years 1995 and prior. The $20 of reserve strengthening
represented 1% of the Company’s net reserves for Specialty
Commercial workers’ compensation claims as of December 31, 2005.

Other Operations

•

Reduced the reinsurance recoverable asset associated with older, longer-term casualty
liabilities by $243. The Company reviewed the reinsurance recoverables and allowance for
uncollectible reinsurance associated with older, long-term casualty liabilities in the second
quarter 2006. As a result of this study, and the outcome of an agreement that resolved, with
minor exception, all of the Company’s ceded and assumed domestic reinsurance exposures with
Equitas, Other Operations recorded prior accident year development of $243.

•

Strengthened environmental reserves by $43 as a result of an environmental reserve
evaluation completed in the third quarter of 2006. As part of this evaluation, the Company
reviewed all of its domestic direct and assumed reinsurance accounts exposed to environmental
liability. The Company also examined its London Market exposures for both direct insurance
and assumed reinsurance. The Company found estimates for individual cases changed based upon
the particular circumstances of each account, although the review found no underlying cause or
change in the claim environment. The $43 of reserve strengthening represented 2% of the
Company’s net reserves for asbestos and environmental claims as of December 31, 2005.



A rollforward of liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses by segment for Property
& Casualty for the year ended December 31, 2005 follows:

For the year ended December 31, 2005

Business

Personal

Specialty

Ongoing

Other

Total

Insurance

Lines

Commercial

Operations

Operations

P&C

Beginning liabilities for unpaid
losses and loss adjustment
expenses-gross

$

6,057

$

2,000

$

5,519

$

13,576

$

7,753

$

21,329

Reinsurance and other recoverables



2,091

2,755

2,383

5,138

Beginning liabilities for unpaid
losses and loss adjustment
expenses-net

5,583

1,810

3,428

10,821

5,370

16,191

Provision for unpaid losses and
loss adjustment expenses

Current year

2,949

2,389

1,377

6,715

—

6,715

Prior years


(95

)





Total provision for unpaid losses
and loss adjustment expenses

2,971

2,294

1,486

6,751


6,963

Less: Payments

(2,197

)

(2,337

)

(1,066

)

(5,600

)

(691

)

(6,291

)

Ending liabilities for unpaid
losses and loss adjustment
expenses-net

6,357

1,767

3,848

11,972

4,891

16,863

Reinsurance and other recoverables



2,354

3,448

1,955

5,403

Ending liabilities for unpaid
losses and loss adjustment
expenses-gross

$

7,066

$

2,152

$

6,202

$

15,420

$

6,846

$

22,266

Earned premiums

$

4,785

$

3,610

$

1,757

$

10,152

$


$

10,156

Loss and loss expense paid ratio [1]

45.9

64.8

60.6

55.1

Loss and loss expense incurred ratio

62.1

63.6

84.6

66.5

Prior accident year development
(pts.) [2]

0.5

(2.6

)

6.2

0.4

[1]

The “loss and loss expense paid ratio” represents the ratio of paid loss and loss
adjustment expenses to earned premiums.

[2]

“Prior accident year development (pts)” represents the ratio of prior accident year development
to earned premiums.

2005 accident year catastrophe loss and loss adjustment expenses record in 2005

In 2005, the current accident year provision for loss and loss adjustment expenses of $6.7 billion
included net catastrophe loss and loss adjustment expenses of $351, of which $264 related to
hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. The following table shows current accident year catastrophe
impacts in 2005, including reinstatement premium owed to reinsurers:

Year Ended December 31, 2005

Business

Personal

Specialty

Ongoing

Other

Total

Insurance

Lines

Commercial

Operations

Operations

P&C

Gross incurred loss
and loss adjustment
expenses for
current accident
year catastrophes

$


$


$


$

1,325

$

—

$

1,325

Ceded loss and loss
adjustment expenses
for current
accident year
catastrophes





—


Net incurred loss
and loss adjustment
expenses for
current accident
year catastrophes

$


$


$


$


$

—

$


Reinstatement
premium ceded to
reinsurers

$


$


$


$


$

—

$


A significant portion of the gross incurred loss and loss adjustment expenses are recoverable from
reinsurers under the Company’s principal catastrophe reinsurance program in addition to other
reinsurance programs. Reinsurance recoveries under the Company’s principal catastrophe reinsurance
program, which covers multiple lines of business, are allocated to the segments in accordance with
a pre-established methodology that is consistent with the method used to allocate the ceded premium
to each segment. In addition to its retention, the Company has a co-participation in the losses
ceded under the principal catastrophe reinsurance program, which varies by layer, and is recorded
in Specialty Commercial. In the third and fourth quarters of 2005, the Company reinstated the
limits under its reinsurance programs that were exhausted by hurricane Katrina and Wilma, resulting
in additional ceded premium of $73, which is reflected as a reduction in earned premium.



Net current accident year catastrophe losses decreased by $171, from $522 in 2004 to $351 in 2005,
as the increase in ceded catastrophe losses exceeded the increase in gross catastrophe losses.
While gross current accident year catastrophe losses increased by $514, from $811 in 2004 to $1,325
in 2005, ceded current accident year catastrophe losses increased by $686, from $288 in 2004, to
$974 in 2005. The amount of gross losses ceded to reinsurers depends, in large part, on the extent
to which gross losses incurred from a single event
exceed the Company’s attachment point under its principal catastrophe reinsurance program.
Compared to the hurricanes of 2004, the individual hurricanes in 2005 significantly exceeded the
attachment point, resulting in greater reinsurance recoveries. Most of the current accident year
catastrophe losses ceded in 2004 related to hurricanes Charley and Francis. Most of the current
accident year catastrophe losses ceded in 2005 related to hurricanes Katrina and Wilma.

The Company’s estimate of loss and loss expenses under hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma is based
on covered losses under the terms of the policies. The Company does not provide residential flood
insurance on its Personal Lines homeowners policies so the Company’s estimate of hurricane losses
on Personal Lines homeowners business does not include any provision for damages arising from flood
waters. The Company acts as an administrator for the Write Your Own flood program on behalf of the
National Flood Insurance Program under FEMA, for which it earns a fee for collecting premiums and
processing claims. Under the program, the Company services both personal lines and commercial
lines flood insurance policies and does not assume any underwriting risk. As a result, catastrophe
losses in the above table do not include any losses related to the Write Your Own flood program.

Prior accident year development recorded in 2005

Included within prior accident year development for the year ended December 31, 2005 were the
following reserve strengthenings (releases).

Business

Personal

Specialty

Ongoing

Other

Total

Insurance

Lines

Commercial

Operations

Operations

P&C

Strengthening of
workers’ compensation
reserves for claim
payments expected to
emerge after 20 years
of development

$


$

—

$


$


$

—

$


Release of 2003 and 2004 accident year workers’
compensation reserves

(75

)

—

—

(75

)

—

(75

)

Release of reserves for allocated loss adjustment
expenses

(25

)

(95

)

—

(120

)

—

(120

)

Strengthening of general liability reserves in
Business Insurance


—

—


—


Strengthening of reserves for 2004 hurricanes





—


Strengthening of assumed casualty reinsurance reserves

—

—

—

—



Strengthening of environmental reserves

—

—

—

—



Other reserve reestimates, net [1]


(9

)





Total prior accident year development for the year
ended December 31, 2005

$


$

(95

)

$


$


$


$


[1]

Includes reserve discount accretion of $30, including $13 in Business Insurance, $10 in
Specialty Commercial and $7 in Other Operations.

During the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company’s re-estimates of prior accident year
reserves included the following significant reserve changes.

Ongoing Operations

•

Strengthened workers’ compensation reserves for claim payments expected to emerge after 20
years of development by $120. For workers’ compensation claims involving permanent
disability, it is particularly difficult to estimate how such claims will develop more than 20
years after the year the claims were incurred (known as “the tail”). During 2005, the
Company’s actuaries performed an actuarial study to re-estimate the required reserves for
additional development beyond the 20th year following a claim being incurred. This study
involved gathering extensive historical data dating back over 50 years which could be used for
making these estimates and incorporated modeling using actuarial techniques that have recently
been developed within the actuarial profession. Based on the results of this analysis the
Company changed its previous estimate and increased the percentage of ultimate claim costs
expected to be paid after 20 years of development. As an example, within Business Insurance
this development percentage was increased from 8% to 9%. The $120 of reserve strengthening
represented a change in estimate which was 3% of the Company’s net reserves for workers’
compensation claims as of December 31, 2004.

•

Released reserves for workers’ compensation losses in Business Insurance on accident years
2003 and 2004 by $75. The state of California instituted reforms to its workers’ compensation
laws that began in 2003 and continued through 2005. In addition, in this same time frame, the
Company was taking underwriting actions to improve workers’ compensation underwriting
performance. Management recognized that the combination of the Company’s underwriting
initiatives and the state of California changes could,



over time, improve the Company’s
workers’ compensation experience. Verification of this improvement as a probable outcome,
however, would require sufficient supporting evidence. While there appeared to be some
favorable trends emerging in late 2004 with respect to accident year 2003 and while early
indications on accident year 2004 were favorable, senior reserving actuaries and senior
management were uncertain that these favorable trends were real and would be sustained. In
the third quarter of 2005, management concluded that sufficient evidence existed in the
actuarial data and methods to support a release of reserves. The actuarial work was further
supported by a review of underwriting metrics, supporting the effectiveness of the actions
taken, and by
discussions with claim handlers involved with the California workers’ compensation business.
The $75 reserve release represented a change in estimate which was 2% of the Company’s net
reserves for workers’ compensation claims as of December 31, 2004.

•

Released prior accident year reserves for allocated loss adjustment expenses by $120,
largely as the result of cost reduction initiatives implemented by the Company to reduce
allocated loss adjustment expenses for both legal and non-legal expenses as well as improved
actuarial techniques. The improved actuarial techniques included an analysis of claims
involving legal expenses separate from claims that do not involve legal expenses. This
analysis included a review of the trends in the number of claims involving legal expenses, the
average expenses incurred and trends in legal expenses. The release of $95 in Personal Lines
represented 5% of Personal Lines net reserves as of December 31, 2004.

•

Strengthened general liability reserves within Business Insurance by $40 for accident years
2000-2003 due to higher than anticipated loss payments beyond four years of development. The
$40 reserve strengthening represented 2% of the Company’s net reserves for general liability
claims as of December 31, 2004.

•

Strengthened reserves for loss and loss adjustment expenses related to the third quarter
2004 hurricanes by a total of $33. The main drivers of the increase were late-reported claims
for condominium assessments and increases in the costs of building materials and contracting
services.

•

Within the Specialty Commercial segment, there were other offsetting positive and negative
adjustments to prior accident year reserves. The principal offsetting adjustments were a
release of reserves for directors and officers insurance related to accident years 2003 and
2004 and strengthening of prior accident year reserves for contracts that provide auto
financing gap coverage and auto lease residual value coverage; the release and offsetting
strengthening were each approximately $80.

Other Operations

•

Strengthened assumed reinsurance reserves by $85, principally for accident years 1997
through 2001. In recent years, the Company has seen an increase in reported losses above
previous expectations and this increase in reported losses contributed to the reserve
re-estimates. Assumed reinsurance exposures are inherently less predictable than direct
insurance exposures because the Company may not receive notice of a reinsurance claim until
the underlying direct insurance claim is mature. The reserve strengthening of $85 represents
6% of the $1.3 billion of net Reinsurance reserves within Other Operations as of December 31,
2004.

•

Strengthened environmental reserves by $37 as a result of an environmental reserve
evaluation completed during the third quarter of 2005. While the review found no underlying
cause or change in the claim environment, loss estimates for individual cases changed based
upon the particular circumstances of each account. The $37 of reserve strengthening
represented 1% of the Company’s net reserves for asbestos and environmental claims as of
December 31, 2004.



A rollforward of liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses by segment for Property
& Casualty for the year ended December 31, 2004 follows:

For the year ended December 31, 2004

Business

Personal

Specialty

Ongoing

Other

Total

Insurance

Lines

Commercial

Operations

Operations[1]

P&C

Beginning liabilities for unpaid losses
and loss adjustment expenses-gross

$

5,296

$

1,733

$

5,148

$

12,177

$

9,538

$

21,715

Reinsurance and other recoverables



2,096

2,534

2,963

5,497

Beginning liabilities for unpaid losses
and loss adjustment expenses-net

4,901

1,690

3,052

9,643

6,575

16,218

Provision for unpaid losses and loss
adjustment expenses

Current year

2,700

2,509

1,345

6,554


6,590

Prior years

(67

)






Total provision for unpaid losses and
loss adjustment expenses

2,633

2,512

1,414

6,559


7,004

Payments [1]

(1,951

)

(2,392

)

(1,038

)

(5,381

)

(1,650

)

(7,031

)

Ending liabilities for unpaid losses and
loss adjustment expenses-net

5,583

1,810

3,428

10,821

5,370

16,191

Reinsurance and other recoverables



2,091

2,755

2,383

5,138

Ending liabilities for unpaid losses and
loss adjustment expenses-gross

$

6,057

$

2,000

$

5,519

$

13,576

$

7,753

$

21,329

Earned premiums

$

4,299

$

3,445

$

1,726

$

9,470

$


$

9,494

Loss and loss expense paid ratio [2]

45.4

69.4

59.9

56.8

Loss and loss expense incurred ratio

61.2

72.9

81.9

69.3

Prior accident year development (pts.) [3]

(1.6

)

0.1

4.0

0.1

[1]

Other Operations included payments pursuant to the MacArthur settlement.

[2]

The “loss and loss expense paid ratio” represents the ratio of paid loss and loss adjustment
expenses to earned premiums.

[3]

“Prior accident year development (pts)” represents the ratio of prior accident year development
to earned premiums.

2004 accident year catastrophe loss and loss adjustment expenses recorded in 2004

In 2004, the current accident year provision for loss and loss adjustment expenses of $6.6 billon
included net catastrophe loss and loss adjustment expenses of $523, of which $394 related to
hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne. Gross of reinsurance, current accident year
catastrophe losses were $811.

The Company’s estimates of net loss and loss expenses arising from hurricanes Charley, Frances,
Ivan and Jeanne were based on information from reported claims and estimates of reinsurance
recoverables on ceded losses. In the third quarter of 2004, the Company reinstated the limits
under its reinsurance programs that were exhausted by the 2004 hurricanes, resulting in additional
ceded premium of $17, which was reflected as a reduction in earned premium.



Prior accident year development recorded in 2004

Included within prior accident year development for the year ended December 31, 2004 were the
following reserve strengthenings (releases).

Year Ended December 31, 2004

Business

Personal

Specialty

Ongoing

Other

Total

Insurance

Lines

Commercial

Operations

Operations

P&C

Release of September 11 reserves

$

(175

)

$

(7

)

$

(116

)

$

(298

)

$

(97

)

$

(395

)

Strengthening of reserves for construction defects claims


—



—


Strengthening of reserves for auto liability and package
business


—

—


—


Reduction in the reinsurance recoverable asset
associated with older, long-term casualty liabilities,
including asbestos liabilities

—

—

—

—



Strengthening of environmental reserves

—

—

—

—



Strengthening of reserves for assumed casualty
reinsurance

—

—

—

—



Other reserve re-estimates, net [1]







Total prior accident year development for the year ended
December 31, 2004

$

(67

)

$


$


$


$


$


[1]

Includes reserve discount accretion of $29, including $13 in Business Insurance, $10 in
Specialty Commercial and $6 in Other Operations.

During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company’s re-estimates of prior accident year
reserves included the following significant reserve changes.

Ongoing Operations

•

Released September 11 net reserves by $298 due to favorable developments in 2004, including
the closure of primary insurance property cases, a high participation rate within the Victim’s
Compensation Fund and the expiration of the deadline for filing a liability claim in March
2004.

•

Strengthened reserves for construction defects claims by $190, representing 11% of the
Company’s $1.8 billion of net reserves for general liability claims as of December 31, 2004.
The Company’s construction defects claims, which relate primarily to accident years prior to
2000, experienced increasing severity, particularly due to losses from contractors in
California.

•

Strengthened auto liability reserves by $25 and package business reserves by $38 related to
accident years 1998 to 2002 as actual reported losses were above previous expectations. In
particular, the Company observed a higher frequency of large claims (generally those greater
than $100,000) than had been anticipated in prior estimates. The auto liability reserve
strengthening of $25 represented 1% of the Company’s net reserves for auto liability claims as
of December 31, 2004 and the package business reserve strengthening of $38 represented 3% of
the Company’s net reserves for package business as of December 31, 2004.

•

Within the Specialty Commercial segment there were other offsetting positive and negative
adjustments. The principal offsetting adjustments related to a strengthening in specialty
large deductible workers’ compensation reserves and a release in other liability reserves,
each approximately $150.

Other Operations

•

Reduced the reinsurance recoverable asset associated with older, long-term casualty
liabilities, including asbestos liabilities, by $181. Strengthened environmental reserves by
$75.

•

Strengthened reserves for assumed casualty reinsurance by $170, primarily related to
assumed casualty treaty reinsurance for the years 1997 through 2001. The $170 of
strengthening represented 13% of the $1.3 billion of net Reinsurance reserves as of December
31, 2004. In recent years, the Company had seen an increase in reported assumed reinsurance
claims above previous expectations and this increase in reported claims contributed to the
reserve re-estimates.

•

Released September 11 net reserves by $97 due to favorable developments, including a lack
of significant additional loss notices on assumed reinsurance property treaties.

Impact of Re-estimates

As explained in connection with the Company’s discussion of Critical Accounting Estimates, the
establishment of Property and Casualty reserves is an estimation process, using a variety of
methods, assumptions and data elements. Ultimate losses may vary significantly from the current
estimates. Many factors can contribute to these variations and the need to change the previous
estimate



of required reserve levels. Subsequent changes can generally be thought of as being the
result of the emergence of additional facts that were not known or anticipated at the time of the
prior reserve estimate and/or changes in interpretations of information and trends.

The table below shows the range of annual reserve re-estimates experienced by The Hartford over the
past six years. The amount of prior accident year development (as shown in the reserve
rollforward) for a given calendar year is expressed as a percent of the beginning calendar year
reserves, net of reinsurance. The percentage relationships presented are significantly influenced
by the facts and circumstances of each particular year and by the fact that only the last six years
are included in the range. Accordingly, these percentages are not intended to be a prediction of
the range of possible future variability. See “Impact of key assumptions on reserve volatility”
within Critical Accounting Estimates for further discussion of the potential for variability in
recorded loss reserves.

Business

Personal

Specialty

Ongoing

Other

Total

Insurance

Lines

Commercial

Operations

Operations

P&C

Range of prior
accident year
development for the
six years ended
December 31, 2006
[1] [2]

(1.4) – 0.5

(5.2) – 5.1

0.8 – 3.2

(0.5) – 1.4

2.9– 67.5

1.2 – 21.5

[1]

Bracketed prior accident year development indicates favorable development.
Unbracketed amounts represent unfavorable development.

[2]

Before the reserve strengthening for asbestos and environmental reserves over the past ten
years, reserve re-estimates for total Property & Casualty ranged from (3.0%) to 1.6% .

The potential variability of the Company’s Property & Casualty reserves would normally be expected
to vary by segment and the types of loss exposures insured by those segments. Illustrative factors
influencing the potential reserve variability for each of the segments are discussed under Critical
Accounting Estimates. In general, over the long term, the Company would expect the variability of
its Personal Lines reserve estimates to be relatively less than the variability of the reserve
estimates for its other property and casualty segments. The Company would expect the degree of
variability of the remaining segments’ reserve estimates, from lower variability to higher
variability, to be generally Business Insurance, Specialty Commercial, and Other Operations. The
actual relative variability could prove to be different than anticipated.

Risk Management Strategy

The Hartford’s property and casualty operations have processes to manage catastrophic risk
exposures to natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, and other perils, such as
terrorism. The Hartford’s risk management processes include, but are not limited to, disciplined
underwriting protocols, exposure controls, sophisticated risk modeling, effective risk transfer,
and efficient capital management strategies.

In managing risk, The Hartford’s management processes involve establishing underwriting guidelines
for both individual risks, including individual policy limits, and in aggregate, including
aggregate exposure limits by geographic zone and peril. The Company establishes risk limits and
actively monitors the risk exposures as a percent of Property & Casualty surplus. For natural
catastrophe perils, the Company generally limits its estimated loss to natural catastrophes from a
single 250-year event prior to reinsurance to less than 30% of statutory surplus of the Property &
Casualty operations and its estimated loss to natural catastrophes from a single 250-year event
after reinsurance to less than 15% of statutory surplus of the Property & Casualty operations.
Currently, the Company’s estimated pre-tax loss to a single 250-year natural catastrophe event
prior to reinsurance is 31% of statutory surplus of the Property & Casualty operations and the
Company’s estimated pre-tax loss net of reinsurance is less than 15% of statutory surplus of the
Property & Casualty operations. For terrorism, the Company monitors its exposure in major
metropolitan areas to a single-site conventional terrorism attack scenario, and manages its
potential estimated loss, including exposures resulting from the Company’s Group Life operations,
to less than 7% of the combined statutory surplus of the Life and Property and Casualty operations.
Among the 208 locations specifically monitored by the Company, the largest estimated modeled loss
arising from a single event is approximately $736, which represents 5.1% of the combined statutory
surplus of the Life and Property and Casualty operations as of December 31, 2006. The Company
monitors exposures monthly and employs both internally developed and vendor-licensed loss modeling
tools as part of its risk management discipline.

Use of Reinsurance

In managing risk, The Hartford utilizes reinsurance to transfer risk to well-established and
financially secure reinsurers. Reinsurance is used to manage aggregations of risk as well as
specific risks based on accumulated property and casualty liabilities in certain geographic zones.
All treaty purchases related to the Company’s property and casualty operations are administered by
a centralized function to support a consistent strategy and ensure that the reinsurance activities
are fully integrated into the organization’s risk management processes.

A variety of traditional reinsurance products are used as part of the Company’s risk management
strategy, including excess of loss occurrence-based products that protect aggregate property and
workers’ compensation exposures, and individual risk or quota share arrangements, that protect
specific classes or lines of business. There are no significant finite risk contracts in place and
the statutory surplus benefit from all such prior year contracts is immaterial. Facultative
reinsurance is also used to manage policy-specific risk
exposures based on established underwriting guidelines. The Hartford also participates in
governmentally administered reinsurance facilities such as the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund
(“FHCF”), the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program established under The



Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005 and other reinsurance programs relating to
particular risks or specific lines of business.

The Company has several catastrophe reinsurance programs, including reinsurance treaties that cover
property and workers’ compensation losses aggregating from single catastrophe events. The
following table summarizes the primary catastrophe treaty reinsurance coverages that the Company
has in place as of January 1, 2007:

% of layer(s)

Coverage

Treaty term

reinsured

Per occurrence limit

Retention

Principal property

catastrophe program

covering property

catastrophe losses

from a single event

1/1/2007 to 1/1/2008

Varies by layer,
but averages 87%
across all layers

Aggregates to $750
across all layers

$


[1]

Layer covering
property
catastrophe losses
from a single wind
or earthquake event
affecting the
northeast of the
United States from
Virginia to Maine

6/1/2006 to 6/1/2007


%


1,000

Property
catastrophe losses
from a single event
on excess and
surplus property
business

1/1/2007 to 1/1/2008


%



Property

catastrophe losses

from a single event

on property

business written

with national

accounts

7/1/2006 to 7/1/2007


%



Reinsurance with

the Florida

Hurricane

Catastrophe Fund

covering Florida

Personal Lines

property

catastrophe losses

from a single event

6/1/2006 to 6/1/2007


%



Workers’

compensation losses

arising from a

single catastrophe

event

7/1/2006 to 7/1/2007


%



[1]

Under certain conditions, the Company’s loss retention from a single event could be
reduced to $200 for a second or subsequent event.

In addition to the property catastrophe reinsurance coverage described in the above table, the
Company has other treaties and facultative reinsurance agreements that cover property catastrophe
losses on an aggregate excess of loss and on a per risk basis. Property catastrophe losses
incurred on property business written with national accounts is also reimbursable under the
principal catastrophe reinsurance program, subject to the overall program limits and retention. In
the aftermath of the 2004 and 2005 hurricane season, third-party catastrophe loss models for
hurricane loss events were updated to incorporate medium-term forecasts of increased hurricane
frequency and severity.

The principal property catastrophe reinsurance program and other reinsurance programs include a
provision to reinstate limits in the event that a catastrophe loss exhausts limits on one or more
layers under the treaties.

In addition to the reinsurance protection provided by The Hartford’s reinsurance program described
above, the Company has fully collateralized reinsurance coverages from Foundation Re and Foundation
Re II for losses sustained from qualifying hurricane and earthquake loss events and other
qualifying catastrophe losses. Foundation Re and Foundation Re II are Cayman Islands reinsurance
companies which financed the provision of the reinsurance through the issuance of catastrophe
bonds. Under the terms of the treaties with Foundation Re and Foundation Re II, the Company is
reimbursed for losses from natural disaster events using a customized industry index contract
designed to replicate the Hartford’s own catastrophe losses, with a provision that the actual
losses incurred by the Company for covered events, net of reinsurance recoveries, cannot be less
than zero.



The following table summarizes the terms of the reinsurance treaties with Foundation Re and
Foundation Re II that were in place as of January 1, 2007:

Bond amount

issued by

Foundation Re

or

Covered perils

Treaty term

Covered losses

Foundation Re II

Hurricane loss
events affecting
the Gulf and
Eastern Coast of
the United States

11/17/2004 to
11/24/2008

45% of $400 in
losses in excess of
an index loss
trigger equating to
approximately $1.3
billion in Hartford
losses.

$


Hurricane and
earthquake loss
events which occur
in the year
following a large
hurricane or
earthquake event
that has an
estimated
occurrence
probability of
1-in-100 years

11/17/2004 to
1/6/2009

90% of $75 in
losses in excess of
an index loss
trigger equating to
approximately $125
in Hartford losses.


Hurricane loss
events affecting
the Gulf and
Eastern Coast of
the United States
and loss events
arising from
California, Pacific
Northwest, and New
Madrid earthquakes.

2/17/2006 to
2/24/2010

26% of $400 in
losses in excess of
an index loss
trigger equating to
approximately $1.3
billion in Hartford
losses.


Hurricane loss
events affecting
the Gulf and
Eastern Coast of
the United States

11/17/2006 to
11/26/2010

45% of $400 in
losses in excess of
an index loss
trigger equating to
approximately $1.85
billion in Hartford
losses.


Annual aggregate of
hurricane,
earthquake and
tornado/hail events
in the continuous
continental United
States that result
in $100 and $29.5
billion in industry
losses

11/17/2006 to
1/8/2009

45% of $150 in
losses in excess of
an index loss
trigger equating to
approximately $462
in annual aggregate
Hartford losses.


As of December 31, 2006, there have been no events that are expected to trigger a recovery under
any of the reinsurance programs with Foundation Re or Foundation Re II and, accordingly, the
Company has not recorded any recoveries from the associated reinsurance treaties.

Estimated Catastrophe Exposures

The Company uses third party models to estimate the potential loss resulting from various
catastrophe events and the potential financial impact those events would have on the Company’s
financial position and results of operations. The following table shows modeled loss estimates
before expected reinsurance recoveries and after expected reinsurance recoveries. The loss
estimates represent total property losses for hurricane events and property and workers
compensation losses for earthquake events resulting from a single event. The estimates provided
are based on 250-year return period loss estimates, which have a 0.4% likelihood of being exceeded
in any single year. The net loss estimates assume that the Company would be able to recover all
losses ceded to reinsurers under its reinsurance programs. There are various methodologies used in
the industry to estimate the potential property and workers’ compensation losses that would arise
from various catastrophe events and companies may use different models and assumptions in their
estimates. Therefore, the Company’s estimates of gross and net losses arising from a 250-year
hurricane or earthquake event may not be comparable to estimates provided by other companies.
Furthermore, the Company’s estimates are subject to significant uncertainty and could vary
materially from the actual losses that would arise from these events.



The Company’s modeled loss estimates are derived by averaging 21 modeled loss events representing a
250-year return period loss. For the peril of earthquake, the 21 events averaged to determine the
modeled loss estimate include events occurring in California as well as the Northeastern,
Southeastern and Midwestern regions of the United States with associated magnitudes ranging from
6.5 to 7.9 on the Richter scale. For the peril of hurricane, the 21 events averaged to determine
the modeled loss estimate include category 3, 4 and 5 events in Florida as well as other
Southeastern, Northeastern and Gulf region landfalls.

Hurricane

Earthquake

Net of

Expected

Net of Expected

Before

Reinsurance

Before

Reinsurance

Reinsurance

Recoveries

Reinsurance

Recoveries

Estimated 250-year
probable maximum
loss, before-tax

$

2,522

$


$

1,259

$


Percentage of
statutory surplus
of the Property &
Casualty operations
as of December 31,


%


%

Terrorism

For terrorism, private sector catastrophe reinsurance capacity is limited and generally unavailable
for terrorism losses caused by nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological weapons attacks. As
such, the Company’s principal reinsurance protection against large-scale terrorist attacks is the
coverage currently provided through the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005 (TRIEA).
On December 22, 2005, the President signed TRIEA extending the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002
(“TRIA”) through the end of 2007. TRIA provides a backstop for insurance-related losses resulting
from any “act of terrorism” certified by the Secretary of the Treasury, in concurrence with the
Secretary of State and Attorney General, that results in industry losses in excess of $100 in 2007.
Under the program, the federal government would pay 85% of covered losses from a certified act of
terrorism in 2007 after an insurer’s losses exceed 20% of the Company’s eligible direct commercial
earned premiums in 2006, up to a combined annual aggregate limit for the federal government and all
insurers of $100 billion. If an act of terrorism or acts of terrorism result in covered losses
exceeding the $100 billion annual limit, Congress will be responsible for determining how
additional losses in excess of $100 billion will be paid.

Among other items, TRIEA required that the President’s Working Group on Financial Markets (PWG)
perform an analysis regarding the long-term availability and affordability of insurance for
terrorism risk. Among the findings detailed in the PWG’s report, released October 2, 2006, were
that the high level of uncertainty associated with predicting the frequency of terrorist attacks,
coupled with the unwillingness of some insurance policyholders to purchase insurance coverage,
makes predicting long term development of the terrorism risk market difficult, and that there is
likely little potential for future market development for nuclear, biological, chemical and
radiological (NBCR) coverage. A September 2006 study by the U.S. Government Accountability Office
on insuring NBCR terrorism risk similarly concluded that any market-driven expansion of coverage is
highly unlikely in the foreseeable future.

It is uncertain whether a federal terrorism risk insurance program similar to TRIEA will be enacted
to cover events occurring after December 31, 2007. Given the possibility that TRIEA may not be
extended beyond December 31, 2007 and the limited private terrorism reinsurance capacity available,
including reinsurance against losses from terrorism acts using weapons of mass destruction, the
Company has been actively managing its exposures to the peril of terrorism, including adopting
underwriting actions designed to reduce exposures in specific locations of the country. The
Company has worked with various industry groups to develop policy exclusions related to the peril
of terrorism, including those associated with nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological
attacks. The Company may include such exclusions in policies in the future in those jurisdictions
and classes of business where such exclusions are permitted, and take additional underwriting
actions as deemed appropriate.

Florida Citizens Assessments

Citizens Property Insurance Corporation in Florida (“Citizens”) provides property insurance to
Florida homeowners and businesses that are unable to obtain insurance from other carriers,
including for properties deemed to be “high risk”. Citizens maintains a Personal Lines account, a
Commercial Lines account and a High Risk account. If Citizens incurs a deficit in any of these
accounts, Citizens may impose a “regular assessment” on other insurance carriers in the state to
fund the deficits, subject to certain restrictions and subject to approval by the Florida Office of
Insurance Regulation. Carriers are then permitted to surcharge policyholders to recover the
assessments over the next few years. Citizens may also opt to finance a portion of the deficits
through issuing bonds and may impose “emergency assessments” on other insurance carriers to fund
the bond repayments. Unlike with regular assessments, however, insurance carriers only serve as a
collection agent for emergency assessments and are not required to remit surcharges for emergency
assessments to Citizens until they collect surcharges from policyholders. Under generally accepted
accounting principles, the Company is required to accrue for regular assessments in the period the
assessments become probable and estimable and the obligating event has



occurred. Surcharges to recover the amount of regular assessments may not be recorded as an asset
until the related premium is written. Emergency assessments that may be levied by Citizens are not
recorded in the income statement.

In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company accrued an estimated $46 for regular assessments based
on estimates of the deficits in each account at the time. In the second quarter of 2006, the
Florida legislature approved the use of $715 of state tax revenues to partially offset the deficits
in Citizens’ High Risk, Commercial Lines and Personal Lines accounts. During the second quarter of
2006, Citizens’ management also finalized its estimate of the 2004 and 2005 hurricane losses that
would be used in calculating the deficits in each account. In the third quarter of 2006, the Board
of Governors of Citizens approved a final assessment for the 2005 account year and the Company
received the assessment notice during the fourth quarter of 2006. The estimates of the deficits in
the Personal Lines account and Commercial Lines account were lower than previously anticipated by
the Company. As a result of these changes in estimates, during the Company reduced its accrual for
Citizens’ assessments by $41, from $46 to $5. The reduction in the amount of the estimated regular
assessment also reduces the amount of surcharges that will be billed to policyholders to recoup the
assessments in the future. As of December 31, 2006, the Company has collected $12 in surcharges
related to the $15 Citizens assessment for the 2004 Florida hurricanes.

Reinsurance Recoverables

The following table shows the components of the gross and net reinsurance recoverable as of
December 31, 2006 and 2005:

December 31,

December 31,



Reinsurance Recoverable

Paid loss and loss adjustment expenses

$


$


Unpaid loss and loss adjustment expenses

4,417

5,393

Gross reinsurance recoverable

4,877

5,973

Less: allowance for uncollectible reinsurance

(412

)

(413

)

Net reinsurance recoverable

$

4,465

$

5,560

Reinsurance recoverables represent loss and loss adjustment expenses recoverable from a number of
entities, including reinsurers and pools. As shown in the following table, a portion of the total
gross reinsurance recoverable relates to the Company’s mandatory participation in various
involuntary assigned risk pools and the value of annuity contracts held under structured settlement
agreements. Reinsurance recoverables due from mandatory pools are backed by the financial strength
of the property and casualty insurance industry. Annuities purchased from third party life
insurers under structured settlements are recognized as reinsurance recoverables in cases where the
Company has not obtained a release from the claimant. Of the remaining gross reinsurance
recoverable as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the following table shows the portion of recoverables
due from companies rated by A.M. Best.

December 31, 2006

December 31, 2005

Distribution of gross reinsurance
recoverable

Gross reinsurance recoverable

$

4,877

$

5,973

Less: mandatory (assigned risk)
pools and structured settlements

(673

)

(495

)

Gross reinsurance recoverable
excluding mandatory pools and
structured settlements

$

4,204

$

5,478

% of Total

% of Total

Rated A- (Excellent) or better
by A.M. Best [1]

$

3,050

72.5

%

$

3,629

66.2

%

Other rated by A.M. Best


3.9

%


4.3

%

Total rated companies

3,212

76.4

%

3,862

70.5

%

Voluntary pools


5.3

%


5.3

%

Captives


4.7

%


3.4

%

Other not rated companies


13.6

%

1,137

20.8

%

Total

$

4,204

100.0

%

$

5,478

100.0

%

[1]

Based on A.M. Best ratings as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively

.

Where its contracts permit, the Company secures future claim obligations with various forms of
collateral, including irrevocable letters of credit, secured trusts, funds held accounts and group
wide offsets. As part of its reinsurance recoverable review, the Company analyzes recent
developments in commutation activity between reinsurers and cedants, recent trends in arbitration
and litigation outcomes in disputes between cedants and reinsurers and the overall credit quality
of the Company’s reinsurers. Due to the inherent uncertainties as to collection and the length of
time before such amounts will be due, it is possible that future adjustments to the Company’s
reinsurance recoverables, net of the allowance, could be required, which could have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or cash flows in a particular
quarterly or annual period.



Annually, the Company completes an evaluation of the reinsurance recoverable asset associated with
older, long-term casualty liabilities reported in the Other Operations segment. As a result of
this evaluation, the Company reduced its net reinsurance recoverable by $243 in 2006. See the
“Other Operations” section of the MD&A for further discussion.

Monitoring Reinsurer Security

To manage the potential credit risk resulting from the use of reinsurance, management evaluates
the credit standing, financial performance, management and operational quality of each potential
reinsurer. Through that process, the Company maintains a list of reinsurers approved for
participation on all treaty and facultative reinsurance placements. The Company’s approval
designations reflect the differing credit exposure associated with various classes of business.
Participation authorizations are categorized along property, short-tail casualty and long-tail
casualty lines. In addition to defining participation eligibility, the Company regularly monitors
each active reinsurer’s credit risk exposure in the aggregate and limits that exposure based upon
independent credit rating levels.

Unless otherwise specified, the following discussion speaks to changes for the year ended December
31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2005 compared
to the year ended December 31, 2004.

TOTAL PROPERTY & CASUALTY




Operating Summary

Earned premiums [1]

$

10,433

$

10,156

$

9,494

Net investment income

1,486

1,365

1,248

Other revenues [2]




Net realized capital gains




Total revenues

12,401

12,028

11,311

Losses and loss adjustment expenses [3]

Current year

6,706

6,715

6,590

Prior year [4]




Total losses and loss adjustment expenses

7,002

6,963

7,004

Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs

2,106

1,997

1,850

Insurance operating costs and expenses




Other expense




Total benefits, losses and expenses

10,331

10,308

10,126

Income before income taxes

2,070

1,720

1,185

Income tax expense




Net income [5]

$

1,519

$

1,236

$


Net Income (Loss)

Ongoing Operations

$

1,554

$

1,165

$


Other Operations

(35

)


(45

)

Total Property & Casualty net income

$

1,519

$

1,236

$


[1]

Includes reinstatement premiums related to hurricanes of $73 in 2005 and reinstatement premiums related to hurricanes of $17 in 2004.

[2]

Primarily servicing revenue.

[3]

Includes 2006 catastrophes of $129, 2005 catastrophes of $365 and 2004 catastrophes of $507,
before the net reserve release of $395 related to September 11.

[4]

Net prior year incurred losses in 2006 includes the effect of reducing net reinsurance
recoverables by $243 as a result of an agreement with Equitas and strengthening of the
allowance for uncollectible reinsurance.

[5]

Includes net realized capital gains, after tax, of

$46

, $29 and $87 for the years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Net income increased by $283, or 23%, as a result of a $389 increase in Ongoing Operations’ net
income partially offset by a $106 decrease in Other Operations’ results. Other Operations reported
a net loss of $35 in 2006 compared to net income of $71 in 2005. See the Ongoing Operations and
Other Operations segment MD&A discussions for an analysis of the underwriting results and
investment performance driving the change in net income.

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Net income increased by $326, or 36%, as a result of a $210 increase in Ongoing Operations’ net
income and a $116 increase in Other Operations’ net income. See the Ongoing Operations and Other
Operations segment MD&A discussions for an analysis of the underwriting results and investment
performance driving the change in net income.



ONGOING OPERATIONS

Ongoing Operations includes the three underwriting segments of Business Insurance, Personal
Lines and Specialty Commercial.

Earned Premiums

Earned premium growth is an objective for Business Insurance and Personal Lines. Earned premium
growth is not a specific objective for Specialty Commercial since Specialty Commercial is comprised
of transactional businesses where premium writings may fluctuate based on the segment’s view of
perceived market opportunity. Written premiums are earned over the policy term, which is six
months for certain Personal Lines auto business and 12 months for substantially all of the
remainder of the Company’s business. Written pricing, new business growth and premium renewal
retention are factors that contribute to growth in written and earned premium.




Written premiums [1]

Business Insurance

$

5,185

$

5,001

$

4,575

Personal Lines

3,877

3,676

3,557

Specialty Commercial

1,596

1,806

1,840

Total

$

10,658

$

10,483

$

9,972

Earned premiums [1]

Business Insurance

$

5,118

$

4,785

$

4,299

Personal Lines

3,760

3,610

3,445

Specialty Commercial

1,550

1,757

1,726

Total

$

10,428

$

10,152

$

9,470

[1]

The difference between written premiums and earned premiums is attributable to the change
in unearned premium reserve.

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

•

Total Ongoing Operations’ earned premiums grew $276, or 3%, due primarily to growth
in Business Insurance and Personal Lines, partially offset by a decrease in Specialty
Commercial. Contributing to the growth in earned premium was a $73 reduction of earned
premium in 2005 due to catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium payable to reinsurers as
a result of losses from hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma, including $16 in Business
Insurance, $31 in Personal Lines and $26 in Specialty Commercial. Before catastrophe
treaty reinstatement premium, Ongoing Operations’ earned premium grew $203, or 2%, for
2006.

•

For the year ended December 31, 2006, earned premiums grew $333, or 7%, in Business
Insurance and grew $150, or 4%, in Personal Lines. Apart from the effect of catastrophe
treaty reinstatement premium in 2005, the growth was primarily driven by new business
premium outpacing non-renewals over the last six months of 2005 and the full year of 2006
and the effect of earned pricing increases in homeowners, partially offset by the effect
of higher property catastrophe treaty reinsurance costs and earned pricing decreases in
middle market.

•

Specialty Commercial earned premiums decreased by $207, or 12%, primarily driven by
a decrease in casualty, property and other earned premiums, partially offset by an
increase in professional liability, fidelity and surety. Casualty earned premiums
decreased by $220, primarily because of the non-renewal of a single captive insurance
program. The decrease in property earned premium is primarily due to a decline in new
business, an increase in catastrophe treaty reinsurance costs and a strategic decision
not to renew certain accounts with properties in catastrophe-prone areas.

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

•

Total Ongoing Operations’ earned premiums grew $682, or 7%, due primarily to growth
in Business Insurance and Personal Lines. Earned premiums were net of third and fourth
quarter property catastrophe reinstatement premiums related to hurricanes totaling $73 in
2005 and $17 in 2004.

•

Earned premium growth of $486 in Business Insurance was primarily driven by new business
premium growth outpacing non-renewals over the last six months of 2004 and the full year
of 2005. Earned premium growth of $165 in Personal Lines was primarily driven by new
business growth outpacing non-renewals in auto and the effect of earned pricing increases
in homeowners.

•

Specialty Commercial earned premiums increased by $31, primarily driven by a $90
reduction in earned premiums under retrospectively-rated policies during 2004 and
increases in casualty, professional liability, fidelity and surety and other premiums,
partially offset by a $216 decrease in property earned premiums, primarily due to a
decrease of $127 from exiting the multi-peril crop insurance business during 2004.



Operating Summary

Net income for Ongoing Operations includes underwriting results for each of its segments, income
from servicing businesses, net investment income, other expenses and net realized capital gains
(losses), net of related income taxes.




Operating Summary

Written premiums

$

10,658

$

10,483

$

9,972

Change in unearned premium reserve




Earned premiums

10,428

10,152

9,470

Losses and loss adjustment expenses

Current year

6,706

6,715

6,554

Prior year

(64

)



Total losses and loss adjustment expenses

6,642

6,751

6,559

Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs

2,106

2,000

1,845

Insurance operating costs and expenses




Underwriting results

1,111



Net servicing income [1]




Net investment income

1,225

1,082


Net realized capital gains (losses)

(17

)



Other expenses

(222

)

(202

)

(198

)

Income tax expense

(596

)

(474

)

(335

)

Net income

$

1,554

$

1,165

$


Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio

Current year

64.3

66.1

69.2

Prior year

(0.6

)

0.4

0.1

Total loss and loss adjustment expense ratio

63.7

66.5

69.3

Expense ratio

25.6

26.5

25.9

Policyholder dividend ratio

0.1

0.1

0.1

Combined ratio

89.3

93.2

95.3

Catastrophe ratio

Current year

1.9

3.5

5.5

Prior year

(0.7

)

0.1

(3.3

)

Total catastrophe ratio

1.2

3.6

2.2

Combined ratio before catastrophes

88.1

89.6

93.1

Combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development

88.0

89.4

89.7

[1]      Net of expenses related to service business.

Current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio

Current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio
before catastrophes

62.4

62.7

63.7

Current accident year catastrophe ratio

1.9

3.5

5.5

Current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio

64.3

66.1

69.2

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Net income increased by $389, or 33%, driven primarily by the following factors:

•

A $420 increase in underwriting results with a corresponding decrease in the combined ratio of 3.9 points, to 89.3, and

•

A $143 increase in net investment income.

Partially offsetting the improvements in net income were the following factors:

•

Net realized capital losses were $17 in 2006 compared to net realized gains of $19 in 2005,

•

A $20 increase in other expenses, due primarily to lower bad debt expense in 2005, and

•

A $122 increase in income tax expense, primarily reflecting an increase in income before income taxes, partially
offset by a $49 income tax benefit resulting from the sale of Omni.



Underwriting results increased by $420 due to:

Increase in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes

$


Lower current accident year catastrophe losses


Change to net favorable prior accident year development


Increase in underwriting results from 2005 to 2006

$


Increase in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes

The $168 improvement in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes was
primarily due to:

The catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium that was recorded as a reduction of earned
premium in 2005

$


Excluding catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium:

— A decrease in the combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development


— A $203 increase in earned premium growth at a combined ratio less than 100.0


Increase in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes from 2005
to 2006

$


Before reinstatement premium, a lower combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident
year development improved current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes by
$72. The 1.4 point decrease in the combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year
development, to 88.0, was primarily driven by:

•

A 0.9 point decrease in the expense ratio, to 25.6, largely because of a $41 decrease
in estimated Citizens’ assessments in 2006 compared to a $64 increase in Citizens
assessments in 2005. Almost all of the Citizens assessments are for assessments charged
by the Citizens Property Insurance Corporation (Citizens) in Florida, a company
established by the State of Florida to provide personal and commercial insurance to
individuals and businesses in Florida who are in high risk areas of the state and are
unable to obtain insurance through the private insurance markets.

•

A 0.3 point decrease in the current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense
ratio before catastrophes, to 62.4, largely due to the effect that catastrophe treaty
reinstatement premium had on the ratio in 2005. Apart from the effect of catastrophe
treaty reinstatement premium, the current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense
ratio before catastrophes increased slightly due to a slight increase in the ratio for
both Business Insurance and Personal Lines. The slight deterioration in Business
Insurance was primarily due to an increase in non-catastrophe property loss costs in
middle market, the effect of earned pricing decreases in middle market and the effect of a
shift to more workers’ compensation premium which has a higher loss and loss adjustment
expense ratio than other business in the segment. Partially offsetting the deterioration
in Business Insurance was a lower loss and loss adjustment expense ratio on small
commercial workers’ compensation business. The deterioration in Personal Lines was
principally due to an increase in non-catastrophe property loss costs for homeowners and
an increase in the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio for auto liability claims due to
a shift to more Dimensions product business within Agency.

Lower current accident year catastrophe losses

Current accident year catastrophe losses decreased by $152, from $351 in 2005 to $199 in 2006.
The decrease in current accident year catastrophe losses was primarily due to $264 of net
losses incurred for hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma in 2005, partially offset by an increase
in non-hurricane related catastrophes in 2006. Catastrophe losses in 2006 included tornadoes
and hail storms in the Midwest and windstorms in Texas and on the East coast.

Change to net favorable prior accident year development

The $64 of net favorable prior accident year development in 2006 for Ongoing Operations was
primarily due to an $83 release of prior accident year hurricane reserves and a $58 release of
allocated loss adjustment expense reserves for workers’ compensation and package business,
partially offset by reserve strengthenings in Specialty Commercial. Net unfavorable reserve
development of $36 in 2005 included a $120 increase in workers’ compensation reserves related
to reserves for claim payments expected to emerge after 20 years of development, a $40
strengthening of general liability reserves within Business Insurance for accident years 2000
to 2003 due to higher than anticipated loss payments beyond four years of development and $33
of reserve strengthening related to the third quarter 2004 hurricanes. Partially offsetting
the reserve increases in 2005 was a $95 reduction in prior accident year reserves for allocated
loss adjustment expenses, predominantly related to auto liability claims and a $75 reduction in
workers’ compensation reserves recorded related to accident years 2003 and 2004. See the
“Reserves” section of the MD&A for further discussion of reserve development.

The $143 increase in net investment income was primarily because of a larger investment base due to
increased cash flows from underwriting and an increase in capital and invested assets attributed to
Ongoing Operations as well as an increase in interest rates and



a change in asset mix (i.e., a greater share of investments in mortgage loans and limited
partnerships). The $17 in net realized capital losses during 2006 included a $24 pre-tax realized
capital loss from the sale of Omni, an increase in other-than-temporary-impairments and losses on
the sale of fixed maturity investments, partially offset by an increase in income from other
sources. (See the Other-Than-Temporary Impairments discussion within Investment Results for more
information on the increase in impairments).

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Net income increased $210, or 22%, driven primarily by the following:

•

A $246 increase in underwriting results with a corresponding 2.1 point improvement in the combined
ratio, from 95.3 to 93.2, and

•

A $179 increase in net investment income.

The improvements in net income were partially offset by:

•

A $79 decrease in net realized capital gains due to lower net realized gains on the sale of fixed
maturity investments and lower net gains on non-qualifying derivatives, and

•

A $139 increase in income tax expense, reflecting an increase in income before income taxes.

Underwriting results increased by $246 due to:

Lower current accident year catastrophe losses

$


Increase in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes


Increase in net unfavorable prior accident year development

(31

)

Increase in underwriting results from 2004 to 2005

$


Lower current accident year catastrophe losses

Current accident year catastrophe losses decreased by $171, from $522 in 2004 to $351 in 2005.
Catastrophe losses in 2005 for Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma were $264 compared to
catastrophe losses in 2004 for Hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne of $394.

Increase in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes

The $106 improvement in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes was
primarily due to:

An increase in catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium recorded as a reduction of earned
premium

$

(56

)

Excluding catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium:

— A decrease in the combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development


— A $738 increase in earned premium at a combined ratio less than 100.0


Increase in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes from 2004
to 2005

$


Before reinstatement premium, a lower combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year
development improved current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes by $85. The
0.3 point decrease in the combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year
development, to 89.4, was primarily driven by a 1.0 point decrease in the current accident year
loss and loss adjustment expense ratio before catastrophes, partially offset by a 0.6 point
increase in the expense ratio.

•

The current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio before catastrophes
decreased by 1.0 point, to 62.7, primarily due to improved current accident year
performance for auto bodily injury and workers’ compensation claims, partially offset by
the effect of an increase in non-catastrophe property loss costs. Non-catastrophe
property loss costs increased primarily due to increasing claim severity and, in specialty
property, increasing claim frequency as well.

•

The expense ratio increased 0.6 points during 2005, to 26.5, primarily due to $64 of
hurricane related assessments incurred in 2005 related to the 2004 and 2005 hurricanes.
Apart from the impact of hurricane related assessments, the favorable effects on the
expense ratio of an increase in earned premiums, a reduction in contingent commissions and
a shift to lower commission workers’ compensation business were offset by the unfavorable
effects of an increase in catastrophe treaty reinstatement premiums and reduced catastrophe
treaty profit commissions. The reduction in contingent commissions was due, in part, to a
decision made by some agents and brokers not to accept contingent commissions after the
third quarter of 2004. The hurricane-related assessments were predominantly from Citizens.
The third quarter 2004 hurricanes caused a deficit in Citizens’ “high risk” account, which
triggered an assessment to the Company of $15. In addition, the Company recorded an
estimated Citizens’ assessment of $46 based on losses sustained by Citizens as a result of
hurricane Wilma in the fourth quarter of 2005.



Increase in net unfavorable prior accident year development

There was a $31 increase in net unfavorable prior accident year reserve development, from $5 of
net unfavorable prior accident year development in 2004 to $36 of net unfavorable prior accident
year reserve development in 2005. Net unfavorable reserve development of $36 in 2005 included a
$120 increase in workers’ compensation reserves related to reserves for claim payments expected
to emerge after 20 years of development, a $40 strengthening of general liability reserves
within Business Insurance for accident years 2000 to 2003 due to higher than anticipated loss
payments beyond four years of development and $33 of reserve strengthening related to the third
quarter 2004 hurricanes. Partially offsetting the reserve increases in 2005 was a $95 reduction
in prior accident year reserves for allocated loss adjustment expenses, predominantly related to
auto liability claims and a $75 reduction in workers’ compensation reserves recorded related to
accident years 2003 and 2004. Net unfavorable prior accident year reserve development of $5 in
2004 included reserve increases of $303, partially offset by a reserve release of $298 for
September 11. Reserve increases in 2004 included $190 for construction defect claims, $38 for
small commercial package business and $25 for auto liability claims.

The $179 increase in net investment income was due, in part, to a larger investment base due to
increased cash flows from underwriting, higher investment yields on fixed maturity investments and
an increase in income from limited partnership investments.

Also contributing to the increase, was an increase in capital and invested assets attributed to
Ongoing Operations in 2005. Less invested assets were needed in Other Operations given the
reduction in Other Operations’ loss reserves and the reduction in invested assets needed to support
those reserves.

BUSINESS INSURANCE

Business Insurance provides standard commercial insurance coverage to small and middle market
commercial businesses, primarily throughout the United States. This segment offers workers’
compensation, property, automobile, liability, umbrella and marine coverages. The Business
Insurance segment also provides commercial risk management products and services.




Premiums

Written Premiums [1]

Small Commercial

$

2,728

$

2,545

$

2,255

Middle Market

2,457

2,456

2,320

Total

$

5,185

$

5,001

$

4,575

Earned Premiums [1]

Small Commercial

$

2,652

$

2,421

$

2,077

Middle Market

2,466

2,364

2,222

Total

$

5,118

$

4,785

$

4,299

[1]

The difference between written premiums and earned premiums is attributable to the change in
unearned premium reserve .




Premium Measures

New Business Premium

Small Commercial

$


$


$


Middle Market

$


$


$


Premium Renewal Retention

Small Commercial


%


%


%

Middle Market


%


%


%

Written Pricing Increase (Decrease)

Small Commercial


%


%


%

Middle Market

(4

%)

(5

%)

(1

%)

Earned Pricing Increase (Decrease)

Small Commercial


%


%


%

Middle Market

(5

%)

(3

%)


%

Earned Premiums

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Earned premiums for the Business Insurance segment increased $333, or 7%. The increase was
primarily due to new business growth outpacing non-renewals in both small commercial and middle
market over the last six months of 2005 and the full year of 2006. Also contributing to the
increase in earned premiums was $16 of catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium payable to
reinsurers recorded as a reduction of earned premium in 2005. Partially offsetting the increase in
earned premium was the effect of earned pricing decreases in middle market and higher property
catastrophe treaty reinsurance costs.



•

Small commercial earned premium grew $231, or 10%,
driven primarily by earned premium growth in workers’
compensation and package business for both Select Xpand and
traditional Select business. Premium renewal retention for
small commercial decreased slightly for the year ended
December 31, 2006, from 88% to 87%, primarily due to
commercial auto business. New business written premium for
small commercial decreased by $47, or 8%, for the year ended
December 31, 2006, primarily due to lower production of new
workers’ compensation, auto and package policies. Despite an
increase in the number of appointed agents to expand writings
in certain territories, actions taken by some of the
Company’s competitors to increase commissions for workers’
compensation business may be contributing to the Company’s
lower new business growth.

•

Middle market earned premium grew $102, or 4%, driven
primarily by growth in workers’ compensation and marine
earned premium. Premium renewal retention for middle market
increased slightly for the year ended December 31, 2006, from
81% to 82%, primarily driven by workers’ compensation
business. In response to increased competition, management
has focused heavily on premium renewal retention. New
business written premium for middle market decreased by $138,
or 23%, for the year ended December 31, 2006, primarily due
to increased competition for workers’ compensation business.

•

As written premium is earned over the 12 month term of
the policies, the unfavorable trend in earned pricing during
2006 was primarily a reflection of the written pricing
changes over the last six months of 2005 and the year ended
December 31, 2006.

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Earned premiums for Business Insurance increased $486, or 11%, in 2005, primarily due to new
business growth outpacing non-renewals in both small commercial and middle market over the
preceding twelve months and modest earned pricing increases in small commercial, partially offset
by earned pricing decreases in middle market.

•

Growth in small commercial earned premium was driven
primarily by growth in workers’ compensation and package
business for both Select Xpand and traditional Select. New
business written premium for small commercial increased by
$5, or 1%, as an increase in new business for workers’
compensation was largely offset by a decrease in new business
for package and commercial auto. Premium renewal retention
for small commercial increased from 87% to 88%, primarily due
to workers’ compensation and package business, partially
offset by lower written pricing increases.

•

Growth in middle market earned premium was driven
primarily by growth in workers’ compensation and marine,
partially offset by a decrease in property and commercial
auto. New business written premium for middle market
increased by $22, or 4%, for the year ended December 31,
2005, mostly related to workers’ compensation business.
Premium renewal retention for middle market decreased from
83% to 81%, primarily due to the effect of larger written
pricing decreases and a decrease in retention on larger
accounts.

As substantially all premiums in the segment are earned over a 12 month policy period, earned
pricing changes for the year ended December 31, 2005 primarily reflected written pricing changes
during the last six months of 2004 and the year ended December 31, 2005.



Underwriting
Summary




Written premiums

$

5,185

$

5,001

$

4,575

Change in unearned premium reserve




Earned premiums

5,118

4,785

4,299

Losses and loss adjustment expenses

Current year

3,127

2,949

2,700

Prior year

(61

)


(67

)

Total losses and loss adjustment expenses

3,066

2,971

2,633

Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs

1,184

1,138

1,058

Insurance operating costs and expenses




Underwriting results

$


$


$


Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio

Current year

61.1

61.6

62.8

Prior year

(1.2

)

0.5

(1.6

)

Total loss and loss adjustment expense ratio

59.9

62.1

61.2

Expense ratio

27.7

29.5

30.1

Policyholder dividend ratio

0.3

0.1

0.2

Combined ratio

87.9

91.7

91.6

Catastrophe ratio

Current year

1.4

1.9

3.4

Prior year

(0.4

)

0.1

(4.3

)

Total catastrophe ratio

1.0

2.0

(0.9

)

Combined ratio before catastrophes

86.9

89.7

92.5

Combined ratio before catastrophes and prior
accident year development

87.7

89.4

89.7

Current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio

Current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio
before catastrophes

59.7

59.8

59.3

Current accident year catastrophe ratio

1.4

1.9

3.4

Current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio

61.1

61.6

62.8

Underwriting results and ratios

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Underwriting results increased by $222, or 56%, with a corresponding 3.8 point decrease in the
combined ratio, to 87.9. The net increase in underwriting results was principally driven by the
following factors:

Increase in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes

$


Change to net favorable prior accident year development


Lower current accident year catastrophe losses


Increase in underwriting results from 2005 to 2006

$


Increase in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes

The $121 improvement in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes was
primarily due to:

The catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium that was recorded as a reduction of earned premium
in 2005

$


Excluding catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium:

— A decrease in the combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development


— A $317 increase in earned premium (before catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium) at a
combined ratio less than 100.0


Increase in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes from 2005 to 2006

$


Before reinstatement premium, a lower combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year
development improved current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes by $70. The
1.7 point decrease in the combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year
development, to 87.7, was primarily driven by an improvement in the expense ratio.



•

The expense ratio decreased by 1.8 points, primarily due to the impact in 2006
and 2005 of changes in the expected assessments from Citizens and a continued shift to
lower commission workers’ compensation business. The year ended December 31, 2006
benefited from a $22 reduction in estimated Citizens’ assessments related to the 2005
Florida hurricanes and the year ended December 31, 2005 included a charge of $33 for
assessments related to the 2004 and 2005 Florida hurricanes.

•

Before catastrophes, the current accident year loss and loss adjustment
expense ratio decreased slightly, to 59.7, primarily due to a lower loss and loss
adjustment expense ratio on small commercial workers’ compensation business, a decrease in
non-catastrophe property loss costs in small commercial and the effect on the ratio of
catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium in 2005. Largely offsetting the improvement was,
an increase in non-catastrophe property loss costs in middle market, the effect of earned
pricing decreases in middle market and the effect of a shift to more workers’ compensation
premium which has a higher loss and loss adjustment expense ratio than other business in
the segment. The increase in non-catastrophe property loss costs in middle market was
primarily due to increasing claim severity. In small commercial, non-catastrophe property
loss costs were favorable due to favorable claim frequency.

Change to net favorable prior accident year development

There was a change from $22 of net unfavorable prior accident year reserve development in 2005
to $61 of net favorable prior accident year reserve development in 2006. Net favorable reserve
development of $61 in 2006 included a $58 reduction in allocated loss adjustment expense
reserves, primarily for workers’ compensation and package business related to accident years
2003 to 2005 and a $25 reduction in prior accident year catastrophe reserves in 2006, of which
$9 related to hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma in 2005 and $16 related to hurricanes Charley,
Frances and Jeanne in 2004. Net unfavorable reserve development of $22 in 2005 included a $50
increase in workers’ compensation reserves related to reserves for claim payments expected to
emerge after 20 years of development and a $40 strengthening of general liability reserves for
accident years 2000 to 2003 due to higher than anticipated loss payments beyond four years of
development. Partially offsetting the reserve increases in 2005 was a $75 reduction in workers’
compensation reserves related to accident years 2003 and 2004.

Lower current accident year catastrophe losses

Current accident year catastrophe losses decreased by $18, from $89 in 2005 to $71 in 2006.
Catastrophe losses in 2005 included $68 of catastrophe losses from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and
Wilma. While hurricane losses were significantly lower in 2006, non-hurricane catastrophe
losses increased significantly due, in large part, to tornadoes and hail storms in the Midwest
and windstorms in Texas and on the East coast.

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Underwriting results increased by $36, with a 0.1 point increase in the combined ratio to 91.7.
The net increase in underwriting results was principally driven by the following factors:

Increase in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes

$


Lower current accident year catastrophe losses


Change to net unfavorable prior accident year development

(89

)

Increase in underwriting results from 2004 to 2005

$


Increase in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes

The $67 improvement in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes was
primarily due to:

An increase in catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium recorded as a reduction of earned premium

$

(10

)

Excluding catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium:

— A $496 increase in earned premium at a combined ratio less than 100.0


— A decrease in the combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development


Increase in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes from 2004 to 2005

$


Before reinstatement premium, a lower combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year
development improved current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes by $25. The
0.3 point decrease in the combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year
development, to 89.4, was primarily driven by a 0.6 point improvement in the expense ratio,
partially offset by a 0.5 point increase in the current accident year loss and loss adjustment
expense ratio before catastrophes.

•

Contributing to the 0.6 point decrease in the expense ratio was earned premium growth, a
shift to more workers’ compensation business which has lower commissions and a $16
reduction in contingent commissions, partially offset by $20 of hurricane related
assessments in 2005. The $16 reduction in contingent commissions was due, in part, to a
decision made by some agents and brokers not to accept contingent commissions after the
third quarter of 2004.



•

The 0.5 point increase in the current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense
ratio before catastrophes, to 59.8, was primarily due to earned pricing decreases in middle
market and increasing non-catastrophe property claim costs, partially offset by earned
pricing increases in small commercial and improved current accident year underwriting
results for workers’ compensation business. The improved current accident year performance
for workers’ compensation business was consistent with the favorable prior accident year
development recorded in 2005 related to accident years 2003 and 2004.

Lower current accident year catastrophe losses

Current accident year catastrophe losses decreased by $58, from $147 in 2004 to $89 in 2005.
Catastrophe losses in 2005 for Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma were $68 compared to
catastrophe losses in 2004 for Hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne of $98.

Change to net unfavorable prior accident year development

There was a change from $67 of net favorable prior accident year reserve development in 2004 to
$22 of net unfavorable prior accident year reserve development in 2005. Net unfavorable reserve
development of $22 in 2005 included a $50 increase in workers’ compensation reserves related to
reserves for claim payments expected to emerge after 20 years of development and a $40
strengthening of general liability reserves for accident years 2000 to 2003 due to higher than
anticipated loss payments beyond four years of development. Partially offsetting the reserve
increases in 2005 was a $75 reduction in workers’ compensation reserves recorded related to
accident years 2003 and 2004. Net favorable reserve development of $67 in 2004 included a $175
release of September 11 reserves, partially offset by a $38 strengthening of reserves for small
commercial package business, a $25 strengthening of automobile liability reserves and a $23
strengthening of reserves for construction defects claims.

Outlook

For the 2007 full year, management expects the Business Insurance segment to achieve 2% to 5%
written premium growth compared to written premium growth of 4% achieved in 2006. In small
commercial, the Company expects to generate 4% to 7% written premium growth in 2007 by further
increasing the number of appointed agents and growing premium in under-represented territories. In
addition, small commercial expects to grow new business by expanding its underwriting appetite,
refining its pricing models and upgrading product features. To support the expected increase in
premium writings, small commercial continues to build a low-cost operating model that is scalable
for further expansion.

Within middle market, the Company expects no written premium growth in 2007 as the Company takes a
disciplined approach to evaluating and pricing risks in the face of a decline in written pricing.
Nevertheless, the Company will seek to increase its market share in a number of regions where the
Company is currently under-represented. While the Company will continue to focus on growing its
workers’ compensation business in the most profitable states, the Company expects to shift the mix
of middle market business from workers’ compensation to other lines in 2007. To support this
objective, the Company plans to develop new underwriting and pricing models for commercial auto and
property business. In 2007, the Company will continue to focus on renewal retention, particularly
in the mid-Western states, where competition is expected to be particularly strong.

Written pricing trends in 2006 were affected by increased competition as evidenced by 1% written
pricing increases in small commercial and 4% written pricing decreases in middle market. During
2006, non-catastrophe property loss costs increased, driven by increasing claim severity in middle
market, partially offset by favorable claim frequency and severity in small commercial. In 2007,
management expects claim severity to increase and claim frequency to be less favorable. Based on
anticipated trends in earned pricing and loss costs, the combined ratio before catastrophes and
prior accident year development is expected to be in the range of 88.5 to 91.5 in 2007. The
combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development was 87.7 in 2006.

To summarize, management’s outlook in Business Insurance for the 2007 full year is:

•

Written premium growth of 2% to 5%, including growth of 4% to 7% in small commercial and no growth in middle market

•

A combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development of 88.5 to 91.5



PERSONAL LINES

Personal Lines provides automobile, homeowners’ and home-based business coverages to the
members of AARP through a direct marketing operation and to individuals who prefer local agent
involvement through a network of independent agents in the standard personal lines market
(“Standard”). Up until the sale of the business on November 30, 2006, the Company also sold
non-standard auto insurance through the Company’s Omni Insurance Group, Inc. (“Omni”) subsidiary.
Personal Lines also operates a member contact center for health insurance products offered through
AARP’s Health Care Options. The Hartford’s exclusive licensing arrangement with AARP continues
until January 1, 2020 for automobile, homeowners and home-based business. The Health Care Options
agreement continues through 2009.

Written Premiums [1]




Business Unit

AARP

$

2,580

$

2,373

$

2,244

Agency

1,100

1,020


Other




Total

$

3,877

$

3,676

$

3,557

Product Line

Automobile

$

2,856

$

2,753

$

2,685

Homeowners

1,021



Total

$

3,877

$

3,676

$

3,557

Earned Premiums [1]




Business Unit

AARP

$

2,466

$

2,296

$

2,146

Agency

1,068



Other




Total

$

3,760

$

3,610

$

3,445

Product Line

Automobile

$

2,792

$

2,728

$

2,622

Homeowners




Total

$

3,760

$

3,610

$

3,445

[1]

The difference between written premiums and earned premiums is attributable to the
change in unearned premium reserve.

Premium Measures




Policies in force at year end

Automobile

2,276,165

2,222,688

2,166,922

Homeowners

1,460,679

1,384,364

1,348,573

Total policies in force at year end

3,736,844

3,607,052

3,515,495

New business premium

Automobile

$


$


$


Homeowners

$


$


$


Premium Renewal Retention

Automobile


%


%


%

Homeowners


%


%


%

Written Pricing Increase (Decrease)

Automobile

(1

%)

—


%

Homeowners


%


%


%

Earned Pricing Increase (Decrease)

Automobile

(1

%)


%


%

Homeowners


%


%


%

Earned Premiums

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Earned premiums for the Personal Lines segment increased $150, or 4%, due primarily to earned
premium growth in both AARP and Agency business, partially offset by higher property catastrophe
treaty reinsurance costs and a reduction in other earned premium. Also



contributing to the increase in earned premiums was $31 of catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium
payable to reinsurers recorded as a reduction of earned premium in 2005. Other earned premium
consists of premium earned on non-standard auto business written by Omni and on business written
through affinity partners other than AARP.

•

AARP earned premium grew $170, or 7%, reflecting growth in the
size of the AARP target market and the effect of direct marketing
programs to increase premium writings of both auto and homeowners.

•

Agency earned premium grew $71, or 7%, primarily as a result of an
increase in the number of agency appointments and further
refinement of the Dimensions class plans first introduced in 2003.
Dimensions, which had been rolled out to 42 states for auto and
39 states for homeowners as of December 31, 2006, enables agents
to generate a customized price for each policyholder, independent
of the risks and rates of other members of the same household.
The plan, which is available through the company’s network of
independent agents, was enhanced beginning in the third quarter of
2006 as “Dimensions with Auto Packages” and the enhanced plan is
now offered in 29 states with four distinct package offerings.

•

Other earned premium decreased by $91, or 29%, because of a
strategic decision to reduce other affinity business and limit
non-standard writings to fewer geographic areas. On November 30,
2006, the Company sold Omni and exited the non-standard auto
business. Refer to Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for further discussion.

The earned premium growth in AARP and Agency was primarily due to new business written premium
outpacing non-renewals over the last six months of 2005 and the full year of 2006 and to earned
pricing increases in homeowners for both AARP and Agency.

Auto earned premium grew $64, or 2% primarily from new business outpacing non-renewals in both AARP
and Agency over the last six months of 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2006, partially offset
by a decline in other auto business. Before considering the decline in other auto business, auto
earned premium grew $154, or 6%. Homeowners’ earned premium grew $86, or 10%, primarily due to new
business outpacing non-renewals in both AARP and Agency business over the last six months of 2005
and the year ended December 31, 2006 and due to earned pricing increases. Consistent with the
growth in earned premium, the number of policies in force has increased in auto and homeowners.
The growth in policies in force does not correspond directly with the growth in earned premiums due
to the effect of earned pricing changes and because policy in force counts are as of a point in
time rather than over a period of time.

Auto new business written premium increased by $43, or 10%, to $469 in 2006. The increase in new
business written premium was primarily due to an increase in AARP and Agency new business,
partially offset by a decrease in other new business. Growth in new business was particularly
strong in AARP with a growth rate of 20% in 2006. Homeowners’ new business written premium
increased by $30, or 23%, to $161 in 2006. The increase in homeowners’ new business written
premium was due to an increase in both AARP and Agency new business.

Premium
renewal retention in 2006 for auto of 87% and for homeowners of 94% remained flat from
the prior year. For auto, overall premium renewal retention was flat, despite a decrease in
retention for Agency auto. For homeowners, an increase in retention of AARP business was offset by
a decrease in retention of Agency business. Premium renewal retention for Agency auto decreased
due to a shift to more six month policies that have a lower retention rate.

The trend in earned pricing during 2006 was a reflection of the written pricing changes in the last
six months of 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2006. Auto written pricing decreases are driven
by an extended period of favorable results factoring into the rate setting process. Homeowners’
written pricing continues to increase moderately due to insurance to value increases.

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Earned premiums increased $165, or 5%, due primarily to earned premium growth in both AARP and
Agency, partially offset by a reduction in other earned premium. Other earned premium consists of
premium earned on non-standard auto business written by Omni and on business written through
affinity partners other than AARP.

•

AARP earned premium grew $150, or 7%, reflecting growth in the
size of the AARP target market and the effect of direct marketing
programs to increase premium writings, particularly in auto.

•

Agency earned premium grew $90, or 10%, as a result of continued
growth of the Dimensions class plans first introduced in 2004.
Dimensions, which had been rolled out to 41 states for auto and 37
states for homeowners as of December 31, 2005, allows Personal
Lines to write a broader class of risks.

•

Other earned premium decreased by $75, or 19%, primarily because
of a strategic decision by management to focus on more profitable
non-standard auto business.

The earned premium growth in AARP and Agency during 2005 was primarily due to new business written
premium outpacing non-renewals for auto business in 2004 and 2005 and to earned pricing increases
in homeowners’ business.

Auto earned premium grew $106, or 4%, primarily from growth in AARP and Agency, offset by a decline
in other earned premiums. Before considering the decline in other earned premium, auto earned
premium grew $240, or 8%. Homeowners’ earned premium grew $59, or 7%, due to growth in AARP and
Agency business, partially offset by a decline in the Affinity business included within other



earned premiums. Consistent with the growth in earned premium, the number of policies in force
has increased in auto and homeowners. The growth in policies in force does not correspond directly
with the growth in earned premiums due to the effect of earned pricing changes and because policy
in force counts are as of a point in time rather than over a period of time.

Auto new business written premium decreased by $43, or 9%, to $426 in 2005, due primarily to a $52
decline in Omni new business and, to a lesser extent, a decline in Agency and Other Affinity new
business, partially offset by an increase in AARP new business. Homeowners’ new business written
premium increased by $16, or 14%, to $131 in 2005, primarily due to an increase in Agency new
business written premium.

Premium renewal retention decreased in 2005 for both auto and for homeowners, from 89% to 87% for
auto, and from 100% to 94% for homeowners. Premium renewal retention for automobile decreased
primarily due to lower written pricing increases and a decrease in retention in Agency business,
partially offset by an increase in retention to AARP business. Premium renewal retention for
homeowners decreased primarily due to a decrease in retention of Agency business and lower written
pricing increases.

The moderation in earned pricing increases during 2005 is a reflection of written pricing changes
in the last six months of 2004 and the year ended December 31, 2005. The written pricing declines
are reflective of the company’s response in different states and different auto segments to the
current levels of price adequacy. Written pricing for homeowners has increased primarily due to
increased insurance to value.




Underwriting Summary

Written premiums

$

3,877

$

3,676

$

3,557

Change in unearned premium reserve




Earned premiums

3,760

3,610

3,445

Losses and loss adjustment expenses

Current year

2,516

2,389

2,509

Prior year

(38

)

(95

)


Total losses and loss adjustment expenses

2,478

2,294

2,512

Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs




Insurance operating costs and expenses




Underwriting results

$


$


$


Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio

Current year

66.9

66.2

72.8

Prior year

(1.0

)

(2.6

)

0.1

Total loss and loss adjustment expense ratio

65.9

63.6

72.9

Expense ratio

22.7

23.7

23.1

Combined ratio

88.6

87.3

96.0

Catastrophe ratio

Current year

3.2

2.7

7.7

Prior year

(0.4

)

0.2

(0.3

)

Total catastrophe ratio

2.8

2.9

7.4

Combined ratio before catastrophes

85.8

84.4

88.6

Combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development

86.4

87.2

88.2

Other revenues [1]

$


$


$


[1] Represents servicing revenue




Current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio

Current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense
ratio before catastrophes

63.8

63.5

65.1

Current accident year catastrophe ratio

3.2

2.7

7.7

Current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio

66.9

66.2

72.8

Combined Ratios

Automobile

93.6

90.7

95.7

Homeowners

74.0

76.6

96.8

Total

88.6

87.3

96.0



Underwriting Results and Ratios

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Underwriting results decreased by $31, or 7%, with a corresponding 1.3 point increase in the
combined ratio, to 88.6. The net decrease in underwriting results was principally driven by the
following factors:

Decrease in net favorable prior accident year development

$

(57

)

Higher current accident year catastrophe losses

(22

)

Increase in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes


Decrease in underwriting results from 2005 to 2006

$

(31

)

Decrease in net favorable prior accident year development

Net favorable prior accident year reserve development of $38 in 2006 included a $53 reduction in
auto liability reserves and a $23 reduction in hurricane catastrophe reserves, including $10
related to Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and $7 related to Hurricane Charley in 2004, partially
offset by a $30 increase in reserves for personal auto liability claims due to an increase in
estimated severity on claims where the company is exposed to losses in excess of policy limits.
The $53 reduction in auto liability reserves in 2006 included a $31 reduction in reserves for
auto liability claims related to accident year 2005 as a result of better than expected
frequency trends and a $22 reduction of reserves for AARP and other affinity auto liability
claims related to accident years 2003 to 2005 as a result of better than expected severity
trends. Net favorable prior accident year reserve development of $95 in 2005 included a $95
reduction in reserves for allocated loss adjustment expenses.

Higher current accident year catastrophe losses

Despite lower hurricane losses in 2006, current accident year catastrophe losses increased by
$22, from $98 in 2005 to $120 in 2006. Catastrophe losses increased principally due to losses
in 2006 from tornados and hail storms in the Midwest and windstorms in Texas and on the East
coast. Catastrophe losses in 2005 included $51 of losses from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and
Wilma.

Increase in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes

The $48 improvement in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes was
primarily due to:

The catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium that was recorded as a reduction of earned premium in 2005

$


Excluding catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium

— A $119 increase in earned premium at a combined ratio less than 100.0


— A slight improvement in the combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development


Increase in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes from 2005 to 2006

$


The combined ratio before catastrophes and prior year development decreased by 0.8 points, to
86.4, due to the effect of $31 of catastrophe treaty reinstatement premiums recorded as a
reduction of earned premium in 2005. Before the effect of catastrophe treaty reinstatement
premium, the combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development was
relatively flat, improving current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes by
only $1.

The 0.8 point decrease in the combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year
development was primarily driven by a 1.0 point decrease in the expense ratio, to 22.7,
partially offset by a 0.3 point increase in the current accident year loss and loss adjustment
expense ratio before catastrophes, from 63.5 to 63.8.

•

The 1.0 point improvement in the expense ratio was primarily due to the impact in 2006
and 2005 of changes in the expected assessments from Citizens. The year ended December 31,
2006 benefited from a $19 reduction of estimated Citizens’ assessments related to the 2005
Florida hurricanes whereas the year ended December 31, 2005 included a charge of $30 for
assessments related to the 2004 Florida hurricanes.

•

The 0.3 point increase in the current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense
ratio before catastrophes was principally due to an increase in non-catastrophe property
loss costs for homeowners, primarily driven by an increase in claim severity, and an
increase in the loss and loss adjustment expense ratio for auto liability claims, partially
due to a shift to more Dimensions product business within Agency. Partially offsetting the
increase in the current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio before
catastrophes was the effect of catastrophe treaty reinstatement premiums recorded as a
reduction of earned premium in 2005.



Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Underwriting results increased by $322, with a corresponding 8.7 point decrease in the combined
ratio, from 96.0 to 87.3. The net increase in underwriting results was principally driven by the
following factors:

Lower current accident year catastrophe losses

$


Change to net favorable prior accident year development of $95 in 2005


Increase in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes


Increase in underwriting results from 2004 to 2005

$


Lower current accident year catastrophe losses

Current accident year catastrophe losses decreased by $166, from $264 in 2004 to $98 in 2005.
Catastrophe losses in 2005 for Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma were $51 compared to
catastrophe losses in 2004 for hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne of $215.

Change to net favorable prior accident year development

There was a change from $3 of net unfavorable prior accident year reserve development in 2004 to
$95 of net favorable prior accident year reserve development in 2005. Net favorable reserve
development of $95 in 2005 represented a $95 reduction in prior accident year reserves for
allocated loss adjustment expenses, predominantly related to auto liability claims.

Increase in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes

The $58 improvement in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes was
primarily due to:

An increase in catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium recorded as a reduction of earned premium

$

(24

)

Excluding catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium:

— A decrease in the combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development


— A $189 increase in earned premium at a combined ratio less than 100.0


Increase in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes from 2004 to 2005

$


Before reinstatement premium, a lower combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year
development improved current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes by $58. The
1.0 point decrease in the combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year
development, to 87.2, was primarily driven by a 1.6 point decrease in the current accident year
loss and loss adjustment expense ratio before catastrophes, partially offset by a 0.6 point
increase in the expense ratio.

•

The 1.6 point decrease in the current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense
ratio before catastrophes was primarily due to lower current accident year loss costs for
auto liability claims and earned pricing increases for homeowners business slightly
outpacing increases in non-catastrophe property loss costs, partially offset by the effect
on the ratio of an increase in catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium. The lower
current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio for auto liability claims was
consistent with the favorable prior accident year development on auto liability allocated
loss adjustment expense reserves recognized in 2005. Within homeowners, an increase in
loss costs was due entirely to increasing claim severity.

•

The expense ratio increased by 0.6 points, to 23.7, primarily due to $31 of
hurricane-related assessments in 2005.

Outlook

Management expects the Personal Lines segment to deliver 4% to 7% written premium growth in 2007,
compared to written premium growth of 5% in 2006. Written premium growth of 3% to 6% in auto and
7% to 10% in homeowners is expected to come from growth in both AARP and Agency. For AARP
business, management expects to achieve its targeted written premium growth primarily through an
increase in marketing to AARP members. In addition to marketing through mail, magazines and other
traditional channels, the Company plans to attract new customers by continuing to help AARP build
its membership, using internet advertisements and placing more direct response television
advertisements.

For the Agency business, management expects to increase written premium by further enhancing the
Dimensions product and increasing the number of appointed agents. Throughout 2007, the focus will
be to successfully engage new and recently appointed agents. The Company sold its Omni
non-standard auto business on November 30, 2006 and because Omni accounted for 3% of written
premium in 2006, Personal Lines written premium growth will be moderated by the sale of this
business.

Strong underwriting profitability within the past couple of years has intensified the level of
competition, putting downward pressure on rates. For auto, written pricing in 2006 was down 1%
and, for homeowners, written pricing increases in 2006 of 5% were lower than they had been in 2005.
Non-catastrophe loss costs in homeowners increased in 2006, driven largely by an increase in claim
severity. Management expects claim severity to increase again in 2007 and claim frequency to be
slightly negative. While earned pricing and



loss cost trends are expected to be less favorable in 2007, underwriting results in 2007 will
benefit from the sale of Omni which generated an underwriting loss of $52 in 2006. The Company
expects a 2007 combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development in the range
of 84.5 to 87.5. The combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development was
86.4 in 2006.

To summarize, management’s outlook in Personal Lines for the 2007 full year is:

•

Written premium growth of 4% to 7%, including growth of 3% to 6% in auto and 7% to 10% in homeowners

•

A combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development of 84.5 to 87.5

SPECIALTY COMMERCIAL

Specialty Commercial offers a variety of customized insurance products and risk management
services. The segment provides standard commercial insurance products including workers’
compensation, automobile and liability coverages to large-sized companies. Specialty Commercial
also provides professional liability, fidelity and surety, specialty casualty and livestock
coverages, as well as core property and excess and surplus lines coverages not normally written by
standard lines insurers. Specialty Commercial provides other insurance products and services
primarily to captive insurance companies, pools and self-insurance groups. In addition, Specialty
Commercial provides third-party administrator services for claims administration, integrated
benefits, loss control and performance measurement through Specialty Risk Services.




Written Premiums [1]

Property

$


$


$


Casualty




Professional liability, fidelity and surety




Other




Total

$

1,596

$

1,806

$

1,840

Earned Premiums [1]

Property

$


$


$


Casualty




Professional liability, fidelity and surety




Other




Total

$

1,550

$

1,757

$

1,726

[1]

The difference between written premiums and earned premiums is attributable to the change
in unearned premium reserve.

Earned Premiums

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Earned premiums for the Specialty Commercial segment decreased by $207, or 12%, primarily due to
decreases in casualty, property and other earned premiums, partially offset by an increase in
professional liability, fidelity and surety earned premiums and the effect of $26 of catastrophe
treaty reinstatement premium payable to reinsurers recorded as a reduction of earned premium in
2005.

•

Property earned premium decreased by $32, or 13%, primarily due to
a decrease in new business and renewals in the latter half of 2005
and the full year of 2006 as well as the effect of an increase in
reinsurance costs for 2006 treaties and additional catastrophe
reinsurance purchased in the fourth quarter of 2005. Partially
offsetting the decrease in earned premiums was $34 of catastrophe
treaty reinstatement premiums payable to reinsurers recorded as a
reduction of earned premium in 2005 and double digit earned
pricing increases during 2006. The reduction in new business and
renewals reflects a decision to reduce catastrophe loss exposures
in certain geographic areas and a determination that, despite rate
increases, rates on some business opportunities were not adequate.
Property business has experienced significant rate increases
throughout 2006, reflecting a hardening of the market after the
2005 hurricanes.

•

Casualty earned premiums decreased by $220, or 28%, primarily
because of the non-renewal of a single captive insurance program
and a decline in new business written premium growth. Partially
offsetting the decrease was an increase in premium retention and
the effect of renewing a single large deductible policy as a
retrospectively rated policy which bears a higher premium. The
single captive insurance program accounted for earned premium of
$241 for the year ended December 31, 2005.

•

Professional liability, fidelity and surety earned premium grew
$95, or 17%, due primarily to a decrease in the portion of risks
ceded to outside reinsurers, new business growth in commercial and
contract surety business, earned pricing increases in contract
surety business and new business growth in middle market and small
commercial professional liability business, partially offset by
earned pricing decreases in professional liability. The growth in
commercial and contract surety was primarily driven by an increase
in the number of fidelity and surety bonds issued to existing
accounts.

•

Within the “other” category, earned premium decreased by $50, or
29%. The “other” category of earned premiums includes premiums
assumed and ceded under inter-segment arrangements and
co-participations. Under an inter-segment arrangement, beginning
in the first quarter of 2006, the Company allocated more of the
premiums ceded under the principal property catastrophe



reinsurance program to Specialty Commercial and less to Business Insurance and Personal Lines.
In addition, beginning in the third quarter of 2006, the Company reduced the premiums assumed by
Specialty Commercial under inter-segment arrangements covering certain liability claims.

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Earned premiums for the Specialty Commercial segment increased by $31, or 2%, due to an increase
in casualty, professional liability, fidelity and surety and other earned premiums, partially
offset by a decrease in property earned premiums.

•

Property earned premium decreased $216, or 47%, primarily because
of a decline in new business and a decrease of $127 due to the
decision made in the fourth quarter of 2004 to exit the
multi-peril crop insurance (“MPCI”) business, partially offset by
an increase in premium renewal retention. Also reducing earned
premium was a $22 increase in reinstatement premiums paid to
reinstate reinsurance treaty limits as a result of losses ceded
from third and fourth quarter hurricanes of 2005 compared to
reinstatement premiums paid in 2004 as a result of losses ceded
from the third quarter hurricanes of 2004.

•

Casualty earned premiums grew $152, or 24%, primarily because
earned premium in 2004 included a $90 decrease in earned premiums
under retrospectively-rated policies. The remaining growth of $62
was largely attributable to the effect of earned pricing
increases, partially offset by a decrease in new business growth.
In 2005 and 2004, a single captive insurance program accounted for
earned premium of $241 and $226, respectively.

•

Professional liability, fidelity and surety earned premium grew
$32, or 6%, due to a decrease in the portion of risks ceded to
outside reinsurers, new business growth in commercial and contract
surety business, an increase in earned pricing for fidelity and
surety business, and a decrease in the price of fidelity and
surety reinsurance, partially offset by earned pricing decreases
in professional liability.

•

Within the “other” category, earned premium increased by $63, or
59%, primarily due to increased premiums on inter-segment
reinsurance programs.

Underwriting Summary




Written premiums

$

1,596

$

1,806

$

1,840

Change in unearned premium reserve




Earned premiums

1,550

1,757

1,726

Losses and loss adjustment expenses

Current year

1,063

1,377

1,345

Prior year




Total losses and loss adjustment expenses

1,098

1,486

1,414

Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs




Insurance operating costs and expenses




Underwriting results

$


$

(165

)

$

(53

)

Loss and loss adjustment expense ratio

Current year

68.5

78.4

77.9

Prior year

2.3

6.2

4.0

Total loss and loss adjustment expense ratio

70.8

84.6

81.9

Expense ratio

25.4

24.3

21.1

Policyholder dividend ratio

(0.3

)

0.5

0.1

Combined ratio

95.9

109.4

103.1

Catastrophe ratio

Current year

0.6

9.3

6.3

Prior year

(2.4

)

0.1

(6.7

)

Total catastrophe ratio

(1.9

)

9.5

(0.4

)

Combined ratio before catastrophes

97.8

99.9

103.5

Combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident
year development

93.0

93.8

92.8

Other revenues [1]

$


$


$


[1] Represents servicing revenue

Current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio

Current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio
before catastrophes

67.9

69.0

71.6

Current accident year catastrophe ratio

0.6

9.3

6.3

Current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio

68.5

78.4

77.9



Underwriting Results and Ratios

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Underwriting results increased by $229, with a corresponding 13.5 point decrease in the combined
ratio, to 95.9. The increase in underwriting results was principally driven by the following
factors:

Decrease in current accident year catastrophe losses

$


Decrease in net unfavorable prior accident year development


Decrease in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes

(1

)

Increase in underwriting results from 2005 to 2006

$


Decrease in current accident year catastrophe losses

Current accident year catastrophe losses decreased from by $156, $164 in 2005 to $8 in 2006.
Catastrophe losses in 2005 included $145 of losses for hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma.

Decrease in net unfavorable prior accident year development

Net unfavorable prior accident year reserve development of $35 in 2006 included a $45
strengthening of reserves for construction defects claims on casualty business for accident
years 1997 and prior and a $20 strengthening of allocated loss adjustment expense reserves on
workers’ compensation policies for claim payments expected to emerge after 20 years of
development, partially offset by a $35 reduction in catastrophe reserves related to the 2005
hurricanes. The reduction in catastrophe reserves included a $28 reduction in net losses
related to hurricane Katrina, despite a $24 increase in the gross loss estimate for hurricane
Katrina. The decrease in net catastrophe loss reserves was primarily because hurricane Katrina
losses on specialty property business were reimbursable under a specialty property reinsurance
treaty covering national account business as well as under the Company’s principal property
catastrophe reinsurance program. Under the provisions of an inter-segment reinsurance
arrangement, a portion of the recoveries from the Company’s principal property catastrophe
reinsurance program related to the reserve strengthening were allocated to Specialty
Commercial.

Net unfavorable prior accident year reserve development of $109 in 2005 included a $70
strengthening of workers’ compensation reserves for claim payments expected to emerge after 20
years of development and a $20 strengthening of reserves for large deductible workers’
compensation policies related to accident years 1999 to 2001. Reserve development in 2005 also
included a release of reserves for directors and officers insurance related to accident years
2003 and 2004 and strengthening of prior accident year reserves for contracts that provide auto
financing gap coverage and auto lease residual value coverage; the release and offsetting
strengthening were each approximately $80.

Decrease in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes

Decrease in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes losses and
catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium

$

(27

)

Catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium recorded as a reduction of earned premium in 2005


Decrease in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes from
2005 to 2006

$

(1

)

Before considering the $26 decrease in catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium, current
accident year underwriting results before catastrophes for Specialty Commercial decreased by
$27. Current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes for casualty decreased,
primarily due to a higher loss and loss adjustment expense ratio. Before considering the
decrease in catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium, current accident year underwriting results
before catastrophes for property also decreased, primarily due to a decrease in earned premium,
partially offset by the effects of lower non-catastrophe property loss costs. For professional
liability, fidelity and surety business, current accident year underwriting results before
catastrophes were relatively flat as an improvement in fidelity and surety was offset by a
decrease in professional liability. For professional liability business, the effect of a
higher loss and loss adjustment expense ratio and lower ceding commissions was partially offset
by the effect of earned premium growth. Also contributing to the decrease in Specialty
Commercial underwriting results was an increase in the allocation to Specialty Commercial of
premiums ceded under the Company’s principal property catastrophe reinsurance program.



Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Underwriting results decreased by $112, with a corresponding 6.3 point increase in the combined
ratio, to 109.4. The net decrease in underwriting results was principally driven by the following
factors:

Increase in current accident year catastrophe losses

$

(53

)

Increase in net unfavorable prior accident year development

(40

)

Decrease in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes

(19

)

Decrease in underwriting results from 2004 to 2005

$

(112

)

Increase in current accident year catastrophe losses

Current accident year catastrophe losses increased by $53, from $111 in 2004 to $164 in 2005.
Catastrophe losses in 2005 for hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma were $145 compared to
catastrophe losses in 2004 for hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan and Jeanne of $81. Catastrophe
losses in 2005 and 2004 include $70 and $19, respectively, of catastrophe losses assumed under
inter-segment reinsurance programs.

Increase in net unfavorable prior accident year development

Net unfavorable prior accident year reserve development increased by $40, from $69 in 2004, to
$109 in 2005. Net unfavorable prior accident year reserve development of $109 in 2005 included
a $70 strengthening of workers’ compensation reserves for claim payments expected to emerge
after 20 years of development and a $20 strengthening of reserves for large deductible workers’
compensation policies related to accident years 1999 to 2001. Reserve development in 2005 also
included a release of reserves for directors and officers insurance related to accident years
2003 and 2004 and strengthening of prior accident year reserves for contracts that provide auto
financing gap coverage and auto lease residual value coverage; the release and offsetting
strengthening were each approximately $80. Net unfavorable prior accident year reserve
development of $69 in 2004 included $167 of reserve strengthening for construction defect
claims, a release of $116 in September 11 reserves and strengthening in large deductible
workers’ compensation reserves and a release in other liability reserves, each approximately
$150.

Decrease in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes

The ($19) decrease in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes was
primarily due to:

Effect of lower current accident year underwriting results in property, partially offset by
improvement in professional liability

$

(87

)

Increase in catastrophe treaty reinstatement premium recorded as a reduction of earned premium

(22

)

Decrease in earned premiums under retrospectively rated policies in 2004


Decrease in current accident year underwriting results before catastrophes from 2004 to

$

(19

)

Contributing to the lower current accident year underwriting results in property were higher
non-catastrophe losses and a reduction in profit commissions due to increased catastrophe losses.
Contributing to the improvement in current accident year underwriting results for professional
liability was a reduction in the current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratio,
partially offset by a reduction in ceding commissions.

Outlook

In 2007, the Company expects written premium growth of 3% to 6%. Property written premium was
relatively flat in 2006 as the effect of significant direct written pricing increases offset by a
decline in new business growth, lower written premium renewal retention and higher reinsurance
costs. Contributing to the higher reinsurance costs in 2006 was the cost of second event coverage
following the 2005 hurricanes which was fully expensed by June 30, 2006. The Company expects that
rate increases and new business growth will result in a written premium increase in property
business in 2007, although the level of property business written in 2007 will largely depend on
how much rates continue to increase to reflect higher reinsurance costs.

While casualty written premium declined during 2006 due largely to the non-renewal of a single
captive insurance program, management expects a modest increase in casualty written premium in
2007. To grow specialty casualty business, the Company will focus on increasing its share of
business with larger brokers and will continue to improve sales execution at regional offices.
Within professional liability, fidelity and surety, management expects growth in professional
liability and fidelity written premium, partially offset by a decline in surety bond written
premium. Despite declining written pricing, management expects to grow professional liability
written premium in 2007 by, among other things, expanding sales to small and middle market
companies and larger private companies and writing more public employment practices liability
insurance. Written premium growth could be lower than planned in any one or all of the Specialty
Commercial businesses if written pricing is less favorable than anticipated and management
determines that new and renewal business is not adequately priced.



During 2006, written pricing decreased in casualty and professional liability and increased in
property as well as in fidelity and surety. In the latter half of 2006, competition intensified
for professional liability business, particularly for directors’ and officers’ insurance coverage.
A lower frequency of class action cases in the past couple of years has put downward pressure on
rates and this trend could reduce the growth rate of the Company’s professional liability business
going forward. During 2007, the Company expects a lower non-catastrophe loss and loss adjustment
expense ratio in specialty property due to the growth in earned pricing. Given the anticipated
trends in pricing and loss costs in Specialty Commercial, management expects a combined ratio
before catastrophes and prior accident year development in the range of 92.0 to 95.0 for 2007. The
combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development was 93.0 in 2006.

To summarize, management’s outlook in Specialty Commercial for the 2007 full year is:

•

Written premium growth of 3% to 6%

•

A combined ratio before catastrophes and prior accident year development of 92.0 to 95.0

OTHER OPERATIONS (INCLUDING ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL CLAIMS)

Operating Summary




Written premiums

$


$


$

(10

)

Change in unearned premium reserve

(1

)

—

(34

)

Earned premiums




Losses and loss adjustment expenses

Current year

—

—


Prior year




Total losses and loss adjustment expenses




Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs

—

(3

)


Insurance operating costs and expenses




Underwriting results

(366

)

(226

)

(448

)

Net investment income




Net realized capital gains




Other expense

(1

)

(1

)

(37

)

Income tax benefit (expense)


(10

)


Net income (loss)

$

(35

)

$


$

(45

)

The Other Operations segment includes operations that are under a single management structure,
Heritage Holdings, which is responsible for two related activities. The first activity is the
management of certain subsidiaries and operations of the Company that have discontinued writing new
business. The second is the management of claims (and the associated reserves) related to
asbestos, environmental and other exposures. The Other Operations book of business contains
policies written from approximately the 1940s to 2003. The Company’s experience has been that this
book of runoff business has, over time, produced significantly higher claims and losses than were
contemplated at inception.

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Other Operations reported a net loss of $35 in 2006 compared to net income of $71 in 2005, driven
by the following:

•

A $140 decrease in underwriting results, primarily due to a $148
increase in prior year loss development. Reserve development in
2006 included a $243 reduction in net reinsurance recoverables as
a result of the agreement with Equitas and the Company’s
evaluation of the reinsurance recoverables and allowance for
uncollectible reinsurance associated with older, long-term
casualty liabilities reported in the Other Operations segment, $43
of environmental reserve strengthening, and $12 of reserve
strengthening for assumed reinsurance. In 2005, reserve
development included $85 of reserve strengthening for assumed
reinsurance, $37 of environmental reserve strengthening, and a $20
increase in the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance.

•

A $22 decrease in net investment income, primarily as a result of
a decrease in invested assets resulting from net loss and loss
adjustment expenses paid. Other Operations’ net investment income
includes income earned on the separate portfolios of Heritage
Holdings, and its subsidiaries, and on the Hartford Fire invested
asset portfolio, which is allocated between Ongoing Operations and
Other Operations. The Company attributes capital and invested
assets to each segment using an internally developed risk-based
capital attribution methodology.

•

A change from an income tax expense of $10 in 2005 to an income
tax benefit of $45 in 2006, as a result of a pre-tax loss in 2006.



Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Other Operations reported net income of $71 in 2005 compared to a net loss of $45 in 2004, driven
by the following:

•

A $222 increase in underwriting results, primarily due to a $197
decrease in prior year loss development. Reserve development in
2005 included $85 of reserve strengthening for assumed
reinsurance, $37 of environmental reserve strengthening, and a $20
increase in the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance. In 2004,
reserve development included a $181 provision for the reinsurance
recoverable asset associated with older, long-term casualty
liabilities, $170 of reserve strengthening for assumed
reinsurance, and $75 of environmental reserve strengthening, which
was partially offset by a $97 release of September 11 reserves.

•

A $62 decrease in net investment income, primarily as a result of
a decrease in invested assets resulting from net losses and loss
adjustment expenses paid.

•

A change from an income tax benefit of $60 in 2004 to an income
tax expense of $10 in 2005, as a result of pre-tax income in 2005.

Asbestos and Environmental Claims

The Company continues to receive asbestos and environmental claims. Asbestos claims relate
primarily to bodily injuries asserted by people who came in contact with asbestos or products
containing asbestos. Environmental claims relate primarily to pollution and related clean-up costs.

The Company wrote several different categories of insurance contracts that may cover asbestos and
environmental claims. First, the Company wrote primary policies providing the first layer of
coverage in an insured’s liability program. Second, the Company wrote excess policies providing
higher layers of coverage for losses that exhaust the limits of underlying coverage. Third, the
Company acted as a reinsurer assuming a portion of those risks assumed by other insurers writing
primary, excess and reinsurance coverages. Fourth, subsidiaries of the Company participated in the
London Market, writing both direct insurance and assumed reinsurance business.

With regard to both environmental and particularly asbestos claims, significant uncertainty limits
the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid
losses and related expenses. Traditional actuarial reserving techniques cannot reasonably estimate
the ultimate cost of these claims, particularly during periods where theories of law are in flux.
The degree of variability of reserve estimates for these exposures is significantly greater than
for other more traditional exposures. In particular, the Company believes there is a high degree of
uncertainty inherent in the estimation of asbestos loss reserves.

In the case of the reserves for asbestos exposures, factors contributing to the high degree of
uncertainty include inadequate loss development patterns, plaintiffs’ expanding theories of
liability, the risks inherent in major litigation, and inconsistent emerging legal doctrines.
Furthermore, over time, insurers, including the Company, have experienced significant changes in
the rate at which asbestos claims are brought, the claims experience of particular insureds, and
the value of claims, making predictions of future exposure from past experience uncertain.
Plaintiffs and insureds also have sought to use bankruptcy proceedings, including “pre-packaged”
bankruptcies, to accelerate and increase loss payments by insurers. In addition, some policyholders
have asserted new classes of claims for coverages to which an aggregate limit of liability may not
apply. Further uncertainties include insolvencies of other carriers and unanticipated developments
pertaining to the Company’s ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos and environmental claims.
Management believes these issues are not likely to be resolved in the near future.

In the case of the reserves for environmental exposures, factors contributing to the high degree of
uncertainty include expanding theories of liability and damages; the risks inherent in major
litigation; inconsistent decisions concerning the existence and scope of coverage for environmental
claims; and uncertainty as to the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from the insured.

It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their
effect on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. It is unknown whether
potential Federal asbestos-related legislation will be enacted or what its effect would be on the
Company’s aggregate asbestos liabilities.

The reporting pattern for assumed reinsurance claims, including those related to asbestos and
environmental claims, is much longer than for direct claims. In many instances, it takes months or
years to determine that the policyholder’s own obligations have been met and how the reinsurance in
question may apply to such claims. The delay in reporting reinsurance claims and exposures adds to
the uncertainty of estimating the related reserves.

Given the factors described above, the Company believes the actuarial tools and other techniques it
employs to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional kinds of insurance exposure
are less precise in estimating reserves for its asbestos and environmental exposures. For this
reason, the Company relies on exposure-based analysis to estimate the ultimate costs of these
claims and regularly evaluates new information in assessing its potential asbestos and
environmental exposures.



Reserve Activity

Reserves and reserve activity in the Other Operations segment are categorized and reported as
asbestos, environmental, or “all other”. The “all other” category of reserves covers a wide range
of insurance and assumed reinsurance coverages, including, but not limited to, potential liability
for construction defects, lead paint, silica, pharmaceutical products, molestation and other
long-tail liabilities.

In addition, within the “all other” category of reserves, Other Operations records its allowance
for future reinsurer insolvencies and disputes that might affect reinsurance collectibility
associated with asbestos, environmental, and other claims recoverable from reinsurers.

The following table presents reserve activity, inclusive of estimates for both reported and
incurred but not reported claims, net of reinsurance, for Other Operations, categorized by
asbestos, environmental and all other claims, for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and
2004.

Other Operations Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

Asbestos

Environmental

All Other [1] [5]

Total


Beginning liability — net [2] [3]

$

2,291

$


$

2,240

$

4,891

Losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred



(16

)


Losses and loss adjustment expenses paid

(363

)

(106

)

(366

)

(835

)

Ending liability — net [2] [3]

$

2,242

[4]

$


$

1,858

$

4,416


Beginning liability — net [2] [3]

$

2,471

$


$

2,514

$

5,370

Losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred





Losses and loss adjustment expenses paid

(209

)

(77

)

(405

)

(691

)

Ending liability — net [2] [3]

$

2,291

$


$

2,240

$

4,891


Beginning liability — net [2] [3]

$

3,783

$


$

2,392

$

6,575

Losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred





Losses and loss adjustment expenses paid [6]

(1,199

)

(83

)

(368

)

(1,650

)

Reclassification of allowance for uncollectible
reinsurance

(330

)

(10

)


—

Ending liability — net [2] [3]

$

2,471

$


$

2,514

$

5,370

[1]

“All Other” also includes unallocated loss adjustment expense reserves and the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance.

[2]

Excludes asbestos and environmental net liabilities reported in Ongoing Operations of $9 and $6, respectively, as of
December 31, 2006, $10 and $6, respectively, as of December 31, 2005, and $13 and $9, respectively, as of December 31,
2004. Total net losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred in Ongoing Operations for the years ended December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004 includes $11, $11 and $13, respectively, related to asbestos and environmental claims. Total net
losses and loss adjustment expenses paid in Ongoing Operations for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004
includes $12, $17 and $11, respectively, related to asbestos and environmental claims.

[3]

Gross of reinsurance, asbestos and environmental reserves, including liabilities in Ongoing Operations, were $3,242 and
$362, respectively, as of December 31, 2006, $3,845 and $432, respectively, as of December 31, 2005, and $4,322 and
$501, respectively, as of December 31, 2004.

[4]

The one year and average three year net paid amounts for asbestos claims, including Ongoing Operations, were $368 and
$595, respectively, resulting in a one year net survival ratio of 6.1 and a three year net survival ratio of 3.8 (9.0
excluding the MacArthur payments). Net survival ratio is the quotient of the net carried reserves divided by the
average annual payment amount and is an indication of the number of years that the net carried reserve would last (i.e.
survive) if the future annual claim payments were consistent with the calculated historical average.

[5]

The Company includes its allowance for uncollectible reinsurance in the “All Other” category
of reserves. When the Company commutes a ceded reinsurance contract or settles a ceded
reinsurance dispute, the portion of the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance attributable to
that commutation or settlement, if any, is reclassified to the appropriate cause of loss.

[6]

Asbestos payments include payments pursuant to the MacArthur settlement.

The Company has been evaluating and closely monitoring assumed reinsurance reserves in Other
Operations. With the transfer of certain assumed reinsurance business into Other Operations, the
segment has exposure related to more recent assumed casualty reinsurance reserves, particularly for
the underwriting years 1997 through 2001. Assumed reinsurance exposures are inherently less
predictable than direct insurance exposures because the Company may not receive notice of a
reinsurance claim until the underlying direct insurance claim is mature. This causes a delay in the
receipt of information from the ceding companies. In recent years, the Company has seen an increase
in reported losses above previous expectations and this increase in reported losses contributed to
reserve re-estimates.

As a result of the unfavorable trends observed in assumed casualty reinsurance, for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, the Company booked unfavorable reserve development of $85
and $170, respectively, related to assumed reinsurance. In the second quarter 2006, the Company
completed an updated evaluation of its assumed reinsurance reserves. As a result, the Company
increased its domestic assumed reinsurance reserves by $12, primarily due to a reduction in amounts
retroceded. In connection with the assumed reinsurance evaluation, the Company also recognized $8
of profit sharing commission income based on favorable loss performance of certain retroceded
contracts. In the fourth quarter 2006, the Company completed an updated evaluation of its HartRe



assumed reinsurance reserves. The evaluation indicated no change in the Company’s assumed
reinsurance reserves. The Company currently expects to perform a review of its HartRe assumed
reinsurance liabilities annually.

During the third quarters of 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company completed its annual environmental
reserve evaluations. In each of these evaluations, the Company reviewed all of its domestic direct
and assumed reinsurance accounts exposed to environmental liability. The Company also examined its
London Market exposures for both direct insurance and assumed reinsurance. In all three years, the
Company found estimates for individual cases changed based upon the particular circumstances of
each account, although the reviews found no underlying cause or change in the claim environment.
The net effect of these changes resulted in $43, $37 and $75 increases in net environmental
liabilities in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company currently expects to continue to
perform an evaluation of its environmental liabilities annually.

The Company divides its gross environmental exposure into Direct, which is subdivided further as:
Accounts with future exposure greater than $2.5, Accounts with future exposure less than $2.5, and
Other direct; Assumed Reinsurance; and London Market. The unallocated amounts in the Other direct
category include an estimate of the necessary reserves for environmental claims related to direct
insureds who have not previously tendered environmental claims to the Company.

An account may move between categories from one evaluation to the next. For example, an account
with future expected exposure of greater than $2.5 in one evaluation may be reevaluated due to
changing conditions and re-categorized as less than $2.5 in a subsequent evaluation or vice versa.

The following table displays gross environmental reserves and other statistics by category as of
December 31, 2006.

Summary of Gross Environmental Reserves

As of December 31, 2006

% of

Number of

Total

Environmental

3 Year Gross

Accounts [2]

Reserves

Reserves

Survival Ratio [4]

Gross Environmental Reserves as of September 30, 2006 [1]

Accounts with future exposure > $2.5


$



%

Accounts with future exposure < $2.5




%

Other direct [3]

—



%

Total Direct




%

3.3

Assumed Reinsurance



%

3.2

London Market



%

3.8

Total gross environmental reserves as of September 30, 2006 [1]

$



%

3.3

Gross paid loss activity for the fourth quarter 2006

(25

)

Gross incurred loss activity for the fourth quarter 2006

—

Total gross environmental reserves as of December 31, 2006

$


3.3

[1]

Gross Environmental Reserves based on the third quarter 2006 environmental reserve study.

[2]

Number of accounts established as of June 2006.

[3]

Includes unallocated IBNR.

[4]

The one year gross paid amount for total environmental claims is $112, resulting in a one year
gross survival ratio of 3.2.

During the second quarters of 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company completed its annual
evaluations of the reinsurance recoverables and allowance for uncollectible reinsurance associated
with older, long-term casualty liabilities reported in the Other Operations segment. In the second
quarter of 2006, the Company entered into an agreement with Equitas and all Lloyd’s syndicates
reinsured by Equitas (collectively, “Equitas”) that resolved, with minor exception, all of the
Company’s ceded and assumed domestic reinsurance exposures with Equitas, including all of the
Company’s reinsurance recoveries from Equitas under the Blanket Casualty Treaty (BCT). As a result
of the settlement with Equitas and the 2006 reinsurance recoverable evaluation, the Company reduced
its net reinsurance recoverable by $243. As a result of the evaluation in the second quarter of
2005, the Company increased its allowance for uncollectible reinsurance by $20 to reflect
deterioration in the credit ratings of certain reinsurers and the Company’s opinion as to the
ability of certain reinsurers to pay claims in the future. As a result of the evaluation in the
second quarter of 2004, the Company reduced its net reinsurance recoverable by $181, which was
comprised of a $126 reduction of ceded amounts and a $55 increase in the allowance for
uncollectible reinsurance. In 2004, the Company also consolidated within the “all other” category
its allowance for reinsurer credit quality and disputes that might affect reinsurance coverage
associated with Other Operations into a single allowance.

In conducting these evaluations of reinsurance recoverables, the Company used its most recent
detailed evaluations of ceded liabilities reported in the segment, including its estimate of future
claims, the reinsurance arrangements currently in place and the years of potential reinsurance
available. The Company also analyzed the overall credit quality of the Company’s reinsurers, recent
trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes between cedants and reinsurers, and
recent developments in commutation activity between reinsurers and cedants. In 2006, the Company
also considered the effect of the Equitas settlement on the collectibility of amounts due from other
upper-layer reinsurers under the BCT. The allowance for uncollectible reinsurance reflects
management’s best estimate of reinsurance cessions that may be uncollectible in the future due to
reinsurers’ unwillingness or inability to pay.



As of December 31, 2006, the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance for Other Operations totals
$294. The Company currently expects to perform its regular comprehensive review of Other Operations
reinsurance recoverables annually. Uncertainties regarding the factors that affect the allowance
for uncollectible reinsurance could cause the Company to change its estimates, and the effect of
these changes could be material to the Company’s consolidated results of operations or cash flows.

During the second quarters of 2006 and 2005, the Company completed its annual asbestos reserve
evaluations. As part of these evaluations, the Company reviewed all of its open direct domestic
insurance accounts exposed to asbestos liability as well as assumed reinsurance. The Company also
examined its London Market exposures for both direct insurance and assumed reinsurance. These
evaluations resulted in no addition to the Company’s gross and net asbestos reserves. During the
first quarter of 2004, the Company completed an updated gross asbestos reserve evaluation. As part
of this evaluation, the Company also reviewed all of its open direct domestic insurance accounts
exposed to asbestos liability as well as assumed reinsurance accounts and certain closed accounts.
The Company also examined its London Market exposures for both direct insurance and assumed
reinsurance. The evaluation indicated no change in the overall gross asbestos reserves. The Company
currently expects to continue to perform an evaluation of its asbestos liabilities annually.

On December 19, 2003, Hartford Accident and Indemnity Co. (“Hartford A&I”) entered into a
settlement agreement with MacArthur Co. and its subsidiary, Western MacArthur Co. Under the
settlement agreement, during the first quarter of 2004, Hartford A&I paid $1.15 billion into an
escrow account owned by Hartford A&I. The funds were held in the escrow account until conditions
precedent to the settlement occurred. On April 22, 2004, the funds were disbursed from the escrow
account into a trust established for the benefit of present and future asbestos claimants pursuant
to the bankruptcy plan. The settlement payments were accounted for as a reduction in unpaid loss
and loss adjustment expenses during the first quarter of 2004.

The Company divides its gross asbestos exposures into Direct, Assumed Reinsurance and London
Market. The Company further divides its direct asbestos exposures into the following categories:
Major Asbestos Defendants (the “Top 70” accounts in Tillinghast’s published Tiers 1 and 2 and
Wellington accounts), which are subdivided further as: Structured Settlements, Wellington, Other
Major Asbestos Defendants; Accounts with Future Expected Exposures greater than $2.5, Accounts with
Future Expected Exposures less than $2.5 and Unallocated.

•

Structured Settlements are those accounts where the Company has
reached an agreement with the insured as to the amount and timing
of the claim payments to be made to the insured.

•

The Wellington subcategory includes insureds that entered into the
“Wellington Agreement” dated June 19, 1985. The Wellington
Agreement provided terms and conditions for how the signatory
asbestos producers would access their coverage from the signatory
insurers.

•

The Other Major Asbestos Defendants subcategory represents
insureds included in Tiers 1 and 2, as defined by Tillinghast,
that are not Wellington signatories and have not entered into
structured settlements with The Hartford. The Tier 1 and 2
classifications are meant to capture the insureds for which there
is expected to be significant exposure to asbestos claims.

•

The Unallocated category includes an estimate of the reserves
necessary for asbestos claims related to direct insureds that have
not previously tendered asbestos claims to the Company and
exposures related to liability claims that may not be subject to
an aggregate limit under the applicable policies.

An account may move between categories from one evaluation to the next. For example, an account
with future expected exposure of greater than $2.5 in one evaluation may be reevaluated due to
changing conditions and recategorized as less than $2.5 in a subsequent evaluation or vice versa.



The following table displays gross asbestos reserves and other statistics by policyholder category
as of December 31, 2006

Summary of Gross Asbestos Reserves

As of December 31, 2006

%

of

All Time

Number of

All Time

Total

Asbestos

Ultimate

3 Year Gross Survival

Accounts [2]

Paid [3]

Reserves

Reserves

[3]

Ratio [4]

[5]

Gross Asbestos Reserves as of
June 30, 2006 [1]

Major asbestos defendants [6]

Structured settlements (includes 4
Wellington accounts)


$


$



%

$


6.9

Wellington (direct only)





%


5.3

Other major asbestos defendants





%


2.4

No known policies (includes 3
Wellington accounts)


—

—

—

—

—

Accounts with future exposure > $2.5





%

1,622

7.5

Accounts with future exposure < $2.5

1,015




%


3.8

Unallocated [7]

1,418



%

2,114

Total Direct

$

3,816

$

2,486


%

$

6,302

3.4

Assumed Reinsurance




%

1,480

6.7

London Market




%


7.1

Total as of June 30, 2006 [1]

$

5,144

$

3,491


%

$

8,635

4.0

Gross paid loss activity for the third
quarter and fourth quarter 2006


(257

)

Gross incurred loss activity for the
third quarter and fourth quarter 2006



Total as of December 31, 2006

$

5,401

3,242

8,643

3.6

Total as of December 31, 2006
excluding MacArthur Settlement [8]

$

4,251

6.3

[1]

Gross Asbestos Reserves based on the second quarter 2006 asbestos reserve study.

[2]

An account may move between categories from one evaluation to the next.
Reclassifications were made as a result of the reserve evaluation completed in the
second quarter of 2006.

[3]

“All Time Paid” represents the total payments with respect to the indicated claim type
that have already been made by the Company as of the indicated balance sheet date.
“All Time Ultimate” represents the Company’s estimate, as of the indicated balance
sheet date, of the total payments that are ultimately expected to be made to fully
settle the indicated payment type. The amount is the sum of the amounts already paid
(e.g. “All Time Paid”) and the estimated future payments (e.g. the amount shown in the
column labeled “Total Reserves”).

[4]

Survival ratio is a commonly used industry ratio for comparing reserve levels between
companies. While the method is commonly used, it is not a predictive technique.
Survival ratios may vary over time for numerous reasons such as large payments due to
the final resolution of certain asbestos liabilities, or reserve re-estimates. The
survival ratio presented in the above table is computed by dividing the recorded
reserves by the average of the past three years of payments. The ratio is the
calculated number of years the recorded reserves would survive if future annual
payments were equal to the average annual payments for the past three years. The
3-year gross survival ratio as December 31, 2006 is computed based on total paid
losses of $2.7 billion for the period from January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2006.

[5]

As of December 31, 2006, the one year gross paid amount for total asbestos claims is
$616, resulting in a one year gross survival ratio of 5.3.

[6]

Includes 28 open accounts at June 30, 2006. Included 32 open accounts at June 30, 2005.

[7]

Includes closed accounts (exclusive of Major Asbestos Defendants) and unallocated IBNR.

[8]

Excludes the $1.15 billion in payments for the MacArthur settlement in the first quarter of
2004.

A number of factors affect the variability of estimates for asbestos and environmental
reserves including assumptions with respect to the frequency of claims, the average severity of
those claims settled with payment, the dismissal rate of claims with no payment and the expense to
indemnity ratio. The uncertainty with respect to the underlying reserve assumptions for asbestos
and environmental adds a greater degree of variability to these reserve estimates than reserve
estimates for more traditional exposures. While this variability is reflected in part in the size
of the range of reserves developed by the Company, that range may still not be indicative of the
potential variance between the ultimate outcome and the recorded reserves. The recorded net
reserves as of December 31, 2006 of $2.57 billion ($2.25 billion and $322 for asbestos and
environmental, respectively) is within an estimated range, unadjusted for covariance, of $1.99
billion to $3.05 billion. The process of estimating asbestos and environmental reserves remains
subject to a wide variety of uncertainties, which are detailed in the “Critical Accounting
Estimates—Property & Casualty Reserves, Net of Reinsurance” section of Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Due to these uncertainties, further
developments could cause the Company to change its estimates and ranges of its asbestos and
environmental reserves, and the effect of these changes could be material to the Company’s
consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity.



For Paid and Incurred Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses Reporting, the Company classifies its
asbestos and environmental reserves into three categories: Direct insurance, Assumed reinsurance
and London Market. Direct insurance includes primary and excess coverage. Assumed reinsurance
includes both “treaty” reinsurance (covering broad categories of claims or blocks of business) and
“facultative” reinsurance (covering specific risks or individual policies of primary or excess
insurance companies). London Market business includes the business written by one or more of the
Company’s subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, which are no longer active in the insurance or
reinsurance business. Such business includes both direct insurance and assumed reinsurance.

Of the three categories of claims (Direct, Assumed reinsurance and London Market), direct policies
tend to have the greatest factual development from which to estimate the Company’s exposures.

Assumed reinsurance exposures are inherently less predictable than direct insurance exposures
because the Company may not receive notice of a reinsurance claim until the underlying direct
insurance claim is mature. This causes a delay in the receipt of information at the reinsurer
level and adds to the uncertainty of estimating related reserves.

London Market exposures are the most uncertain of the three categories of claims. As a participant
in the London Market (comprised of both Lloyd’s of London and London Market companies), certain
subsidiaries of the Company wrote business on a subscription basis, with those subsidiaries’
involvement being limited to a relatively small percentage of a total contract placement. Claims
are reported, via a broker, to the “lead” underwriter and, once agreed to, are presented to the
following markets for concurrence. This reporting and claim agreement process makes estimating
liabilities for this business the most uncertain of the three categories of claims.

The following table sets forth, for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, paid and
incurred loss activity by the three categories of claims for asbestos and environmental.

Paid
and Incurred Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses (“LAE”) Development — Asbestos and
Environmental

Asbestos [1]

Environmental [1]

Paid

Incurred

Paid

Incurred

Losses & LAE

Losses & LAE

Losses & LAE

Losses & LAE


Gross

Direct

$


$


$


$


Assumed — Domestic




(25

)

London Market


—



Total





Ceded

(248

)




Net

$


$


$


$



Gross

Direct

$


$


$


$


Assumed — Domestic


(4

)


—

London Market


—


—

Total





Ceded

(271

)


(3

)


Net

$


$


$


$



Gross

Direct [2]

$

1,487

$

(18

)

$


$


Assumed — Domestic




—

London Market


—


—

Total

1,575




Ceded

(376

)


(34

)


Net

$

1,199

$


$


$


[1]

Excludes asbestos and environmental paid and incurred losses and LAE reported in Ongoing
Operations. Total gross losses and loss adjustment expenses paid in Ongoing Operations for
the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 includes $12, $23 and $11,
respectively, related to asbestos and environmental claims. Total gross losses and loss
adjustment expenses incurred in Ongoing Operations for the twelve months ended December 31,
2006, 2005, and 2004 includes $10, $17 and $14, respectively, related to asbestos and
environmental claims.

[2]

Reflects payments pursuant to the MacArthur settlement of $1.15 billion.

Consistent with the Company’s long-standing reserving practices, the Company will continue to
review and monitor its reserves in the Other Operations segment regularly and, where future
developments indicate, make appropriate adjustments to the reserves. For a discussion of the
Company’s reserving practices, please see the “Critical Accounting Estimates—Property & Casualty
Reserves, Net of Reinsurance” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations. The loss reserving assumptions, drawn from both industry data
and the Company’s experience, have been applied over time to all of this business and



have resulted in reserve strengthening or reserve releases at various times over the past decade.
The Company believes that its current asbestos and environmental reserves are reasonable and
appropriate. However, analyses of future developments could cause the Company to change its
estimates and ranges of its asbestos and environmental reserves, and the effect of these changes
could be material to the Company’s consolidated operating results, financial condition and
liquidity.

Outlook

The Other Operations segment will continue to manage the discontinued operations of the Company as
well as claims (and associated reserves) related to asbestos, environmental and other exposures.
The Company will continue to review various components of all of its reserves on a regular basis.

The Company expects to perform its regular reviews of asbestos liabilities in the second quarter of
2007, Other Operations reinsurance recoverables and the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance in
the second quarter 2007, and environmental liabilities in the third quarter of 2007. If there are
significant developments that affect particular exposures, reinsurance arrangements or the
financial condition of particular reinsurers, the Company will make adjustments to its reserves, or
the portion of liabilities it expects to cede to reinsurers.

INVESTMENTS

General

The Hartford’s investment portfolios are primarily divided between Life and Property & Casualty.
The investment portfolios of Life and Property & Casualty are managed by Hartford Investment
Management Company (“HIMCO”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Hartford. HIMCO manages the
portfolios to maximize economic value, while attempting to generate the income necessary to support
the Company’s various product obligations, within internally established objectives, guidelines and
risk tolerances. The portfolio objectives and guidelines are developed based upon the
asset/liability profile, including duration, convexity and other characteristics within specified
risk tolerances. The risk tolerances considered include, for example, asset and credit issuer
allocation limits, maximum portfolio below investment grade (“BIG”) holdings and foreign currency
exposure. The Company attempts to minimize adverse impacts to the portfolio and the Company’s
results of operations due to changes in economic conditions through asset allocation limits,
asset/liability duration matching and through the use of derivatives. For a further discussion of
how the investment portfolio’s credit and market risks are assessed and managed, see the Investment
Credit Risk and Capital Markets Risk Management sections of the MD&A.

HIMCO’s security selection process is a multi-dimensional approach that combines independent
internal credit research along with a macro-economic outlook of technical trends (e.g., interest
rates, slope of the yield curve and credit spreads) and market pricing to identify valuation
inefficiencies and relative value buying and selling opportunities. Security selection and
monitoring are performed by asset class specialists working within dedicated portfolio management
teams.

HIMCO portfolio managers may sell securities (except those securities in an unrealized loss
position for which the Company has indicated its intent and ability to hold until the price
recovers) due to portfolio guidelines or market technicals or trends. For example, the Company may
sell securities to manage risk, capture market valuation inefficiencies or relative value
opportunities, to remain compliant with internal asset/liability duration matching guidelines, or
to modify a portfolio’s duration to capitalize on interest rate levels or the yield curve slope.

HIMCO believes that advantageously buying and selling securities within a disciplined framework,
provides the greatest economic value for the Company over the long-term.

Return on general account invested assets is an important element of The Hartford’s financial
results. Significant fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could weaken the Company’s
financial condition or its results of operations. Additionally, changes in market interest rates
may impact the period of time over which certain investments, such as mortgage-backed securities
(“MBS”), are repaid and whether certain investments are called by the issuers. Such changes may,
in turn, impact the yield on these investments and also may result in re-investment of funds
received from calls and prepayments at rates below the average portfolio yield. Net investment
income and net realized capital gains (losses) accounted for approximately 24%, 30% and 23% of the
Company’s consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
The decrease in the percentage of consolidated revenues for 2006, as compared to the prior year,
is primarily due to a smaller increase in the value of equity securities held for trading.

Fluctuations in interest rates affect the Company’s return on, and the fair value of, fixed
maturity investments, which comprised approximately 68% and 72% of the fair value of its invested
assets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Other events beyond the Company’s control
could also adversely impact the fair value of these investments. Specifically, a downgrade of an
issuer’s credit rating or default of payment by an issuer could reduce the Company’s investment
return.



The Company invests in private placement securities, mortgage loans and limited partnership
arrangements in order to further diversify its investment portfolio. These investment types
comprised approximately 21% and 18% of the fair value of its invested assets as of December 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively. These security types are typically less liquid than direct
investments in publicly traded fixed income or equity investments. However, generally these
securities have higher yields to compensate for the liquidity risk.

A decrease in the fair value of any investment that is deemed other-than-temporary would result in
the Company’s recognition of a net realized capital loss in its financial results prior to the
actual sale of the investment. Following the recognition of the other-than-temporary impairment
for fixed maturities, the company amortizes the new cost basis to par or to estimated future value
over the remaining life of the security based on future estimated cash flows. For a further
discussion of the evaluation of other-than-temporary impairments, see the Critical Accounting
Estimates section of the MD&A under “Evaluation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments on
Available-for-Sale Securities”.

Valuation of Investments and Derivative Instruments

The Hartford’s investments in fixed maturities, which include bonds, redeemable preferred stock and
commercial paper; and certain equity securities, which include common and non-redeemable preferred
stocks, are classified as “available-for-sale” and accordingly, are carried at fair value with the
after-tax difference from cost or amortized cost, as adjusted for the effect of deducting the life
and pension policyholders’ share of the immediate participation guaranteed contracts; and certain
life and annuity deferred policy acquisition costs and reserve adjustments, reflected in
stockholders’ equity as a component of AOCI. The equity investments associated with the variable
annuity products offered in Japan are recorded at fair value and are classified as “trading” with
changes in fair value recorded in net investment income. Policy loans are carried at outstanding
balance, which approximates fair value. Mortgage loans on real estate are recorded at the
outstanding principal balance adjusted for amortization of premiums or discounts and net of
valuation allowances, if any. Other investments primarily consist of derivatives, and limited
partnership interests and proportionate share limited liability companies (collectively “limited
partnerships”). Limited partnerships are reported at their carrying value with the change in
carrying value accounted for under the equity method and accordingly the Company’s share of
earnings are included in net investment income. Derivatives are carried at fair value.

Valuation of Fixed Maturities

The fair value for fixed maturity securities is largely determined by one of three primary pricing
methods: independent third party pricing service market quotations, independent broker quotations
or pricing matrices, which use market data provided by external sources. With the exception of
short-term securities for which amortized cost is predominantly used to approximate fair value,
security pricing is applied using a hierarchy or “waterfall” approach whereby prices are first
sought from independent pricing services with the remaining unpriced securities submitted to
brokers for prices or lastly priced via a pricing matrix.

Prices from independent pricing services are often unavailable for securities that are rarely
traded or are traded only in privately negotiated transactions. As a result, certain of the
Company’s ABS and commercial mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”) are priced via broker quotations.
A pricing matrix is used to price securities for which the Company is unable to obtain either a
price from an independent third party service or an independent broker quotation. The pricing
matrix begins with current treasury rates and uses credit spreads and issuer-specific yield
adjustments received from an independent third party source to determine the market price for the
security. The credit spreads, as assigned by a nationally recognized rating agency, incorporate
the issuer’s credit rating and a risk premium, if warranted, due to the issuer’s industry and the
security’s time to maturity. The issuer-specific yield adjustments, which can be positive or
negative, are updated twice annually, as of June 30 and December 31, by an independent third party
source and are intended to adjust security prices for issuer-specific factors. The matrix-priced
securities at December 31, 2006 and 2005, primarily consisted of non-144A private placements and
have an average duration of 5.1 and 5.0 years, respectively.

The following table presents the fair value of fixed maturity securities by pricing source as of
December 31, 2006 and 2005.



Percentage

Percentage

of Total

of Total

Fair Value

Fair Value

Fair Value

Fair Value

Priced via independent market quotations

$

69,023

85.5

%

$

65,986

86.3

%

Priced via broker quotations

4,309

5.3

%

2,728

3.6

%

Priced via matrices

5,605

6.9

%

5,452

7.1

%

Priced via other methods


0.2

%


0.3

%

Short-term investments [1]

1,681

2.1

%

2,063

2.7

%

Total

$

80,755

100.0

%

$

76,440

100.0

%

[1]

Short-term investments are primarily valued at amortized cost, which approximates fair
value.

The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be
exchanged in a current transaction between knowledgeable, unrelated willing parties. As such, the
estimated fair value of a financial instrument may differ significantly from the amount that could
be realized if the security was sold immediately.



Valuation of Derivative Instruments

Derivative instruments are reported at fair value based upon either pricing valuation models, which
utilize market data inputs or independent broker quotations. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005,
approximately 84% and 81% of derivatives, respectively, based upon notional values, were priced via
valuation models, while the remaining 16% and 19% of derivatives, respectively, were priced via
broker quotations. These percentages exclude the GMWB rider and the associated reinsurance
contracts, which are discussed in the Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD&A under
“Valuation of Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit Derivatives”.

Life

The primary investment objective of Life’s general account is to maximize economic value consistent
with acceptable risk parameters, including the management of the interest rate sensitivity of
invested assets, while generating sufficient after-tax income to support policyholder and corporate
obligations, as discussed in the Capital Markets Risk Management section of the MD&A under “Market
Risk — Life”.

The following table identifies the invested assets by type held in the general account as of
December 31, 2006 and 2005.

Composition of Invested Assets



Amount

Percent

Amount

Percent

Fixed maturities, available-for-sale, at fair value

$

53,173

59.4

%

$

50,812

63.7

%

Equity securities, available-for-sale, at fair
value


0.9

%


1.0

%

Equity securities held for trading, at fair value

29,393

32.9

%

24,034

30.1

%

Policy loans, at outstanding balance

2,051

2.3

%

2,016

2.5

%

Mortgage loans, at amortized cost

2,909

3.3

%

1,513

1.9

%

Limited partnerships


0.9

%


0.6

%

Other investments


0.3

%


0.2

%

Total investments

$

89,414

100.0

%

$

79,784

100.0

%

Fixed maturity investments increased $2.4 billion, or 5%, since December 31, 2005, primarily
as the result of positive operating cash flows, product sales and an increase in the collateral
held from increased securities lending activities, offset by an increase in interest rates. Equity
securities held for trading increased $5.4 billion, or 22%, since December 31, 2005, due to
positive cash flow primarily generated from sales and deposits related to variable annuity products
sold in Japan and positive performance of the underlying investment funds supporting the Japanese
variable annuity product. Mortgage loans increased $1.4 billion, or 92%, since December 31, 2005,
as a result of a decision to continue to increase Life’s investment in this asset class primarily
due to its attractive yields and diversification opportunities.

Limited partnerships increased by $363 or 84% during 2006. HIMCO believes investing in limited
partnerships provides an opportunity to diversify its portfolio and earn above average returns over
the long-term. However, significant price volatility can exist quarter to quarter. Prior to
investing, HIMCO performs an extensive due diligence process which attempts to identify funds that
have above average return potential and managers with proven track records for results, many of
which utilize sophisticated risk management techniques. Due to capital requirements, HIMCO closely
monitors the impact of these investments in relationship to the overall investment portfolio and
the consolidated balance sheet. HIMCO does not expect investments in limited partnerships to
exceed 3% of the fair value of Life’s investment portfolio excluding trading securities.

The following table summarizes Life’s limited partnerships as of December 31, 2006 and 2005.

Composition of Limited Partnerships



Amount

Percent

Amount

Percent

Hedge funds [1]

$


53.8

%

$


29.5

%

Private equity funds [2]


26.6

%


41.5

%

Mortgage and real estate funds
[3]


5.8

%


1.4

%

Mezzanine debt funds [4]


13.8

%


27.6

%

Total

$


100.0

%

$


100.0

%

[1]

Hedge funds include investments in funds of funds as well as
direct funds. The hedge funds of funds invest in approximately 40
to 90 different hedge funds within a variety of investment styles.
Examples of hedge fund strategies include long/short equity or
credit, event driven strategies and structured credit.

[2]

Private equity funds consist of investments in funds whose assets
typically consist of a diversified pool of investments in small
non-public businesses with high growth potential.

[3]

Mortgage and real estate funds consist of investments in funds
whose assets consist of mortgage loans, participations in mortgage
loans, mezzanine loans or other notes which may be below
investment grade credit quality as well as equity real estate.



[4]

Mezzanine debt funds consist of investments in funds whose assets
consist of subordinated debt that often times incorporates
equity-based options such as warrants and a limited amount of
direct equity investments.

Investment Results

The following table summarizes Life’s investment results.

(Before-tax)




Net investment income — excluding income on policy loans
and equity securities held for trading

$

3,042

$

2,854

$

2,690

Equity securities held for trading [1]

1,824

3,847


Policy loan income




Net investment income — total

$

5,008

$

6,845

$

3,675

Yield on average invested assets [2]

5.8

%

5.7

%

5.8

%

Gross gains on sale

$


$


$


Gross losses on sale

(257

)

(254

)

(147

)

Impairments

Credit related

(10

)

(32

)

(16

)

Other

(66

)

(5

)

(9

)

Total impairments

(76

)

(37

)

(25

)

Japanese fixed annuity contract hedges, net [3]

(17

)

(36

)


Periodic net coupon settlements on credit derivatives/Japan

(48

)

(32

)


GMWB derivatives, net

(26

)

(46

)


Other, net [4]

(51

)


(42

)

Net realized capital gains (losses), before-tax

$

(260

)

$

(25

)

$


[1]

Represents dividend income and the change in value of equity securities held for trading.

[2]

Represents annualized net investment income (excluding income related to equity securities held for trading) divided by
the monthly weighted average invested assets at cost or amortized cost, as applicable, excluding equity securities held
for trading, the collateral received associated with securities lending programs and consolidated variable interest
entity minority interests.

[3]

Relates to the Japanese fixed annuity product (product and related derivative hedging instruments excluding periodic
net coupon settlements).

[4]

Primarily consists of changes in fair value on non-qualifying derivatives, changes in fair value of certain derivatives
in fair value hedge relationships and hedge ineffectiveness on qualifying derivative instruments.

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Net investment income, excluding equity securities held for trading and policy loans, increased
$188, or 7%, compared to the prior year period. The increase in net investment income was
primarily due to income earned on a higher average invested assets base, an increase in interest
rates and a change in asset mix (i.e., greater investment in mortgage loans and limited
partnerships). The increase in the average invested assets base, as compared to the prior year,
was primarily due to positive operating cash flows, investment contract sales such as retail and
institutional notes, and universal life-type product sales.

Net investment income on equity securities held for trading for the year ended December 31, 2006,
can be primarily attributed to an increase in the value of the underlying investment funds
supporting the Japanese variable annuity product generated by positive market performance.

For 2006, the yield on average invested assets increased slightly over the prior year. An increase
in the yield on fixed maturities was offset by a decrease in the yield on limited partnerships.
Based upon current market forward interest rate expectations, Life expects the average portfolio
yield to remain consistent with 2006 levels in 2007. A higher yield is expected from changes in
asset and quality mix offset by moderating partnership income.

Total net realized capital losses were higher in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily as a result of a
higher interest rate environment. The components that drove the increase in net losses during the
year ended December 31, 2006 included net losses on sales of fixed maturity securities,
other-than-temporary impairments, periodic net coupon settlements and losses in Other, net,
partially offset by a decrease in losses associated with GMWB derivatives and losses associated
with the Japanese fixed annuity contract hedges. The circumstances giving rise to these components
are as follows:

•

The net losses on fixed maturity sales for the year ended December 31, 2006, were primarily the result of rising
interest rates from the date of security purchase and, to a lesser extent, credit spread widening on certain issuers
that were sold. For further discussion of gross gains and losses, see below.

•

See the Other-Than-Temporary Impairments section that follows for information on impairment losses.

•

The periodic net coupon settlements on credit derivatives and the Japan fixed annuity cross currency swaps include the
net periodic income/expense or coupon associated with the swap contracts. The net losses for the years ended December
31, 2006 and 2005,



were primarily associated with the Japan fixed annuity cross currency swaps and
resulted from the interest rate differential between U.S. and Japanese interest
rates. The increase in net losses in 2006 was primarily due to higher U.S.
interest rates.

•

Other, net losses were primarily driven from the
change in value of non-qualifying derivatives due to
fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency
exchange rates. These losses were partially offset
by a before-tax benefit of $25 received from the
WorldCom security settlement.

•

A reduction in losses in 2006 compared to 2005,
associated with the GMWB derivatives were primarily
driven by a more significant impact from liability
model refinements and assumption updates in 2005 as
compared to 2006. For further discussion of the GMWB
rider valuation assumption, see the Capital Markets
Risk Management section of the MD&A under “Market
Risk-Life”.

•

The Japanese fixed annuity contract hedges net amount
consists of the foreign currency transaction
remeasurements associated with the Yen denominated
fixed annuity contracts offered in Japan and the
corresponding offsetting cross currency swaps.
Although the Japanese fixed annuity contracts are
economically hedged, the net realized capital gains
and losses result from the mixed attribute accounting
model, which requires fixed annuity liabilities to be
recorded at cost and remeasured only for foreign
currency exchange rates but the associated
derivatives to be reported at fair value. The net
realized capital losses for the year ended December
31, 2006, resulted primarily from rising Japan
interest rates while net realized capital losses for
the year ended December 31, 2005, resulted from
declining U.S. interest rates and rising Japan
interest rates. The decrease in loss from 2005 to
2006 is primarily due to the hedging instruments used
to manage the yen currency risk. Throughout 2006,
the Company used pay variable U.S. dollar receive
fixed yen, zero coupon currency swap while during the
first half of 2005, the Company used pay fixed U.S.
dollar receive fixed yen, zero coupon currency swap.
This resulted in higher losses in 2005 as a result of
declining U.S. interest rates. For additional
discussion of the Japanese fixed annuity contract
hedges see the Capital Markets Risk Management
section of the MD&A under “Market Risk-Life” and Note
4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Gross gains on sales for the year ended December 31, 2006, were primarily within fixed maturities
and were concentrated in U.S. government, corporate and foreign government securities. Certain
sales were made to reposition the portfolio to a shorter duration due to the flatness of the yield
curve and the lack of market compensation for longer duration assets. Also, certain sales were
made as the Company continues to increase investments in mortgage loans and limited partnerships.
The gains on sales were primarily the result of changes in interest rates and foreign currency
exchange from the date of security purchase.

Gross losses on sales for the year ended December 31, 2006, were primarily within fixed maturities
and were concentrated in the corporate and commercial mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”) sectors
with no single security sold at a loss in excess of $6, and an average loss as a percentage of the
fixed maturity’s amortized cost of less than 3%, which, under the Company’s impairment policy was
deemed to be depressed only to a minor extent.

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Net investment income, excluding income on policy loans and equity securities held for trading,
increased $164, or 6%, compared to the prior year. The increase in net investment income was
primarily due to income earned on a higher average invested assets base as well as higher
partnership income. The increase in the average invested assets base, as compared to the prior
year, was primarily due to positive operating cash flows, investment contract sales such as retail
and institutional notes, and universal life-type product sales such as individual fixed annuity
products sold in Japan. The higher partnership income was due to certain of the Company’s
partnerships reporting higher market values and the result of certain partnerships liquidating
their underlying investment holdings in the favorable market environment.

Net investment income on equity securities held for trading for the year ended December 31, 2005,
can be primarily attributed to an increase in the value of the underlying investment funds
supporting the Japanese variable annuity product generated by positive market performance. The
change in net investment income as compared to the prior year is primarily due to the performance
of the underlying funds on a higher asset base.

For 2005, the yield on average invested assets was relatively consistent with the prior year. An
increase in yield as a result of higher partnership income was offset by a reduction in yield due
to lower policy loan income.

Net realized capital losses were recognized for 2005 compared to net realized capital gains for
2004 primarily as a result of an increased interest rate environment. The significant components
driving the changes in net realized capital gain and loss amounts between 2005 and 2004 include
lower net gains on the sale of fixed maturity securities and losses associated with GMWB
derivatives, Japanese fixed annuity contract hedges and periodic net coupon settlements. These
losses were offset in part by gains in Other, net which was primarily related to changes in the
value of non-qualifying foreign currency swaps. The circumstances giving rise to the changes in
these components are as follows:

•

The lower net gains on fixed maturity sales in 2005 were primarily
the result of rising interest rates and losses associated with a
major automotive manufacturer. See additional discussion of the
gross gains and losses on sales below.



•

Higher net realized capital losses in 2005 resulted from rising
Japanese interest rates, and in the first half of the year, a
decrease in U.S. interest rates. For additional discussion of the
Japanese fixed annuity contract hedges see the Capital Markets
Risk Management section of the MD&A under “Market Risk-Life” and
Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

•

The increase in net realized losses associated with the GMWB
derivatives were primarily driven by the impact of liability model
assumption updates in 2005. For further discussion of the GMWB
rider valuation assumption, see the Capital Markets Risk
Management section of the MD&A under “Market Risk-Life”.

•

The periodic net coupon settlements on credit derivatives and the
Japan fixed annuity cross currency swaps includes the net periodic
income/expense or coupon associated with the swap contracts. The
net loss for 2005 is associated with the Japan fixed annuity cross
currency swaps and results from the interest rate differential
between U.S. and Japanese interest rates. The Japanese fixed
annuity product was first offered by the Company in the fourth
quarter 2004. The adverse change in 2005 in comparison to 2004
primarily resulted from a full year of the Japanese fixed annuity
product swap accruals in 2005.

In 2005, gross gains were primarily within fixed maturities and included corporate, foreign
government securities and CMBS. Corporate securities were sold primarily to reduce the Company’s
exposure to certain lower credit quality issuers. The sale proceeds were primarily re-invested
into higher credit quality securities. The gains on sales of corporate securities were primarily
the result of credit spread tightening since the date of purchase. Foreign securities were sold
primarily to reduce the foreign currency exposure in the portfolio due to the expected near term
volatility in foreign exchange rates and to capture gains resulting from credit spread tightening
since the date of purchase. The CMBS sales resulted from a decision to divest securities that were
backed by a single asset due to the then scheduled expiration of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act
at the end of 2005, which was subsequently extended, in modified form, through the Terrorism Risk
Insurance Act of 2005, through the end of 2007. Gains on these sales
were realized as a result of an improved credit environment and interest rate declines from the
date of purchase.

In 2005, gross losses on sales were primarily within the corporate sector. Gross losses for 2005
included $27 of losses on sales of securities related to a major automotive manufacturer, that
primarily occurred during the second quarter. Sales related to actions taken to reduce issuer
exposure in light of a downward adjustment in earnings and cash flows of the issuer primarily due
to sluggish sales, rising employee and retiree benefit costs and an increased debt service interest
burden, and to reposition the portfolio into higher quality securities. For 2005, excluding sales
related to the automotive manufacturer noted above, there was no single security sold at a loss in
excess of $6 and the average loss as a percentage of the fixed maturity’s amortized cost was less
than 2%, which under the Company’s impairment policy was deemed to be depressed only to a minor
extent.

Separate Account Products

Separate account products are those for which a separate investment and liability account is
maintained on behalf of the policyholder. The Company’s separate accounts reflect accounts wherein
the policyholder assumes substantially all the risk and reward. Investment objectives for separate
accounts, which consist of the participants’ account balances, vary by fund account type, as
outlined in the applicable fund prospectus or separate account plan of operations. Separate
account products include variable annuities (except those sold in Japan), variable universal life
insurance contracts and variable corporate owned life insurance. The assets and liabilities
associated with variable annuity products sold in Japan do not meet the criteria to be recognized
as a separate account because the assets are not legally insulated from the Company. Therefore,
these assets are included with the Company’s general account assets. As of December 31, 2006 and
2005, the Company’s separate accounts totaled $180.5 billion and $150.9 billion, respectively.

Property & Casualty

The primary investment objective for Property & Casualty’s Ongoing Operations segment is to
maximize economic value while generating sufficient after-tax income to meet policyholder and
corporate obligations. For Property & Casualty’s Other Operations segment, the investment
objective is to ensure the full and timely payment of all liabilities. Property & Casualty’s
investment strategies are developed based on a variety of factors including business needs,
regulatory requirements and tax considerations.

The following table identifies the invested assets by type held as of December 31, 2006 and 2005.

Composition of Invested Assets



Amount

Percent

Amount

Percent

Fixed maturities, available-for-sale, at fair
value

$

27,178

92.8

%

$

25,330

94.3

%

Equity securities, available-for-sale, at fair value


3.0

%


2.5

%

Mortgage loans, at amortized cost


1.4

%


0.8

%

Limited partnerships


1.5

%


0.9

%

Other investments


1.3

%


1.5

%

Total investments

$

29,300

100.0

%

$

26,853

100.0

%



Fixed maturity investments increased $1.8 billion, or 7%, since December 31, 2005, primarily as the
result of positive operating cash flows and an increase in the collateral held from increased
securities lending activities offset by an increase in interest rates. Mortgage loans increased
$189, or 86%, since December 31, 2005, as a result of a decision to continue to increase Property &
Casualty’s investment in this asset class primarily due to its attractive yields and
diversification opportunities.

Limited partnerships increased by $213, or 90%, during 2006. HIMCO believes investing in limited
partnerships provides an opportunity to diversify its portfolio and earn above average returns over
the long-term. However, significant price volatility can exist quarter to quarter. Prior to
investing, HIMCO performs an extensive due diligence process which attempts to identify funds that
have above average return potential and managers with proven track records for results, many of
which utilize sophisticated risk management techniques. Due to capital requirements, HIMCO closely
monitors the impact of these investments in relationship to the investment portfolio and the
overall consolidated balance sheet. HIMCO does not expect investments in limited partnerships to
exceed 3% of the fair value of Property & Casualty’s investment portfolio.

The following table summarizes Property & Casualty’s limited partnerships as of December 31, 2006
and 2005.

Composition of Limited Partnerships



Amount

Percent

Amount

Percent

Hedge funds [1]

$


37.8

%

$


17.7

%

Private equity funds [2]


24.2

%


42.2

%

Mortgage and real estate funds
[3]


17.8

%


15.6

%

Mezzanine debt funds [4]


20.2

%


24.5

%

Total

$


100.0

%

$


100.0

%

[1]

Hedge funds include investments in funds of funds as well as
direct funds. The hedge funds of funds invest in approximately 40
to 90 different hedge funds within a variety of investment styles.
In addition, Other Investments includes $384 of hedge funds based
investments which are not limited partnerships and therefore, not
included in the table above. Examples of hedge fund strategies
include long/short equity or credit, event driven strategies and
structured credit.

[2]

Private equity funds consist of investments in funds whose assets
typically consist of a diversified pool of investments in small
non-public businesses with high growth potential.

[3]

Mortgage and real estate funds consist of investments in funds
whose assets consist of mortgage loans, participations in mortgage
loans, mezzanine loans or other notes which may be below
investment grade credit quality as well as equity real estate.

[4]

Mezzanine debt funds consist of investments in funds whose assets
consist of subordinated debt that often times incorporates
equity-based options such as warrants and a limited amount of
direct equity investments.

Investment Results

The following table below summarizes Property & Casualty’s investment results.

(Before-tax)




Net investment income, before-tax

$

1,486

$

1,365

$

1,248

Net investment income, after-tax [1]

$

1,107

$

1,016

$


Yield on average invested assets, before-tax [2]

5.5

%

5.5

%

5.4

%

Yield on average invested assets, after-tax [1] [2]

4.1

%

4.1

%

4.1

%

Gross gains on sale

$


$


$


Gross losses on sale

(164

)

(110

)

(83

)

Impairments

Credit related

—

(9

)

(8

)

Other

(45

)

(1

)

(5

)

Total impairments

(45

)

(10

)

(13

)

Periodic net coupon settlements on credit derivatives


—


Other, net [3]




Net realized capital gains, before-tax

$


$


$


[1]

Due to significant holdings in tax-exempt investments, after-tax net investment income and yield are also included.

[2]

Represents annualized net investment income divided by the monthly weighted average invested assets at cost or amortized
cost, as applicable, excluding the collateral received associated with securities lending programs.

[3]

Primarily consists of changes in fair value on non-qualifying derivatives and hedge ineffectiveness on qualifying derivatives.

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

Before-tax net investment income increased $121, or 9%, and after-tax net investment income
increased $91, or 9%, compared to the prior year. The increase in net investment income was
primarily due to income earned on a higher average invested assets base, an increase in interest
rates and a change in asset mix (i.e., greater investment in mortgage loans and limited
partnerships). The increase in the average invested assets base, as compared to the prior year,
can be attributed to positive operating cash flows.



For 2006, the yield on average invested assets was consistent with the prior year. An increase in
the yield on fixed maturities was offset by a decrease in the yield on limited partnerships. Based
upon current market forward interest rate expectancy, Property & Casualty expects the average
portfolio yield to remain consistent with 2006 levels in 2007. A higher yield is expected from
changes in asset and quality mix offset by moderating partnership income.

The decrease in net realized capital gains was primarily due to an increase in other-than-temporary
impairments and losses on the sale of fixed maturity investments. For further discussion of gross
gains and losses on fixed maturity investments and other-than-temporary impairments, see below.

Gross gains on the sale of fixed maturities for the year ended December 31, 2006 were concentrated
in the corporate, foreign government and municipal sectors. Certain sales were made to reposition
the portfolio to a shorter duration due to the flatness of the yield curve and the lack of market
compensation for longer duration assets. Also, certain sales were made as the Company continues to
reposition the portfolio to higher quality fixed maturity investments and increase investments in
mortgage loans and limited partnerships. The gains on sales were primarily the result of changes
in interest rates from the date of purchase.

Gross losses on the sale of fixed maturities for the year ended December 31, 2006 were concentrated
in the corporate and CMBS sectors with no single security sold at a loss in excess of $4, and an
average loss as a percentage of the fixed maturity’s amortized cost of less than 3%, which, under
the Company’s impairment policy was deemed to be depressed only to a minor extent.

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

Before-tax net investment income increased $117, or 9%, and after-tax net investment income
increased $84, or 9%, compared to the prior year. The increases in net investment income were
primarily due to income earned on a higher average invested assets base as well as higher
partnership income. The increase in the average invested assets base, as compared to the prior
year, was primarily due to positive operating cash flows. The higher partnership income was due to
certain of the Company’s partnerships reporting higher market values and the result of certain
partnerships liquidating their underlying investment holdings in the favorable market environment.

In 2005, the yield on average invested assets increased from the prior year as a result of higher
partnership income. Excluding partnership income, the yield on average invested assets for 2005
was relatively consistent with the prior year.

Net realized capital gains before-tax for 2005 decreased $89 as compared to the prior year
primarily due to lower net realized gains on fixed maturity securities, lower periodic net coupon
settlements on credit derivatives, as well as net losses on non-qualifying derivatives in 2005
compared to net gains in 2004.

Gross gains on the sale of fixed maturities for the year ended December 31, 2005, were concentrated
in the corporate and foreign government sectors and were the result of decisions to reposition the
portfolio due to credit spread tightening in certain sectors and changes in foreign currency
exchange rates. Certain lower quality corporate securities that had appreciated in value as a
result of an improved corporate credit environment were sold to reposition the corporate holdings
into higher quality securities. Foreign securities were sold to reduce the foreign currency
exposure in the portfolio due to the expected near term volatility in foreign exchange rates.
Also, certain foreign government securities appreciated in price and were sold to reposition the
portfolio into higher credit quality securities.

Gross losses on the sale of fixed maturities for the year ended December 31, 2005, were primarily
within corporate and foreign government securities. Included in the corporate gross losses were
losses on sales of securities related to a major automotive manufacturer of $10, before-tax, that
primarily occurred during the second quarter. Sales related to actions taken to reduce issuer
exposure in light of a downward adjustment in earnings and cash flow guidance primarily due to
sluggish sales, rising employee and retiree benefit costs and an increased debt service interest
burden, and to reposition the portfolio into higher quality securities. For the year ended
December 31, 2005, excluding sales related to the automotive manufacturer noted above, there was no
single security sold at a loss in excess of $3, and the average loss as a percentage of the fixed
maturity’s amortized cost was less than 2%, which under the Company’s impairment policy was deemed
to be depressed only to a minor extent.

Corporate

The investment objective of Corporate is to raise capital through financing activities to support
the Life and Property & Casualty operations of the Company and to maintain sufficient funds to
support the cost of those financing activities including the payment of interest for The Hartford
Financial Services Group, Inc. (“HFSG”) issued debt and dividends to shareholders of The Hartford’s
common stock. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, Corporate held $404 and $298, respectively, of
fixed maturity investments. In addition, Corporate held $55 and $0 of equity securities as of
December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.



Variable Interest Entities (“VIE”)

In the normal course of business, the Company becomes involved with variable interest entities
primarily as a collateral manager and through normal investment activities. The Company’s
involvement includes providing investment management and administrative services, and holding
ownership or other investment interests in the entities.

The following table summarizes the total assets, liabilities and maximum exposure to loss relating
to VIEs for which the Company has concluded it is the primary beneficiary. Accordingly, the
results of operations and financial position of these VIEs are included along with the
corresponding minority interest liabilities in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

December 31, 2006

December 31, 2005

Maximum

Maximum

Total

Exposure to

Total

Exposure to

Assets

Liability [4]

Loss[2][3]

Assets

Liability [4]

Loss [2] [3]

Collaterized debt
obligations (“CDOs”) and other
funds [1] [2]

$


$


$


$


$


$


Limited partnerships [3]




—

—

—

Total [5]

$


$


$


$


$


$


[1]

The Company provides collateral management services and earns a fee associated with these structures.

[2]

The maximum exposure to loss is the Company’s co-investment in these structures.

[3]

The maximum exposure to loss is equal to the carrying value of the investment plus any unfunded commitments.

[4]

Creditors have no recourse against the Company in the event of default by the VIE.

[5]

As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had relationships with four and two VIEs, respectively, where the Company
was the primary beneficiary.

In addition to the VIEs described above, as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company held
variable interest in three CDOs that are managed by HIMCO where the Company is not the primary
beneficiary. As a result, these are not consolidated by the Company. These investments have been
held by the Company for a period of one to three years. The Company’s maximum exposure to loss
from the non-consolidated CDOs (consisting of the Company’s investments) was approximately $20 and
$21 as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Other-Than-Temporary Impairments

The Company has a security monitoring process overseen by a committee of investment and accounting
professionals that, on a quarterly basis, identifies securities that could potentially be
other-than-temporarily impaired. When a security is deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired,
its cost or amortized cost is written down to current market value and a realized loss is recorded
in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations. For fixed maturities, the company
amortizes the new cost basis to par or to estimated future value over the remaining life of the
security based on future estimated cash flows. For further discussion regarding the Company’s
other-than-temporary impairment policy, see “Evaluation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments on
Available-for-Sale Securities” included in the Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD&A
and Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Company categorizes impairments as credit related and other. If the Company determines that it
is not likely to receive interest or principal amounts based upon the initial expectations of the
security or due in accordance with the contractual terms of the security, the impairment is
characterized as credit related. The Company may also characterize an impairment as credit related
if substantially all of the depression in security value is related to issuer credit spread
widening. Company management uses average credit related impairment amounts within Life and
Property & Casualty product pricing assumptions. The other-than-temporary impairments recorded in
Other are primarily related to securities that had declined in value and for which the Company was
uncertain of its intent to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow recovery
to cost or amortized cost.



The following table identifies the Company’s other-than-temporary impairments by type.




ABS

$


$


$


Commercial mortgages

—

—


CMBS/Collateralized mortgage obligations (“CMOs”)




Corporate




Equity




MBS — interest only securities

—

—


Total other-than-temporary impairments

$


$


$


Credit related

$


$


$


Other




Total other-than-temporary impairments

$


$


$


The following discussion provides an analysis of significant other-than-temporary impairments
recognized during 2006, 2005 and 2004, the related circumstances giving rise to the
other-than-temporary impairments and the potential impact such circumstances may have on other
material investments held.


The increase in other-than-temporary impairments during 2006 in comparison to 2005 and 2004 levels
is primarily due to the decline in market value of certain issuers that may be adversely impacted
by recapitalizations, pushing the Company’s interests lower in the repayment priority (i.e.,
leveraged buy-outs) or issuers using capital that would not benefit the company’s debt holders’
position (e.g., share repurchase programs) as well as an increase in interest rates from the date
of security purchase.

During 2006, other-than-temporary impairments were primarily recorded on corporate fixed
maturities, ABS and equity securities. Approximately $27 of other-than-temporary impairments were
recorded on various corporate fixed maturities within the technology and communications sector, and
approximately $19 relating to various companies within the consumer cyclical sector. Approximately
$17 of other-than-temporary impairments were recorded on corporate fixed maturities within the
utilities sector, of which $16 related to a single issuer. There were no other significant
other-than-temporary impairments (i.e., $15 or greater) recorded on any single security or issuer.
The ABS other-than-temporary impairments related primarily to investments backed by aircraft lease
receivables. Impairments resulted from higher than expected maintenance expenses.

Future other-than-temporary impairment levels will depend primarily on economic fundamentals,
political stability, issuer and/or collateral performance and future movements in interest rates.
If interest rates continue to increase during 2007 or credit spreads widen, other-than-temporary
impairments for 2007 would likely be higher than the 2006 levels. For further discussion of risk
factors associated with portfolio sectors with significant unrealized loss positions, see the risk
factor commentary under the Consolidated Total Available-for-Sale Securities with Unrealized Loss
Greater than Six Months by Type table in the Investment Credit Risk section that follows.


During 2005 there were no significant other-than-temporary impairments (i.e., $15 or greater)
recorded on any single security or issuer. Other-than-temporary impairments recorded on ABS
primarily related to deterioration of the underlying collateral supporting several securities and
included $3 recorded on aircraft lease receivables related to one major U.S. carrier. These
receivables are secured by certain older aircraft that recently experienced a significant decline
in value. Other-than-temporary impairments recorded on equity securities primarily related to
variable rate perpetual preferred securities issued by one highly-rated financial services company.
These securities had sustained a decline in market value for an extended period of time as a
result of issuer credit spread widening. The circumstances giving rise to the decline in value of
these corporate securities since the date of purchase and potential impact on other material
holdings of these issuers are as follows:

•

Approximately $15 of other-than-temporary impairments recorded on
corporate securities related to three Canadian paper companies.
These companies’ operations have recently suffered from high
energy prices and falling demand, in part due to the appreciation
of the Canadian dollar in comparison to the U.S. dollar. These
investments continue to perform in accordance with the contractual
terms of the securities. As of December 31, 2005, the Company
held approximately $96 of securities issued by these three
companies in a total net unrealized loss position of $5.
Substantially all of the securities in an unrealized loss
position, as of December 31, 2005, were depressed only to a minor
extent and, as a result, the unrealized losses were deemed to be
temporary in nature.

•

Also included in the corporate securities other-than-temporary
impairment amount for 2005 was $9 recorded on securities related
to two major automotive manufacturers. The market values of these
securities had fallen due to a downward adjustment in earnings and
cash flow guidance primarily due to sluggish sales, rising
employee and retiree benefit costs and an increased debt



service burden. Through 2005, these investments performed in accordance with the contractual
terms of the securities. As of December 31, 2005, the Company held approximately $137 of
securities issued by these two companies in a total net unrealized loss position of $7.
Substantially all of the securities in an unrealized loss position, as of December 31, 2005,
were depressed only to a minor extent and, as a result, the unrealized losses were deemed to be
temporary in nature.


During
2004, there were no significant other-than-temporary impairments (i.e., $15 or greater)
recorded on any single security or issuer. In aggregate, other-than-temporary impairments recorded
on ABS primarily related to the decline in market values of certain previously impaired securities.
Other-than-temporary impairments recorded on equity securities primarily related to variable rate
perpetual preferred securities issued by two highly rated financial services companies. These
securities are variable rate securities with unique structural interest rate reset characteristics
that have sustained a decline in market value for an extended period of time primarily as a result
of the increase in short-term interest rates after the security’s interest rate reset period. As
of December 31, 2004, the Company did not hold other perpetual preferred securities in an
unrealized loss position with similar interest rate reset characteristics.

INVESTMENT CREDIT RISK

The Company has established investment credit policies that focus on the credit quality of
obligors and counterparties, limit credit concentrations, encourage diversification and require
frequent creditworthiness reviews. Investment activity, including setting of policy and defining
acceptable risk levels, is subject to regular review and approval by senior management and by The
Hartford’s Board of Directors.

The Company invests primarily in securities which are rated investment grade and has established
exposure limits, diversification standards and review procedures for all credit risks including
borrower, issuer and counterparty. Creditworthiness of specific obligors is determined by
consideration of external determinants of creditworthiness, typically ratings assigned by
nationally recognized ratings agencies and is supplemented by an internal credit evaluation.
Obligor, asset sector and industry concentrations are subject to established Company limits and are
monitored on a regular basis.

The Company is not exposed to any credit concentration risk of a single issuer greater than 10% of
the Company’s stockholders’ equity other than U.S. government and certain U.S. government agencies.
For further discussion of concentration of credit risk, see the “Concentration of Credit Risk”
section in Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Derivative Instruments

The Company’s derivative counterparty exposure policy establishes market-based credit limits,
favors long-term financial stability and creditworthiness and typically requires credit
enhancement/credit risk reducing agreements. Credit risk is measured as the amount owed to the
Company based on current market conditions and potential payment obligations between the Company
and its counterparties. Credit exposures are generally quantified daily, netted by counterparty
for each legal entity of the Company, and collateral is pledged to and held by, or on behalf of,
the Company to the extent the current value of derivatives exceeds the exposure policy thresholds
which do not exceed $10. The Company also minimizes the credit risk in derivative instruments by
entering into transactions with high quality counterparties rated A1/A or better, which are
monitored by the Company’s internal compliance unit and reviewed frequently by senior management.
In addition, the compliance unit monitors counterparty credit exposure on a monthly basis to ensure
compliance with Company policies and statutory limitations. The Company also maintains a policy of
requiring that derivative contracts, other than exchange traded contracts, currency forward
contracts, and certain embedded derivatives, be governed by an International Swaps and Derivatives
Association Master Agreement which is structured by legal entity and by counterparty and permits
right of offset. To date, the Company has not incurred any losses on derivative instruments due to
counterparty nonperformance.

In addition to counterparty credit risk, the Company periodically enters into swap agreements in
which the Company assumes credit exposure from or reduces credit exposure to a single entity,
referenced index, or asset pool. Summaries of these derivatives are as follows:

•

Total return swaps and credit spreadlocks involve the periodic
exchange of payments with other parties, at specified intervals,
calculated using the agreed upon index and notional principal
amounts. Generally, no cash or principal payments are exchanged
at the inception of the contract. Typically, at the time a swap
is entered into, the cash flow streams exchanged by the
counterparties are equal in value. As of December 31, 2006 and
2005, the notional value of total return swaps and credit
spreadlocks, which exposed the Company to credit risk, totaled
$2.7 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, and the fair value
totaled $1 and $5, respectively.

•

Credit default swaps involve a transfer of credit risk of one or
many referenced entities from one party to another in exchange for
periodic payments. One party to the contract will make a payment
based on an agreed upon rate and a notional amount. The second
party, who assumes credit exposure, will typically make a payment
when there is a credit event and such payment will be



equal to the notional value of the swap contract less the value of the referenced security
issuer debt obligation. A credit event is generally defined as default on contractually
obligated interest or principal payments or bankruptcy. Certain credit default swaps require an
upfront premium to be paid at inception of the contract. During 2006, the Company began using
credit default swaps to replicate residual CDO interests. These transactions involve the
receipt of cash upon entering into the transaction as well as coupon payments throughout the
life of the contract. The upfront cash receipts for positions at December 31, 2006, totaled
$201, which represents the original liability value of the credit default swaps. For credit
default swaps in which the Company is exposed to credit risk, as of December 31, 2006 and 2005,
the notional value totaled $1.8 billion and $700, respectively, and the fair value totaled
$(184) and $(4), respectively. As of December 31, 2006, the average S&P rating for these
referenced security issuer debt obligations is BBB+. For credit default swaps in which the
Company has reduced its credit exposure, as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the notional value
totaled $3.1 billion and $254, respectively, and the fair value totaled $(11) and $2,
respectively. As of December 31, 2006, the average S&P rating for these referenced security
issuers debt obligations is BBB. The increase in notional value of risk reducing credit default
swaps since December 31, 2005, primarily related to negative basis trades. These trades involve
the purchase of a cash bond along with credit protection on the issuer through a credit default
swap in order to lock in a positive spread to LIBOR.

Fixed Maturities

The following table identifies fixed maturity securities by type on a consolidated basis as of
December 31, 2006 and 2005.

Consolidated Fixed Maturities by Type



Percent

Percent

of Total

of Total

Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Fair

Fair

Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Fair

Fair

Cost

Gains

Losses

Value

Value

Cost

Gains

Losses

Value

Value

ABS

$

7,924

$


$

(53

)

$

7,925

9.8

%

$

7,907

$


$

(89

)

$

7,878

10.3

%

CMBS

16,579


(145

)

16,666

20.6

%

12,930


(162

)

13,002

17.0

%

Collateralized mortgage
obligations (“CMOs”)

1,300


(9

)

1,308

1.6

%



(6

)


1.3

%

Corporate

Basic industry

2,801


(32

)

2,852

3.6

%

3,086


(49

)

3,144

4.1

%

Capital goods

2,568


(20

)

2,659

3.3

%

2,308


(28

)

2,383

3.1

%

Consumer cyclical

3,279


(34

)

3,339

4.1

%

2,910


(56

)

2,945

3.8

%

Consumer non-cyclical

3,465


(47

)

3,502

4.4

%

3,164


(37

)

3,266

4.3

%

Energy

1,779


(21

)

1,831

2.3

%

1,545


(12

)

1,651

2.2

%

Financial services

10,276


(78

)

10,505

13.1

%

9,413


(84

)

9,679

12.7

%

Technology and
communications

4,136


(44

)

4,283

5.3

%

4,256


(58

)

4,437

5.8

%

Transportation



(10

)


0.9

%



(9

)


1.1

%

Utilities

4,588


(66

)

4,717

5.8

%

4,043


(44

)

4,181

5.5

%

Other

1,447


(19

)

1,466

1.8

%

1,444


(19

)

1,458

1.9

%

Government/Government
agencies

Foreign

1,213


(6

)

1,294

1.6

%

1,378


(7

)

1,467

1.9

%

United States



(7

)


1.0

%



(6

)


1.2

%

MBS — agency

2,742


(45

)

2,702

3.3

%

3,914


(60

)

3,861

5.0

%

Municipal

Taxable

1,342


(23

)

1,344

1.7

%

1,155


(8

)

1,199

1.6

%

Tax-exempt

10,555


(4

)

11,062

13.7

%

10,486


(16

)

11,019

14.4

%

Redeemable preferred
stock


—

—


—



¾


0.1

%

Short-term

1,681

—

—

1,681

2.1

%

2,063

¾

¾

2,063

2.7

%

Total fixed maturities

$

79,289

$

2,129

$

(663

)

$

80,755

100.0

%

$

74,766

$

2,424

$

(750

)

$

76,440

100.0

%

The Company’s fixed maturity net unrealized gains decreased $208 from December 31, 2005 to
December 31, 2006. The decrease was primarily due to an increase in interest rates and decline in
the U.S. dollar in comparison to foreign denominated currencies, partially offset by credit spread
compression and other-than-temporary impairments taken during the year. Gross unrealized gains and
losses were also reduced by securities sold in a gain or loss position, respectively.

For further discussion of risk factors associated with sectors with significant unrealized loss
positions, see the sector risk factor commentary under the Consolidated Total Available-for-Sale
Securities with Unrealized Loss Greater than Six Months by Type table in this section of the MD&A.



Securities that have characteristics of fixed maturities and equity securities are a type of hybrid
security. Hybrid securities that have a preponderance of economic attributes more akin to fixed
maturities such as a stated interest rate, a mandatory redemption date or a punitive interest rate
step-up feature which would compel the issuer to redeem the security at a specified call date,
except in remote circumstances, are included within fixed maturities. Accordingly, the fair value
of hybrid securities included in the tables above at December 31, 2006 and 2005 are $3.5 billion
and $3.6 billion, respectively.

As of December 31, 2006, investment sector allocations as a percentage of total fixed maturities
have not significantly changed since December 31, 2005, with the exception of CMBS and MBS.
Throughout 2006, the Company increased its allocation to CMBS due to the securities’ attractive
spread levels, underlying asset diversification and quality and increased participation in
securities lending. The decrease in MBS is primarily related to an increase in dollar-roll
activity. MBS dollar-roll transactions involve the sale and simultaneous agreement to repurchase a
pool of underlying mortgage-backed securities at a future date. The forward purchase agreement is
accounted for as a derivative until the repurchase of the MBS is settled, and accordingly, the
rolled out securities are not included in the Consolidated Fixed Maturities by Type table above.

As of December 31, 2006, 25% of the fixed maturities were invested in private placement securities,
including 18% in Rule 144A offerings to qualified institutional buyers. Private placement
securities are generally less liquid than public securities. Most of the private placement
securities are rated by nationally recognized ratings agencies.

At the January 2007 Federal Open Market Committee (“FOMC”) meeting, the Federal Reserve maintained
the target federal funds rate at 5.25%. The FOMC stated that inflation risks have improved
modestly in recent months and inflation pressure was likely to moderate overtime, but maintained
the view that upside risk remains. An increase in future interest rates may result in lower fixed
maturity valuations, an increase in gross unrealized losses and a decrease in gross unrealized
gains.

The following table identifies fixed maturities by credit quality on a consolidated basis as of
December 31, 2006 and 2005. The ratings referenced below are based on the ratings of a nationally
recognized rating organization or, if not rated, assigned based on the Company’s internal analysis
of such securities. The Company held no issuer of a BIG security with a fair value in excess of 4%
of the total fair value for BIG securities as of December 31, 2006 and 2005.

Consolidated Fixed Maturities by Credit Quality



Percent of

Percent of

Amortized

Total Fair

Amortized

Total Fair

Cost

Fair Value

Value

Cost

Fair Value

Value

AAA

$

23,216

$

23,629

29.2

%

$

19,414

$

19,837

26.0

%

AA

10,107

10,298

12.8

%

9,901

10,143

13.3

%

A

17,696

18,251

22.6

%

18,232

18,914

24.7

%

BBB

17,402

17,655

21.9

%

16,560

16,892

22.1

%

United States Government/Government agencies

5,529

5,507

6.8

%

5,720

5,686

7.4

%

BB & below

3,658

3,734

4.6

%

2,876

2,905

3.8

%

Short-term

1,681

1,681

2.1

%

2,063

2,063

2.7

%

Total fixed maturities

$

79,289

$

80,755

100.0

%

$

74,766

$

76,440

100.0

%

The following table presents the Company’s unrealized loss aging for total fixed maturity and
equity securities classified as available-for-sale on a consolidated basis, as of December 31, 2006
and 2005, by length of time the security was in an unrealized loss position.

Consolidated Unrealized Loss Aging of Total Available-for-Sale Securities



Amortized

Fair

Unrealized

Amortized

Fair

Unrealized

Cost

Value

Loss

Cost

Value

Loss

Three months or less

$

12,601

$

12,500

$

(101

)

$

17,986

$

17,704

$

(282

)

Greater than three months to six months

1,261

1,242

(19

)

5,143

5,013

(130

)

Greater than six months to nine months

1,239

1,210

(29

)

1,061

1,036

(25

)

Greater than nine months to twelve months

1,992

1,959

(33

)

3,001

2,907

(94

)

Greater than twelve months

15,402

14,911

(491

)

5,053

4,826

(227

)

Total

$

32,495

$

31,822

$

(673

)

$

32,244

$

31,486

$

(758

)

The decrease in the unrealized loss amount since December 31, 2005, is primarily the result of
asset sales, credit spread compression and other-than-temporary impairments recorded in 2006,
offset in part by an increase in interest rates. For further discussion, see the economic
commentary under the Consolidated Fixed Maturities by Type table in this section of the MD&A.



As a percentage of amortized cost, the average security unrealized loss at December 31, 2006, and
December 31, 2005, was less than 3%. As of December 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, fixed
maturities represented $663, or 99%, and $750, or 99%, respectively, of the Company’s total
unrealized loss associated with securities classified as available-for-sale. Other-than-temporary
impairments for certain ABS and CMBS are recognized if the fair value of the security, as
determined by external pricing sources, is less than its carrying amount and there has been a
decrease in the present value of the expected cash flows since the last reporting period. There
were no ABS or CMBS included in the table above, as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, for which
management’s best estimate of future cash flows adversely changed during the reporting period for
which an impairment has not been recorded. For further discussion of the other-than-temporary
impairments criteria, see “Evaluation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments on Available-for-Sale
Securities” included in the Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD&A and Note 1 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Company held no securities of a single issuer that were at an unrealized loss position in
excess of 5% and 6%, respectively, of the total unrealized loss amount as of December 31, 2006 and
2005.

The total securities classified as available-for-sale in an unrealized loss position for longer
than six months by type as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 are presented in the following table.

Consolidated Total Available-for-Sale Securities with Unrealized Loss Greater Than Six Months by Type



Percent of

Percent of

Total

Total

Amortized

Fair

Unrealized

Unrealized

Amortized

Fair

Unrealized

Unrealized

Cost

Value

Loss

Loss

Cost

Value

Loss

Loss

ABS

Aircraft lease receivables

$


$


$

(28

)

5.1

%

$


$


$

(52

)

15.0

%

CDOs



(4

)

0.7

%



(1

)

0.3

%

Credit card receivables



(2

)

0.4

%



(2

)

0.6

%

Other ABS



(17

)

3.1

%



(14

)

4.0

%

CMBS

4,694

4,575

(119

)

21.5

%

1,961

1,902

(59

)

17.1

%

Corporate

Basic industry



(25

)

4.5

%



(21

)

6.1

%

Consumer cyclical



(28

)

5.1

%



(25

)

7.2

%

Consumer non-cyclical

1,106

1,068

(38

)

6.9

%



(17

)

4.9

%

Financial services

2,749

2,689

(60

)

10.8

%

1,847

1,796

(51

)

14.7

%

Technology and communications



(35

)

6.3

%



(23

)

6.7

%

Transportation



(9

)

1.6

%



(1

)

0.3

%

Utilities

1,384

1,331

(53

)

9.6

%



(11

)

3.2

%

Other

1,454

1,404

(50

)

9.0

%



(27

)

7.8

%

Other securities

3,331

3,246

(85

)

15.4

%

1,491

1,449

(42

)

12.1

%

Total

$

18,633

$

18,080

$

(553

)

100.0

%

$

9,115

$

8,769

$

(346

)

100.0

%

The increase in total unrealized losses greater than six months since December 31, 2005, was
primarily driven by an increase in interest rates offset in part by asset sales and
other-than-temporary impairments. With the exception of certain ABS security types, the majority
of the securities in an unrealized loss position for six months or more as of December 31, 2006,
were depressed primarily due to interest rate changes from the date of purchase. The sectors with
the most significant concentration of unrealized losses were CMBS and corporate fixed maturities,
most significantly within the financial services and utilities sectors. Also, ABS supported by
aircraft lease receivables, although improving, continues to be a sector within the Company’s
portfolios that contains the most significant concentration of credit risk. The Company’s current
view of risk factors relative to these fixed maturity types is as follows:

CMBS

— As of December 31, 2006, the Company held approximately 600 different securities that were
in an unrealized loss position for greater than six months. The unrealized loss was primarily the
result of an increase in interest rates from the security’s purchase date. Substantially all of
these securities are investment grade securities priced at, or greater than, 90% of amortized cost
as of December 31, 2006. Additional changes in fair value of these securities are primarily
dependent on future changes in interest rates.

Financial services

— As of December 31, 2006, the Company held approximately 220 different
securities in the financial services sector that were in an unrealized loss position for greater
than six months. Substantially all of these securities are investment grade securities priced at,
or greater than, 90% of amortized cost as of December 31, 2006. These positions are a mixture of
fixed and variable rate securities with extended maturity dates, which have been adversely impacted
by changes in interest rates after the purchase date. Additional changes in fair value of these
securities are primarily dependent on future changes in general market conditions, including
interest rates and credit spread movements.



Utilities

— As of December 31, 2006, the Company held approximately 140 different securities that
were in an unrealized loss position for six months or more. Most of these securities are fixed
rate, investment grade securities with extended maturity dates, which have been adversely impacted
by changes in interest rates after the purchase date. Additional changes in fair value of these
securities are primarily dependent on future changes in general market conditions, including
interest rates and credit spread movements.

Aircraft lease receivables

— The Company’s holdings are asset-backed securities secured by leases
to airlines primarily outside of the United States. Based on the current and expected future
collateral values of the underlying aircraft, a recent improvement in lease rates and an overall
increase in worldwide travel, the Company expects to recover the full amortized cost of these
investments. However, future price recovery will depend on continued improvement in economic
fundamentals, political stability, airline operating performance and collateral value.

As part of the Company’s ongoing security monitoring process by a committee of investment and
accounting professionals, the Company has reviewed its investment portfolio and concluded that
there were no additional other-than-temporary impairments as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. Due to
the issuers’ continued satisfaction of the securities’ obligations in accordance with their
contractual terms and the expectation that they will continue to do so, management’s intent and
ability to hold these securities to recovery, as well as the evaluation of the fundamentals of the
issuers’ financial condition and other objective evidence, the Company believes that the prices of
the securities in the sectors identified above were temporarily depressed.

The evaluation for other-than-temporary impairments is a quantitative and qualitative process,
which is subject to risks and uncertainties in the determination of whether declines in the fair
value of investments are other-than-temporary. The risks and uncertainties include changes in
general economic conditions, the issuer’s financial condition or near term recovery prospects and
the effects of changes in interest rates. In addition, for securitized financial assets with
contractual cash flows (e.g., ABS and CMBS), projections of expected future cash flows may change
based upon new information regarding the performance of the underlying collateral. As of December
31, 2006 and 2005, management’s expectation of the discounted future cash flows on these securities
was in excess of the associated securities’ amortized cost. For a further discussion, see
“Evaluation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments on Available-for-Sale Securities” included in the
Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD&A and Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

CAPITAL MARKETS RISK MANAGEMENT

The Hartford has a disciplined approach to managing risks associated with its capital markets
and asset/liability management activities. Investment portfolio management is organized to focus
investment management expertise on the specific classes of investments, while asset/liability
management is the responsibility of a dedicated risk management unit supporting Life and Property &
Casualty operations. Derivative instruments are utilized in compliance with established Company
policy and regulatory requirements and are monitored internally and reviewed by senior management.

Market Risk

The Hartford is exposed to market risk, primarily relating to the market price and/or cash flow
variability associated with changes in interest rates, equity prices or foreign currency exchange
rates.

Interest Rate Risk

The Company’s exposure to interest rate risk relates to the market price and/or cash flow
variability associated with the changes in market interest rates. The Company manages its exposure
to interest rate risk through asset allocation limits, asset/liability duration matching and
through the use of derivatives. The Company analyzes interest rate risk using various models
including parametric models and cash flow simulation of the liabilities and the supporting
investments, including derivative instruments under various market scenarios. Measures the Company
uses to quantify its exposure to interest rate risk inherent in its invested assets and interest
rate sensitive liabilities include duration and key rate duration. Duration is the weighted
average term-to-maturity of a security’s cash flows, and is used to approximate the percentage
change in the price of a security for a 100 basis point change in market interest rates. For
example, a duration of 5 means the price of the security will change by approximately 5% for a 1%
change in interest rates. The key rate duration analysis considers the expected future cash flows
of assets and liabilities assuming non-parallel interest rate movements.

To calculate duration, projections of asset and liability cash flows are discounted to a present
value using interest rate assumptions. These cash flows are then revalued at alternative interest
rate levels to determine the percentage change in fair value due to an incremental change in rates.
Cash flows from corporate obligations are assumed to be consistent with the contractual payment
streams on a yield to worst basis. The primary assumptions used in calculating cash flow
projections include expected asset payment streams taking into account prepayment speeds, issuer
call options and contract holder behavior. ABS, CMOs, MBS and mortgage loans are modeled based on
estimates of the rate of future prepayments of principal over the remaining life of the securities.
These estimates are developed using prepayment speeds provided in broker consensus data. Such
estimates are derived from prepayment speeds previously



experienced at the interest rate levels projected for the underlying collateral. Actual prepayment
experience may vary from these estimates.

The Company is also exposed to interest rate risk based upon the discount rate assumption
associated with the Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The discount
rate assumption is based upon an interest rate yield curve comprised of bonds rated Aa or higher
with maturities primarily between zero and thirty years. For further discussion of interest rate
risk associated with the benefit obligations, see the Critical Accounting Estimates section of the
MD&A under “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Obligations” and Note 17 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Company believes that an increase in interest rates from the current levels is generally a
favorable development for the Company. Rate increases are expected to provide additional net
investment income, increase sales of fixed rate Life investment products, reduce the cost of the
GMWB hedging program, limit the potential risk of margin erosion due to minimum guaranteed
crediting rates in certain Life products and, if sustained, could reduce the Company’s prospective
pension expense. Conversely, a rise in interest rates will reduce the net unrealized gain position
of the investment portfolio, increase interest expense on the Company’s variable rate debt
obligations and, if long-term interest rates rise dramatically within a six to twelve month time
period, certain Life businesses may be exposed to disintermediation risk. Disintermediation risk
refers to the risk that policyholders will surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate
environment requiring the Company to liquidate assets in an unrealized loss position. In
conjunction with the interest rate risk measurement and management
techniques, certain
of Life’s fixed income product offerings have market value adjustment provisions at contract
surrender.

Since the Company matches, and actively manages its assets and liabilities, an interest environment
with an inverted yield curve (i.e. short-term interest rates are higher than intermediate-term or
long-term interest rates) does not significantly impact the Company’s profits or operations. As
noted above, the absolute level of interest rates is more significant than the shape of the yield
curve.

Equity Risk

The Company does not have significant equity risk exposure from invested assets. The Company’s
primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain
of the Life’s businesses such as variable annuities where fee income is earned based upon the fair
value of the assets under management. In addition, Life offers certain guaranteed benefits,
primarily associated with variable annuity products, which increases the Company’s potential
benefit exposure as the equity markets decline. For a further discussion, see Life Equity Risk in
this section of the MD&A.

The Company is also subject to equity risk based upon the assets that support its pension plans.
The asset allocation mix is reviewed on a periodic basis. In order to minimize risk, the pension
plans maintain a listing of permissible and prohibited investments. In addition, the pension plans
have certain concentration limits and investment quality requirements imposed on permissible
investment options. For further discussion of equity risk associated with the pension
plans, see the Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD&A under “Pension and Other
Postretirement Benefit Obligations” and Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

The Company’s foreign currency exchange risk is related to non–U.S. dollar denominated investments,
which primarily consist of fixed maturity investments, the investment in and net income of the
Japanese Life operation, and non-U.S. dollar denominated liability contracts, including its GMDB
and GMIB benefits associated with its Japanese variable annuities, and a yen denominated individual
fixed annuity product. A significant portion of the Company’s foreign currency exposure is
mitigated through the use of derivatives.

Derivative Instruments

The Hartford utilizes a variety of derivative instruments, including swaps, caps, floors, forwards,
futures and options, in compliance with Company policy and regulatory requirements to mitigate
interest rate, equity market or foreign currency exchange rate risk or volatility.

Interest rate swaps and volatility swaps involve the periodic exchange of cash flows with other
parties, at specified intervals, calculated using agreed upon rates or other financial variables
and notional principal amounts. Generally, no cash or principal payments are exchanged at the
inception of the contract. Typically, at the time a swap is entered into, the cash flow streams
exchanged by the counterparties are equal in value.

Interest rate cap and floor contracts entitle the purchaser to receive from the issuer at specified
dates, the amount, if any, by which a specified market rate exceeds the cap strike interest rate or
falls below the floor strike interest rate, applied to a notional principal amount. A premium
payment is made by the purchaser of the contract at its inception and no principal payments are
exchanged.

Forward contracts are customized commitments to either purchase or sell designated financial
instruments, at a future date, for a specified price and may be settled in cash or through delivery
of the underlying instrument.



Financial futures are standardized commitments to either purchase or sell designated financial
instruments, at a future date, for a specified price and may be settled in cash or through delivery
of the underlying instrument. Futures contracts trade on organized exchanges. Margin requirements
for futures are met by pledging securities, and changes in the futures’ contract values are settled
daily in cash.

Option contracts grant the purchaser, for a premium payment, the right to either purchase from or
sell to the issuer a financial instrument at a specified price, within a specified period or on a
stated date.

Foreign currency swaps exchange an initial principal amount in two currencies, agreeing to
re-exchange the currencies at a future date, at an agreed upon exchange rate. There may also be a
periodic exchange of payments at specified intervals calculated using the agreed upon rates and
exchanged principal amounts.

Derivative activities are monitored by an internal compliance unit and reviewed frequently by
senior management. The notional amounts of derivative contracts represent the basis upon which pay
or receive amounts are calculated and are not reflective of credit risk. Notional amounts
pertaining to derivative instruments used in the management of market risk at December 31, 2006 and
2005, were $78.2 billion and $62.9 billion, respectively. The increase in the derivative notional
amount during 2006 was primarily due to the derivatives associated with the GMWB product feature.
For further information, see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The following discussions focus on the key market risk exposures within Life and Property &
Casualty portfolios.

Life

Life is responsible for maximizing economic value within acceptable risk parameters, including the
management of the interest rate sensitivity of invested assets

,

while generating sufficient
after-tax income to support policyholder and corporate obligations. Life’s fixed maturity
portfolios and certain investment contracts and insurance product liabilities have material market
exposure to interest rate risk. In addition, Life’s operations are significantly influenced by
changes in the equity markets. Life’s profitability depends largely on the amount of assets under
management, which is primarily driven by the level of sales, equity market appreciation and
depreciation and the persistency of the in-force block of business. Life’s foreign currency
exposure is primarily related to non-U.S. dollar denominated fixed income securities, non-U.S.
dollar denominated liability contracts, the investment in and net income of the Japanese Life
operation and certain foreign currency based individual fixed annuity contracts, and its GMDB and
GMIB benefits associated with its Japanese variable annuities.

Interest Rate Risk

Life’s exposure to interest rate risk relates to the market price and/or cash flow variability
associated with changes in market interest rates. Changes in interest rates can potentially impact
Life’s profitability. In certain scenarios where interest rates are volatile, Life could be
exposed to disintermediation risk and a reduction in net interest rate spread or profit margins.
The investments and liabilities primarily associated with interest rate risk are included in the
following discussion. Certain product liabilities, including those containing GMWB or GMDB, expose
the Company to interest rate risk but also have significant equity risk. These liabilities are
discussed as part of the Equity Risk section below.

Fixed Maturity Investments

Life’s investment portfolios primarily consist of investment grade fixed maturity securities,
including corporate bonds, ABS, CMBS, tax-exempt municipal securities and CMOs. The fair value of
Life’s fixed maturities was $53.2 billion and $50.8 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. The fair value of Life’s fixed maturities and other invested assets fluctuates
depending on the interest rate environment and other general economic conditions. During periods
of declining interest rates, paydowns on MBS and CMOs increase as the underlying mortgages are
prepaid. During such periods, the Company generally will not be able to re-invest the proceeds of
any such prepayments at comparable yields. Conversely, during periods of rising interest rates,
the rate of prepayments generally declines, exposing the Company to the possibility of
asset/liability cash flow and yield mismatch. The weighted average duration of the fixed maturity
portfolio was approximately 5.1 and 5.3 years as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Liabilities

Life’s investment contracts and certain insurance product liabilities, other than non-guaranteed
separate accounts, include asset accumulation vehicles such as fixed annuities, guaranteed
investment contracts, other investment and universal life-type contracts and certain insurance
products such as long-term disability.

Asset accumulation vehicles primarily require a fixed rate payment, often for a specified period of
time. Product examples include fixed rate annuities with a market value adjustment feature and
fixed rate guaranteed investment contracts. The duration of these contracts generally range from
less than one year to ten years. In addition, certain products such as universal life contracts
and the



general account portion of Life’s variable annuity products, credit interest to policyholders
subject to market conditions and minimum interest rate guarantees. The duration of these products
is short-term to intermediate-term.

While interest rate risk associated with many of these products has been reduced through the use of
market value adjustment features and surrender charges, the primary risk associated with these
products is that the spread between investment return and credited rate may not be sufficient to
earn targeted returns.

The Company also manages the risk of certain insurance liabilities similarly to investment type
products due to the relative predictability of the aggregate cash flow payment streams. Products
in this category may contain significant actuarial (including mortality and morbidity) pricing and
cash flow risks. Product examples include structured settlement contracts, on-benefit annuities
(i.e., the annuitant is currently receiving benefits thereon) and short-term and long-term
disability contracts. The cash outflows associated with these policy liabilities are not interest
rate sensitive but do vary based on the timing and amount of benefit payments. The primary risks
associated with these products are that the benefits will exceed expected actuarial pricing and/or
that the actual timing of the cash flows will differ from those anticipated, resulting in an
investment return lower than that assumed in pricing. Average contract duration can range from
less than one year to typically up to fifteen years.

Derivatives

Life utilizes a variety of derivative instruments to mitigate interest rate risk. Interest rate
swaps are primarily used to convert interest receipts or payments to a fixed or variable rate. The
use of such swaps enables the Company to customize contract terms and conditions to customer
objectives and satisfies the operation’s asset/liability duration matching policy. Occasionally,
swaps are also used to hedge the variability in the cash flow of a forecasted purchase or sale due
to changes in interest rates.

Interest rate caps and floors, swaptions and option contracts are primarily used to hedge against
the risk of liability contract holder disintermediation in a rising interest rate environment, and
to offset the changes in fair value of corresponding derivatives embedded in certain of the
Company’s fixed maturity investments. Interest rate caps are also used to manage the duration risk
in certain portfolios.

At December 31, 2006 and 2005, notional amounts pertaining to derivatives utilized to manage
interest rate risk totaled $15.6 billion and $10.6 billion, respectively ($11.4 billion and $7.5
billion, respectively, related to investments and $4.2 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively,
related to life liabilities). The fair value of these derivatives was $(42) and $(22) as of
December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Calculated Interest Rate Sensitivity

The after-tax change in the net economic value of investment contracts (e.g., guaranteed investment
contracts) and certain insurance product liabilities (e.g., short-term and long-term disability
contracts), for which the payment rates are fixed at contract issuance and the investment
experience is substantially absorbed by Life, are included in the following table along with the
corresponding invested assets. Also included in this analysis are the interest rate sensitive
derivatives used by Life to hedge its exposure to interest rate risk. Certain financial
instruments, such as limited partnerships, have been omitted from the analysis due to the fact that
the investments are accounted for under the equity method and generally lack sensitivity to
interest rate changes. Separate account assets and liabilities and equity securities held for
trading and the corresponding liabilities associated with the variable annuity products sold in
Japan are excluded from the analysis because gains and losses in separate accounts accrue to
policyholders. The calculation of the estimated hypothetical change in net economic value below
assumes a 100 basis point upward and downward parallel shift in the yield curve.

Change in Net Economic Value As of December 31,



Basis point shift

- 100

+ 100

- 100

+ 100

Amount

$


$

(33

)

$

(48

)

$


The fixed liabilities included above represented approximately 46% and 45% of Life’s general
account liabilities as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The assets supporting the
fixed liabilities are monitored and managed within rigorous duration guidelines using scenario
simulation techniques, and are evaluated on an annual basis, in compliance with regulatory
requirements.



The after-tax change in fair value of the invested asset portfolios that support certain universal
life-type contracts and other insurance contracts are shown in the following table. The cash flows
associated with these liabilities are less predictable than fixed liabilities. The Company
identifies the most appropriate investment strategy based upon the expected policyholder behavior
and liability crediting needs. The calculation of the estimated hypothetical change in fair value
below assumes a 100 basis point upward and downward parallel shift in the yield curve.

Change in Fair Value As of December 31,



Basis point shift

- 100

+ 100

- 100

+ 100

Amount

$


$

(415

)

$


$

(451

)

The selection of the 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve was made only as an
illustration of the potential hypothetical impact of such an event and should not be construed as a
prediction of future market events. Actual results could differ materially from those illustrated
above due to the nature of the estimates and assumptions used in the above analysis. The Company’s
sensitivity analysis calculation assumes that the composition of invested assets and liabilities
remain materially consistent throughout the year and that the current relationship between
short-term and long-term interest rates will remain constant over time. As a result, these
calculations may not fully capture the impact of portfolio re-allocations, significant product
sales or non-parallel changes in interest rates.

Equity Risk

The Company’s operations are significantly influenced by changes in the equity markets, primarily
in the U.S., but increasingly in Japan and other global markets. The Company’s profitability in
its investment products businesses depends largely on the amount of assets under management, which
is primarily driven by the level of sales, equity market appreciation and depreciation and the
persistency of the in-force block of business. Prolonged and precipitous declines in the equity
markets can have a significant effect on the Company’s operations, as sales of variable products
may decline and surrender activity may increase, as customer sentiment towards the equity market
turns negative. Lower assets under management will have a negative effect on the Company’s
financial results, primarily due to lower fee income related to the Retail, Retirement Plans,
Institutional and International and, to a lesser extent, the Individual Life segment, where a heavy
concentration of equity linked products are administered and sold.

Furthermore, the Company may experience a reduction in profit margins if a significant portion of
the assets held in the U.S. variable annuity separate accounts move to the general account and the
Company is unable to earn an acceptable investment spread, particularly in light of the low to
moderate interest rate environment and the presence of contractually guaranteed minimum interest
credited rates, which for the most part are at a 3% rate.

In addition, immediate and significant declines in one or more equity markets may also decrease the
Company’s expectations of future gross profits in one or more product lines, which are utilized to
determine the amount of DAC to be amortized in reporting product profitability in a given financial
statement period. A significant decrease in the Company’s future estimated gross profits would
require the Company to accelerate the amount of DAC amortization in a given period, which could
potentially cause a material adverse deviation in that period’s net income. Although an
acceleration of DAC amortization would have a negative effect on the Company’s earnings, it would
not affect the Company’s cash flow or liquidity position.

The Company’s statutory financial results also have exposure to equity market volatility due to the
issuance of variable annuity contracts with guarantees. Specifically, in scenarios where equity
markets decline substantially, we would expect significant increases in the amount of statutory
surplus the Company would have to devote to maintain targeted rating agency and regulatory risk
based capital (“RBC”) ratios (via the C3 Phase II methodology) and other similar solvency margin
ratios. Various actions have been taken to partially mitigate this risk including the use of
guaranteed benefit reinsurance, dynamic hedging programs of U.S. GMWB’s, and other statutory reserve
hedges.

The Company sells variable annuity contracts that offer one or more benefit guarantees, the value
of which generally increases with declines in equity markets. As is described in more detail below,
the Company manages the equity market risks embedded in these guarantees through reinsurance,
product design and hedging programs. The Company believes its ability to manage equity market
risks by these means gives it a competitive advantage; and, in particular, its ability to create
innovative product designs that allow the Company to meet identified customer needs while
generating manageable amounts of equity market risk. The Company’s relative sales and variable
annuity market share in the U.S. have generally increased during periods when it has recently
introduced new products to the market. In contrast, the Company’s relative sales and market share
have generally decreased when competitors introduce products that cause an issuer to assume larger
amounts of equity and other market risk than the Company is confident it can prudently manage. The
Company believes its long-term success in the variable annuity market will continue to be aided by
successful innovation that allows the Company to offer attractive product features in tandem with
prudent equity market risk management. In the absence of this innovation, the Company’s market
share in one or more of its markets could decline. In recent years, the Company has experienced
lower levels of U.S. variable annuity sales as competitors continue to introduce new equity
guarantees of increasing risk and complexity. New product development is an ongoing process that
the Company expects to use to combat competitive sales



pressure. Depending on the degree of consumer receptivity and competitor reaction to continuing
changes in the Company’s product offerings, the Company’s future level of sales will continue to be
subject to uncertainty.

The accounting for various benefit guarantees offered with variable annuity contracts can be
significantly different. Those accounted for under SFAS No. 133 (such as GMWBs) are subject to
significant fluctuation in value, which is reflected in net income, due to changes in interest
rates, equity markets and equity market volatility as use of those capital market rates are
required in determining the liability’s fair value at each reporting date. Benefit guarantee
liabilities accounted for under SOP 03-1 (such as GMIBs and GMDBs) may also change in value;
however, absent an unlocking event, the change in value is not immediately reflected in net income.
Under SOP 03-1, the income statement reflects the current period increase in the liability due to
the deferral of a percentage of current period revenues. The percentage is determined by dividing
the present value of claims by the present value of revenues using best estimate assumptions over a
range of market scenarios. Current period revenues are impacted by actual increases or decreases
in account value. Claims recorded against the liability have no immediate impact on the income
statement unless those claims exceed the liability. As a result of these significant accounting
differences the liability for guarantees recorded under SOP 03-1 may be significantly different if
it was recorded under SFAS No. 133 and vice versa. In addition, the conditions in the capital
markets in Japan vs. those in the U.S. are sufficiently different that if the Company’s GMWB
product currently offered in the U.S. were offered in Japan, the capital market conditions in Japan
would have a significant impact on the valuation of the GMWB, irrespective of the accounting model.
The same would hold true if the Company’s GMIB product currently offered in Japan were to be
offered in the U.S. Capital market conditions in the U.S. would have a significant impact on the
valuation of the GMIB. Many benefit guarantees meet the definition of an embedded derivative,
under SFAS No. 133 (GMWB), and as such are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value
recorded in net income. However, certain contract features that define how the contract holder can
access the value of the guaranteed benefit change the accounting from SFAS No. 133 to SOP 03-1.
For contracts where the contract holder can only obtain the value of the guaranteed benefit upon
the occurrence of an insurable event such as death (GMDB) or by making a significant initial net
investment (GMIB), such as when one invests in an annuity, the accounting for the benefit is
prescribed by SOP 03-1.

In the U.S., the Company sells variable annuity contracts that offer various guaranteed death
benefits. The Company maintains a liability, under SOP 03-1, for the death benefit costs of $475
as of December 31, 2006. Declines in the equity market may increase the Company’s net exposure to
death benefits under these contracts. The majority of the contracts with the guaranteed death
benefit feature are sold by the Retail Products Group segment. For certain guaranteed death
benefits, the Company pays the greater of (1) the account value at death, (2) the sum of all
premium payments less prior withdrawals; or (3) the maximum anniversary value of the contract, plus
any premium payments since the contract anniversary, minus any withdrawals following the contract
anniversary. For certain guaranteed death benefits sold with variable annuity contracts beginning
in June 2003, the Company pays the greater of (1) the account value at death, or (2) the maximum
anniversary value; not to exceed the account value plus the greater of (a) 25% of premium payments,
or (b) 25% of the maximum anniversary value of the contract. The Company currently reinsures a
significant portion of these death benefit guarantees associated with its in-force block of
business. Under certain of these reinsurance agreements, the reinsurers exposure is subject to an
annual cap.

The
Company’s total gross exposure (i.e., before reinsurance) to
these U.S. guaranteed death benefits as
of December 31, 2006 is $5.0 billion. Due to the fact that 83% of this amount is reinsured, the
Company’s net exposure is $824. This amount is often referred to as the retained net amount at
risk. However, the Company will incur these guaranteed death benefit payments in the future only
if the policyholder has an in-the-money guaranteed death benefit at their time of death.

In Japan, the Company offers certain variable annuity products with both a guaranteed death benefit
and a guaranteed income benefit. The Company maintains a liability for these death and income
benefits, under SOP 03-1, of $35 as of December 31, 2006. Declines in equity markets as well as a
strengthening of the Japanese Yen in comparison to the U.S. dollar may increase the Company’s
exposure to these guaranteed benefits. This increased exposure may be significant in extreme
market scenarios. For the guaranteed death benefits, the Company pays the greater of account value
at death or a guaranteed death benefit which, depending on the contract, may be based upon the
premium paid and/or the maximum anniversary value established no later than age 80, as adjusted for
withdrawals under the terms of the contract. The guaranteed income benefit guarantees to return
the contract holder’s initial investment, adjusted for any earnings or liquidity withdrawals,
through periodic payments that commence at the end of a minimum deferral period of 10, 15 or 20
years as elected by the contract holder.

In 2006, the Company entered into an indemnity reinsurance agreement with an unrelated party.
Under this agreement, the reinsurer will reimburse the Company for death benefit claims, up to an
annual cap, incurred for certain death benefit guarantees associated with an in-force block of
variable annuity products offered in Japan with an account value of $2.5 billion as of December 31,
2006.

The Company’s total gross exposure (i.e. before reinsurance) to these guaranteed death benefits and
income benefits offered in Japan as of December 31, 2006 is $54. Due to the fact that 65% of this
amount is reinsured, the Company’s net exposure is $19. This amount is often referred to as the
retained net amount at risk. However, the Company will incur these guaranteed death or income
benefits in the future only if the contract holder has an in-the-money guaranteed benefit at either
the time of their death or if the account value is insufficient to fund the guaranteed living
benefits.



The majority of the Company’s recent U.S. variable annuities are sold with a GMWB living benefit
rider, which, as described above, is accounted for under SFAS No. 133. Declines in the equity
market may increase the Company’s exposure to benefits under the GMWB contracts. For all contracts
in effect through July 6, 2003, the Company entered into a reinsurance arrangement to offset its
exposure to the GMWB for the remaining lives of those contracts. Substantially all of the
Company’s reinsurance capacity was utilized as of the third quarter of 2003. The remaining
capacity was exhausted during the first quarter of 2004. Substantially all U.S. GMWB riders sold
since July 2003, are not covered by reinsurance. These unreinsured contracts generate volatility
in net income each quarter as the underlying embedded derivative liabilities are recorded at fair
value each reporting period, resulting in the recognition of net realized capital gains or losses
in response to changes in certain critical factors including capital market conditions and
policyholder behavior. In order to minimize the volatility associated with the unreinsured GMWB
liabilities, the Company established an alternative risk management strategy. During the third
quarter of 2003, the Company began hedging its unreinsured GMWB exposure using interest rate
futures, and swaps Standard and Poor’s (“S&P”) 500 and NASDAQ index put options and futures
contracts. During the first quarter of 2004, the Company entered into Europe, Australasia and Far
East (“EAFE”) Index swaps to hedge GMWB exposure to international equity markets. The hedging
program involves a detailed monitoring of policyholder behavior and capital markets conditions on a
daily basis and rebalancing of the hedge position as needed. While the Company actively manages
this hedge position, hedge ineffectiveness may result due to factors including, but not limited to,
policyholder behavior, capital markets dislocation or discontinuity and divergence between the
performance of the underlying funds and the hedging indices.

The net effect of the change in value of the embedded derivative net of the results of the hedging
program for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, was a (loss) of $(26) and $(46),
respectively, before deferred policy acquisition costs and tax effects. As of December 31, 2006,
the notional and fair value related to the embedded derivatives, the hedging strategy, and
reinsurance was $53.3 billion and $377, respectively. As of December 31, 2005, the notional and
fair value related to the embedded derivatives, the hedging strategy, and reinsurance was $45.5
billion and $166, respectively.

The Company employs additional strategies to manage equity market risk in addition to the
derivative and reinsurance strategy described above that economically hedges the fair value of the
U.S. GMWB rider. Notably, the Company purchases one and two year S&P 500 Index put option contracts
to economically hedge certain other liabilities that could increase if the equity markets decline.
As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the notional value related to this strategy was $2.2 billion and
$1.1 billion, respectively, while the fair value related to this strategy was $29 and $14,
respectively. Because this strategy is intended to partially hedge certain equity-market sensitive
liabilities calculated under statutory accounting (see Capital Resources and Liquidity), changes in
the value of the put options may not be closely aligned to changes in liabilities determined in
accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), causing volatility in GAAP net
income.

The Company continually seeks to improve its equity risk management strategies. The Company has
made considerable investment in analyzing current and potential future market risk exposures
arising from a number of factors, including but not limited to, product guarantees (GMDB, GMWB and
GMIB), equity market and interest rate risks (in both the U.S. and Japan) and foreign currency
exchange rates. The Company evaluates these risks individually and, increasingly, in the aggregate
to determine the risk profiles of all of its products and to judge their potential impacts on GAAP
net income, statutory capital volatility and other metrics. Utilizing this and future analysis,
the Company expects to evolve its risk management strategies over time, modifying its reinsurance,
hedging and product design strategies to optimally mitigate its aggregate exposures to
market-driven changes in GAAP equity, statutory capital and other economic metrics. Because these
strategies could target an optimal reduction of a combination of exposures rather than targeting a
single one, it is possible that volatility of GAAP net income would increase, particularly if the
Company places an increased relative weight on protection of statutory surplus in future
strategies.

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

Life’s exposure to foreign currency exchange risk exists with respect to non-U.S. dollar
denominated investments, Life’s investment in foreign operations, primarily Japan, and non-U.S.
dollar denominated liability contracts, including the yen based individual fixed annuity product
and its GMDB and GMIB benefits associated with its Japanese variable annuities. A significant
portion of the Company’s foreign fixed maturity currency exposure is mitigated through the use of derivatives.

Fixed Maturity Investments

The risk associated with the non-U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturities relates to potential
decreases in value and income resulting from unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates. The
fair value of the non-U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturities, which are primarily denominated in
euro, sterling, yen and Canadian dollars, at December 31, 2006 and 2005, were approximately $1.9
billion. In order to manage its currency exposures, Life enters into foreign currency swaps and
forwards to hedge the variability in cash flows associated with certain foreign denominated fixed
maturities. These foreign currency swap agreements are structured to match the foreign currency
cash flows of the hedged foreign denominated securities. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the
derivatives used to hedge currency exchange risk related to non-U.S. dollar denominated fixed
maturities had a total notional value of $1.6 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, and total
fair value of $(336) and $(232), respectively.



Liabilities

In 2006, Life began issuing non-U.S. dollar denominated funding agreement liability contracts. The
Company hedges the foreign currency risk associated with these liability contracts with currency
rate swaps. At December 31, 2006, the derivatives used to hedge foreign currency exchange risk
related to foreign denominated liability contracts had a total notional value of $585 and a total
fair value of $(11).

The yen based fixed annuity product is written by Hartford Life Insurance K.K. (“HLIKK”), a
wholly-owned Japanese subsidiary of Hartford Life, Inc. (“HLI”), and subsequently reinsured to
Hartford Life Insurance Company, a U.S. dollar based wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of HLI. The
underlying investment involves investing in U.S. securities markets, which offer favorable credit
spreads. The yen denominated fixed annuity product (“yen fixed annuities”) is recorded in the
consolidated balance sheets with invested assets denominated in dollars while policyholder
liabilities are denominated in yen and converted to U.S. dollars based upon the December 31, yen to
U.S. dollar spot rate. The difference between U.S. dollar denominated investments and yen
denominated liabilities exposes the Company to currency risk. The Company manages this currency
risk associated with the yen fixed annuities primarily with pay variable U.S. dollar and receive
fixed yen currency swaps. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the notional value and fair value of
the currency swaps were $1.9 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, and $(225) and $(179),
respectively. Although economically an effective hedge, a divergence between the yen denominated
fixed annuity product liability and the currency swaps exists primarily due to the difference in
the basis of accounting between the liability and the derivative instruments (i.e. historical cost
versus fair value). The yen denominated fixed annuity product liabilities are recorded on a
historical cost basis and are only adjusted for changes in foreign spot rates and accrued income.
The currency swaps are recorded at fair value, incorporating changes in value due to changes in
forward foreign exchange rates, interest rates and accrued income. An after-tax net gain (loss) of
$(11) and $(23) for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, which includes the
changes in value of the currency swaps, excluding net periodic coupon settlements, and the yen
fixed annuity contract remeasurement, was recorded in net realized capital gains and losses.

Based on the fair values of Life’s non-U.S. dollar denominated investments and derivative
instruments (including its yen based individual fixed annuity product) as of December 31, 2006 and
2005, management estimates that a 10% unfavorable change in exchange rates would decrease the fair
values by an after-tax total of $3 and $6, respectively. The estimated impact was based upon a 10%
change in December 31 spot rates. The selection of the 10% unfavorable change was made only for
illustration of the potential hypothetical impact of such an event and should not be construed as a
prediction of future market events. Actual results could differ materially from those illustrated
above due to the nature of the estimates and assumptions used in the above analysis.

Property & Casualty

Property & Casualty attempts to maximize economic value while generating appropriate after-tax
income and sufficient liquidity to meet policyholder and corporate obligations. Property &
Casualty’s investment portfolio has material exposure to interest rates. The Company continually
monitors these exposures and makes portfolio adjustments to manage these risks within established
limits.

Interest Rate Risk

The primary exposure to interest rate risk in Property & Casualty relates to its fixed maturity
securities, including corporate bonds, ABS, municipal bonds, CMBS and CMOs. The fair value of
these investments was $27.2 billion and $25.3 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
The fair value of these and Property & Casualty’s other invested assets fluctuates depending on the
interest rate environment and other general economic conditions. During periods of declining
interest rates, embedded call features within securities are exercised with greater frequency and
paydowns on MBS and CMOs increase as the underlying mortgages are prepaid. During such periods,
the Company generally will not be able to re-invest the proceeds of any such prepayments at
comparable yields. Conversely, during periods of rising interest rates, the rate of prepayments
generally declines. A variety of derivative instruments, primarily swaps, are used to manage
interest rate risk and had a total notional amount as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 of $2.1 billion
and $1.5 billion, respectively, and fair value of $(4) and $(9), respectively.

One of the measures Property & Casualty uses to quantify its exposure to interest rate risk
inherent in its invested assets is duration. The weighted average duration of the fixed maturity
portfolio was 4.5 and 4.6 years as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Calculated Interest Rate Sensitivity

The following table provides an analysis showing the estimated after-tax change in the fair value
of Property & Casualty’s fixed income investments and related derivatives, assuming 100 basis point
upward and downward parallel shifts in the yield curve as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. Certain
financial instruments, such as limited partnerships, have been omitted from the analysis due to the
fact that the investments are accounted for under the equity method and generally lack sensitivity
to interest rate changes.

Change in Fair Value As of December 31,



Basis point shift

- 100

+ 100

- 100

+ 100

Amount

$


$

(829

)

$


$

(760

)



The selection of the 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve was made only as an
illustration of the potential hypothetical impact of such an event and should not be construed as a
prediction of future market events. Actual results could differ materially from those illustrated
above due to the nature of the estimates and assumptions used in the above analysis. The Company’s
sensitivity analysis calculation assumes that the composition of invested assets remains materially
consistent throughout the year and that the current relationship between short-term and long-term
interest rates will remain constant over time. As a result, these calculations may not fully
capture the impact of portfolio re-allocations or non-parallel changes in interest rates.

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk

Foreign currency exchange risk exists with respect to investments in non-U.S. dollar denominated
fixed maturities, primarily euro, sterling and Canadian dollar denominated securities. The risk
associated with these securities relates to potential decreases in value resulting from unfavorable
changes in foreign exchange rates. The fair value of these fixed maturity securities at December
31, 2006 and 2005 was $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively.

In order to manage its currency exposures, Property & Casualty enters into foreign currency swaps
and forward contracts to hedge the variability in cash flow associated with certain foreign
denominated securities. These foreign currency swap agreements are structured to match the foreign
currency cash flows of the hedged foreign denominated securities. At December 31, 2006 and 2005,
the derivatives used to hedge currency exchange risk had a total notional value of $805 and $515,
respectively, and total fair value of $(45) and $(19), respectively.

Based on the fair values of Property & Casualty’s non-U.S. dollar denominated securities and
derivative instruments as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, management estimates that a 10%
unfavorable change in exchange rates would decrease the fair values by an after-tax total of
approximately $34 and $50, respectively. The estimated impact was based upon a 10% change in
December 31 spot rates. The selection of the 10% unfavorable change was made only for illustration
of the potential hypothetical impact of such an event and should not be construed as a prediction
of future market events. Actual results could differ materially from those illustrated above due
to the nature of the estimates and assumptions used in the above analysis.

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

Capital resources and liquidity represent the overall financial strength of The Hartford and
its ability to generate strong cash flows from each of the business segments, borrow funds at
competitive rates and raise new capital to meet operating and growth needs.

Liquidity Requirements

The liquidity requirements of The Hartford have been and will continue to be met by funds from
operations as well as the issuance of commercial paper, common stock, debt or other capital
securities and borrowings from its credit facilities. Current and expected patterns of claim
frequency and severity may change from period to period but continue to be within historical norms
and, therefore, the Company’s current liquidity position is considered to be sufficient to meet
anticipated demands. However, if an unanticipated demand were placed on the Company it is likely
that the Company would either sell certain of its investments to fund claims which could result in
larger than usual realized capital gains and losses or the Company would enter the capital markets
to raise further funds to provide the requisite liquidity. For a discussion and tabular
presentation of the Company’s current contractual obligations by period including those related to
its Life and Property & Casualty insurance refer to the Off-Balance Sheet and Aggregate
Contractual Obligations section below.

The Hartford endeavors to maintain a capital structure that provides financial and operational
flexibility to its insurance subsidiaries, ratings that support its competitive position in the
financial services marketplace (see the Ratings section below for further discussion), and strong
shareholder returns. As a result, the Company may from time to time raise capital from the
issuance of stock, debt or other capital securities. The issuance of common stock, debt or other
capital securities could result in the dilution of shareholder interests or reduced net income due
to additional interest expense.

The Company’s Japanese life insurance operations are conducted through Hartford Life Insurance K.K.
(“HLIKK”), which, prior to September 1, 2005, was a wholly owned subsidiary of Hartford Life and
Accident Insurance Company (“HLA”), one of the Company’s principal statutorily regulated operating
subsidiaries. Prior to September 1, 2005, the Company funded the capital needs of its Japanese
operations through investments in the common stock of HLIKK by HLA. This arrangement generally
allowed a good portion of the Company’s investment in its Japanese operations to be included as
part of the aggregate statutory capital (for the purposes of regulatory and rating agency capital
adequacy measures) of HLA.

On September 1, 2005, the stock of HLIKK was transferred from HLA to Hartford Life, Inc. The
transfer of the stock was treated as a return of capital for GAAP and statutory accounting purposes
for the respective entities. This transaction had no effect on the Company’s consolidated GAAP
financial statements. For Statutory, the primary financial effect of the transaction was to reduce
the statutory capital of HLA by the amount of the carrying value of HLIKK, which was $963 as of
September 1, 2005. In addition, for certain capital adequacy ratios, a corresponding reduction in
required capital occurred, which resulted in an improved capital adequacy



ratio. However, as previously disclosed, this action could potentially reduce certain other
capital adequacy ratios employed by regulators and rating agencies to assess the capital growth of
The Hartford’s life insurance operations. At the current time, taking into consideration the
effects of the transaction, the Company believes it has sufficient capital resources to maintain
capital solvency ratios consistent with all of its objectives.

The Company’s Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of outstanding shares of its common
stock and equity units from time to time, in an aggregate amount not
to exceed $2 billion. On
October 19, 2006, the Company announced that it intends to repurchase up to $300 of its common
stock over the two to six months following its announcement, under such share repurchase program.
On December 11, 2006, the Company announced that it intends to repurchase an additional $500 of its
common stock under the existing share repurchase program.
Through February 16, 2007, The Hartford had repurchased approximately
$363 (3.8 million shares) under this program.

HFSG and HLI are holding companies which rely upon operating cash flow in the form of dividends
from their subsidiaries, which enable them to service debt, pay dividends, and pay certain
business expenses. Dividends to the Company from its insurance subsidiaries are restricted. The
payment of dividends by Connecticut-domiciled insurers is limited under the insurance holding
company laws of Connecticut. These laws require notice to and approval by the state insurance
commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend, which, together with other dividends
or distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of (i) 10% of the
insurer’s policyholder surplus as of December 31 of the preceding year or (ii) net income (or net
gain from operations, if such company is a life insurance company) for the twelve-month period
ending on the thirty-first day of December last preceding, in each case determined under statutory
insurance accounting principles. In addition, if any dividend of a Connecticut-domiciled insurer
exceeds the insurer’s earned surplus, it requires the prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance
Commissioner. The insurance holding company laws of the other jurisdictions in which The
Hartford’s insurance subsidiaries are incorporated (or deemed commercially domiciled) generally
contain similar (although in certain instances somewhat more restrictive) limitations on the
payment of dividends. Dividends paid to HFSG by its insurance subsidiaries are further dependent
on cash requirements of HLI and other factors. The Company’s property-casualty insurance
subsidiaries are permitted to pay up to a maximum of approximately $1.5 billion in dividends to
HFSG in 2007 without prior approval from the applicable insurance commissioner. The Company’s
life insurance subsidiaries are permitted to pay up to a maximum of approximately $620 in
dividends to HLI in 2007 without prior approval from the applicable insurance commissioner. The
aggregate of these amounts, net of amounts required by HLI, is the maximum the insurance
subsidiaries could pay to HFSG in 2007. In 2006, HFSG and HLI received a combined total of $609
from their insurance subsidiaries.

The principal sources of operating funds are premium, fees and investment income, while investing
cash flows originate from maturities and sales of invested assets. The primary uses of funds are
to pay claims, policy benefits, operating expenses and commissions and to purchase new
investments. In addition, The Hartford has a policy of carrying a significant short-term
investment position and does not anticipate selling intermediate- and long-term fixed maturity
investments to meet any liquidity needs. (For a discussion of the Company’s investment objectives
and strategies, see the Investments and Capital Markets Risk Management sections.)

Sources of Liquidity

Shelf Registrations

On December 3, 2003, The Hartford’s shelf registration statement (Registration No. 333-108067) for
the potential offering and sale of debt and equity securities in an aggregate amount of up to $3.0
billion was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Registration
Statement allows for the following types of securities to be offered: (i) debt securities,
preferred stock, common stock, depositary shares, warrants, stock purchase contracts, stock
purchase units and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures of the Company, and (ii)
preferred securities of any of one or more capital trusts organized by The Hartford (“The Hartford
Trusts”). The Company may enter into guarantees with respect to the preferred securities of any
of The Hartford Trusts. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had $1.4 billion remaining under the
shelf registration.

Contingent
Capital
Facility

On
February 12, 2007, The Hartford entered into a put option agreement
(the “Put Option Agreement”) with Glen Meadow ABC Trust, a
Delaware statutory trust (the “ABC Trust”), and LaSalle
Bank National Association, as put option calculation agent. The Put
Option Agreement provides The Hartford with the right to require the
ABC Trust, at any time and from time to time, to purchase The
Hartford’s junior subordinated notes (the “Notes”) in
a maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed $500. Under the
Put Option Agreement, The Hartford will pay the ABC Trust premiums on
a periodic basis, calculated with respect to the aggregate principal
amount of Notes that The Hartford had the right to put to the ABC
Trust for such period. The Hartford has agreed to reimburse the ABC
Trust for certain fees and ordinary expenses.



Commercial Paper, Revolving Credit Facility and Line of Credit

The table below details the Company’s short-term debt programs and the applicable balances
outstanding.

Maximum Available As of

Outstanding As of

December 31,

December 31,

Description

Effective Date

Expiration Date





Commercial Paper

The Hartford

11/10/86

N/A

$

2,000

$

2,000

$


$


HLI [1]

2/7/97

N/A



—

—

Total commercial paper

2,250

2,250



Revolving Credit Facility

5-year revolving credit facility

9/7/05

9/7/10

1,600

1,600

—

—

Line of Credit

Life Japan Operations [2]

9/18/02

1/4/08



—

—

Total
Commercial Paper, Revolving
Credit Facility and Line of Credit

$

3,892

$

3,867

$


$


[1]

In January 2007, the commercial paper program of HLI was terminated.

[2]

As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company’s Japanese operation line of credit in yen
was ¥5 billion and ¥2 billion, respectively.

The revolving credit facility provides for up to $1.6 billion of unsecured credit. Of the
total availability under the revolving credit facility, up to $100 is available to support letters
of credit issued on behalf of The Hartford or other subsidiaries of The Hartford. Under the
revolving credit facility, the Company must maintain a minimum level of consolidated statutory
surplus. In addition, the Company must not exceed a maximum ratio of debt to capitalization.
Quarterly, the Company certifies compliance with the financial covenants for the syndicate of
participating financial institutions. As of December 31, 2006, the Company was in compliance with
all such covenants.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations

The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a
material effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, or capital resources
of the Company, except for the contingent capital facility described above and the following:

•

The Company has unfunded commitments to purchase investments in limited partnerships,
mortgage and construction loans of about $1.4 billion as disclosed in Note 12 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.



The following table identifies the Company’s aggregate contractual obligations as of December 31,
2006 due by payment period:

Payments due by period

Less than 1

More than 5

Total

Year

1-3 years

3-5 years

years

Property and casualty obligations [1]

$

22,596

$

5,936

$

6,001

$

3,098

$

7,561

Life, annuity and disability obligations [2]

408,700

25,478

54,750

56,064

272,408

Operating lease obligations






Long-term debt obligations [3]

6,902


1,746

1,077

3,551

Consumer notes [4]





—

Purchase obligations [5]

1,872

1,740




Other long-term liabilities reflected on the
balance sheet [6], [7]

2,364

2,322

—

—


Total [8]

$

443,247

$

36,187

$

63,056

$

60,393

$

283,611

[1]

The following points are significant to understanding the cash flows estimated for obligations under property and casualty contracts:

•

Reserves for Property & Casualty unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses include case
reserves for reported claims and reserves for claims incurred but not reported (IBNR).
While payments due on claim reserves are considered contractual obligations because they
relate to insurance policies issued by the Company, the ultimate amount to be paid to
settle both case reserves and IBNR is an estimate, subject to significant uncertainty. The
actual amount to be paid is not finally determined until the Company reaches a settlement
with the claimant. Final claim settlements may vary significantly from the present
estimates, particularly since many claims will not be settled until well into the future.

•

In estimating the timing of future payments by year, the Company has assumed that its
historical payment patterns will continue. However, the actual timing of future payments
could vary materially from these estimates due to, among other things, changes in claim
reporting and payment patterns and large unanticipated settlements. In particular, there
is significant uncertainty over the claim payment patterns of asbestos and environmental
claims. Also, estimated payments in 2007 do not include payments that will be made on
claims incurred in 2007 on policies that were in force as of December 31, 2006. In
addition, the table does not include future cash flows related to the receipt of premiums
that may be used, in part, to fund loss payments.

•

Under generally accepted accounting principles, the Company is only permitted to
discount reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses in cases where the payment
pattern and ultimate loss costs are fixed and determinable on an individual claim basis.
For the Company, these include claim settlements with permanently disabled claimants and
certain structured settlement contracts that fund loss runoffs for unrelated parties. As
of December 31, 2006, the total property and casualty reserves in the above table are gross
of a reserve discount of $605.



Pension Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits

The Company made contributions to its pension plans of $402, $504 and $317 in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. The Company’s 2006 required minimum funding contribution was immaterial. The
Company presently anticipates contributing approximately $200 to its pension plans in 2007, based
upon certain economic and business assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to,
equity market performance, changes in interest rates and the Company’s other capital requirements.
The Company does not have a required minimum funding contribution for the U.S. qualified defined
benefit pension plan for 2007 and the funding requirements for all of the pension plans is expected to be
immaterial.

Pension expense reflected in the Company’s net income was $152, $137 and $104 in 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively. The Company estimates its 2007 pension expense will be approximately $115,
based on current assumptions.

As provided for under SFAS No. 87, the Company uses a five-year averaging method to determine the
market-related value of plan assets, which is used to determine the expected return component of
pension expense. Under this methodology, asset gains/losses that result from returns that differ
from the Company’s long-term rate of return assumption are recognized in the market-related value
of assets on a level basis over a five year period. The difference between actual asset returns
for the plans of $356 and $176 for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, as
compared to expected returns of $244 and $221 for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively, will be fully reflected in the market-related value of plan assets over the next five
years using the methodology described above. The level of actuarial net losses continues to
exceed the allowable amortization corridor as defined under SFAS No. 87. Based on the 5.75%
discount rate selected as of December 31, 2006 and taking into account estimated future minimum
funding, the difference between actual and expected performance in 2006 will decrease annual
pension expense in future years. The decrease in pension expense will be approximately $4 in 2007
and will increase ratably to a decrease of approximately $19 in 2011.

Capitalization

The capital structure of The Hartford as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 consisted of debt and
equity, summarized as follows:

As of December 31,



Short-term debt (includes current maturities of long-term debt)

$


$


Long-term debt [1]

3,504

4,048

Total debt [2]

4,103

4,767

Equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax
(“AOCI”)

18,698

15,235

AOCI



Total stockholders’ equity

$

18,876

$

15,325

Total capitalization including AOCI

$

22,979

$

20,092

Debt to equity


%


%

Debt to capitalization


%


%

[1]

Includes junior subordinated debentures of $0 and $691 and debt associated with equity units of $0 and $1,020 as of
December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

[2]

Total debt of the Company excludes $258 and $0 of consumer notes as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

The Hartford’s total capitalization increased $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2006 as compared
with December 31, 2005. This increase was due to a $3.6 billion increase in equity partially offset
by a $664 decrease in debt. Total stockholders’ equity increased due to net income of $2.7 billion
and issuance of shares from equity unit contracts of $1.0 billion in 2006. The decrease in debt
was primarily due to repayments of commercial paper and long-term debt of $173 and $1.4 billion,
respectively, partially offset by debt issuances of $990 in 2006.

Debt

The following discussion describes the Company’s debt financing activities for 2006.

In May 2006, $690 of senior notes originally issued in May 2003 in connection with the Company’s 7%
equity units were remarketed on behalf of the holders of the equity units and the interest rate on
the senior notes was reset to 5.55%. In connection with the remarketing, the Company purchased and
retired $265 of the senior notes classified in long-term debt. See Note 14 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

On June 1, 2006, the Company repaid $250 of 2.375% senior notes at maturity.

During 2006, the Company issued $715 of commercial paper to finance the retirement of $265 of
senior notes connected with the 7% equity units, the repayment of $250 of senior notes described
above, and the redemption of $200 junior subordinated debentures described below. The Company used
the proceeds from the settlement of the forward purchase contracts associated with the 7% equity
units in August 2006 and cash on hand to pay down $690 of commercial paper.



On July 14, 2006, The Hartford retired its $200 7.625% junior subordinated debentures underlying
the trust preferred securities due 2050 issued by Hartford Life Capital II at par.

In August 2006, $330 of senior notes originally issued in September 2002 in connection with the
Company’s 6% equity units were remarketed on behalf of the holders of the equity units and the
interest rate on the senior notes was reset to 5.663%. See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

On October 3, 2006, the Company issued $400 of 5.25% senior notes due October 15, 2011, $300 of
5.50% senior notes due October 15, 2016, and $300 of 5.95% senior notes due October 15, 2036, and
received total net proceeds of approximately $990. The issuance was pursuant to the Company’s
existing shelf registration statement.

On October 10, 2006, the Company completed offers to exchange existing senior unsecured notes
comprising the $250 of 7.65% notes due 2027 and the $400 of 7.375% notes due 2031 issued by HLI
(‘‘HLI notes’’) for up to $650 in new senior unsecured notes of the Company and a cash payment, in
order to consolidate debt at the holding company. The new notes have an extended maturity and bear
a market interest rate and, together with the cash payment, have a present value not significantly
different than the existing notes using the existing notes’ effective interest rates. On October
10, 2006, the Company issued approximately $409 of 6.1% senior notes due October 1, 2041 and paid
cash totaling $85 in exchange for $101 of the 7.65% notes due 2027 and $308 of the 7.375% notes due
2031. Cash paid to holders of HLI notes in connection with the exchange offers is reflected on our
balance sheet as a reduction of long-term debt. The Company financed the cash payment through
available cash.

On November 17, 2006, The Hartford retired its $500 7.45% junior subordinated debentures underlying
the trust preferred securities due 2050 issued by Hartford Capital III at par. The Company
recognized a loss on extinguishment of $17, after-tax, for the write-off of the unamortized issue
costs and discount.

On December 15, 2006, The Hartford redeemed its $200 7.1% senior notes due 2007 at a price of $202
plus accrued and unpaid interest.

Consumer Notes

Institutional Solutions Group began issuing Consumer Notes through its Retail Investor Notes
Program in September 2006. A Consumer Note is an investment product distributed through
broker-dealers directly to retail investors as medium-term, publicly traded fixed or floating rate,
or a combination of fixed and floating rate, notes. In addition, discount notes, amortizing notes
and indexed notes may also be offered and issued. Consumer Notes are part of the Company’s
spread-based business and proceeds are used to purchase investment products, primarily fixed rate
bonds. Proceeds are not used for general operating purposes. Consumer Notes are offered weekly
with maturities up to 30 years and varying interest rates and may include a call provision.
Certain Consumer Notes may be redeemed by the holder in the event of death. Redemptions are
subject to certain limitations, including calendar year aggregate and individual limits equal to
the greater of $1 or 1% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes and $250 thousand per
individual, respectively. Derivative instruments will be utilized to hedge the Company’s exposure
to interest rate risk in accordance with Company policy.

As of December 31, 2006, $258 of Consumer Notes had been issued. These notes have interest rates
ranging from 5.0% to 6.0% for fixed notes and consumer price index
plus 175 basis points to 225 basis points for variable
notes. The aggregate maturities of Consumer Notes are as follows:
$230 in 2008, $10 in 2009 and  $18
in 2011. For 2006, interest credited to holders of Consumer Notes was
$2.

For additional information regarding debt, see Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Stockholders’ Equity

On November 16, 2006, the Company issued approximately 5.7 million shares of common stock in
connection with the settlement of purchase contracts originally issued in September 2002 as components of
our 6% equity units. The Company received proceeds of approximately $330 from the issuance of common
stock in settlement of the purchase contracts.

On August 16, 2006, the Company issued approximately 12.1 million shares of common stock in
connection with the settlement of purchase contracts originally issued in May 2003 as components of our
7% equity units. The Company received proceeds of approximately $690 from the issuance of common
stock in settlement of the purchase contracts.

Dividends

— On February 22, 2007, The Hartford’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend
of $0.50 per share payable on April 2, 2007 to shareholders of record as of March 1, 2007.

The Hartford declared $531 and paid $460 in dividends to shareholders in 2006 and declared $350 and
paid $345 in dividends to shareholders in 2005.

AOCI

- AOCI increased by $88 to $178 as of December 31, 2006 compared with $90 as of December 31,
2005. The increase in AOCI is primarily due to total other comprehensive income of $554, offset
by a $(466) decrease from SFAS 158 adjustment.



The after-tax reduction of stockholders’ equity of $526 related to pension and other
postretirement plans as of December 31, 2006 reflects the adoption of SFAS No. 158 “Employers’
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB
Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)” and represents the net actuarial losses and prior service
credits related to the Company’s pension and other postretirement plans. As of December 31, 2005,
the balance of $620 represented the minimum pension liability adjustment (required for pension
plans when the accumulated benefit obligation exceeds the fair value of plan assets).

The net change of $94 is due to:

•

For the other postretirement plans, an increase in AOCI
of $24, after-tax, which coincided with a before-tax
decrease in the liability of $37. This was driven by
reflecting actuarial gains as a result of the adoption of
SFAS 158.

•

For the pension plans, an increase of $70, after-tax,
which coincided with a $108 before-tax reduction in the
liability. This was driven by:

•

$135 after-tax increase in AOCI due to favorable experience in pension assumptions
which resulted in a gain (increase in the discount rate, actual asset returns exceeding
expected asset returns), combined with

•

$48 after-tax increase in AOCI due to the amortization of actuarial losses into
expense.

These changes were offset by:

•

$113 after-tax decrease in AOCI to recognize the effects of future salary increases
into The Hartford’s obligation (the spread between the 2005 PBO and ABO, consistent with
the adoption of SFAS 158).

For additional information on stockholders’ equity, AOCI, and pension and other postretirement
plans see Notes 15, 16 and 17, respectively, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Cash Flow




Net cash provided by operating activities

$

5,638

$

3,732

$

2,634

Net cash used for investing activities

$

(7,410

)

$

(4,860

)

$

(2,401

)

Net cash provided by financing activities

$

1,915

$

1,280

$


Cash — end of year

$

1,424

$

1,273

$

1,148

Year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005

The increase in cash from operating activities was primarily the result of premium cash flows in
excess of claim payments and increased net income as compared to prior year period. Net purchases
of available-for-sale securities accounted for the majority of cash used for investing activities.
Cash provided by financing activities increased primarily due to higher net receipts from
policyholder’s accounts related to investment and universal life contracts, proceeds from issuance
of consumer notes and proceeds from issuance of shares from equity unit contracts, less the portion
that was used for debt repayments.

Year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004

The increase in cash from operating activities was primarily the result of the funding of $1.15
billion in settlement of the MacArthur litigation in 2004 and increased net income as compared to
the prior year period. Cash provided by financing activities increased primarily due to higher net
receipts from policyholder’s accounts related to investment and universal life contracts and
increased proceeds from stock option exercises in 2005 as compared to the prior year period. Also
contributing to the increase in cash provided by financing activities was a decrease in debt
repayments in 2005 as compared to the prior year period. Net purchases of available-for-sale
securities accounted for the majority of cash used for investing activities.

Operating cash flows in each of the last three years have been adequate to meet liquidity
requirements.

Equity Markets

For a discussion of the potential impact of the equity markets on capital and liquidity, see the
Capital Markets Risk Management section under “Market Risk”.

The Company’s statutory financial results also have exposure to equity market volatility due to the
issuance of variable annuity contracts with guarantees. Specifically, in scenarios where equity
markets decline substantially, we would expect significant increases in the amount of statutory
surplus the Company would have to devote to maintain targeted rating agency and regulatory risk
based capital (“RBC”) ratios (via the C3 Phase II methodology) and other similar solvency margin
ratios. Various actions have been taken to partially mitigate this risk including the use of
guaranteed benefit reinsurance, dynamic hedging programs of U.S. GMWB’s, and other statutory reserve
hedges.



Ratings

Ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position in the insurance and
financial services marketplace. There can be no assurance that the Company’s ratings will continue
for any given period of time or that they will not be changed. In the event the Company’s ratings
are downgraded, the level of revenues or the persistency of the Company’s business may be adversely
impacted.

On May 9, 2006, Standard & Poor’s raised its long-term and short-term counterparty credit ratings
on The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and Hartford Life Inc. to A/A-1 from A-/A-2. In
addition, Standard & Poor’s affirmed its ‘AA-’ counterparty credit and financial strength ratings
on the insurance operating companies. The outlook is stable.

On September 27, 2006, Moody’s Investors Service upgraded the senior debt ratings of The Hartford
Financial Services Group, Inc. and Hartford Life, Inc. from “A3” to “A2” and the commercial paper
ratings from “P-2” to “P-1”. In addition, Moody’s Investor Services affirmed its “Aa3” insurance
financial strength ratings on the insurance operating companies. The outlook is stable.

The following table summarizes The Hartford’s significant member companies’ financial ratings from
the major independent rating organizations as of February 16, 2007.

Insurance Financial Strength Ratings:

A.M. Best

Fitch

Standard & Poor’s

Moody’s

Hartford Fire Insurance Company

A+

AA

AA-

Aa3

Hartford Life Insurance Company

A+

AA

AA-

Aa3

Hartford Life and Accident Insurance Company

A+

AA

AA-

Aa3

Hartford Life and Annuity Insurance Company

A+

AA

AA-

Aa3

Hartford Life Insurance KK (Japan)

—

—

AA-

—

Hartford Life Limited (Ireland)

—

—

AA-

—

Other Ratings:

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.:

Senior debt

a-

A

A

A2

Commercial paper

AMB-2

F1

A-1

P-1

Hartford Life, Inc.:

Senior debt

a-

A

A

A2

Hartford Life Insurance Company:

Short Term Rating

—

—

A-1+

P-1

Consumer Notes

a+

AA-

AA-

A1

These ratings are not a recommendation to buy or hold any of The Hartford’s securities and they may
be revised or revoked at any time at the sole discretion of the rating organization.

The agencies consider many factors in determining the final rating of an insurance company. One
consideration is the relative level of statutory surplus necessary to support the business written.
Statutory surplus represents the capital of the insurance company reported in accordance with
accounting practices prescribed by the applicable state insurance department.

The table below sets forth statutory surplus for the Company’s insurance companies.



Life Operations

$

4,734

$

4,364

Japan Life Operations

1,380

1,017

Property & Casualty Operations

8,230

6,981

Total

$

14,344

$

12,362

Risk-based Capital

The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) has regulations establishing minimum
capitalization requirements based on risk-based capital (“RBC”) formulas for both life and
property and casualty companies. The requirements consist of formulas, which identify companies
that are undercapitalized and require specific regulatory actions. The RBC formula for life
companies establishes capital requirements relating to insurance, business, asset and interest
rate risks and effective for 2005, it addresses the equity, interest rate and expense recovery
risks associated with variable annuities and group annuities that contain death benefits or
certain living benefit. RBC is calculated for property and casualty companies after adjusting
capital for certain underwriting, asset, credit and off-balance sheet risks. As of December 31,
2006, each of The Hartford’s insurance subsidiaries within Life and Ongoing Property & Casualty
had more than sufficient capital to meet the NAIC’s minimum RBC requirements.

Contingencies

Legal Proceedings

– For a discussion regarding contingencies related to The Hartford’s legal
proceedings, please see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”.



Dependence on Certain Third Party Relationships

–

The Company distributes its annuity, life and
certain property and casualty insurance products through a variety of distribution channels,
including broker-dealers, banks, wholesalers, its own internal sales force and other third party
organizations. The Company periodically negotiates provisions and renewals of these relationships
and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to the Company or such third
parties. An interruption in the Company’s continuing relationship with certain of these third
parties could materially affect the Company’s ability to market its products.

For a discussion regarding contingencies related to the manner in which The Hartford compensates
brokers and other producers, please see “Overview—Broker Compensation” above.

Regulatory Developments

– For a discussion regarding contingencies related to regulatory
developments that affect The Hartford, please see Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Legislative Initiatives

On January
22, 2007, the Florida legislature adopted legislation intended to
address increasing rates and shrinking capacity for homeowners
insurance in the state. The legislation subsequently was signed into
law by Governor Crist. The legislation will make significantly more
reinsurance capacity available to companies who choose to purchase
it. Specifically, the legislation increases the capacity of the
Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund (the “FHCF”), which
provides reinsurance to primary insures for Florida catastrophes at
generally below-market rates, from the current level of $16 billion
to a potential total of $35 billion. The new Florida legislation
includes many other provisions, including steps designed to make
Citizens Property Insurance Corporation more competitive with private
insures, provisions to provide rate relief to homeowners and
requirements that excess profits on residential property business be
returned to policyholders. The Hartford is still in the process of
analyzing the new legislation to assess the impact on The Hartford.

On May 26, 2005, the Senate Judiciary Committee approved legislation that provides for the creation
of a Federal asbestos trust fund in place of the current tort system for determining asbestos
liabilities. On February 6, 2006, the Senate began consideration of S. 852, “The Fairness in
Asbestos Injury Resolution Act of 2005”. However, the proponents were unable to secure the sixty
votes necessary to overcome a procedural budget objection. The prospects for enactment and the
ultimate details of any legislation creating a Federal asbestos trust fund remain very uncertain.
Depending on the provisions of any legislation which is ultimately enacted, the legislation may
have a material adverse effect on the Company.

Legislation introduced in Congress would provide for new retirement and savings vehicles designed
to simplify retirement plan administration and expand individual participation in retirement
savings plans. If enacted, these proposals could have a material effect on sales of the Company’s
life insurance and investment products. Prospects for enactment of this legislation in 2007 are
uncertain.

In addition, other tax proposals and regulatory initiatives which have been or are being considered
by Congress could have a material effect on the insurance business. These proposals and
initiatives include changes pertaining to the tax treatment of insurance companies and life
insurance products and annuities, repeal or reform of the estate tax and comprehensive federal tax
reform. The nature and timing of any Congressional action with respect to these efforts is unclear.

On May 17, 2006, the President signed into law the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act
of 2005, which is not expected to be material to the Company. In addition, other tax proposals and
regulatory initiatives which have been or are being considered by Congress could have a material
effect on the insurance business. These proposals and initiatives include changes pertaining to
the tax treatment of insurance companies and life insurance products and annuities, repeal or
reform of the estate tax and comprehensive federal tax reform. The nature and timing of any
Congressional action with respect to these efforts is unclear.

On August 17, 2006, the President signed into law the Pension Protection Act of 2006, which, among
other items, addressed age discrimination in defined benefit pension plans and revised pension plan
funding requirements. The Act is not expected to materially affect the Company’s retirement plans.

Guaranty Fund and Other Insurance-related Assessments

In all states, insurers licensed to transact certain classes of insurance are required to become
members of a guaranty fund. In most states, in the event of the insolvency of an insurer writing
any such class of insurance in the state, members of the funds are assessed to pay certain claims
of the insolvent insurer. A particular state’s fund assesses its members based on their respective
written premiums in the state for the classes of insurance in which the insolvent insurer was
engaged. Assessments are generally limited for any year to one or two percent of premiums written
per year depending on the state.

The Hartford accounts for guaranty fund and other insurance assessments in accordance with
Statement of Position No. 97-3, “Accounting by Insurance and Other Enterprises for
Insurance-Related Assessments”. Liabilities for guaranty fund and other insurance-related
assessments are accrued when an assessment is probable, when it can be reasonably estimated, and
when the event obligating the Company to pay an imposed or probable assessment has occurred.
Liabilities for guaranty funds and other insurance-related assessments are not discounted and are
included as part of other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2006
and 2005, the liability balance was $149 and $223, respectively. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005,
$20 and $20, respectively, related to premium tax offsets were included in other assets.



IMPACT OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

For a discussion of accounting standards, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The information required by this item is set forth in the Capital Markets Risk Management
section of Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules elsewhere herein.

Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures

The Company’s principal executive officer and its principal financial officer, based on their
evaluation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule
13a-15(e)), have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective for
the purposes set forth in the definition thereof in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e) as of December 31,
2006.

Management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting

The management of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“The Hartford”)
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting
for The Hartford as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and
fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, and
that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations
of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The Hartford’s management assessed its internal controls over financial reporting as of December
31, 2006 in relation to criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described
in “Internal Control – Integrated Framework” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission. Based on this assessment under those criteria, The Hartford’s management
concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2006.

Attestation report of the Company’s registered public accounting firm

The Hartford’s independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP, has issued
their attestation report on management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting
which is set forth below.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.

Hartford, Connecticut

We have audited management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management’s Annual Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. and its
subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”) maintained effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on the criteria established in

Internal Control—Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of  Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s assessment and an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the
supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons
performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s board of directors, management, and
other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to
error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any
evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods
are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that the Company maintained effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on
the criteria established in

Internal Control—Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2006 based on the criteria established in

Internal Control—Integrated Framework

issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules as
of and for the year ended December 31, 2006 of the Company, and our report, dated February 21,
2007, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement
schedules and included an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company’s change in its method of
accounting and reporting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans in 2006, and
for certain nontraditional long-duration contracts and for separate accounts in 2004.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Hartford, Connecticut

February 21, 2007



Changes in internal control over financial reporting

There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
during the Company’s fourth fiscal quarter of 2006 that have materially affected, or are reasonably
likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. During the
fourth fiscal quarter of 2006, the Company decided to outsource certain information technology
infrastructure services beginning in 2007, which will materially affect internal controls over
financial reporting in 2007.

Item 9B. Other Information

None.

PART III

Item 10. DIRECTORS, AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OF THE HARTFORD

Certain of the information called for by Item 10 will be set forth in the definitive proxy
statement for the 2007 annual meeting of shareholders (the “Proxy Statement”) to be filed by The
Hartford with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of the fiscal
year covered by this Form 10-K under the captions “Item 1 — Election of Directors”, “Common Stock
Ownership of Directors, Executive Officers and Certain Shareholders”, and “Governance of the
Company” and is incorporated herein by reference.

The Company has adopted a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, which is applicable to all employees
of the Company, including the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer and the
principal accounting officer. The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available on the
Company’s website at:

www.thehartford.com

.

Executive Officers of The Hartford

Information about the executive officers of The Hartford who are also nominees for election as
directors will be set forth in The Hartford’s Proxy Statement. Set forth below is information
about the other executive officers of the Company:

ANN M. DE RAISMES

(Executive Vice President, Human Resources)

Ms. de Raismes, 56, has held the position of Executive Vice President, Human Resources, of the
Company since May 2004. She previously served as Group Senior Vice President, Human Resources, of
the Company from March 2003 to May 2004, and as Senior Vice President of Human Resources of
Hartford Life, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, from 1997 to March 2003.

DAVID M. JOHNSON

(Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer)

Mr. Johnson, 46, has held the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
the Company since May 1, 2001. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Johnson was Senior Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of Cendant Corporation, which he joined in April 1998. In
addition, before Cendant, Mr. Johnson was a Managing Director in the Investment Banking Division at
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith, where he started in 1986.

ROBERT J. PRICE

(Senior Vice President and Controller)

Mr. Price, 56, is Senior Vice President and Controller of the Company. Mr. Price joined the Company
in June 2002 in his current role. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Price was President and Chief
Executive Officer of CitiInsurance, the international insurance indirect subsidiary of Citigroup,
Inc., from May 2000 to December 2001. From April 1989 to April 2000, Mr. Price held various
positions at Aetna, Inc., including Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Aetna
International and Vice President and Corporate Controller.

NEAL S. WOLIN

(Executive Vice President and General Counsel)

Mr. Wolin, 45, has held the position of Executive Vice President and General Counsel since joining
the Company on March 20, 2001. Previously, Mr. Wolin served as General Counsel of the U.S.
Department of the Treasury from 1999 to January 2001. In that capacity, he headed Treasury’s legal
division, composed of 2,000 lawyers supporting all of Treasury’s offices and bureaus, including the
Internal Revenue Service, Customs, Secret Service, Public Debt, the Office of Thrift Supervision,
the Financial Management Service, the U.S. Mint and the Bureau of Engraving and Printing. Mr. Wolin
served as the Deputy General Counsel of the Department of the Treasury from 1995 to 1999. Prior to
joining the Treasury Department, he served in the White House, first as the Executive Assistant to
the National Security Advisor and then as the Deputy Legal Advisor to the National Security
Council. Mr. Wolin joined the U.S.



Government in 1991 as special assistant to the Directors of Central Intelligence, William H.
Webster, Robert M. Gates and R. James Woolsey.

DAVID M. ZNAMIEROWSKI

(Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer)

Mr. Znamierowski, 46, has served as Executive Vice President of the Company since May 2004 and as
Chief Investment Officer of the Company and President of Hartford Investment Management, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, since November 2001. From November 2001 to May 2004, he
served as Group Senior Vice President of the Company. Previously, he was Senior Vice President and
Chief Investment Officer for the Company’s life operations from May 1999 to November 2001, Vice
President from September 1998 to May 1999 and Vice President, Investment Strategy from February
1997 to September 1998. In addition, Mr. Znamierowski currently serves as a director and president
of The Hartford-sponsored mutual funds and is a senior officer of the two supervisory investment
advisers to the Hartford Funds.

Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information called for by Item 11 will be set forth in the Proxy Statement under the
captions “Compensation Discussion and Analysis”, “Executive Compensation”, “Director Compensation”,
“Report of the Compensation and Personnel Committee”, and “Compensation and Personnel Committee
Interlocks and Insider Participation” and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Certain of the information called for by Item 12 will be set forth in the Proxy Statement
under the caption “Common Stock Ownership of Directors, Executive Officers and Certain
Shareholders” and is incorporated herein by reference.

Equity Compensation Plan Information

The following table provides information as of December 31, 2006 about the securities
authorized for issuance under the Company’s equity compensation plans. The Company maintains The
Hartford 1995 Incentive Stock Plan, The Hartford Incentive Stock Plan (the “2000 Stock Plan”), The
Hartford 2005 Incentive Stock Plan (the “2005 Stock Plan”), The Hartford Employee Stock Purchase
Plan (the “ESPP”), and The Hartford Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the
“Director’s Plan”). On May 18, 2005, the shareholders of the Company approved the 2005 Stock Plan,
which superseded the 2000 Stock Plan and the Director’s Plan. Pursuant to the provisions of the
2005 Stock Plan, no additional shares may be issued from the 2000 Stock Plan or the Director’s
Plan. To the extent than any awards under the 2000 Stock Plan or the Director’s Plan are
forfeited, terminated, expire unexercised or are settled in cash in lieu of stock, the shares
subject to such awards (or the relevant portion thereof) shall be available for award under the
2005 Stock Plan and such shares shall be added to the total number of shares available under the
2005 Stock Plan.

In addition, the Company maintains the 2000 PLANCO Non-employee Option Plan (the “PLANCO Plan”)
pursuant to which it may grant awards to non-employee wholesalers of PLANCO products.

(a)

(b)

(c)

Weighted-average

Number of Securities Remaining

Number of Securities to

Exercise Price of

Available for Future Issuance Under

be Issued Upon Exercise

Outstanding

Equity Compensation Plans

of Outstanding Options,

Options, Warrants

(Excluding Securities Reflected in

Warrants and Rights

and Rights

Column (a))

Equity compensation
plans approved by
stockholders

8,852,771

$

56.49

8,307,585

[1]

Equity compensation
plans not approved
by stockholders

45,229

54.29

225,858

Total

8,898,000

$

56.48

8,533,443

[1]

Of these shares, 2,006,422 shares remain available for purchase under the ESPP.

Summary Description of the 2000 PLANCO Non-Employee Option Plan

The Company’s Board of Directors adopted the PLANCO Plan on July 20, 2000, and amended it on
February 20, 2003 to increase the number of shares of the Company’s common stock subject to the
plan to 450,000 shares. The stockholders of the Company have not approved the PLANCO Plan. No
awards have been issued under the PLANCO Plan since 2003.

Eligibility – Any non-employee independent contractor serving on the wholesale sales force as an
insurance agent who is an exclusive agent of the Company or who derives more than 50% of his or her
annual income from the Company is eligible.



Terms of options – Nonqualified stock options (“NQSOs”) to purchase shares of common stock are
available for grant under the PLANCO Plan. The administrator of the PLANCO Plan, the Compensation
and Personnel Committee, (i) determines the recipients of options under the PLANCO Plan, (ii)
determines the number of shares of common stock covered by such options, (iii) determines the dates
and the manner in which options become exercisable (which is typically in three equal annual
installments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant), (iv) sets the exercise price
of options (which may be less than, equal to or greater than the fair market value of common stock
on the date of grant) and (v) determines the other terms and conditions of each option. Payment of
the exercise price may be made in cash, other shares of the Company’s common stock or through a
same day sale program. The term of an NQSO may not exceed ten years and two days from the date of
grant.

If an optionee’s required relationship with the Company terminates for any reason, other than for
cause, any exercisable options remain exercisable for a fixed period of four months, not to exceed
the remainder of the option’s term. Any options that are not exercisable at the time of such
termination are cancelled on the date of such termination. If the optionee’s required relationship
is terminated for cause, the options are canceled immediately.

Acceleration in Connection with a Change in Control – Upon the occurrence of a change in control,
each option outstanding on the date of such change in control, and which is not then fully vested
and exercisable, shall immediately vest and become exercisable. In general, a “Change in Control”
will be deemed to have occurred upon the acquisition of 20% or more of the outstanding voting stock
of the Company, a tender or exchange offer to acquire 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock
of the Company, certain mergers or corporate transactions resulting in the shareholders of the
Company before the transactions owning less than 55% of the entity surviving the transactions,
certain transactions involving a transfer of substantially all of the Company’s assets or a change
in greater than 50% of the Board members over a two year period. See Note 18 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the 2005 Stock Plan and the ESPP.

Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

Any information called for by Item 13 will be set forth in the Proxy Statement under the
caption “Governance of the Company” and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

The information called for by Item 14 will be set forth in the Proxy Statement under the
caption “Audit Committee Charter and Report Concerning Financial Matters – Fees to Independent
Auditor for Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005” and is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

Item 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)

Documents filed as a part of this report:

(1)

Consolidated Financial Statements.

See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere
herein.

(2)

Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules.

See Index to Consolidated Financial Statement
Schedules elsewhere herein.

(3)

Exhibits.

See Exhibit Index elsewhere herein.



THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES

Page(s)

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-2

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three years ended December 31, 2006

F-3

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity
for the three years ended December 31, 2006

F-5

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the three
years ended December 31, 2006

F-5

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three years
ended December 31, 2006

F-6

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-7

-


Schedule I – Summary of Investments — Other Than Investments in Affiliates

S-1

Schedule II – Condensed Financial Information of The Hartford
Financial Services Group, Inc

S-2

-


Schedule III – Supplementary Insurance Information

S-4

-


Schedule IV – Reinsurance

S-6

Schedule V – Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

S-7

Schedule VI – Supplemental Information Concerning Property
and Casualty Insurance Operations

S-7

F-1


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc.

Hartford, Connecticut

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Hartford Financial Services
Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”) as of December 31, 2006 and 2005,
and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders’ equity,
comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2006. Our audits also included the financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 15.
These financial statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements
and financial statement schedules based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc and its subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement
schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 1 of the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of
accounting and reporting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans in 2006, and
for certain nontraditional long-duration contracts and for separate accounts in 2004.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2006, based on the criteria established in

Internal Control—Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated
February 21, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion on management’s assessment of the effectiveness
of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and an unqualified opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Hartford, Connecticut

February 21, 2007

F-2


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

Consolidated Statements of Operations

For the years ended December 31,

(In millions, except for per share data)




Revenues

Earned premiums

$

15,023

$

14,359

$

13,566

Fee income

4,739

4,012

3,471

Net investment income

Securities available-for-sale and other

4,691

4,384

4,144

Equity securities held for trading

1,824

3,847


Total net investment income

6,515

8,231

4,943

Other revenues




Net realized capital gains (losses)

(251

)



Total revenues

26,500

27,083

22,708

Benefits, losses and expenses

Benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses

15,042

16,776

13,640

Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and present value of future
profits

3,558

3,169

2,843

Insurance operating costs and expenses

3,252

3,227

2,776

Interest expense




Other expenses




Total benefits, losses and expenses

22,898

24,098

20,185

Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of
accounting change

3,602

2,985

2,523

Income tax expense




Income before cumulative effect of accounting change

2,745

2,274

2,138

Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax

—

—

(23

)

Net income

$

2,745

$

2,274

$

2,115

Basic earnings per share

Income before cumulative effect of accounting change

$

8.89

$

7.63

$

7.32

Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax

—

—

(0.08

)

Net income

$

8.89

$

7.63

$

7.24

Diluted earnings per share

Income before cumulative effect of accounting change

$

8.69

$

7.44

$

7.20

Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax

—

—

(0.08

)

Net income

$

8.69

$

7.44

$

7.12

Weighted average common shares outstanding

308.8

298.0

292.3

Weighted average common shares outstanding and dilutive potential common shares

315.9

305.6

297.0

Cash dividends declared per share

$

1.70

$

1.17

$

1.13

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-3


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

Consolidated Balance Sheets

As of December 31,

(In millions, except for share data)



Assets

Investments

Fixed maturities, available-for-sale, at fair value (amortized cost of $79,289 and
$74,766)

$

80,755

$

76,440

Equity securities, held for trading, at fair value (cost of $23,668 and $19,570)

29,393

24,034

Equity securities, available-for-sale, at fair value (cost of $1,535 and $1,330)

1,739

1,461

Policy loans, at outstanding balance

2,051

2,016

Mortgage loans on real estate

3,318

1,731

Other investments

1,917

1,253

Total investments

119,173

106,935

Cash

1,424

1,273

Premiums receivable and agents’ balances

3,675

3,734

Reinsurance recoverables

5,571

6,360

Deferred policy acquisition costs and present value of future profits

10,268

9,702

Deferred income taxes



Goodwill

1,717

1,720

Property and equipment, net



Other assets

3,323

3,600

Separate account assets

180,484

150,875

Total assets

$

326,710

$

285,557

Liabilities

Reserve for future policy benefits and unpaid
losses and loss adjustment expenses

Property and casualty

$

21,991

$

22,266

Life

14,016

12,987

Other policyholder funds and benefits payable

71,311

64,452

Unearned premiums

5,620

5,566

Short-term debt



Long-term debt

3,504

4,048

Consumer notes


—

Other liabilities

10,051

9,319

Separate account liabilities

180,484

150,875

Total liabilities

307,834

$

270,232

Commitments and Contingencies (Note 12)

Stockholders’ Equity

Common stock – 750,000,000 shares authorized, 326,401,820 and 305,188,238
shares issued, $0.01 par value



Additional
paid-in capital

6,321

5,067

Retained earnings

12,421

10,207

Treasury stock, at cost 3,086,429 and 3,035,916 shares

(47

)

(42

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income



Total stockholders’ equity

18,876

15,325

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

$

326,710

$

285,557

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-4


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity

For the years ended December 31,

(In millions, except for share data)




Common
Stock/Additional Paid-in Capital

Balance at beginning of year

$

5,070

$

4,570

$

3,932

Issuance of common stock in underwritten offerings

—

—


Issuance of shares from equity unit contracts

1,020

—

—

Issuance of shares and compensation expense associated with
incentive and stock
compensation plans




Tax benefit on employee stock options and awards and other




Balance at end of year

6,324

5,070

4,570

Retained Earnings

Balance at beginning of year

10,207

8,283

6,499

Net income

2,745

2,274

2,115

Dividends declared on common stock

(531

)

(350

)

(331

)

Balance at end of year

12,421

10,207

8,283

Treasury Stock, at Cost

Balance at beginning of year

(42

)

(40

)

(38

)

Return of shares to treasury stock under incentive and stock
compensation plans

(5

)

(2

)

(2

)

Balance at end of year

(47

)

(42

)

(40

)

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, Net of Tax

Balance at beginning of year


1,425

1,246

Change in unrealized gain/loss on securities

Change in unrealized gain/loss on securities


(1,193

)


Cumulative effect of accounting change

—

—


Change in
net gain/loss on cash-flow hedging instruments

(124

)


(173

)

Change in foreign currency translation adjustments


(107

)


Change in minimum pension liability


(140

)

(105

)

Total other comprehensive income (loss)


(1,335

)


SFAS 158 adjustment

(466

)

—

—

Balance at end of year



1,425

Total stockholders’ equity

$

18,876

$

15,325

$

14,238

Outstanding Shares (in thousands)

Balance at beginning of year

302,152

294,208

283,380

Issuance of common stock in underwritten offerings

—

—

6,703

Issuance of shares from equity unit contracts

17,856

—

—

Issuance of shares under incentive and stock compensation plans

3,358

7,988

4,157

Return of shares to treasury stock under incentive and stock
compensation plans

(51

)

(44

)

(32

)

Balance at end of year

323,315

302,152

294,208

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income

For the years ended December 31,

(In millions)




Comprehensive Income

Net income

$

2,745

$

2,274

$

2,115

Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), Net of Tax

Change in unrealized gain/loss on securities

Change in unrealized gain/loss on securities


(1,193

)


Cumulative effect of accounting change

—

—


Change in net gain/loss on cash-flow hedging instruments

(124

)


(173

)

Change in foreign currency translation adjustments


(107

)


Change in minimum pension liability adjustment


(140

)

(105

)

Total other comprehensive income (loss)


(1,335

)


Total comprehensive income

$

3,299

$


$

2,294

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-5


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

For the years ended December 31,

(In millions)




Operating Activities

Net income

$

2,745

$

2,274

$

2,115

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities

Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and present value of future profits

3,558

3,169

2,843

Additions to deferred policy acquisition costs and present value of future profits

(4,092

)

(4,131

)

(3,914

)

Change in:

Reserve for future policy benefits, unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and
unearned premiums


2,163


Reinsurance recoverables

1,071

(361

)


Receivables

(34

)

(682

)

(395

)

Payables and accruals

(287

)

(267

)

(11

)

Accrued and deferred income taxes




Net realized capital (gains) losses


(17

)

(291

)

Net increase in equity securities, held for trading

(5,609

)

(12,872

)

(7,409

)

Net receipts from investment contracts credited to policyholder accounts
associated with equity securities, held for trading

5,594

13,087

7,909

Depreciation and amortization




Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax

—

—


Other, net



(44

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

5,638

3,732

2,634

Investing Activities

Proceeds from the sale/maturity/prepayment of:

Fixed maturities, available-for-sale

35,432

36,895

34,981

Equity securities, available-for-sale




Mortgage loans




Partnerships




Payments for the purchase of:

Fixed maturities, available-for-sale

(40,368

)

(40,580

)

(36,527

)

Equity securities, available-for-sale

(924

)

(598

)

(278

)

Mortgage loans

(1,974

)

(1,068

)

(636

)

Partnerships

(809

)

(439

)

(483

)

Change in policy loans, net

(36

)


(149

)

Change in payables for collateral under securities lending, net


(367

)

(36

)

Change in all other securities, net

(454

)



Purchase price adjustment of business acquired

—


(58

)

Sale of subsidiary, net of cash transferred

(112

)

—

—

Additions to property and equipment, net

(195

)

(211

)

(180

)

Net cash used for investing activities

(7,410

)

(4,860

)

(2,401

)

Financing Activities

Deposits and other additions to investment and universal life-type contracts

27,450

25,780

27,877

Withdrawals and other deductions from investment and universal life-type contracts

(27,096

)

(25,099

)

(22,178

)

Transfers from (to) separate accounts related to investment and universal life-type contracts

1,189


(4,737

)

Issuance of shares from equity unit contracts

1,020

—

—

Issuance of common stock in underwritten offering

—

—


Issuance of long-term debt


—


Repayment/maturity of long-term debt

(1,415

)

(250

)

(450

)

Change in short-term debt

(173

)


(477

)

Proceeds from issuance of consumer notes


—

—

Proceeds from issuances of shares under incentive and stock compensation plans, net




Excess tax benefits on stock-based compensation


—

—

Return of shares under incentive and stock compensation plans

(5

)

(2

)

(2

)

Dividends paid

(460

)

(345

)

(325

)

Net cash provided by financing activities

1,915

1,280


Foreign exchange rate effect on cash


(27

)

(24

)

Net increase in cash




Cash – beginning of year

1,273

1,148


Cash – end of year

$

1,424

$

1,273

$

1,148

Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information:

Net Cash Paid During the Year for:

Income taxes

$


$


$


Interest

$


$


$


See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

F-6


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(Dollar amounts in millions, except for per share data, unless otherwise stated)

1. Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. is a financial holding company for a group of
subsidiaries that provide investment products and life and property and casualty insurance to both
individual and business customers in the United States and internationally (collectively, “The
Hartford” or the “Company”).

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America, which differ materially from the accounting
practices prescribed by various insurance regulatory authorities.

Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of The Hartford Financial Services
Group, Inc., companies in which the Company directly or indirectly has a controlling financial
interest and those variable interest entities in which the Company is the primary beneficiary. The
Company determines if it is the primary beneficiary using both qualitative and quantitative
analyses. Entities in which The Hartford does not have a controlling financial interest but in
which the Company has significant influence over the operating and financing decisions are reported
using the equity method. All material intercompany transactions and balances between The Hartford
and its subsidiaries and affiliates have been eliminated. For further discussions on variable
interest entities see Note 4.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America, requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

The most significant estimates include those used in determining property and casualty reserves for
unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, net of reinsurance; Life deferred policy acquisition
costs and present value of future profits associated with variable annuity and other universal
life-type contracts; the evaluation of other-than-temporary impairments on investments in
available-for-sale securities; the valuation of guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit derivatives;
pension and other postretirement benefit obligations; and contingencies relating to corporate
litigation and regulatory matters.

Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year financial information to conform to the
current year presentation.

Adoption of New Accounting Standards

Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of
FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)

In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standard No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)” (“SFAS 158”).
This statement requires an entity to: (a) recognize an asset for the funded status, measured as the
difference between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation, of defined benefit
postretirement plans that are overfunded and a liability for plans that are underfunded, measured
as of the employer’s fiscal year end; and (b) recognize changes in the funded status of defined
benefit postretirement plans, other than for the net periodic benefit cost included in net income,
in accumulated other comprehensive income. For pension plans, the funded status must be based on
the projected benefit obligation which includes an assumption for future salary increases. The
provisions of FASB Statement No. 87, “Employers’
Accounting for Pensions” (“SFAS 87”) and FASB Statement No.
106, “Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions” in measuring plan
assets and benefit obligations and in determining the amount of net periodic benefit cost continue
to apply upon initial and subsequent application of SFAS 158. SFAS 158 is effective for public
entities with years ending after December 15, 2006, with certain exceptions not applicable to The
Hartford, through an adjustment to the ending balance of accumulated other comprehensive income,
net of tax. As of December 31, 2006, the effect of adopting SFAS 158 was a decrease of $717 in the
net defined benefit postretirement plan asset and a corresponding after-tax decrease of $466 in the
accumulated other comprehensive income component of equity. Because the Company recorded a
decrease of $560, net of tax, in its additional minimum liability adjustment related to its pension
plans, the balance sheet change was an increase of $145 in the net defined benefit postretirement
plan asset and a corresponding after-tax increase of $94 in the accumulated other comprehensive
income component of equity. Note 17 provides further details about the adoption of SFAS 158.

F-7


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies (continued)

Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current
Year Financial Statements

In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) staff issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 108, “Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying
Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements” (“SAB 108”). SAB 108 provides guidance for how
errors should be evaluated to assess materiality from a quantitative perspective. SAB 108 permits
companies to initially apply its provisions by either restating prior financial statements or
recording the cumulative effect of initially applying the approach as adjustments to the carrying
values of assets and liabilities as of January 1, 2006 with an offsetting adjustment to retained
earnings. The Company adopted SAB 108 on December 31, 2006. The adoption had no effect on the
Company’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

Share-Based Payment

In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS 123(R)”), which replaced
SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation” (“SFAS 123”) and superseded the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”)
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.
25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees”. SFAS 123(R) requires companies to recognize
compensation costs for share-based payments to employees based on the grant-date fair value of the
award. In January 2003, the Company began expensing all stock-based compensation awards granted or
modified after January 1, 2003 under the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123 and
therefore the adoption of SFAS 123(R) did not have a material effect on the Company’s financial
position or results of operations and is not expected to have a material effect on future
operations. The Company adopted SFAS 123(R) effective January 1, 2006 using the modified
prospective method and therefore prior period amounts have not been restated. The Company
recognized an immaterial effect of adoption as of January 1, 2006 to reverse expense previously
recognized on awards expected to be forfeited, as required under SFAS 123(R). The under-mentioned
related FASB Staff Positions (“FSPs”) have been issued to amend specific provisions of SFAS 123(R)
as follows:

In November 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No.
123(R)-3, “Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment
Awards” (“FSP 123(R)-3”), which provides a practical transition election related to accounting for
the tax effects of share-based payment awards to employees. FSP 123(R)-3 addresses an alternative
method for calculating the pool of excess tax benefits available to absorb tax deficiencies (“APIC
pool”) recognized subsequent to the adoption of SFAS 123(R). The Company is required to make a one
time election to utilize either the method stated in FSP 123(R)-3 or the method stated in SFAS
123(R) for computing the APIC pool related to employee compensation. The Company did not adopt the
APIC pool computation method outlined in FSP 123(R)-3, and has elected to compute its APIC pool
related to employee compensation by using the method described in SFAS 123(R) and the guidance
related to reporting cash flows described in SFAS 123(R). Therefore, FSP 123(R)-3 did not have an
effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

In February 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No.
123(R)-4, “Classification of Options and Similar Instruments Issued as Employee Compensation That
Allow for Cash Settlement upon the Occurrence of a Contingent Event” (“FSP 123(R)-4”), which amends
certain provisions of SFAS 123(R) which require that options and similar instruments be classified
as liabilities if “the entity can be required under any circumstances to settle the option or
similar instrument by transferring cash or other assets.” FSP 123(R)-4 provides that a cash
settlement feature that can be exercised only upon the occurrence of a contingent event that is
outside the employee’s control does not meet the conditions stipulated in SFAS 123(R) until it
becomes probable that the event will occur. FSP 123(R)-4 shall be applied no later than the second
quarter of 2006. The Company’s Stock Plan does not allow for cash settlement on options or similar
instruments awarded to employees in the event of a change in control. Therefore, FSP 123(R)-4 did
not have an effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

In October 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No.
123(R)-6, “Technical Correction of FASB Statement No. 123(R)” (“FSP 123(R)-6”). FSP 123(R)-6
specifically amends SFAS 123(R) to (a) exempt nonpublic entities from the aggregate intrinsic
value disclosure requirement; (b) revise the computation of the minimum compensation cost that must
be recognized to comply with SFAS 123(R); (c) indicate that at the date the illustrative awards
were no longer probable of vesting, any previously recognized compensation cost should have been
reversed; and (d) amend the definition of “short-term inducement” to exclude an offer to settle an
award. The adoption of FSP 123(R)-6 in the fourth quarter of 2006 did not have an effect on the
Company’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

F-8


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies (continued)

The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments

In November 2005, the FASB released FASB Staff Position Nos. FAS 115-1 and FAS 124-1, “The Meaning
of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments” (“FSP 115-1”), which
effectively replaces Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 03-1, “The Meaning of
Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments” (“EITF 03-1”). FSP
115-1 contains a three-step model for evaluating impairments and carries forward the disclosure
requirements in EITF Issue No. 03-1 pertaining to securities in an unrealized loss position. Under
the model, any security in an unrealized loss position is considered impaired; an evaluation is
made to determine whether the impairment is other-than-temporary; and, if an impairment is
considered other-than-temporary, a realized loss is recognized to write the security’s cost or
amortized cost basis down to fair value. FSP 115-1 references existing other-than-temporary
impairment guidance for determining when an impairment is other-than-temporary and clarifies that
subsequent to the recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment loss for debt securities, an
investor shall account for the security using the constant effective yield method. FSP 115-1 is
effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2005, with earlier application
permitted. The Company adopted FSP 115-1 upon issuance. The adoption did not have a material
effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

Certain Nontraditional Long-Duration Contracts and Separate Accounts

In July 2003, the AICPA issued Statement of
Position (“SOP”) 03-1, “Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain
Nontraditional Long-Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts” (“SOP 03-1”). SOP 03-1 addresses
a wide variety of topics, some of which have a significant impact on the Company. The major
provisions of SOP 03-1 require:

•

Recognizing expenses for a variety of contracts and
contract features, including guaranteed minimum death
benefits (“GMDB”), certain death benefits on universal-life
type contracts and annuitization options, on an accrual basis
versus the previous method of recognition upon payment;

•

Reporting and measuring assets and liabilities of
certain separate account products as general account assets
and liabilities when specified criteria are not met;

•

Reporting and measuring the Company’s interest in its
separate accounts as general account assets based on the
insurer’s proportionate beneficial interest in the separate
account’s underlying assets; and

•

Capitalizing sales inducements that meet specified
criteria and amortizing such amounts over the life of the
contracts using the same methodology as used for amortizing
deferred acquisition costs (“DAC”).

SOP 03-1 was effective for financial statements for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2003.
At the date of initial application, January 1, 2004, the cumulative effect of the adoption of SOP
03-1 on net income and other comprehensive income was comprised of the following individual impacts
shown net of income tax benefit of $12:

Components of Cumulative Effect of Adoption

Net Income

Other Comprehensive Income

Establishing GMDB and other benefit reserves for annuity contracts

$

(54

)

$

—

Reclassifying certain separate accounts to general account



Other


(2

)

Total cumulative effect of adoption

$

(23

)

$


Future Adoption of New Accounting Standards

Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and
Financial Liabilities, Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115” (“SFAS 159”). The
objective of SFAS 159 is to improve financial reporting by providing entities with the opportunity
to mitigate volatility in reported net income caused by measuring related assets and liabilities
differently. This statement permits entities to choose, at specified election dates, to measure
eligible items at fair value (i.e., the fair value option). Items eligible for the fair value
option include certain recognized financial assets and liabilities, rights and obligations under
certain insurance contracts that are not financial instruments, host financial instruments
resulting from the separation of an embedded nonfinancial derivative instrument from a nonfinancial
hybrid instrument, and certain commitments. Business entities shall report unrealized gains and
losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected in net income. The fair value
option: (a) may be applied instrument by instrument, with certain exceptions; (b) is irrevocable
(unless a new election date occurs); and (c) is applied only to entire instruments and not to
portions of instruments. SFAS 159 is effective as of the beginning of an entity’s first
fiscal year that begins after November 15, 2007, although early adoption is permitted under certain
conditions. Companies shall report the effect of the first remeasurement to fair value as a
cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained

F-9


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies (continued)

earnings. The Company expects to adopt SFAS 159 on January 1, 2008, but has not yet
determined the items to which the Company may apply the fair value option and the impact on the
Company’s consolidated financial statements.

Fair Value Measurements

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”). This
statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value under accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States, and enhances disclosures about fair value
measurements. The definition focuses on the price that would be received to sell the asset or paid
to transfer the liability (an exit price), not the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or
received to assume the liability (an entry price). SFAS 157 provides guidance on how to measure
fair value when required under existing accounting standards. The statement establishes a fair
value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into
three broad levels (“Level 1, 2 and 3”). Level 1 inputs are observable inputs that reflect quoted
prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets that the Company has the ability to access
at the measurement date. Level 2 inputs are observable inputs, other than quoted prices included in
Level 1, for the asset or liability or prices for similar assets and liabilities. Level 3 inputs
are unobservable inputs reflecting the reporting entity’s estimates of the assumptions that market
participants would use in pricing the asset or liability (including assumptions about risk).
Quantitative and qualitative disclosures will focus on the inputs used to measure fair value for
both recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements and the effects of the measurements in the
financial statements. SFAS 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007,
with earlier application encouraged only in the initial quarter of an entity’s fiscal year. The
Company will adopt SFAS 157 on January 1, 2008, but has not yet quantified the impact. However, the
Company has certain significant product riders, including GMWB, that are recorded using fair value.
Under SFAS 157, fair value for GMWB will use significant Level 3 inputs including risk margins. The
Company’s account value associated with GMWB is $48.3 billion as of December 31, 2006. As a result,
the one time realized capital loss that could be recorded upon the adoption of SFAS 157 could
materially reduce the Company’s 2008 net income. Realized gains and losses that will be recorded in
future years are also likely to be more volatile than amounts recorded in prior years. In addition,
adoption of SFAS 157 will result in a future reduction in variable
annuity fee income as fees  attributed to the embedded
derivative will increase
consistent with incorporating additional risk margins and other
indicia of “exit value” in the valuation of the embedded
derivative.

Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109

The FASB issued Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an
interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109” (“FIN 48”), dated June 2006. The interpretation requires
public companies to recognize the tax benefits of uncertain tax positions only where the position
is “more likely than not” to be sustained assuming examination by tax authorities. The amount
recognized would be the amount that represents the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater
than 50% likely of being ultimately realized. A liability would be recognized for any benefit
claimed, or expected to be claimed, in a tax return in excess of the benefit recorded in the
financial statements, along with any interest and penalty (if applicable) on the excess. FIN 48
will require a tabular reconciliation of the change in the aggregate unrecognized tax benefits
claimed, or expected to be claimed, in tax returns and disclosure relating to accrued interest and
penalties for unrecognized tax benefits. Disclosures will also be required for those uncertain tax
positions where it is reasonably possible that the estimate of the tax benefit will change
significantly in the next 12 months. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2006. Upon adoption, as of the first quarter of 2007, FIN 48 will not have a material effect on
the Company’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and

In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, “Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial
Instruments—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140” (“SFAS 155”). This statement amends
SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” (“SFAS 133”), and SFAS
No. 140, “Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of
Liabilities” and resolves issues addressed in SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. D1, “Application of
Statement 133 to Beneficial Interest in Securitized Financial Assets”. This Statement: (a) permits
fair value remeasurement for any hybrid financial instrument (asset or liability) that contains an
embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation; (b) clarifies which interest-only
strips and principal-only strips are not subject to the requirements of SFAS 133; (c) establishes a
requirement to evaluate beneficial interests in securitized financial assets to identify interests
that are freestanding derivatives or that are hybrid financial instruments that contain an embedded
derivative requiring bifurcation; (d) clarifies that concentrations of credit risk in the form of
subordination are not embedded derivatives; and, (e) eliminates restrictions on a qualifying
special-purpose entity’s ability to hold passive derivative financial instruments that pertain to
beneficial interests that are or contain a derivative financial instrument. The standard also
requires presentation within the financial statements that identifies those hybrid financial
instruments for which the fair value election has been applied and information on the income
statement impact of the changes in fair value of those instruments. The Company is required to
apply SFAS 155 to all financial instruments acquired, issued or subject to a remeasurement event
beginning January 1, 2007. SFAS 155 did not have an effect on the Company’s consolidated financial
condition and results of operations upon adoption at January 1, 2007. However, the standard could
affect the future income recognition for securitized

F-10


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies (continued)

financial assets or issued liabilities because there may be more embedded derivatives
identified with changes in fair value recognized in net income.

Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs (“DAC”) in Connection with
Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts

In September 2005, the AICPA issued Statement of Position 05-1, “Accounting by Insurance
Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs (“DAC”) in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of
Insurance Contracts”, (“SOP 05-1”). SOP 05-1 provides guidance on accounting by insurance
enterprises for DAC on internal replacements of insurance and investment contracts. An internal
replacement is a modification in product benefits, features, rights or coverages that occurs by the
exchange of a contract for a new contract, or by amendment, endorsement, or rider to a contract, or
by the election of a feature or coverage within a contract. Modifications that result in a
replacement contract that is substantially changed from the replaced contract should be accounted
for as an extinguishment of the replaced contract. Unamortized DAC, unearned revenue liabilities
and deferred sales inducements from the replaced contract must be written-off. Modifications that
result in a contract that is substantially unchanged from the replaced contract should be accounted
for as a continuation of the replaced contract. SOP 05-1 is effective for internal replacements
occurring in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006, with earlier adoption encouraged.
Initial application of SOP 05-1 should be as of the beginning of the entity’s fiscal year. The
Company will adopt SOP 05-1 on January 1, 2007. The Company expects the cumulative effect upon
adoption of SOP 05-1 to be $50 to $65, after-tax, which will be recorded as a reduction in retained
earnings as of January 1, 2007.

Investments

The Hartford’s investments in fixed maturities, which include bonds, redeemable preferred stock and
commercial paper; and certain equity securities, which include common and non-redeemable preferred
stocks, are classified as “available-for-sale” and accordingly, are carried at fair value with the
after-tax difference from cost or amortized cost, as adjusted for the effect of deducting the life
and pension policyholders’ share of the immediate participation guaranteed contracts; and certain
life and annuity deferred policy acquisition costs and reserve adjustments, reflected in
stockholders’ equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”). The equity
investments associated with the variable annuity products offered in Japan are recorded at fair
value and are classified as “trading” with changes in fair value recorded in net investment income.
Policy loans are carried at outstanding balance. Mortgage loans on real estate are recorded at
the outstanding principal balance adjusted for amortization of premiums or discounts and net of
valuation allowances, if any. Other investments primarily consist of derivatives, and limited
partnership interests and proportionate share limited liability companies (collectively “limited
partnerships”). Limited partnerships are accounted for under the equity method and accordingly the
Company’s share of earnings are included in net investment income. Derivatives are carried at fair
value.

Valuation of Fixed Maturities

The fair value for fixed maturity securities is largely determined by one of three primary pricing
methods: independent third party pricing service market quotations, independent broker quotations
or pricing matrices, which use market data provided by external sources. With the exception of
short-term securities for which amortized cost is predominantly used to approximate fair value,
security pricing is applied using a hierarchy or “waterfall” approach whereby prices are first
sought from independent pricing services with the remaining unpriced securities submitted to
brokers for prices or lastly priced via a pricing matrix.

Prices from independent pricing services are often unavailable for securities that are rarely
traded or are traded only in privately negotiated transactions. As a result, certain of the
Company’s asset-backed (“ABS”) and commercial mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”) are priced via
broker quotations. A pricing matrix is used to price securities for which the Company is unable to
obtain either a price from an independent third party service or an independent broker quotation.
The pricing matrix begins with current determine the market price for the security. The credit
spreads, as assigned by a nationally recognized rating agency, incorporate the issuer’s credit
rating and a risk premium, if warranted, due to the issuer’s industry and the security’s time to
maturity. The issuer-specific yield adjustments, which can be positive or negative, are updated
twice annually, as of June 30 and December 31, by an independent third party source and are
intended to adjust security prices for issuer-specific factors. The matrix-priced securities at
December 31, 2006 and 2005, primarily consisted of non-144A private placements and have an average
duration of 5.1 and 5.0 years, respectively.

F-11


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies (continued)

The following table presents the fair value of fixed maturity securities by pricing source as
of December 31, 2006 and 2005.



Percentage

Percentage

of Total

of Total

Fair Value

Fair Value

Fair Value

Fair Value

Priced via independent market quotations

$

69,023

85.5

%

$

65,986

86.3

%

Priced via broker quotations

4,309

5.3

%

2,728

3.6

%

Priced via matrices

5,605

6.9

%

5,452

7.1

%

Priced via other methods


0.2

%


0.3

%

Short-term investments [1]

1,681

2.1

%

2,063

2.7

%

Total

$

80,755

100.0

%

$

76,440

100.0

%

[1]

Short-term investments are primarily valued at amortized cost, which approximates
fair value.

The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be
exchanged in a current transaction between knowledgeable, unrelated willing parties. As such, the
estimated fair value of a financial instrument may differ significantly from the amount that could
be realized if the security was sold immediately.

Other-Than-Temporary Impairments on Available-for-Sale Securities

One of the significant estimates inherent in the valuation of investments is the evaluation of
investments for other-than-temporary impairments. The evaluation of impairments is a quantitative
and qualitative process, which is subject to risks and uncertainties and is intended to determine
whether declines in the fair value of investments should be recognized in current period earnings.
The risks and uncertainties include changes in general economic conditions, the issuer’s financial
condition or near term recovery prospects and the effects of changes in interest rates. The
Company’s accounting policy requires that a decline in the value of a security below its cost or
amortized cost basis be assessed to determine if the decline is other-than-temporary. If the
security is deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired, a charge is recorded in net realized
capital losses equal to the difference between the fair value and cost or amortized cost basis of
the security. In addition, for securities expected to be sold, an other-than-temporary impairment
charge is recognized if the Company does not expect the fair value of a security to recover to cost
or amortized cost prior to the expected date of sale. The fair value of the other-than-temporarily
impaired investment becomes its new cost basis. The Company has a security monitoring process
overseen by a committee of investment and accounting professionals that identifies securities that,
due to certain characteristics, as described below, are subjected to an enhanced analysis on a
quarterly basis.

Securities not subject to EITF Issue No. 99-20, “Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on
Purchased Beneficial Interests and Beneficial Interests That Continued to Be Held by a Transferor
in Securitized Financial Assets” (“non-EITF Issue No. 99-20 securities”) that are in an unrealized
loss position, are reviewed at least quarterly to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment
is present based on certain quantitative and qualitative factors. The primary factors considered
in evaluating whether a decline in value for non-EITF Issue No. 99-20 securities is
other-than-temporary include: (a) the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has
been less than cost or amortized cost, (b) the financial condition, credit rating and near-term
prospects of the issuer, (c) whether the debtor is current on contractually obligated interest and
principal payments and (d) the intent and ability of the Company to retain the investment for a
period of time sufficient to allow for recovery.

Each quarter, during this analysis, the Company asserts its intent and ability to retain until
recovery those securities judged to be temporarily impaired. Once identified, these securities are
systematically restricted from trading unless approved by the committee. The committee will only
authorize the sale of these securities based on predefined criteria that relate to events that
could not have been foreseen. Examples of the criteria include, but are not limited to, the
deterioration in the issuer’s creditworthiness, a change in regulatory requirements or a major
business combination or major disposition.

For certain securitized financial assets with contractual cash flows including ABS, EITF Issue No.
99-20 requires the Company to periodically update its best estimate of cash flows over the life of
the security. If the fair value of a securitized financial asset is less than its cost or
amortized cost and there has been a decrease in the present value of the estimated cash flows since
the last revised estimate, considering both timing and amount, an other-than-temporary impairment
charge is recognized. The Company also considers its intent and ability to retain a temporarily
impaired security until recovery. Estimating future cash flows is a quantitative and qualitative
process that incorporates information received from third party sources along with certain internal
assumptions and judgments regarding the future performance of the underlying collateral. In
addition, projections of expected future cash flows may change based upon new information regarding
the performance of the underlying collateral.

F-12


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies (continued)

Mortgage Loan Impairments

Mortgage loans on real estate are considered to be impaired when management estimates that, based
upon current information and events, it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect
amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. For mortgage loans that are
determined to be impaired, a valuation allowance is established for the difference between the
carrying amount and the Company’s share of either (a) the present value of the expected future cash
flows discounted at the loan’s original effective interest rate, (b) the loan’s observable market
price or (c) the fair value of the collateral. Changes in valuation allowances are recorded in net
realized capital gains and losses.

Net Realized Capital Gains and Losses

Net realized capital gains and losses from investment sales, after deducting the life and pension
policyholders’ share for certain products, are reported as a component of revenues and are
determined on a specific identification basis. Net realized capital gains and losses also result
from fair value changes in derivatives contracts (both free-standing and embedded) that do not
qualify, or are not designated, as a hedge for accounting purposes, and the change in value of
derivatives in certain fair-value hedge relationships. Impairments are recognized as net realized
capital losses when investment losses in value are deemed other-than-temporary. Foreign currency
transaction remeasurements are also included in net realized capital gains and losses. Net
realized capital gains and losses on security transactions associated with the Company’s immediate
participation guaranteed contracts are recorded and offset by amounts owed to policyholders and
were less than $1 for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, and 2004. Under the terms of the
contracts, the net realized capital gains and losses will be credited to policyholders in future
years as they are entitled to receive them.

Net Investment Income

Interest income from fixed maturities and mortgage loans on real estate is recognized when earned
on the constant effective yield method based on estimated principal repayments, if applicable. The
calculation of amortization of premium and accretion of discount for fixed maturities also takes
into consideration call and maturity dates that produce the lowest yield. For high credit quality
securitized financial assets subject to prepayment risk, yields are recalculated and adjusted
periodically to reflect historical and/or estimated future principal repayments using the
retrospective method. For non-highly rated securitized financial assets any yield adjustments are
made using the prospective method. Prepayment fees on fixed maturities and mortgage loans are
recorded in net investment income when earned. For limited partnerships, the equity method of
accounting is used to recognize the Company’s share of earnings. For fixed maturities that have
had an other-than-temporary impairment loss, the Company amortizes the new cost basis to par or to
estimated future value over the remaining life of the security based on future estimated cash
flows.

Net investment income on equity securities held for trading includes dividend income and the
changes in market value of the securities associated with the variable annuity products sold in
Japan. The returns on these policyholder-directed investments inure to the benefit of the variable
annuity policyholders but the underlying funds do not meet the criteria for separate account
reporting as provided in SOP 03-1. Accordingly, these assets are reflected in the Company’s
general account and the returns credited to the policyholders are reflected in interest credited, a
component of benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses.

Derivative Instruments

Overview

The Company utilizes a variety of derivative instruments, including swaps, caps, floors, forwards,
futures and options through one of four Company-approved objectives: to hedge risk arising from
interest rate, equity market, price or currency exchange rate risk or volatility; to manage
liquidity; to control transaction costs; or to enter into replication transactions. For a further
discussion of derivative instruments, see the Derivative Instruments section of Note 4.

The Company’s derivative transactions are used in strategies permitted under the derivative use
plans required by the State of Connecticut, the State of Illinois and the State of New York
insurance departments.

Accounting and Financial Statement Presentation of Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities

Derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at fair value. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005,
approximately 84% and 81% of derivatives, respectively, based upon notional values, were priced via
valuation models which utilize market data, while the remaining 16% and 19% of derivatives,
respectively, were priced via broker quotations. These percentages exclude the guaranteed minimum
withdrawal benefit (“GMWB”) rider and the associated reinsurance contracts, which are discussed
below. The derivative

F-13


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies (continued)

contracts are reported as assets or liabilities in other investments and other liabilities,
respectively, in the consolidated balance sheets, excluding embedded derivatives and GMWB
reinsurance contracts. Embedded derivatives are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets with
the associated host instrument. GMWB reinsurance contract amounts are recorded in reinsurance
recoverables in the consolidated balance sheets.

On the date the derivative contract is entered into, the Company designates the derivative as (1) a
hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability (“fair-value” hedge), (2) a hedge of the
variability in cash flows of a forecasted transaction or of amounts to be received or paid related
to a recognized asset or liability (“cash-flow” hedge), (3) a foreign-currency fair value or
cash-flow hedge (“foreign-currency” hedge), (4) a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation
(“net investment” hedge) or (5) held for other investment and risk management purposes, which
primarily involve managing asset or liability related risks which do not qualify for hedge
accounting.

Fair-Value Hedges

Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a fair-value hedge,
along with the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to
the hedged risk, are recorded in current period earnings with any differences between the net
change in fair value of the derivative and the hedged item representing the hedge ineffectiveness.
Periodic cash flows and accruals of income/expense (“periodic derivative net coupon settlements”)
are recorded in the line item of the consolidated statements of operations in which the cash flows
of the hedged item are recorded.

Cash-Flow Hedges

Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a cash-flow hedge are
recorded in AOCI and are reclassified into earnings when the variability of the cash flow of the
hedged item impacts earnings. Gains and losses on derivative contracts that are reclassified from
AOCI to current period earnings are included in the line item in the consolidated statements of
operations in which the cash flows of the hedged item are recorded. Any hedge ineffectiveness is
recorded immediately in current period earnings as net realized capital gains and losses. Periodic
derivative net coupon settlements are recorded in the line item of the consolidated statements of
operations in which the cash flows of the hedged item are recorded.

Foreign-Currency Hedges

Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as foreign-currency hedges
are recorded in either current period earnings or AOCI, depending on whether the hedged transaction
is a fair-value hedge or a cash-flow hedge, respectively. Any hedge ineffectiveness is recorded
immediately in current period earnings as net realized capital gains and losses. Periodic
derivative net coupon settlements are recorded in the line item of the consolidated statements of
operations in which the cash flows of the hedged item are recorded.

Net Investment in a Foreign Operation Hedges

Changes in fair value of a derivative used as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation,
to the extent effective as a hedge, are recorded in the foreign currency translation adjustments
account within AOCI. Cumulative changes in fair value recorded in AOCI are reclassified into
earnings upon the sale or complete, or substantially complete, liquidation of the foreign entity.
Any hedge ineffectiveness is recorded immediately in current period earnings as net realized
capital gains and losses. Periodic derivative net coupon settlements are recorded in the line item
of the consolidated statements of operations in which the cash flows of the hedged item are
recorded.

Other Investment and Risk Management Activities

The Company’s other investment and risk management activities primarily relate to strategies used
to reduce economic risk or replicate permitted investments and do not receive hedge accounting
treatment. Changes in the fair value, including periodic derivative net coupon settlements, of
derivative instruments held for other investment and risk management purposes are reported in
current period earnings as net realized capital gains and losses.

Hedge Documentation and Effectiveness Testing

To qualify for hedge accounting treatment, a derivative must be highly effective in mitigating the
designated changes in value or cash flow of the hedged item. At hedge inception, the Company
formally documents all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its
risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction. The documentation
process includes linking derivatives that are designated as fair-value, cash-flow, foreign-currency
or net investment hedges to specific assets or liabilities on the balance sheet or to specific
forecasted transactions and defining the effectiveness and ineffectiveness testing methods to be
used. The Company also formally assesses, both at the hedge’s inception and ongoing on a quarterly
basis,

F-14


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies (continued)

whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions have been and are expected to
continue to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Hedge effectiveness is assessed using qualitative and quantitative methods. Qualitative methods
may include comparison of critical terms of the derivative to the hedged item. Quantitative
methods include regression or other statistical analysis of changes in fair value or cash flows
associated with the hedge relationship. Hedge ineffectiveness of the hedge relationships are
measured each reporting period using the “Change in Variable Cash Flows Method”, the “Change in
Fair Value Method”, the “Hypothetical Derivative Method”, or the “Dollar Offset Method”.

Discontinuance of Hedge Accounting

The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively when (1) it is determined that the
derivative is no longer highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of a
hedged item; (2) the derivative is dedesignated as a hedging instrument; or (3) the derivative
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised.

When hedge accounting is discontinued because it is determined that the derivative no longer
qualifies as an effective fair-value hedge, the derivative continues to be carried at fair value on
the balance sheet with changes in its fair value recognized in current period earnings.

When hedge accounting is discontinued because the Company becomes aware that it is not probable
that the forecasted transaction will occur, the derivative continues to be carried on the balance
sheet at its fair value, and gains and losses that were accumulated in AOCI are recognized
immediately in earnings.

In other situations in which hedge accounting is discontinued on a cash-flow hedge, including those
where the derivative is sold, terminated or exercised, amounts previously deferred in AOCI are
reclassified into earnings when earnings are impacted by the variability of the cash flow of the
hedged item.

Embedded Derivatives

The Company purchases and issues financial instruments and products that contain embedded
derivative instruments. When it is determined that (1) the embedded derivative possesses economic
characteristics that are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of the
host contract, and (2) a separate instrument with the same terms would qualify as a derivative
instrument, the embedded derivative is bifurcated from the host for measurement purposes. The
embedded derivative, which is reported with the host instrument in the consolidated balance sheets,
is carried at fair value with changes in fair value reported in net realized capital gains and
losses.

Credit Risk

The Company’s derivative counterparty exposure policy establishes market-based credit limits,
favors long-term financial stability and creditworthiness and typically requires credit
enhancement/credit risk reducing agreements. Credit risk is measured as the amount owed to the
Company based on current market conditions and potential payment obligations between the Company
and its counterparties. Credit exposures are generally quantified daily, netted by counterparty
for each legal entity of the Company, and collateral is pledged to and held by, or on behalf of,
the Company to the extent the current value of derivatives exceeds the exposure policy thresholds
which do not exceed $10. The Company also minimizes the credit risk in derivative instruments by
entering into transactions with high quality counterparties rated A1/A or better, which are
monitored by the Company’s internal compliance unit and reviewed frequently by senior management.
In addition, the compliance unit monitors counterparty credit exposure on a monthly basis to ensure
compliance with Company policies and statutory limitations. The Company also maintains a policy of
requiring that derivative contracts, other than exchange traded contracts, currency forward
contracts, and certain embedded derivatives, be governed by an International Swaps and Derivatives
Association Master Agreement which is structured by legal entity and by counterparty and permits
right of offset. To date, the Company has not incurred any losses on derivative instruments due to
counterparty nonperformance.

Product Derivatives and Risk Management

The Company offers certain variable annuity products with a guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit
(“GMWB”) rider. The GMWB represents an embedded derivative in the variable annuity contracts that
is required to be reported separately from the host variable annuity contract. It is carried at
fair value and reported in other policyholder funds. The fair value of the GMWB obligation is
calculated based on actuarial and capital market assumptions related to the projected cash flows,
including benefits and related contract charges, over the lives of the contracts, incorporating
expectations concerning policyholder behavior. Because of the dynamic and complex nature of these
cash flows, best estimate assumptions and stochastic techniques under a variety of market return
scenarios are used. Estimating these cash flows involves numerous estimates and subjective
judgments including those regarding expected market rates of return, market volatility,
correlations of market returns and discount rates. At each valuation date,

F-15


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies (continued)

the Company assumes expected returns based on risk-free rates as represented by the current
LIBOR forward curve rates; market volatility assumptions for each underlying index based on a blend
of observed market “implied volatility” data and annualized standard deviations of monthly returns
using the most recent 20 years of observed market performance; correlations of market returns
across underlying indices based on actual observed market returns and relationships over the ten
years preceding the valuation date; and current risk-free spot rates as represented by the current
LIBOR spot curve to determine the present value of expected future cash flows produced in the
stochastic projection process.

In valuing the embedded derivative, the Company attributes to the derivative a portion of the fees
collected from the contract holder equal to the present value of future GMWB claims (the
“Attributed Fees”). All changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative are recorded in net
realized capital gains and losses. The excess of fees collected from the contract holder for the
GMWB over the Attributed Fees are associated with the host variable annuity contract recorded in
fee income. Upon adoption of SFAS 157, the Company will revise many
of the assumptions used to value GMWB.

For contracts issued prior to July 2003, the Company has a reinsurance arrangement in place to
transfer its risk of loss due to GMWB. This arrangement is recognized as a derivative and carried
at fair value in reinsurance recoverables. Changes in the fair value of the reinsurance agreement
is recorded in net realized capital gains and losses. As of July 2003, the Company had
substantially exhausted all of its reinsurance capacity, with respect to contracts issued after
July 2003, and began hedging its exposure to the GMWB rider using a sophisticated program involving
interest rate futures, Standard and Poor’s (“S&P”) 500 and NASDAQ index put options and futures
contracts and Europe, Australasia and Far East (“EAFE”) Index swaps to hedge GMWB exposure to
international equity markets. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, net realized
capital gains and losses included the change in market value of the embedded derivative related to
the GMWB liability, the derivative reinsurance arrangement and the related derivative contracts
that were purchased as economic hedges, the net effect of which was a $26 loss, $46 loss and $8
gain, before deferred policy acquisition costs and tax effects, respectively.

A contract is ‘in the money’ if the contract holder’s GRB is greater than the account value. For
contracts that were ‘in the money’, the Company’s exposure as of December 31, 2006, was $8.
However, the only ways the contract holder can monetize the excess of the GRB over the account
value of the contract is upon death or if their account value is reduced to zero through a
combination of a series of withdrawals that do not exceed a specific percentage of the premiums
paid per year and market declines. If the account value is reduced to zero, the contract holder
will receive a period certain annuity equal to the remaining GRB. As
the amount of the excess of the GRB over the account value can fluctuate with equity market returns on a daily basis
the ultimate amount to be paid by the Company, if any, is uncertain and could be significantly more
or less than $8.

Separate Accounts

The Company maintains separate account assets and liabilities, which are reported at fair value.
Separate accounts include contracts, wherein the policyholder assumes the investment risk.
Separate account assets are segregated from other investments and investment income and gains and
losses accrue directly to the policyholder.

Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Present Value of Future Profits

Life

— Life policy acquisition costs include commissions and certain other expenses that vary with
and are primarily associated with acquiring business. Present value of future profits (“PVFP”) is
an intangible asset recorded upon applying purchase accounting in an acquisition of a life
insurance company. Deferred policy acquisition costs and the present value of future profits
intangible asset are amortized in the same way. Both are amortized over the estimated life of the
contracts acquired. Within the following discussion, deferred policy acquisition costs and the
present value of future profits intangible asset will be referred to as “DAC”. At December 31,
2006 and December 31, 2005, the carrying value of the Company’s Life DAC asset was $9.1 billion and
$8.6 billion, respectively. Of those amounts, $4.4 billion and $4.5 billion related to individual
variable annuities sold in the U.S., $1.4 billion and $1.2 billion related to individual variable
annuities sold in Japan and $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion related to universal life-type contracts
sold by Individual Life.

The Company amortizes DAC related to investment contracts and universal life-type contracts
(including individual variable annuities) using the retrospective deposit method. Under the
retrospective deposit method, acquisition costs are amortized in proportion to the present value of
estimated gross profits (“EGPs”). EGPs are also used to amortize other assets and liabilities on
the Company’s balance sheet, such as sales inducement assets and unearned revenue reserves.
Components of EGPs are used to determine reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits.
For most contracts, the Company evaluates EGPs over a 20 year horizon as estimated profits
emerging subsequent to year 20 are immaterial. The Company uses other measures for amortizing DAC,
such as gross costs (net of reinsurance), as a replacement for EGPs when EGPs are expected to be
negative for multiple years of the contract’s life. The Company also adjusts the DAC balance,
through other comprehensive income, by an amount that represents the amortization of DAC that would
have been required as a charge or credit to operations had unrealized gains and losses

F-16


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies (continued)

on investments been realized. Actual gross profits, in a given reporting period, that
vary from management’s initial estimates result in increases or decreases in the rate of
amortization, commonly referred to as a “true-up”, which are recorded in the current period. The
true-up recorded for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was an increase to
amortization of $41, $18 and $16, respectively.

Each year, the Company develops future EGPs for the products sold during that year. The EGPs for
products sold in a particular year are aggregated into cohorts. Future gross profits are projected
for the estimated lives of the contracts, and are, to a large extent, a function of future account
value projections for individual variable annuity products and to a lesser extent for variable
universal life products. The projection of future account values requires the use of certain
assumptions. The assumptions considered to be important in the projection of future account value,
and hence the EGPs, include separate account fund performance, which is impacted by separate
account fund mix, less fees assessed against the contract holder’s account balance, surrender and
lapse rates, interest margin, and mortality. The assumptions are developed as part of an annual
process and are dependent upon the Company’s current best estimates of future events. The Company’s
current aggregate separate account return assumption is approximately 8.0% (after fund fees, but
before mortality and expense charges) for U.S. products and 5.0% (after fund fees, but before
mortality and expense charges) in aggregate for all Japanese products, but varies from product to
product. The overall actual return generated by the separate account is dependent on several
factors, including the relative mix of the underlying sub-accounts among bond funds and equity
funds as well as equity sector weightings. The Company’s overall U.S. separate account fund
performance has been reasonably correlated to the overall performance of the S&P 500 Index (which
closed at 1,418 on December 29, 2006), although no assurance can be provided that this correlation
will continue in the future.

Estimating future gross profits is a complex process requiring considerable judgment and the
forecasting of events well into the future. Estimating future gross profits is important not only
for determining the amortization of DAC but also in the accounting and valuation of sales
inducement assets, unearned revenue reserves and guaranteed minimum death and income benefit
reserves. The estimation process, the underlying assumptions and the resulting EGPs, are evaluated
regularly.

During the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company refined its estimation process for DAC amortization
and completed a comprehensive study of assumptions. The Company plans to complete a comprehensive
assumption study and refine its estimate of future gross profits in the third quarter of 2007 and
at least annually thereafter.

Upon completion of an assumption study, the Company revises its assumptions to reflect its current
best estimate, thereby changing its estimate of projected account values and the related EGPs in
the DAC, sales inducement and unearned revenue reserve amortization models as well as the
guaranteed minimum death and income benefit reserving models. The cumulative balance of DAC as
well as sales inducement assets, unearned revenue reserves and guaranteed minimum death and income
benefit reserves are adjusted with an offsetting benefit or charge to income to reflect such
changes in the period of the revision, a process known as “unlocking”. An unlock that results in
an after-tax benefit generally occurs as a result of actual experience or future expectations being
favorable compared to previous estimates of account value growth and EGPs. An unlock that results
in an after-tax charge generally occurs as a result of actual experience or future expectations
being unfavorable compared to previous estimates of account value growth and EGPs.

In addition to when a comprehensive assumption study is completed, revisions to best estimate
assumptions used to estimate future gross profits are necessary when the EGPs in the Company’s
models fall outside of a reasonable range of EGPs. The Company performs a quantitative process
each quarter to determine the reasonable range of EGPs. This process involves the use of
internally developed models, which run a large number of stochastically determined scenarios of
separate account fund performance. Incorporated in each scenario are assumptions with respect to
lapse rates, mortality, and expenses, based on the Company’s most recent assumption study. These
scenarios are run for individual variable annuity business in the U.S. and independently for
individual variable annuity business in Japan and are used to calculate statistically significant
ranges of reasonable EGPs. The statistical ranges produced from the stochastic scenarios are
compared to the present value of EGPs used in the Company’s models. If EGPs used in the Company’s
models fall outside of the statistical ranges of reasonable EGPs, an “unlock” would be necessary. A
similar approach is used for variable universal life business.

F-17


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies (continued)

Unlock Results

As described above, during the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company completed a comprehensive study
of assumptions underlying EGPs, resulting in an “unlock”. The study covered all assumptions,
including mortality, lapses, expenses and separate account returns, in substantially all product
lines. The new best estimate assumptions were applied to the current in-force to project future
gross profits. The impact on the Company’s assets and liabilities as a result of the unlock during
the fourth quarter was as follows:

Death and

Unearned

Income

Sales

Segment

DAC and

Revenue

Benefit

Inducement

After-tax (charge) benefit

PVFP

Reserves

Reserves [1]

Assets

Total

Retail Products Group

$

(70

)

$


$

(10

)

$


$

(72

)

Retirement Plans


—

—

—


Individual Life

(49

)


—

—

(18

)

International — Japan Annuity


—


—


Life — Other

(46

)

—

—

—

(46

)

Corporate

(13

)

—

—

—

(13

)

Total

$

(132

)

$


$


$


$

(76

)

[1]

As a result of the unlock, death benefit reserves, in the Retail Products Group,
increased $294, offset by an increase of $279 in reinsurance recoverables.

An “unlock” only revises EGPs to reflect current best estimate assumptions. The Company must
also test the aggregate recoverability of the DAC asset by comparing the amounts deferred to the
present value of total EGPs. In addition, the Company routinely stress tests its DAC asset for
recoverability against severe declines in its separate account assets, which could occur if the
equity markets experienced a significant sell-off, as the majority of policyholders’ funds in the
separate accounts is invested in the equity market. As of December 31, 2006, the Company believed
U.S. individual and Japan individual variable annuity separate account assets could fall, through a
combination of negative market returns, lapses and mortality, by at
least 53% and 70%,
respectively, before portions of its DAC asset would be unrecoverable.

Property & Casualty

— The Property & Casualty operations also incur costs, including commissions,
premium taxes and certain underwriting and policy issuance costs, that vary with and are related
primarily to the acquisition of property and casualty insurance business. These costs are deferred
and amortized ratably over the period the related premiums are earned. Deferred acquisition costs
are reviewed to determine if they are recoverable from future income, and if not, are charged to
expense. Anticipated investment income is considered in the determination of the recoverability of
deferred policy acquisition costs. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, no
material amounts of deferred policy acquisition costs were charged to expense based on the
determination of recoverability.

Reserve for Future Policy Benefits and Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

Life

— Liabilities for the Company’s group life and disability contracts as well its individual
term life insurance policies include amounts for unpaid losses and future policy benefits.
Liabilities for unpaid losses include estimates of amounts to fully settle known reported claims as
well as claims related to insured events that the Company estimates have been incurred but have not
yet been reported. Liabilities for future policy benefits are calculated by the net level premium
method using interest, withdrawal and mortality assumptions appropriate at the time the policies
were issued. The methods used in determining the liability for unpaid losses and future policy
benefits are standard actuarial methods recognized by the American Academy of Actuaries. For the
tabular reserves, discount rates are based on the Company’s earned investment yield and the
morbidity/mortality tables used are standard industry tables modified to reflect the Company’s
actual experience when appropriate. In particular, for the Company’s group disability known claim
reserves, the morbidity table for the early durations of claim is based exclusively on the
Company’s experience, incorporating factors such as gender, elimination period and diagnosis.
These reserves are computed such that they are expected to meet the Company’s future policy
obligations. Future policy benefits are computed at amounts that, with additions from estimated
premiums to be received and with interest on such reserves compounded annually at certain assumed
rates, are expected to be sufficient to meet the Company’s policy obligations at their maturities
or in the event of an insured’s death. Changes in or deviations from the assumptions used for
mortality, morbidity, expected future premiums and interest can significantly affect the Company’s
reserve levels and related future operations and, as such, provisions for adverse deviation are
built into the long-tailed liability assumptions.

Certain contracts classified as universal life-type may also include additional death or other
insurance benefit features, such as guaranteed minimum death or income benefits offered with
variable annuity contracts or no lapse guarantees offered with universal life insurance contracts.
An additional liability is established for these benefits by estimating the expected present value
of the

F-18


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies (continued)

benefits in excess of the projected account value in proportion to the present value of total
expected assessments. Excess benefits is accrued as a liability as actual assessments are
recorded. Determination of the expected value of excess benefits and assessments are based on a
range of scenarios and assumptions including those related to market rates of return and
volatility, contract surrender rates and mortality experience. Revisions to assumptions are made
consistent with the Company’s process for a DAC unlock. See Life Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs
and Present value of Future Benefits in the Note.

Property & Casualty

— The Hartford establishes property and casualty reserves to provide for the
estimated costs of paying claims under insurance policies written by the Company. These reserves
include estimates for both claims that have been reported and those that have been incurred but not
reported, and include estimates of all losses and loss adjustment expenses associated with
processing and settling these claims. Estimating the ultimate cost of future losses and loss
adjustment expenses is an uncertain and complex process. This estimation process is based
significantly on the assumption that past developments are an appropriate predictor of future
events, and involves a variety of actuarial techniques that analyze experience, trends and other
relevant factors. The uncertainties involved with the reserving process have become increasingly
difficult due to a number of complex factors including social and economic trends and changes in
the concepts of legal liability and damage awards. Accordingly, final claim settlements may vary
from the present estimates, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the
future.

The Hartford regularly reviews the adequacy of its estimated losses and loss adjustment expense
reserves by line of business within the various operating segments. Adjustments to previously
established reserves are reflected in the operating results of the period in which the adjustment
is determined to be necessary. Such adjustments could possibly be significant, reflecting any
variety of new and adverse or favorable trends.

Most of the Company’s property and casualty reserves are not discounted. However, certain
liabilities for unpaid claims for permanently disabled claimants have been discounted to present
value using an average interest rate of 5.6% in 2006 and 2005, respectively. As of December 31,
2006 and 2005, such discounted reserves totaled $707 and $680, respectively (net of discounts of
$510, and $505, respectively). In addition, certain structured settlement contracts, that fund
loss run-offs for unrelated parties having payment patterns that are fixed and determinable, have
been discounted to present value using an average interest rate of 5.5%. At December 31, 2006 and
2005, such discounted reserves totaled $273 and $264, respectively (net of discounts of $95 and
$103, respectively). Accretion of these discounts did not have a material effect on net income
during 2006 or 2005.

Other Policyholder Funds and Benefits Payable

The Company has classified its fixed and variable annuities, 401(k), certain governmental
annuities, private placement life insurance (“PPLI”), variable universal life insurance, universal
life insurance and interest sensitive whole life insurance as universal life-type contracts. The
liability for universal life-type contracts is equal to the balance that accrues to the benefit of
the policyholders as of the financial statement date (commonly referred to as the account value),
including credited interest, amounts that have been assessed to compensate the Company for services
to be performed over future periods, and any amounts previously assessed against policyholders that
are refundable on termination of the contract.

The Company has classified its institutional and governmental products, without life contingencies,
including funding agreements, certain structured settlements and guaranteed investment contracts,
as investment contracts. The liability for investment contracts is equal to the balance that
accrues to the benefit of the contract holder as of the financial statement date, which includes
the accumulation of deposits plus credited interest, less withdrawals and amounts assessed through
the financial statement date. Contract holder funds include funding agreements held by Variable
Interest Entities issuing medium-term notes.

Revenue Recognition

Life

— For investment and universal life-type contracts, the amounts collected from policyholders
are considered deposits and are not included in revenue. Fee income for universal life-type
contracts consists of policy charges for policy administration, cost of insurance charges and
surrender charges assessed against policyholders’ account balances and are recognized in the period
in which services are provided. For the Company’s traditional life and group disability products
premiums are recognized as revenue when due from policyholders.

Property & Casualty

— Property and casualty insurance premiums are earned on a pro rata basis over
the lives of the policies and include accruals for ultimate premium revenue anticipated under
auditable and retrospectively rated policies. Unearned premiums represent the premiums applicable
to the unexpired terms of policies in force. An estimated allowance for doubtful accounts is
recorded on the basis of periodic evaluations of balances due from insurers, management’s
experience and current economic conditions. The allowance for doubtful accounts included in
premiums receivable and agents’ balances in the consolidated balance sheets was $114 and $120 as of
December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Other revenue consists primarily of revenues associated
with the Company’s servicing businesses.

F-19


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies (continued)

Foreign Currency Translation

Foreign currency translation gains and losses are reflected in stockholders’ equity as a component
of accumulated other comprehensive income. The Company’s foreign subsidiaries’ balance sheet
accounts are translated at the exchange rates in effect at each year end and income statement
accounts are translated at the average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. The national
currencies of the international operations are generally their functional currencies.

Dividends to Policyholders

Policyholder dividends are paid to certain life and property and casualty policies, which are
referred to as participating policies. Such dividends are accrued using an estimate of the amount
to be paid based on underlying contractual obligations under policies and applicable state laws.

Life

— Participating life insurance in force accounted for 3%, 3% and 5% as of December 31, 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively, of total life insurance in force. Dividends to policyholders were
$22, $37 and $29 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. There were no
additional amounts of income allocated to participating policyholders. If limitations exist on the
amount of net income from participating life insurance contracts that may be distributed to
stockholders, the policyholder’s share of net income on those contracts that cannot be distributed
is excluded from stockholders’ equity by a charge to operations and a credit to a liability.

Property & Casualty

— Net written premiums for participating property and casualty insurance
policies represented 8%, 10% and 8% of total net written premiums for the years ended December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Dividends to policyholders were $6, $11 and $12 for the years
ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Mutual Funds

The Company maintains a retail mutual fund operation, whereby the Company, through wholly-owned
subsidiaries, provides investment management and administrative services to The Hartford Mutual
Funds, Inc. and The Hartford Mutual Funds II, Inc (“The Hartford mutual funds”), families of 52
mutual funds and 1 closed end fund. The Company charges fees to the shareholders of the mutual
funds, which are recorded as revenue by the Company. Investors can purchase “shares” in the mutual
funds, all of which are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), in
accordance with the Investment Company Act of 1940.

The mutual funds are owned by the shareholders of those funds and not by the Company. As such, the
mutual fund assets and liabilities and related investment returns are not reflected in the
Company’s consolidated financial statements since they are not assets, liabilities and operations
of the Company.

Reinsurance

Through both facultative and treaty reinsurance agreements, the Company cedes a share of the risks
it has underwritten to other insurance companies. Assumed reinsurance refers to the Company’s
acceptance of certain insurance risks that other insurance companies have underwritten.

Reinsurance accounting is followed for ceded and assumed transactions when the risk transfer
provisions of SFAS 113, “Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance of Short-Duration and
Long-Duration Contracts,” have been met. To meet risk transfer requirements, a reinsurance
contract must include insurance risk, consisting of both underwriting and timing risk, and a
reasonable possibility of a significant loss to the reinsurer.

Earned premiums and incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses reflect the net effects of ceded
and assumed reinsurance transactions. Included in other assets are prepaid reinsurance premiums,
which represent the portion of premiums ceded to reinsurers applicable to the unexpired terms of
the reinsurance contracts. Reinsurance recoverables include balances due from reinsurance
companies for paid and unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and are presented net of an
allowance for uncollectible reinsurance. The allowance for uncollectible reinsurance was $412 and
$413 as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Income Taxes

The Company recognizes taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred taxes for the
tax consequences of differences between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and
liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to
apply to taxable income in the years the temporary differences are expected to reverse.

F-20


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies (continued)

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment is carried at cost net, of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is based
on the estimated useful lives of the various classes of property and equipment and is determined
principally on the straight-line method. Accumulated depreciation was $1.2 billion as of December
31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Depreciation expense was $193, $206 and $156 for the years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

2. Earnings per Share

Earnings per share amounts have been computed in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No.
128, “Earnings per Share”. The following tables present a reconciliation of net income and shares used in calculating
basic earnings per share to those used in calculating diluted earnings per share.

(In millions, except for per share data)

Net

Per Share


Income

Shares

Amount

Basic Earnings per Share

Net income available to common shareholders

$

2,745

308.8

$

8.89

Diluted Earnings per Share

Stock compensation plans

—

3.0

Equity Units

—

4.1

Net income available to common shareholders plus assumed conversions

$

2,745

315.9

$

8.69


Basic Earnings per share

Net income available to common shareholders

$

2,274

298.0

$

7.63

Diluted Earnings per Share

Stock compensation plans

—

3.3

Equity Units

—

4.3

Net income available to common shareholders plus assumed conversions

$

2,274

305.6

$

7.44


Basic Earnings per Share

Net income available to common shareholders

$

2,115

292.3

$

7.24

Diluted Earnings per Share

Stock compensation plans

—

2.8

Equity Units

—

1.9

Net income available to common shareholders plus assumed conversions

$

2,115

297.0

$

7.12

Basic earnings per share is computed based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding
during the year. Diluted earnings per share include the dilutive effect of stock compensation
plans and the Company’s equity units, if any, using the treasury stock method. Under the treasury
stock method for stock compensation plans, shares are assumed to be issued and then reduced for the
number of shares repurchaseable with theoretical proceeds at the average market price for the
period. Contingently issuable shares are included for the number of shares issuable assuming the
end of the reporting period was the end of the contingency period, if dilutive.

Theoretical proceeds include option exercise price payments, unamortized stock compensation expense
and tax benefits realized in excess of the tax benefit recognized in net income. The difference
between the number of shares assumed issued and number of shares purchased represents the dilutive
shares. Under the treasury stock method for the equity units, the number of shares of common stock
used in calculating diluted earnings per share is increased by the excess, if any, of the number of
shares issuable upon settlement of the purchase contracts, over the number of shares that could be
purchased by The Hartford in the market using the proceeds received upon settlement. The number of
issuable shares is based on the average market price for the last 20 trading days of the period.
The number of shares purchased is based on the average market price during the entire period.

Upon exercise of outstanding options or vesting of other stock compensation plan awards, the
additional shares issued and outstanding are included in the calculation of the Company’s weighted
average shares from the date of exercise or vesting. Similarly, upon settlement of the purchase
contracts associated with the Company’s equity units, the associated common shares are added to the
Company’s issued and outstanding shares. During the 20 trading day period ending on the third
trading day prior to August 16, 2006, The Hartford’s common stock price exceeded $56.875 per share.
As a result, on August 16, 2006, the 7% equity unit purchase

F-21


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

2. Earnings per Share (continued)

contracts issued in 2003 were settled, resulting in the issuance of approximately 12.1 million
common shares that were added to the Company’s issued and
outstanding shares and were included in the
calculation of the Company’s weighted average shares for the period the shares were outstanding.
Additionally, in connection with the settlement on November 16, 2006 of the 6% equity units issued
in 2002, The Hartford’s common stock price exceeded $57.645 per share during the 20 trading day
period ending on the third trading day period prior to November 16, 2006, resulting in the issuance
of approximately 5.7 million common shares that were added to the Company’s issued and outstanding
shares and were included in the calculation of the Company’s weighted average shares for the period
the shares were outstanding. For further discussion of the Company’s equity units offerings, see
Note 14.

3. Segment Information

The Hartford is organized into two major operations: Life and Property & Casualty, each
containing reporting segments. Within the Life and Property & Casualty operations, The Hartford
conducts business principally in ten operating segments. Additionally, Corporate primarily
includes the Company’s debt financing and related interest expense, as well as certain capital
raising activities and purchase accounting adjustments.

Life

Life’s business is conducted by Hartford Life, Inc. (“Hartford Life” or “Life”), an indirect
subsidiary of The Hartford, headquartered in Simsbury, Connecticut, and is a leading financial
services and insurance organization. Life includes six reportable operating segments: Retail
Products Group (“Retail”), Retirement Plans, Institutional Solutions Group (“Institutional”),
Individual Life, Group Benefits and International.

Retail offers individual variable and fixed market value adjusted (“MVA”) annuities, retail mutual
funds, 529 college savings plans, Canadian and offshore investment products.

Retirement Plans provides products and services to corporations pursuant to Section 401(k) and
products and services to municipalities and not-for-profit organizations under Section 457 and
403(b) of the IRS code. Retirement also offers mutual funds to institutional investors.

Institutional primarily offers institutional liability products, including stable value products,
structured settlements and institutional annuities (primarily terminal funding cases), as well as
variable Private Placement Life Insurance (“PPLI”) owned by corporations and high net worth
individuals. Within stable value, Institutional has an investor note program that offers both
institutional and retail investor notes. Institutional and Retail notes are sold as funding
agreement backed notes through trusts and may also be issued directly from the company to
investors. Institutional also offers mutual funds to institutional investors. Furthermore,
Institutional offers additional individual products including structured settlements, single
premium immediate annuities and longevity assurance.

Individual Life sells a variety of life insurance products, including variable universal life,
universal life, interest sensitive whole life and term life.

Group Benefits provides employers, associations, affinity groups and financial institutions with
group life, accident and disability coverage, along with other products and services, including
voluntary benefits, group retiree health, and medical stop loss.

International, which has operations located in Japan, Brazil, Ireland and the United Kingdom,
provides investments, retirement savings and other insurance and savings products to individuals
and groups outside the United States and Canada.

Life charges direct operating expenses to the appropriate segment and allocates the majority of
indirect expenses to the segments based on an intercompany expense arrangement. Intersegment
revenues primarily occur between Life’s Other category and the operating segments. These amounts
primarily include interest income on allocated surplus, interest charges on excess separate account
surplus, the allocation of certain net realized capital gains and losses and the allocation of
credit risk charges.

The accounting policies of the reportable operating segments are the same as those described in the
summary of significant accounting policies in Note 1. Life evaluates performance of its segments
based on revenues, net income and the segment’s return on allocated capital. Each operating
segment is allocated corporate surplus as needed to support its business. Portfolio management is
a corporate function and net realized capital gains and losses on invested assets are recognized in
Life’s Other category. Net realized capital gains and losses generated from credit related events,
other than net periodic coupon settlements on credit derivatives, are retained by Corporate.
However, in exchange for retaining credit related losses, the Other category charges each operating
segment a “credit-risk” fee through realized capital gains and losses.

The “credit-risk” fee covers fixed income assets included in each operating segment’s general
account. The “credit-risk” fee is based upon historical default rates in the corporate bond market,
the Company’s actual default experience and estimates of future losses.

F-22


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

3. Segment Information (continued)

The positive (negative) impact on realized gains and losses of the segments for allocated
interest rate related realized gains and losses and the credit-risk fees were as follows:




Retail

Realized gains (losses)

$


$


$


Credit risk fees

(26

)

(26

)

(22

)

Retirement Plans

Realized gains (losses)




Credit risk fees

(9

)

(8

)

(8

)

Institutional

Realized gains (losses)




Credit risk fees

(23

)

(19

)

(17

)

Individual Life

Realized gains (losses)




Credit risk fees

(7

)

(6

)

(6

)

Group Benefits

Realized gains (losses)




Credit risk fees

(9

)

(9

)

(9

)

International

Realized gains (losses)


—

—

Credit risk fees

(2

)

—

—

Other

Realized gains (losses)

(74

)

(74

)

(59

)

Credit risk fees




Total

$

—

$

—

$

—

Property & Casualty

Property & Casualty is organized into four reportable operating segments: the underwriting segments
of Business Insurance, Personal Lines, and Specialty Commercial (collectively “Ongoing
Operations”); and the Other Operations segment.

Business Insurance provides standard commercial insurance coverage to small commercial and middle
market commercial businesses primarily throughout the United States. This segment offers workers’
compensation, property, automobile, liability, umbrella and marine coverages. Commercial risk
management products and services are also provided.

Personal Lines provides automobile, homeowners’ and home-based business coverages to the members of
AARP through a direct marketing operation and to individuals who prefer local agent involvement
through a network of independent agents in the standard personal lines market. Up until the sale
of the business on November 30, 2006, the Company also sold non-standard auto insurance through the
Company’s Omni Insurance Group, Inc. (“Omni”) subsidiary (refer to Note 20 for further discussion).
Personal Lines also operates a member contact center for health insurance products offered through
AARP’s Health Care Options. AARP accounts for earned premiums of $2.5 billion, $2.3 billion and
$2.1 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, which represented 24%, 23% and 23% of total
Property & Casualty earned premiums in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

The Specialty Commercial segment offers a variety of customized insurance products and risk
management services. Specialty Commercial provides standard commercial insurance products
including workers’ compensation, automobile and liability coverages to large-sized companies.
Specialty Commercial also provides professional liability, fidelity, surety, specialty casualty and
livestock coverages, core property and excess and surplus lines coverages not normally written by
standard lines insurers, and insurance products and services to captive insurance companies, pools
and self-insurance groups. In addition, Specialty Commercial provides third party administrator
services for claims Administration, integrated benefits, loss control and performance measurement
through Specialty Risk Services, a subsidiary of the Company.

The Other Operations segment consists of certain property and casualty insurance operations of The
Hartford which have discontinued writing new business and includes substantially all of the
Company’s asbestos and environmental exposures.

Through inter-segment arrangements, Specialty Commercial reimburses Business Insurance and Personal
Lines for certain losses, including, among other coverages, losses incurred from uncollectible
reinsurance. In addition, the Company retains a portion of the

F-23


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

3. Segment Information (continued)

risks ceded under the Company’s principal catastrophe reinsurance program and other
reinsurance programs and the financial results of the Company’s retention are recorded in the
Specialty Commercial segment. Apart from the Company’s retention, the amount of premiums ceded to
third party reinsurers under the principal catastrophe reinsurance program and other reinsurance
programs are allocated to the operating segments based on the risks written by each operating
segment that are subject to the programs.

Earned premiums assumed (ceded) under the inter-segment arrangements and retention were as follows:

Net assumed (ceded) earned premiums under inter-segment

For the years ended December 31,

arrangements
and retention




Business Insurance

$

(73

)

$

(78

)

$

(34

)

Personal Lines

(21

)

(25

)

(21

)

Specialty Commercial




Total

$

—

$

—

$

—

Financial Measures and Other Segment Information

The measure of profit or loss used by The Hartford’s management in evaluating the performance of
its Life segments is net income. Net income is the measure of profit or loss used in evaluating
the performance of Ongoing Operations and the Other Operations segment. Within Ongoing Operations,
the underwriting segments of Business Insurance, Personal Lines and Specialty Commercial are
evaluated by The Hartford’s management primarily based upon underwriting results. Underwriting
results represent premiums earned less incurred losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting
expenses. The sum of underwriting results, net investment income, net realized capital gains and
losses, other expenses, and related income taxes is net income (loss).

Certain transactions between segments occur during the year that primarily relate to tax
settlements, insurance coverage, expense reimbursements, services provided, security transfers and
capital contributions. In addition, certain reinsurance stop loss arrangements exist between the
segments which specify that one segment will reimburse another for losses incurred in excess of a
predetermined limit. Also, one segment may purchase group annuity contracts from another to fund
pension costs and annuities to settle casualty claims. In addition, certain intersegment
transactions occur in Life. These transactions include interest income on allocated surplus and
the allocation of certain net realized capital gains and losses through net investment income
utilizing the duration of the segment’s investment portfolios. Consolidated Life net investment
income and net realized capital gains and losses are unaffected by such transactions.

The following tables present revenues and net income (loss). Underwriting results are
presented for the Business Insurance, Personal Lines and Specialty Commercial segments, while net
income is presented for each of Life’s reportable segments, total Property & Casualty Ongoing
Operations, Property & Casualty Other Operations and Corporate.

F-24


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

3. Segment Information (continued)

Revenues by Product Line

For the years ended December 31,

Revenues




Life

Earned premiums, fees, and other considerations

Retail

Individual annuity

$

1,959

$

1,780

$

1,618

Retail mutual funds




Other




Total Retail

2,611

2,273

2,024

Retirement Plans

401(k)




Governmental




Total Retirement Plans




Institutional

Institutional




PPLI




Total Institutional




Individual Life

Total Individual Life




Group Benefits

Group disability

1,850

1,749

1,602

Group life

1,830

1,643

1,655

Other




Total Group Benefits

4,150

3,810

3,652

International

Total International




Other




Total Life premiums, fees, and other considerations

9,316

8,203

7,536

Net investment income

Securities available-for-sale and other

3,184

2,998

2,876

Equity securities held for trading

1,824

3,847


Net investment income

5,008

6,845

3,675

Net realized capital gains (losses)

(260

)

(25

)


Total Life

14,064

15,023

11,375

Property & Casualty

Ongoing Operations

Earned premiums

Business Insurance

Workers’ Compensation

2,001

1,791

1,512

Property

1,427

1,348

1,235

Automobile




Liability




Other




Total Business Insurance

5,118

4,785

4,299

Personal Lines

Automobile

2,792

2,728

2,622

Homeowners




Total Personal Lines

3,760

3,610

3,445

Specialty Commercial

Workers’ Compensation




Property




Automobile




Liability




Fidelity and surety




Professional Liability




Other




Total Specialty Commercial

1,550

1,757

1,726

Total Ongoing Operations

10,428

10,152

9,470

Other Operations




Total earned premiums

10,433

10,156

9,494

Servicing revenue




Net investment income

1,486

1,365

1,248

Net realized capital gains




Total Property & Casualty

12,401

12,028

11,311

Corporate




Total revenues

$

26,500

$

27,083

$

22,708

F-25


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

3. Segment Information (continued)

For the years ended December 31,

Net Income (Loss)




Life

Retail

$


$


$


Retirement Plans




Institutional




Individual Life




Group Benefits




International




Other [1] [2]

(114

)

(115

)


Total Life

1,441

1,204

1,382

Property & Casualty

Ongoing Operations

Underwriting Results

Business Insurance




Personal Lines




Specialty Commercial


(165

)

(53

)

Total Ongoing Operations underwriting results

1,111



Net servicing and other income [3]




Net investment income

1,225

1,082


Net realized capital gains (losses)

(17

)



Other expenses

(222

)

(202

)

(198

)

Income tax expense [1]

(596

)

(474

)

(335

)

Ongoing Operations

1,554

1,165


Other Operations

(35

)


(45

)

Total Property & Casualty

1,519

1,236


Corporate

(215

)

(166

)

(177

)

Net income

$

2,745

$

2,274

$

2,115

[1]

For the year ended December 31, 2004 Life includes a $190 tax benefit recorded in its Other category, and Property &
Casualty includes a $26 tax benefit, which relate to an agreement with the IRS on the resolution of matters pertaining to tax years
prior to 2004. For further discussion of this tax benefit, see Note 12.

[2]

Amount for the year ended December 31, 2005, reflects an after-tax charge of $102 to reserve for
investigations related to market timing by the SEC and New York Attorney General’s Office, directed
brokerage by the SEC and single premium group annuities by the New York Attorney General’s Office and the
Connecticut Attorney General’s Office, as discussed in Note 12.

[3]

Amount is net of expenses related to service business.

Amortization of deferred policy
acquisition costs and present value of

For the years ended December 31,

future
profits




Life

Retail

$


$


$


Retirement Plans




Institutional




Individual Life




Group Benefits




International




Other




Total Life

1,452

1,172


Property & Casualty

Ongoing Operations

Business Insurance

1,184

1,138

1,058

Personal Lines




Specialty Commercial




Total Ongoing Operations

2,106

2,000

1,845

Other Operations

—

(3

)


Total Property & Casualty

2,106

1,997

1,850

Total amortization of
deferred policy acquisition
costs and present value of
future profits

$

3,558

$

3,169

$

2,843

F-26


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

3. Segment Information (continued)

For the years ended December 31,

Income tax expense




Life

Retail

$


$


$


Retirement Plans




Institutional




Individual Life




Group Benefits




International




Other [1]

(59

)

(51

)

(117

)

Total Life




Property & Casualty

Ongoing Operations [1]




Other Operations

(45

)


(60

)

Total Property & Casualty




Corporate

(117

)

(89

)

(92

)

Total income tax expense

$


$


$


[1]

For the year ended December 31, 2004 Life includes a $190 tax benefit recorded in its
Other category, and Property & Casualty includes a $26 tax benefit, which relate to an
agreement with the IRS on the resolution of matters pertaining to tax years prior to 2004.
For further discussion of this tax benefit, see Note 12.

Geographical Segment Information

For the years ended December 31,

Revenues




North America

$

23,840

$

22,349

$

21,328

Other

2,660

4,734

1,380

Total revenues

$

26,500

$

27,083

$

22,708

As of December 31,

Assets



Life

Retail

$

130,138

$

120,438

Retirement Plans

24,394

20,064

Institutional

66,383

48,825

Individual Life

14,306

12,950

Group Benefits

9,056

8,438

International

33,890

27,822

Other

5,581

5,283

Total Life

283,748

243,820

Property & Casualty

Ongoing Operations

34,167

31,780

Other Operations

6,852

8,502

Total Property & Casualty

41,019

40,282

Corporate

1,943

1,455

Total Assets

$

326,710

$

285,557

F-27


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

4. Investments and Derivative Instruments

For the years ended December 31,

Components of Net Investment Income




Fixed maturities

$

4,266

$

3,952

$

3,689

Equity securities held for trading

1,824

3,847


Policy loans




Mortgage loans on real estate




Other investments




Gross investment income

6,602

8,294

4,998

Less: Investment expenses




Net investment income

$

6,515

$

8,231

$

4,943

Components of Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses)

Fixed maturities

$

(113

)

$


$


Equity securities

(11

)



Foreign currency transaction remeasurements



(7

)

Derivatives and other [1]

(144

)

(243

)

(2

)

Net realized capital gains (losses)

$

(251

)

$


$


[1]

Primarily consists of changes in fair value on non-qualifying derivatives, changes in fair
value of certain derivatives in fair value hedge relationships and hedge ineffectiveness on
qualifying derivative instruments.

Components of Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on

Available-for-Sale
Securities

Fixed maturities

$

1,466

$

1,674

$

3,741

Equity securities




Net unrealized gains credited to policyholders

(4

)

(9

)

(20

)

Net unrealized gains

1,666

1,796

3,811

Deferred income taxes



1,649

Net unrealized gains, net of tax — end of year

1,058


2,162

Net unrealized gains, net of tax — beginning of year


2,162

1,764

Change in unrealized gains (losses) on
available-for-sale securities

$


$

(1,193

)

$


The change in net unrealized gain on equity securities classified as trading is included in net
investment income during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, was $1.3 billion, $3.6
billion and $710, respectively, substantially all of which have corresponding amounts credited to
policyholders. This amount was not included in the gross unrealized gains (losses) in the table
above.

F-28


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

4. Investments and Derivative Instruments (continued)

Components of Fixed Maturity Investments

As of December 31, 2006

As of December 31, 2005

Gross

Gross

Gross

Gross

Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Fair

Amortized

Unrealized

Unrealized

Fair

Cost

Gains

Losses

Value

Cost

Gains

Losses

Value

Bonds and Notes

ABS

$

7,924

$


$

(53

)

$

7,925

$

7,907

$


$

(89

)

$

7,878

Collateralized mortgage
obligations (“CMOs”)

Agency backed

1,184


(8

)

1,193



(6

)


Non-agency backed


—

(1

)



—

—


CMBS

Agency backed



(1

)




—


Non-agency backed

15,823


(144

)

15,899

12,860


(162

)

12,931

Corporate

35,069

1,193

(371

)

35,891

33,019

1,395

(396

)

34,018

Government/Government agencies

Foreign

1,213


(6

)

1,294

1,378


(7

)

1,467

United States



(7

)




(6

)


Mortgage-backed securities
(“MBS”) —agency backed

2,742


(45

)

2,702

3,914


(60

)

3,861

States, municipalities and
political subdivisions

11,897


(27

)

12,406

11,641


(24

)

12,218

Redeemable preferred stock


—

—




—


Short-term investments

1,681

—

—

1,681

2,063

—

—

2,063

Total fixed maturities

$

79,289

$

2,129

$

(663

)

$

80,755

$

74,766

$

2,424

$

(750

)

$

76,440

The amortized cost and estimated fair value of fixed maturity investments at December 31, 2006 by
contractual maturity year are shown below.

Maturity

Amortized Cost

Fair Value

One year or less

$

3,220

$

3,276

Over one year through five years

12,368

12,728

Over five years through ten years

13,382

13,570

Over ten years

38,353

39,246

Subtotal

67,323

68,820

Mortgage- and asset-backed securities

11,966

11,935

Total

$

79,289

$

80,755

Estimated maturities may differ from contractual maturities due to call or prepayment provisions
because of the potential for prepayment on mortgage- and asset-backed securities; they are not
categorized by contractual maturity. The commercial mortgage-backed securities are categorized by
contractual maturity because they generally are not subject to prepayment risk.

Sales of Fixed Maturity and Available-for-Sale Equity Security Investments

For the years ended December 31,




Sale of Fixed Maturities

Sale proceeds

$

32,307

$

25,470

$

21,339

Gross gains




Gross losses

(407

)

(364

)

(202

)

Sale of Available-for-Sale Equity Securities

Sale proceeds

$


$


$


Gross gains




Gross losses

(14

)

—

(6

)

F-29


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

4. Investments and Derivative Instruments (continued)

Concentration of Credit Risk

The Company aims to maintain a diversified investment portfolio including issuer, sector and
geographic stratification, where applicable, and has established certain exposure limits,
diversification standards and review procedures to mitigate credit risk.

The Company is not exposed to any concentration of credit risk of a single issuer greater than 10%
of the Company’s stockholders’ equity other than U.S. government and certain U.S. government
agencies. Other than U.S. government and U.S. government agencies, the Company’s largest three
exposures by issuer as of December 31, 2006 were the State of California, General Electric Company
and UBS AG and as of December 31, 2005 were the State of California, AT&T Inc. and the State of
Massachusetts, which each comprise less than 0.5% of total invested assets.

The Company’s largest three exposures by industry sector, as of both December 31, 2006 and 2005,
were financial services, utilities, and technology and communications which comprised approximately
9%, 4% and 4%, respectively, of total invested assets.

The Company’s investments in states, municipalities and political subdivisions are geographically
dispersed throughout the United States. The largest concentrations, as of December 31, 2006, were
in California, New York and Illinois and as of December 31, 2005, were in California, New York and
Texas which each comprise 2% or less of total invested assets, respectively.

Security Unrealized Loss Aging

The Company has a security monitoring process overseen by a committee of investment and accounting
professionals that, on a quarterly basis, identifies securities in an unrealized loss position that
could potentially be other-than-temporarily impaired. For further discussion regarding the
Company’s other-than-temporary impairment policy, see the Investments section of Note 1. Due to
the issuers’ continued satisfaction of the securities’ obligations in accordance with their
contractual terms and the expectation that they will continue to do so, management’s intent and
ability to hold these securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated
recovery in market value, as well as the evaluation of the fundamentals of the issuers’ financial
condition and other objective evidence, the Company believes that the prices of the securities in
the sectors identified in the tables below were temporarily depressed as of December 31, 2006 and
2005.

The following table presents amortized cost, fair value and unrealized losses for the Company’s
fixed maturity and available-for-sale equity securities, aggregated by investment category and
length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position as of
December 31, 2006.


Less Than 12 Months

12 Months or More

Total

Amortized

Fair

Unrealized

Amortized

Fair

Unrealized

Amortized

Fair

Unrealized

Cost

Value

Losses

Cost

Value

Losses

Cost

Value

Losses

ABS

$

1,115

$

1,105

$

(10

)

$


$


$

(43

)

$

2,109

$

2,056

$

(53

)

CMOs

Agency backed



(1

)



(7

)



(8

)

Non-agency backed



—



(1

)



(1

)

CMBS

Agency backed



—



(1

)



(1

)

Non-agency backed

3,741

3,711

(30

)

4,226

4,112

(114

)

7,967

7,823

(144

)

Corporate

8,478

8,365

(113

)

7,425

7,167

(258

)

15,903

15,532

(371

)

Government/Government agencies

Foreign



(4

)



(2

)



(6

)

United States



(4

)



(3

)



(7

)

MBS — U.S.
Government/Government
agencies



(4

)

1,626

1,585

(41

)

2,076

2,031

(45

)

States, municipalities and
political subdivisions



(11

)



(16

)

1,317

1,290

(27

)

Short-term investments

1,081

1,081

—

—

—

—

1,081

1,081

—

Total fixed maturities

16,828

16,651

(177

)

15,317

14,831

(486

)

32,145

31,482

(663

)

Common stock



(2

)



—



(2

)

Non-redeemable preferred stock



(3

)



(5

)



(8

)

Total equity



(5

)



(5

)



(10

)

Total temporarily impaired
securities

$

17,093

$

16,911

$

(182

)

$

15,402

$

14,911

$

(491

)

$

32,495

$

31,822

$

(673

)

F-30


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

4. Investments and Derivative Instruments (continued)

As of December 31, 2006, fixed maturities accounted for approximately 99% of the Company’s
total unrealized loss amount, which was comprised of approximately 4,700 different securities. The
Company held no securities as of December 31, 2006, that were in an unrealized loss position in
excess of $12. Other-than-temporary impairments for certain ABS and CMBS are recognized if the
fair value of the security, as determined by external pricing sources, is less than its cost or
amortized cost and there has been a decrease in the present value of the expected cash flows since
the last reporting period. Based on management’s best estimate of future cash flows, there were no
such ABS and CMBS in an unrealized loss position as of December 31, 2006 that were deemed to be
other-than-temporarily impaired.

Securities in an unrealized loss position for less than twelve months were comprised of
approximately 2,740 securities, of which 92% of the unrealized loss were securities with fair value
to amortized cost ratios at or greater than 90%. The majority of these securities are investment
grade fixed maturities depressed due to changes in interest rates from the date of purchase.

The securities depressed for twelve months or more as of December 31, 2006 were comprised of
approximately 2,200 securities, with the majority of the unrealized loss amount relating to CMBS,
corporate fixed maturities within the financial services and utilities sectors and ABS. A
description of the events contributing to the security types’ unrealized loss position and the
factors considered in determining that recording an other-than-temporary impairment was not
warranted are outlined below.

CMBS

— The CMBS in an unrealized loss position for twelve months or more as of December 31, 2006,
were primarily the result of an increase in interest rates from the security’s purchase date.
Substantially all of these securities are investment grade securities priced at or greater than 90%
of amortized cost as of December 31, 2006. Additional changes in fair value of these securities
are primarily dependent on future changes in interest rates.

Financial services

— Securities in financial services account for approximately $52 of the
corporate securities in an unrealized loss position for twelve months or more. Substantially all
of these securities are investment grade securities with fair values at or greater than 90% of
amortized cost. These positions are a mixture of fixed and variable rate securities with extended
maturity dates, which have been adversely impacted by changes in interest rates after the purchase
date. Additional changes in fair value of these securities are primarily dependent on future
changes in general market conditions, including interest rates and credit spread movements.

Utilities

— Securities in utilities account for approximately $46 of the corporate securities in
an unrealized loss position for twelve months or more. Most of these securities are fixed rate,
investment grade securities with extended maturity dates, which have been adversely impacted by
changes in interest rates after the purchase date. Additional changes in fair value of these
securities are primarily dependent on future changes in general market conditions, including
interest rates and credit spread movements.

ABS

— As of December 31, 2006, $27 of the Company’s total unrealized losses in asset-backed
securities is secured by leases to airlines primarily outside of the United States. Based on the
current and expected future collateral values of the underlying aircraft, recent improvement in
lease rates and an overall increase in worldwide travel, the Company expects to recover the full
amortized cost of these investments. However, future price recovery will depend on continued
improvement in economic fundamentals, political stability, airline operating performance and
collateral value.

The remaining balance of $236 in the twelve months or more unrealized loss category is comprised of
approximately 1,220 securities, most all of which were depressed only to a minor extent with fair
value to amortized cost ratios at or greater than 90% as of December 31, 2006. The decline in
market value for these securities is primarily attributable to changes in general market
conditions, including interest rates and credit spread movements.

Mortgage Loans

The carrying value of mortgage loans was $3.3 billion and $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2006 and
2005, respectively. The Company’s mortgage loans are collateralized by a variety of commercial and
agricultural properties. The largest concentrations by property type at December 31, 2006, are
office buildings (approximately 41%), hotels (approximately 15%) and industrial properties
(approximately 14%). The largest concentrations by property type at December 31, 2005, were office
buildings (approximately 39%), retail stores (approximately 22%) and hotels (approximately 15%).
The properties collateralizing mortgage loans are geographically dispersed throughout the United
States, with the largest concentration in California (approximately 17% and 18% at December 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively). At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company held no impaired,
restructured, delinquent or in-process-of-foreclosure mortgage loans. The Company had no valuation
allowance for mortgage loans at December 31, 2006 and 2005.

F-31


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

4. Investments and Derivative Instruments (continued)

Variable Interest Entities (“VIE”)

In the normal course of business, the Company becomes involved with variable interest entities
primarily as a collateral manager and through normal investment activities. The Company’s
involvement includes providing investment management and administrative services, and holding
ownership or other investment interests in the entities.

The following table summarizes the total assets, liabilities and maximum exposure to loss relating
to VIEs for which the Company has concluded it is the primary beneficiary. Accordingly, the
results of operations and financial position of these VIEs are included along with the
corresponding minority interest liabilities in the consolidated financial statements.

December 31, 2006

December 31, 2005

Maximum

Maximum

Exposure to

Total

Exposure to

Total Assets

Liability [4]

Loss[2][3]

Assets

Liability [4]

Loss[2][3]

Collaterized debt
obligations (“CDOs”) and other
funds [1] [2]

$


$


$


$


$


$


Limited partnerships [3]




—

—

—

Total [5]

$


$


$


$


$


$


[1]

The Company provides collateral management services and earns a fee associated with these structures.

[2]

The maximum exposure to loss is the Company’s co-investment in these structures.

[3]

The maximum exposure to loss is equal to the carrying value of the investment plus any unfunded commitments.

[4]

Creditors have no recourse against the Company in the event of default by the VIE.

[5]

As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had relationships with four and two VIEs, respectively, where the
Company was the primary beneficiary.

In addition to the VIEs described above, as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company holds
variable interest in three CDOs that are managed by Hartford Investment Management Company, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of The Hartford, where the Company is not the primary beneficiary. As a
result, these are not consolidated by the Company. These investments have been held by the Company
for a period of one to three years. The Company’s maximum exposure to loss from the
non-consolidated CDOs (consisting of the Company’s investments) was approximately $20 and $21 as of
December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Derivative Instruments

The Company utilizes a variety of derivative instruments, including swaps, caps, floors, forwards,
futures and options through one of four Company-approved objectives: to hedge risk arising from
interest rate, equity market, price or currency exchange rate risk or volatility; to manage
liquidity; to control transaction costs; or to enter into replication transactions.

On the date the derivative contract is entered into, the Company designates the derivative as a
fair-value hedge, cash-flow hedge, foreign-currency hedge, net investment hedge, or held for other
investment and risk management purposes.

The Company’s derivative transactions are used in strategies permitted under the derivative use
plans required by the State of Connecticut, the State of Illinois and the State of New York
insurance departments.

Derivative instruments are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Asset and
liability values are determined by calculating the net position for each derivative counterparty by
legal entity and are presented as of December 31, as follows:

Asset Values

Liability Values





Other investments

$


$


$

—

$

—

Reinsurance recoverables

—

—



Other policyholder funds and benefits payable




—

Other liabilities

—

—



Total

$


$


$


$


F-32


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

4. Investments and Derivative Instruments (continued)

The following table summarizes the derivative instruments used by the Company and the primary
hedging strategies to which they relate. Derivatives in the Company’s separate accounts are not
included because the associated gains and losses accrue directly to policyholders. The notional
value of derivative contracts represents the basis upon which pay or receive amounts are calculated
and are not reflective of credit risk. The fair value amounts of derivative assets and liabilities
are presented on a net basis as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. The total ineffectiveness of all
cash-flow, fair-value and net investment hedges and total change in value of other derivative-based
strategies which do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, including periodic derivative net
coupon settlements, are presented below on an after-tax basis for the years ended December 31, 2006
and 2005.

Hedge

Ineffectiveness,

Notional Amount

Fair Value

After-tax

Hedging Strategy







Cash-Flow Hedges

Interest rate swaps

Interest rate swaps are primarily
used to convert interest receipts on
floating-rate fixed maturity
securities to fixed rates. These
derivatives are predominantly used
to better match cash receipts from
assets with cash disbursements
required to fund liabilities.

The Company also enters into forward
starting swap agreements to hedge
the interest rate exposure of
anticipated future cash flows on
floating-rate fixed maturity
securities due to changes in the
benchmark interest rate,
London-Interbank Offered Rate
(“LIBOR”). These derivatives were
structured to hedge interest rate
exposure inherent in the assumptions
used to price primarily certain
long-term disability products.

Interest rate swaps are also used to
hedge a portion of the Company’s
floating-rate guaranteed investment
contracts. These derivatives
convert the floating rate guaranteed
investment contract payments to a
fixed rate to better match the cash
receipts earned from the supporting
investment portfolio.

$

6,093

$

5,753

$

(22

)

$

(18

)

$

(9

)

$

(11

)

Foreign currency swaps

Foreign currency swaps are used to
convert foreign denominated cash
flows associated with certain
foreign denominated fixed maturity
investments to U.S. dollars. The
foreign fixed maturities are
primarily denominated in euros and
are swapped to minimize cash flow
fluctuations due to changes in
currency rates. In addition,
foreign currency swaps are also used
to convert foreign denominated cash
flows associated with certain
liability payments in order to
minimize cash flow fluctuations due
to changes in currency rates.

1,871

1,758

(370

)

(242

)

(4

)


Fair-Value Hedges

Interest rate swaps

Interest rate swaps are used to
hedge the changes in fair value of
certain fixed rate liabilities and
fixed maturity securities due to
changes in the benchmark interest
rate, LIBOR. In addition, a portion
of the Company’s fixed debt was
hedged against increases in LIBOR,
the designated benchmark interest
rate.

3,846

2,476


(12

)

(1

)


Foreign currency swaps

Foreign currency swaps are used to
hedge the changes in fair value of
certain foreign denominated fixed
rate liabilities due to changes in
foreign currency rates.


—

(9

)

—

—

—

Total cash-flow and fair-value hedges

$

12,302

$

9,987

$

(391

)

$

(272

)

$

(14

)

$

(5

)

F-33


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

4. Investments and Derivative Instruments (continued)

Derivative

Change in Value,

Notional Amount

Fair Value

After-tax

Hedging Strategy







Other Investment and Risk Management Activities

Interest rate caps and swaption contracts

The Company is exposed to policyholder
surrenders during a rising interest rate
environment. Interest rate cap and
swaption contracts are used to mitigate the
Company’s loss in a rising interest rate
environment. The increase in yield from
the cap and swaption contracts in a rising
interest rate environment may be used to
raise credited rates, thereby increasing
the Company’s competitiveness and reducing
the policyholder’s incentive to surrender.

The Company also may use an interest rate
cap as an economic hedge of the interest
rate risk related to Company issued debt.
In a rising interest rate environment, the
cap will limit the net interest expense on
the hedged fixed rate debt.

$

1,100

$

1,616

$

—

$


$

(1

)

$

(1

)

Interest rate swaps, caps and floors

The Company uses interest rate swaps and
floors to manage duration risk between
assets and liabilities in certain
portfolios. In addition, the Company
enters into interest rate swaps to
terminate existing swaps in hedging
relationships, thereby offsetting the
changes in value of the original swap. The
Company also enters into interest rate caps
to manage the duration risk in certain
investment portfolios.

5,460

2,223

(30

)

(4

)

(33

)


Interest rate forwards

The Company uses interest rate forwards to
replicate the purchase of mortgage-backed
securities to manage duration risk and
liquidity.

1,269

—

(7

)

—


—

Foreign currency swaps and forwards

The Company enters into foreign currency
swaps and forwards to hedge the foreign
currency exposures in certain of its
foreign fixed maturity investments.



(14

)

(9

)

(8

)


Credit default and total return swaps

The Company enters into swap agreements in
which the Company assumes credit exposure
of an individual entity, referenced index
or asset pool. These contracts entitle the
company to receive a periodic fee in
exchange for an obligation to compensate
the derivative counterparty should a credit
event occur on the part of the referenced
security issuers. The maximum potential
future exposure to the Company is the
notional value of the swap contracts, which
is $1,203 and $455, after-tax, as of
December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

The Company also assumes exposure to the
change in value of indices or asset pools
through total return swaps and credit
spreadlocks. As of December 31, 2006 and
2005, the maximum potential future exposure
to the Company from such contracts is
$1,386 and $899, after-tax, respectively.

The Company enters into credit default swap
agreements, in which the Company pays a
derivative counterparty a periodic fee in
exchange for compensation from the
counterparty should a credit event occur on
the part of the referenced security issuer. The Company entered into these agreements
as an efficient means to reduce credit
exposure to specified issuers or sectors.
In addition, the Company enters into option
contracts to receive protection should a
credit event occur on the part of the
referenced security issuer.

7,611

2,839

(194

)




F-34


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

4. Investments and Derivative Instruments (continued)

Derivative

Change in Value,

Notional Amount

Fair Value

After-tax

Hedging Strategy







Yen fixed annuity hedging instruments

The Company enters into currency rate swaps and
forwards to mitigate the foreign currency exchange
rate and yen interest rate exposures associated with
the yen denominated individual fixed annuity
product. The associated liability is adjusted for
changes in spot rates which was $12 and $102,
after-tax, as of December 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively, and partially offset the derivative
change in value.

$

1,869

$

1,675

$

(225

)

$

(179

)

$

(64

)

$

(143

)

GMWB product derivatives

The Company offers certain variable annuity products
with a GMWB rider. The GMWB is a bifurcated
embedded derivative that provides the policyholder
with a GRB if the account value is reduced to zero
through a combination of market declines and
withdrawals. The GRB is generally equal to premiums
less withdrawals. The policyholder also has the
option, after a specified time period, to reset the
GRB to the then-current account value, if greater.
For a further discussion, see the Derivative
Instruments section of Note 1. The notional value
of the embedded derivative is the GRB balance.

37,769

31,803




(42

)

GMWB reinsurance contracts

Reinsurance arrangements are used to offset the
Company’s exposure to the GMWB embedded derivative
for the lives of the host variable annuity
contracts. The notional amount of the reinsurance
contracts is the GRB amount.

7,172

8,575

(22

)

(17

)

(19

)


GMWB hedging instruments

The Company enters into interest rate futures, S&P
500 and NASDAQ index futures contracts and put and
call options, as well as interest rate, EAFE index
and equity volatility swap contracts to economically
hedge exposure to the volatility associated with the
portion of the GMWB liabilities which are not
reinsured.

In addition, the Company periodically enters into
forward starting S&P 500 put options as well as S&P
index futures and interest rate swap contracts to
economically hedge the equity volatility risk
exposure associated with anticipated future sales of
the GMWB rider. [1]

8,379

5,086



(77

)


Equity index swaps and options

The Company offers certain equity indexed products,
which may contain an embedded derivative that
requires bifurcation. The Company enters into S&P
index swaps and options to economically hedge the
equity volatility risk associated with these
embedded derivatives. In addition, the Company is
exposed to bifurcated options embedded in certain
fixed maturity investments.



—

—

—

(1

)

Statutory reserve hedging instruments

The Company
purchases one and two year S&P 500 put
option contracts to economically hedge the statutory
reserve impact of equity exposure arising primarily
from GMDB and GMWB obligations against a decline in
the equity markets.

2,220

1,142



(9

)

(20

)

Total other investment and risk management activities

$

73,542

$

55,741

$

(64

)

$

(6

)

$

(97

)

$

(153

)

Total derivatives [2]

$

85,844

$

65,728

$

(455

)

$

(278

)

$

(111

)

$

(158

)

[1]

The after-tax net gain related to derivatives purchased to hedge the anticipatory sales
of the GMWB rider is $0 and $8 for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

[2]

Derivative change in value includes hedge ineffectiveness for cash-flow hedges, fair-value
hedges, and total change in value, including periodic derivative net coupon settlements, of
other investment and risk management activities.

F-35


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

4. Investments and Derivative Instruments (continued)

The increase in notional amount since December 31, 2005, is primarily due to an increase in
derivatives associated with guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit (“GMWB”) product sales and
additional options purchased to hedge the GMWB, credit derivatives and derivatives hedging interest
rate duration risk. The Company increased its use of credit derivatives primarily to reduce credit
exposure as well as to enter into replication transactions. During 2006, the Company began using
credit default swaps to replicate residual CDO interests. These transactions involve the receipt
of cash upon entering into the transaction as well as coupon payments throughout the life of the
contract. The upfront cash receipts for positions at December 31, 2006, totaled $201, which
represents the original liability value of the credit default swaps. As of December 31, 2006, the
notional and fair value of credit default swaps used in this replication strategy is $400 and
$(189), respectively.

The decrease in net fair value of derivative instruments since December 31, 2005, was primarily
related to the initial cash received on credit default swaps replicating residual CDO interests as
well as declines in fair value of derivatives hedging foreign bonds, the Japanese fixed annuity,
and interest rate duration risk between assets and liabilities, partially offset by additional
options purchased to hedge GMWB. Derivatives hedging foreign bonds declined in value primarily as
a result of the weakening of the U.S. dollar in comparison to certain foreign currencies. The
Japanese fixed annuity hedging instruments declined in value primarily due to a rise in Japanese
interest rates and the depreciation of the yen in comparison to the U.S. dollar. Derivatives
hedging interest rate duration risk declined in value primarily due to rising interest rates. For
further discussion on the GMWB product, which is accounted for as an embedded derivative, refer to
Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.

During 2006, the Company terminated an interest rate swap and an interest rate cap that were used
to hedge the Company’s $500 fixed rate debt which was callable in 2006. Additionally, during 2006,
interest rate swaps and the respective hedged fixed rate non-callable debt of $250 matured. The
notional and fair value of the contracts terminated were $1.3 billion and $(11), respectively.

The total change in value for derivative-based strategies that do not qualify for hedge accounting
treatment, including periodic derivative net coupon settlements, are reported in net realized
capital gains (losses). For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, these strategies resulted
in the recognition of after-tax net gains (losses) of $(97) and $(153), respectively. For the year
ended December 31, 2006, net realized capital losses were primarily driven by losses on the
Japanese fixed annuity hedging instruments and interest rate swaps used to manage portfolio
duration primarily due to rising interest rates as well as losses on GMWB related derivatives
primarily driven by liability model refinements and assumption updates reflecting in-force
demographics, actuarial experience, and future expectations. For the year ended December 31, 2005,
net realized capital losses were predominantly comprised of net losses on the Japanese fixed
annuity hedging instruments primarily due to the weakening of the Yen in comparison to the U.S.
dollar, as well as, an increase in Japanese interest rates.

As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the after-tax deferred net gains (losses) on derivative
instruments recorded in AOCI that are expected to be reclassified to earnings during the next
twelve months are $(7) and $1, respectively. This expectation is based on the anticipated interest
payments on hedged investments in fixed maturity securities that will occur over the next twelve
months, at which time the Company will recognize the deferred net gains (losses) as an adjustment
to interest income over the term of the investment cash flows. The maximum term over which the
Company is hedging its exposure to the variability of future cash flows (for all forecasted
transactions, excluding interest payments on variable-rate financial instruments) is twenty-four
months. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company had less than $1 of net
reclassifications from AOCI to earnings resulting from the discontinuance of cash-flow hedges due
to forecasted transactions that were no longer probable of occurring.

For the year ended December 31, 2004, after-tax net gain (loss) representing ineffectiveness of
cash-flow hedges was $(11) while ineffectiveness of fair-value hedges and net investment hedges
were both less than $1.

Securities Lending and Collateral Arrangements

The Company participates in securities lending programs to generate additional income, whereby
certain domestic fixed income securities are loaned for a specified period of time from the
Company’s portfolio to qualifying third parties, via two lending agents. Borrowers of these
securities provide collateral of 102% of the market value of the loaned securities. Acceptable
collateral may be in the form of cash or U.S. Government securities. The market value of the
loaned securities is monitored and additional collateral is obtained if the market value of the
collateral falls below 100% of the market value of the loaned securities. Under the terms of
securities lending programs, the lending agent indemnifies the Company against borrower defaults.
As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the fair value of the loaned securities was approximately $2.2
billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, and was included in fixed maturities in the consolidated
balance sheets. The Company earns income from the cash collateral or receives a fee from the
borrower. The Company recorded before-tax income from securities lending transactions, net of
lending fees, of $3 for each of the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, which was included in
net investment income.

F-36


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

4. Investments and Derivative Instruments (continued)

The Company enters into various collateral arrangements in connection with its derivative
instruments, which require both the pledging and accepting of collateral. As of December 31, 2006
and 2005, collateral pledged having a fair value of $504 and $308, respectively, was included in
fixed maturities in the consolidated balance sheets.

From time to time, the Company enters into secured borrowing arrangements as a means to increase
investment income. The cash collateral received from third parties by the Company in exchange for
financial interests granted in certain securities was $57 and $38 as of December 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.

The classification and carrying amount of the loaned securities and the derivative instrument
collateral pledged at December 31, 2006 and 2005 were as follows:

Loaned Securities and Collateral Pledged



ABS

$


$


CMBS



Corporate

1,867


MBS



Government/Government Agencies

Foreign



United States



Total

$

2,737

$

1,602

As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company had accepted collateral relating to securities
lending programs and derivative instruments consisting of cash, U.S. Government and U.S. Government
agency securities with a fair value of $2.4 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. At December
31, 2006 and 2005, cash collateral of $2.3 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, was invested and
recorded in the consolidated balance sheets in fixed maturities with a corresponding amount
recorded in other liabilities. The Company is only permitted by contract to sell or repledge the
noncash collateral in the event of a default by the counterparty and none of such collateral has
been sold or repledged at December 31, 2006 and 2005. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, noncash
collateral accepted was held in separate custodial accounts.

Securities on Deposit with States

The Company is required by law to deposit securities with government agencies in states where it
conducts business. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the fair value of securities on deposit was
approximately $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively.

5. Fair Value of Financial Instruments

SFAS No. 107, “Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments”, requires disclosure of
fair value information of financial instruments.

For certain financial instruments where quoted market prices are not available, other independent
valuation techniques and assumptions are used. Because considerable judgment is used, these
estimates are not necessarily indicative of amounts that could be realized in a current market
exchange. SFAS No. 107 excludes certain financial instruments from disclosure, including insurance
contracts, other than financial guarantees and investment contracts.

The Hartford uses the following methods and assumptions in estimating the fair value of each class
of financial instrument. Fair value for fixed maturities and marketable equity securities
approximates those quotations published by applicable stock exchanges or received from other
reliable sources.

For policy loans, carrying amounts approximate fair value.

For mortgage loans on real estate, fair values were estimated using discounted cash flow
calculations based on current incremental lending rates for similar type loans.

Derivative instruments are reported at fair value based upon either pricing valuation models, which
utilize market data inputs or independent broker quotations.

Other policyholder funds and benefits payable fair value information is determined by estimating
future cash flows, discounted at the current market rate. For further discussion of other
policyholder funds and derivatives, see Note 1.

For commercial paper, carrying amounts approximate fair value.

F-37


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

5. Fair Value of Financial Instruments (continued)

Fair value for long-term debt is based on market quotations from independent third party
pricing services.

Fair value for consumer notes is based on discounted cash flow calculations based on current market
rates.

The carrying amounts and fair values of The Hartford’s financial instruments at December 31, 2006
and 2005 were as follows:



Carrying

Fair

Carrying

Fair

Amount

Value

Amount

Value

Assets

Fixed maturities

$

80,755

$

80,755

$

76,440

$

76,440

Equity securities

31,132

31,132

25,495

25,495

Policy loans

2,051

2,051

2,016

2,016

Mortgage loans on real estate

3,318

3,298

1,731

1,718

Other investments [1]





Liabilities

Other policyholder funds and
benefits payable [2]

$

14,233

$

13,488

$

11,691

$

11,278

Commercial paper [3]





Long-term debt [4]

3,804

3,974

4,296

5,073

Consumer notes



—

—

Derivative related liabilities [5]





[1]

2006 and 2005 include $287 and $181 of derivative related assets, respectively.

[2]

Excludes group accident and health and universal life insurance contracts, including corporate owned life insurance.

[3]

Included in short-term debt in the consolidated balance sheets.

[4]

Includes current maturities of long-term debt.

[5]

Included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.

6. Reinsurance

The Hartford cedes insurance to other insurers in order to limit its maximum losses and to
diversify its exposures. Such transfers do not relieve The Hartford of its primary liability under
policies it wrote and, as such, failure of reinsurers to honor their obligations could result in
losses to The Hartford. The Hartford also is a member of and participates in several reinsurance
pools and associations. The Hartford evaluates the financial condition of its reinsurers and
monitors concentrations of credit risk. The Hartford’s property and casualty reinsurance is placed
with reinsurers that meet strict financial criteria established by a credit committee. As of
December 31, 2006 and 2005, The Hartford had no reinsurance-related concentrations of credit risk
greater than 10% of the Company’s stockholders’ equity.

Life

In accordance with normal industry practice, Life is involved in both the cession and assumption of
insurance with other insurance and reinsurance companies. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the
Company’s policy for the largest amount of life insurance retained on any one life by any one of
the life operations was approximately $5. In addition, the Company reinsures the majority of
minimum death benefit guarantees as well as guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits, on contracts
issued prior to July 2003, offered in connection with its variable annuity contracts.

Life insurance fees, earned premiums and other were comprised of the following:

For the years ended December 31,




Gross fee income, earned premiums and other

$

9,372

$

8,194

$

7,223

Reinsurance assumed




Reinsurance ceded

(369

)

(455

)

(498

)

Net fee income, earned premiums and other

$

9,316

$

8,203

$

7,536

Life reinsures certain of its risks to other reinsurers under yearly renewable term,
coinsurance, and modified coinsurance arrangements. Yearly renewable term and coinsurance
arrangements result in passing all or a portion of the risk to the reinsurer. Generally, the
reinsurer receives a proportionate amount of the premiums less an allowance for commissions and
expenses and is liable for a corresponding proportionate amount of all benefit payments. Modified
coinsurance is similar to coinsurance except that the cash and investments that support the
liabilities for contract benefits are not transferred to the assuming company, and settlements are
made on a net basis between the companies.

F-38


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

6. Reinsurance (continued)

The cost of reinsurance related to long-duration contracts is accounted for over the life of
the underlying reinsured policies using assumptions consistent with those used to account for the
underlying policies. Life insurance recoveries on ceded reinsurance contracts, which reduce death
and other benefits, were $59, $351 and $478 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Life also assumes reinsurance from other insurers.

Property and Casualty

In managing risk, The Hartford utilizes reinsurance to transfer risk to well-established and
financially secure reinsurers. Reinsurance is used to manage aggregations of risk as well as
specific risks based on accumulated property and casualty liabilities in certain geographic zones.
All treaty purchases related to the Company’s property and casualty operations are administered by
a centralized function to support a consistent strategy and ensure that the reinsurance activities
are fully integrated into the organization’s risk management processes.

A variety of traditional reinsurance products are used as part of the Company’s risk management
strategy, including excess of loss occurrence-based products that protect aggregate property and
workers’ compensation exposures, and individual risk or quota share arrangements, that protect
specific classes or lines of business. There are no significant finite risk contracts in place and
the statutory surplus benefit from all such prior year contracts is immaterial. Facultative
reinsurance is also used to manage policy-specific risk exposures based on established underwriting
guidelines. The Hartford also participates in governmentally administered reinsurance facilities
such as the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund (“FHCF”), the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program
established under The Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005 and other reinsurance programs
relating to particular risks or specific lines of business.

The Company has several catastrophe reinsurance programs, including reinsurance treaties that cover
property and workers’ compensation losses aggregating from single catastrophe events.

The effect of reinsurance on property and casualty premiums written and earned was as follows:

For the years ended December 31,




Premiums
Written

Direct

$

11,600

$

11,653

$

11,181

Assumed




Ceded

(1,203

)

(1,399

)

(1,450

)

Net

$

10,662

$

10,487

$

9,962

Premiums Earned

Direct

$

11,465

$

11,356

$

10,811

Assumed




Ceded

(1,291

)

(1,418

)

(1,535

)

Net

$

10,433

$

10,156

$

9,494

Ceded losses which reduce losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred, were $370, $1.7 billion and
$960 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Ceded incurred losses decreased from $1.7 billion in 2005 to $370 in 2006, primarily because of a
$970 decrease in current accident year catastrophe losses ceded to reinsurers and a $243 reduction
in net reinsurance recoverables in 2006 as a result of an agreement with Equitas and the Company’s
evaluation of the reinsurance recoverables and allowance for uncollectible reinsurance associated
with older, long-term casualty liabilities reported in the Other Operations segment.

Ceded incurred losses increased by $740 from 2004 to 2005, from $960 to $1.7 billion, primarily
because of a $686 increase in current accident year catastrophe losses ceded to reinsurers and a
$181 reduction in the reinsurance recoverable asset associated with older, long-term casualty
liabilities recorded in 2004, partially offset by a decrease in the amount of losses ceded on
professional liability business as a result of the Company increasing its retention on that
business. Current accident year catastrophe losses ceded increased by $686 from 2004 to 2005, from
$288 to $974. The increase was primarily due to an increase in gross current accident year
catastrophe losses from $811 in 2004 to $1.3 billion in 2005. The amount of gross losses ceded to
reinsurers depends, in large part, on the extent to which gross losses incurred from a single event
exceed the Company’s attachment point under its principal property catastrophe reinsurance program.
Compared to the hurricanes of 2004, the individual hurricanes in 2005 significantly exceeded the
attachment point, resulting in greater reinsurance recoveries.

F-39


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

6. Reinsurance (continued)

Reinsurance recoverables include balances due from reinsurance companies for paid and unpaid
losses and loss adjustment expenses and are presented net of an allowance for uncollectible
reinsurance. The reinsurance recoverables balance includes an estimate of the amount of gross
losses and loss adjustment expense reserves that may be ceded under the terms of the reinsurance
agreements, including incurred but not reported unpaid losses. The Company’s estimate of losses
and loss adjustment expense reserves ceded to reinsurers is based on assumptions that are
consistent with those used in establishing the gross reserves for business ceded to the reinsurance
contracts. The Company calculates its ceded reinsurance projection based on the terms of any
applicable facultative and treaty reinsurance, including an estimate of how incurred but not
reported losses will ultimately be ceded by reinsurance agreement.

Accordingly, the Company’s estimate of reinsurance recoverables is subject to similar risks and
uncertainties as the estimate of the gross reserve for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses.

The allowance for uncollectible reinsurance was $412 and $413 as of December 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. The allowance for uncollectible reinsurance reflects management’s best
estimate of reinsurance cessions that may be uncollectible in the future due to reinsurers’
unwillingness or inability to pay. The Company analyzes recent developments in commutation
activity between reinsurers and cedants, recent trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes
in disputes between reinsurers and cedants and the overall credit quality of the Company’s
reinsurers. Where its contracts permit, the Company secures future claim obligations with
various forms of collateral, including irrevocable letters of credit, secured trusts, funds
held accounts and group-wide offsets.

Due to the inherent uncertainties as to collection and the length of time before reinsurance
recoverables become due, it is possible that future adjustments to the Company’s reinsurance
recoverables, net of the allowance, could be required, which could have a material adverse effect
on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or cash flows in a particular quarter or annual
period.

7. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Present Value of Future Profits

Life

Changes in deferred policy acquisition costs and present value of future profits are as follows:




Balance, January 1

$

8,568

$

7,438

$

6,624

Deferred Costs

1,923

2,071

1,968

Amortization – Deferred Policy Acquisitions Costs and Present Value of Future Profits

(1,269

)

(1,172

)

(993

)

Amortization – Unlock

(183

)

—

—

Adjustments to unrealized gains and losses on securities available-for-sale and other



(75

)

Cumulative
effect of accounting change (SOP 03-1)

—

—

(105

)

Effect of currency translation

(15

)

(149

)


Acquisition of Hartford Life Group Insurance Company [1]

—

—

(53

)

Balance, December 31

$

9,071

$

8,568

$

7,438

[1]

For the year ended December 31, 2004, reflects the purchase price adjustment related to the
acquisition of CNA Group Life Assurance Company.

Estimated future net amortization expense of present value of future profits for the
succeeding five years is as follows:

For the years ended December 31,


$










Property & Casualty

Changes in deferred policy acquisition costs are as follows:




Balance, January 1

$

1,134

$

1,071

$


Deferred costs

2,169

2,060

1,946

Amortization

(2,106

)

(1,997

)

(1,850

)

Balance, December 31

$

1,197

$

1,134

$

1,071

F-40


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

8. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

The carrying amount of goodwill as of December 31 is shown below.



Life

Retail

$


$


Individual Life



Total Life



Property & Casualty

Personal Lines



Specialty Commercial



Total Property & Casualty



Corporate



Total Goodwill

$

1,717

$

1,720

The Company’s goodwill impairment test performed in accordance with SFAS No. 142 “Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets”, resulted in no write-downs for the years ended December 31, 2006 and
2005.

The following table shows the Company’s acquired intangible assets that continue to be subject to
amortization and aggregate amortization expense, net of interest accretion, if any. Except for
goodwill, the Company has no intangible assets with indefinite useful lives.



Gross Carrying

Accumulated Net

Gross Carrying

Accumulated Net

Acquired Intangible Assets

Amount

Amortization

Amount

Amortization

Renewal rights

$


$


$


$


Other





Total Acquired Intangible Assets

$


$


$


$


Net amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $6, $7 and $7,
respectively. As of December 31, 2006, the weighted average amortization period was 7.0 years for
renewal rights, 5.0 years for other and 5.3 years for total acquired intangible assets.

The following is detail of the net acquired intangible asset activity for the years ended December
31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Renewal

For the year ended December 31, 2006

Rights

Other

Total

Balance, beginning of year

$


$


$


Amortization, net of the accretion of interest

(3

)

(3

)

(6

)

Balance, ending of year

$


$


$


For the year ended December 31, 2005

Balance, beginning of year

$


$


$


Acquisition of business

—



Amortization, net of the accretion of interest

(4

)

(3

)

(7

)

Balance, ending of year

$


$


$


For the year ended December 31, 2004

Balance, beginning of year

$


$


$


Acquisition of business

—



Amortization, net of the accretion of interest

(4

)

(3

)

(7

)

Balance, ending of year

$


$


$


Estimated future net amortization expense for the succeeding five years is as follows:

For the years ended December 31,


$







—


—

For a discussion of present value of future profits that continue to be subject to amortization and
aggregate amortization expense, see Note 7.

F-41


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

9. Separate Accounts, Death Benefits and Other Insurance Benefit Features

The Hartford records the variable portion of individual variable annuities, 401(k),
institutional, governmental, private placement life and variable life insurance products within
separate account assets and liabilities, which are reported at fair value. Separate account assets
are segregated from other investments. Investment income and gains and losses from those separate
account assets, which accrue directly to, and whereby investment risk is borne by the policyholder,
are offset by the related liability changes within the same line item in the statement of income.
The fees earned for administrative and contract holder maintenance services performed for these
separate accounts are included in fee income. During 2006, 2005 and 2004, there were no gains or
losses on transfers of assets from the general account to the separate account.

Many of the variable annuity contracts issued by the Company offer various guaranteed minimum
death, withdrawal and income benefits. Guaranteed minimum death and income benefits are offered in
various forms as described in the footnotes to the table below. The Company currently reinsures a
significant portion of the death benefit guarantees associated with its in-force block of business.
Effective April 1, 2006, the Company began reinsuring certain of its death benefit guarantees
associated with the inforce block of variable annuity products offered in Japan. Changes in the
gross U.S. guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”) and Japan GMDB/guaranteed minimum income
benefits (“GMIB”) liability balance sold with annuity products are as follows:

U.S. GMDB [1]

Japan GMDB/GMIB

Liability balance as of January 1, 2006

$


$


Incurred



Paid

(106

)

(1

)

Unlock


(41

)

Currency translation adjustment

—

(1

)

Liability balance as of December 31, 2006

$


$


[1]

The reinsurance recoverable asset related to the U.S. GMDB was $316 as of December 31,
2006. The reinsurance recoverable asset related to the Japan GMDB was $4 as of December 31,
2006.

U.S. GMDB [1]

Japan GMDB/GMIB

Liability balance as of January 1, 2005

$


$


Incurred



Paid

(139

)

(1

)

Currency translation adjustment

—

(6

)

Liability balance as of December 31, 2005

$


$


[1]

The reinsurance recoverable asset related to the U.S. GMDB was $40 as of December 31,
2005.

The net GMDB and GMIB liability is established by estimating the expected value of net
reinsurance costs and death and income benefits in excess of the projected account balance. The
excess death and income benefits and net reinsurance costs are recognized ratably over the
accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The GMDB and GMIB liabilities are recorded
in Reserve for Future Policy Benefits on the Company’s balance sheet. Changes in the GMDB and GMIB
liability are recorded in Benefits, Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses on the Company’s statements
of operations. In a manner consistent with the Company’s accounting policy for deferred
acquisition costs, the Company regularly evaluates estimates used and adjusts the additional
liability balances, with a related charge or credit to benefit expense if actual experience or
other evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised. As described in Note 1, the
Company unlocked its assumptions related to GMDB during the fourth quarter of 2006.

The determination of the GMDB and GMIB liabilities and related GMDB reinsurance recoverable is
based on models that involve a range of scenarios and assumptions, including those regarding
expected market rates of return and volatility, contract surrender rates and mortality experience.
The following assumptions were used to determine the GMDB and GMIB liabilities as of December 31,
2006 and 2005:

U.S. GMDB:

•

1000 stochastically generated investment performance scenarios for all issue years.

•

For all issue years, the weighted average return is 8%; it varies by asset class with a low of 3% for cash and a high
of 10% for aggressive equities.

•

Discount rate of 7.5% for issue year 2002 & prior; discount rate of 7% for issue year 2003 & 2004 and discount rate of
5.6% for issue year 2005 and 2006.

•

Volatilities also vary by asset class with a low of 1% for cash, a high of 12% for aggressive equities, and a weighted
average of 11%.

•

100% of the Hartford experience mortality table was used for the mortality assumptions.

•

Lapse rates by calendar year vary from a low of 8% to a high of 14%, with an average of 12%.

F-42


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

9. Separate Accounts, Death Benefits and Other Insurance Benefit Features (continued)

Japan GMDB and GMIB:

•

1,000 stochastically generated investment performance scenarios.

•

Separate account returns, representing the Company’s long-term assumptions, varied by asset class with a low of 2.7%
for Japan bonds, a high of 9.3% for foreign equities and a weighted average of 5.0%.

•

Volatilities also varied by asset class with a low of 5.6% for Japan bonds, a high of 21.3% for foreign equities and a
weighted average of 13.4%.

•

70% of the 1996 Japan Standard Mortality Table was used for mortality assumptions.

•

Lapse rates by age vary from a low of 1% to a high of 6%, with an average of 4%.

•

Average discount rate of 2.7%.

The following table provides details concerning GMDB and GMIB exposure as of December 31, 2006:

Breakdown of Individual Variable and Group Annuity Account Value by GMDB/GMIB Type at December 31, 2006

Retained Net

Weighted Average

Account

Net Amount

Amount

Attained Age of

Maximum anniversary value (MAV) [1]

Value

at Risk

at Risk

Annuitant

MAV only

$

53,358

$

3,664

$



With 5% rollup [2]

3,830




With Earnings Protection Benefit Rider (EPB) [3]

5,576




With 5% rollup & EPB

1,411




Total MAV

64,175

4,633


Asset Protection Benefit (APB) [4]

36,710




Lifetime Income Benefit (LIB)  — Death Benefit [5]

4,045




Reset [6] (5-7 years)

6,862




Return of Premium [7] /Other

10,015




Subtotal U.S. Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits

121,807

4,974


Japan Guaranteed Minimum Death and Income Benefit [8]

29,653




Total at December 31, 2006

$

151,460

$

5,028

$


[1]

MAV: the death benefit is the greatest of current account value, net premiums paid and
the highest account value on any anniversary before age 80 (adjusted for withdrawals).

[2]

Rollup: the death benefit is the greatest of the MAV, current account value, net premium
paid and premiums (adjusted for withdrawals) accumulated at generally 5% simple interest up
to the earlier of age 80 or 100% of adjusted premiums.

[3]

EPB: the death benefit is the greatest of the MAV, current account value, or contract
value plus a percentage of the contract’s growth. The contract’s growth is account value
less premiums net of withdrawals, subject to a cap of 200% of premiums net of withdrawals.

[4]

APB: the death benefit is the greater of current account value or MAV, not to exceed
current account value plus 25% times the greater of net premiums and MAV (each adjusted for
premiums in the past 12 months).

[5]

LIB: the death benefit is the greater of current account value or MAV, net premiums paid,
or a benefit amount that rachets over time, generally based on market performance.

[6]

Reset: the death benefit is the greatest of current account value, net premiums paid and
the most recent five to seven year anniversary account value before age 80 (adjusted for
withdrawals).

[7]

Return of premium: the death benefit is the greater of current account value and net
premiums paid.

[8]

Death benefits include a Return of Premium and MAV (before age 75) death benefit and income
benefits include a guarantee to return initial investment, which is adjusted for earnings
liquidity or a maximum annual withdrawal of 3% of premiums, depending on product, through a
fixed annuity, after a minimum deferral period of 10, 15, or 20 years. The guaranteed
remaining account value balance related to the Japan GMIB was $19.7 billion and $15.2 billion
as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

The Company offers certain variable annuity products with a GMWB rider. The GMWB provides the
policyholder with a guaranteed remaining balance (“GRB”) if the account value is reduced to zero
through a combination of market declines and withdrawals. The GRB is generally equal to premiums
less withdrawals. However, annual withdrawals that exceed a specific percentage of the premiums
paid may reduce the GRB by an amount greater than the withdrawals and may also impact the
guaranteed annual withdrawal amount that subsequently applies after the excess annual withdrawals
occur. For certain of the withdrawal benefit features, the policyholder also has the option, after
a specified time period, to reset the GRB to the then-current account value, if greater. In
addition, the Company has introduced features, for contracts issued beginning in the fourth quarter
of 2005, that allow the policyholder to receive the guaranteed annual withdrawal amount for as long
as they are alive. In this feature, in all cases the contract holder or their beneficiary will
receive the GRB and the GRB is reset on an annual basis to the maximum anniversary account value
subject to a cap.

F-43


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

9. Separate Accounts, Death Benefits and Other Insurance Benefit Features (continued)

The GMWB represents an embedded derivative in the variable annuity contracts that is required
to be reported separately from the host variable annuity contract. It is carried at fair value and
reported in other policyholder funds. The fair value of the GMWB obligation is calculated based on
actuarial and capital market assumptions related to the projected cash flows, including benefits
and related contract charges, over the lives of the contracts, incorporating expectations
concerning policyholder behavior. Because of the dynamic and complex nature of these cash flows,
best estimate assumptions and stochastic techniques under a variety of market return scenarios are
used. Estimating these cash flows involves numerous estimates and subjective judgments including
those regarding expected market rates of return, market volatility, correlations of market returns
and discount rates. At each valuation date, the Company assumes expected returns based on risk-free
rates as represented by the current LIBOR forward curve rates; market volatility assumptions for
each underlying index based on a blend of observed market “implied volatility” data and annualized
standard deviations of monthly returns using the most recent 20 years of observed market
performance; correlations of market returns across underlying indices based on actual observed
market returns and relationships over the ten years preceding the valuation date; and current
risk-free spot rates as represented by the current LIBOR spot curve to determine the present value
of expected future cash flows produced in the stochastic projection process. As markets change,
mature and evolve and actual policyholder behavior emerges, management continually evaluates the
appropriateness of its assumptions. In addition, management regularly evaluates the valuation
model, incorporating emerging valuation techniques where appropriate, including drawing on the
expertise of market participants and valuation experts.

As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, the embedded derivative asset recorded for GMWB,
before reinsurance or hedging, was $53 and $8, respectively. During 2006, 2005 and 2004, the
increase (decrease) in value of the GMWB, before reinsurance and hedging, reported in realized
gains was $121 and $(64) and $54, respectively. Included in realized gain (loss) were liability
model refinements and changes in policyholder behavior assumptions for the year ended December 31,
2006 of $(2). There were no benefit payments made for the GMWB during 2006, 2005 or 2004.

As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, $37.3 billion, or 77%, and $26.4 billion, or 69%,
respectively, of account value representing substantially all of the contracts written after July
2003, with the GMWB feature were unreinsured. In order to minimize the volatility associated with
the unreinsured GMWB liabilities, the Company has established an alternative risk management
strategy. In 2003, the Company began hedging its unreinsured GMWB exposure using interest rate
futures and swaps and Standard and Poor’s (“S&P”) 500 and NASDAQ index options and futures
contracts. During 2004, the Company began using Europe, Australasia and Far East (“EAFE”) Index
swaps to hedge GMWB exposure to international equity markets. The total (reinsured and
unreinsured) GRB as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 was $37.8 billion and $31.8 billion,
respectively.

A contract is ‘in the money’ if the contract holder’s GRB is greater than the account value. For
contracts that were ‘in the money’, the Company’s exposure as of December 31, 2006, was $8.
However, the only ways the contract holder can monetize the excess of the GRB over the account
value of the contract is upon death or if their account value is reduced to zero through a
combination of a series of withdrawals that do not exceed a specific percentage of the premiums
paid per year and market declines. If the account value is reduced to zero, the contract holder
will receive a period certain annuity equal to the remaining GRB or a period certain plus life
contingent annuity. As the amount of the excess of the GRB over the account value can fluctuate
with equity market returns on a daily basis the ultimate amount to be paid by the Company, if any,
is uncertain and could be significantly more or less than $8.

Account balances of contracts with guarantees were invested in variable separate accounts as
follows:

Asset type

As of December 31, 2006

Equity securities (including mutual funds)

$

104,687

Cash and cash equivalents

8,931

Total

$

113,618

As of December 31, 2006, approximately 12% of the equity securities above were invested in fixed
income securities through these funds and approximately 88% were invested in equity securities.

10. Sales Inducements

The Company currently offers enhanced crediting rates or bonus payments to contract holders on
certain of its individual and group annuity products. The expense associated with offering a bonus
is deferred and amortized over the life of the related contract in a pattern consistent with the
amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. Amortization expense associated with expenses
previously deferred is recorded over the remaining life of the contract. Consistent with the
Company’s DAC unlock, the Company unlocked the amortization of the sales inducement asset. See
Note 1, for more information concerning the DAC unlock.

F-44


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

10. Sales Inducements (continued)

Changes in deferred sales inducement activity were as follows for the year ended December 31:



Balance, beginning of period

$


$


Sales inducements deferred



Amortization charged to income

(42

)

(39

)

Amortization – DAC unlock

(4

)

—

Balance, end of period

$


$


11. Reserves for Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

As described in Note 1, The Hartford establishes reserves for losses and loss adjustment
expenses on reported and unreported claims. These reserve estimates are based on known facts and
interpretations of circumstances, and consideration of various internal factors including The
Hartford’s experience with similar cases, historical trends involving claim payment patterns, loss
payments, pending levels of unpaid claims, loss control programs and product mix. In addition, the
reserve estimates are influenced by consideration of various external factors including court
decisions, economic conditions and public attitudes. The effects of inflation are implicitly
considered in the reserving process.

The establishment of appropriate reserves, including reserves for catastrophes and asbestos and
environmental claims, is inherently uncertain. The Hartford regularly updates its reserve
estimates as new information becomes available and events unfold that may have an impact on
unsettled claims. Changes in prior year reserve estimates, which may be material, are reflected in
the results of operations in the period such changes are determined to be necessary. For further
discussion of asbestos and environmental claims, see Note 12.

Life

The following table displays the development of the loss reserves (included in reserve for future
policy benefits and unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses in the Consolidated Balance Sheets)
resulting primarily from group disability products.

For the years ended December 31,




Beginning loss reserves-gross

$

4,832

$

4,714

$

4,480

Purchase of CNA Group Life Assurance Company

—

—


Reinsurance recoverables




Beginning loss reserves-net

4,594

4,417

4,210

Incurred expenses related to

Current year

2,140

1,994

1,864

Prior years

(128

)

(112

)

(73

)

Total incurred expenses

2,012

1,882

1,791

Paid expenses related to

Current year




Prior years

1,130

1,060

1,020

Total paid expenses

1,854

1,705

1,584

Ending loss reserves-net

4,752

4,594

4,417

Reinsurance recoverable, December 31




Ending loss reserves-gross

$

4,985

$

4,832

$

4,714

The favorable prior year claim development in 2006 and 2005 is principally due to continued strong
disability claims management as well as favorable development on the experience rated financial
institutions block. The favorable loss experience on the financial institutions block inversely
impacts the commission expenses incurred.

The liability for future policy benefits and unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses is
comprised of the following:



Group Disability and Accident and Other unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

$

4,985

$

4,832

Group Life unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses

1,132


Individual Life unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses



Future Policy Benefits

7,789

7,161

Future Policy Benefits and Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

$

14,016

$

12,987

F-45


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

11. Reserves for Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses (continued)

The liability for future policy benefits and unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses by
segment/product is as follows:



Life

Retail

Individual
annuity — variable

$


$


Individual annuity — fixed



Other



Total Retail



Retirement Plans

401(k)



Governmental



Total Retirement Plans



Institutional

Structured settlements

3,285

3,028

Institutional annuities

2,317

2,167

SPIA


—

PPLI



Total Institutional

5,925

5,315

Individual Life

Variable universal life



Universal life/other interest sensitive



Term insurance and other



Total Individual Life



Group Benefits

Group disability

4,695

4,544

Group life and accident

1,236

1,058

Other



Total Group Benefits

6,150

5,828

International

Variable



Total International



Other



Total Life

$

14,016

$

12,987

F-46


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

11. Reserves for Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses (continued)

The liability for other policyholder funds and benefits payable by segment/product is as
follows:



Life

Retail

Individual
annuity — variable

$

9,425

$

6,861

Individual
annuity — fixed

5,663

9,539

Other



Total Retail

15,095

16,410

Retirement Plans

401(k)

1,257

1,181

Governmental

4,287

4,013

Total Retirement Plans

5,544

5,194

Institutional

Structured settlements

1,973

1,731

Stable value/Funding agreements

6,169

4,142

GICs

2,875

3,117

SPIA


—

PPLI



Institutional annuities



Total Institutional

11,405

9,233

Individual Life

Variable universal life



Universal life/other interest sensitive

4,599

4,284

Other



Total Individual Life

5,343

4,990

Group Benefits

Group life and accident



Total Group Benefits



International

Variable

30,085

24,641

Fixed

1,697

1,461

Total International

31,782

26,102

Other

1,790

1,988

Total Life

$

71,311

$

64,452

F-47


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

11. Reserves for Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses (continued)

Property & Casualty

A rollforward of liabilities for property and casualty unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses
follows:

For the years ended December 31,




Beginning liabilities for property and
casualty unpaid losses and loss
adjustment expenses-gross

$

22,266

$

21,329

$

21,715

Reinsurance and other recoverables

5,403

5,138

5,497

Beginning liabilities for property and
casualty unpaid losses and loss
adjustment expenses-net

16,863

16,191

16,218

Add provision for property & casualty
unpaid losses and loss adjustment
expenses

Current year

6,706

6,715

6,590

Prior years




Total provision for property and
casualty unpaid losses and loss
adjustment expenses

7,002

6,963

7,004

Less payments

Current year

2,448

3,593

2,616

Prior years

3,702

2,698

4,415

Total payments

6,150

6,291

7,031

Less net reserves for Omni business sold


—

—

Ending liabilities for property and
casualty unpaid losses and loss
adjustment expenses-net

17,604

16,863

16,191

Reinsurance and other recoverables

4,387

5,403

5,138

Ending liabilities for property and
casualty unpaid losses and loss
adjustment expenses-gross

$

21,991

$

22,266

$

21,329

In the opinion of management, based upon the known facts and current law, the reserves recorded for
The Hartford’s property and casualty businesses at December 31, 2006 represent the Company’s best
estimate of its ultimate liability for losses and loss adjustment expenses related to losses
covered by policies written by the Company. Based on information or trends that are not presently
known, future reserve reestimates may result in adjustments to these reserves. Such adjustments
could possibly be significant, reflecting any variety of new and adverse or favorable trends.
Because of the significant uncertainties surrounding environmental and particularly asbestos
exposures, it is possible that management’s estimate of the ultimate liabilities for these claims
may change and that the required adjustment to recorded reserves could exceed the currently
recorded reserves by an amount that could be material to The Hartford’s results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity. For a further discussion, see Note 12.

Examples of current trends affecting frequency and severity include increases in medical cost
inflation rates, the changing use of medical care procedures, the introduction of new products such
as the Dimensions for auto product in Personal Lines, changes in internal claim practices, changes
in the legislative and regulatory environment over workers’ compensation claims, evolving exposures
to claims asserted against religious institutions and other organizations relating to molestation
or abuse and other mass torts. In the case of the reserves for asbestos exposures, factors
contributing to the high degree of uncertainty include inadequate loss development patterns,
plaintiffs’ expanding theories of liability, the risks inherent in major litigation, and
inconsistent emerging legal doctrines. In the case of the reserves for environmental exposures,
factors contributing to the high degree of uncertainty include expanding theories of liabilities
and damages; the risks inherent in major litigation; inconsistent decisions concerning the
existence and scope of coverage for environmental claims; and uncertainty as to the monetary amount
being sought by the claimant from the insured.

The prior year provision of $296 in 2006 includes $243 of prior accident year development resulting
from an agreement with Equitas and the Company’s evaluation of the reinsurance recoverables and
allowance for uncollectible reinsurance associated with older, long-term casualty liabilities
reported in the Other Operations. In addition, the prior year provision in 2006 includes
strengthening of Specialty Commercial construction defect claim reserves for accident years 1997
and prior and adverse development in environmental reserves. The 2006 reserve strengthening was
partially offset by a reduction in catastrophe reserves related to the 2005 and 2004 hurricanes and
a release of Business Insurance allocated loss adjustment expense reserves for workers’
compensation and package business related to accident years 2003 to 2005. The prior year provision
of $248 in 2005 includes reserve strengthening for workers’ compensation claim payments expected to
emerge after 20 years of development, an increase in reserves for assumed casualty reinsurance,
adverse development in environmental reserves, strengthening of reserves for the 2004 hurricanes
and an increase in general liability reserves for accident years 2000 to 2003. The 2005 reserve
strengthening was partially offset by reserve releases for allocated loss adjustment expenses and
workers’ compensation reserves for accident years 2003 and 2004. The

F-48


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

11. Reserves for Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses (continued)

prior year provision of $414 in 2004 includes reserve strengthening for construction defects
claims, assumed casualty reinsurance and environmental claims as well as a reduction in the
reinsurance recoverable asset associated with older, long-term casualty liabilities. The 2004
reserve strengthening was partially offset by a reduction in September 11 reserves.

12. Commitments and Contingencies

Litigation

The Hartford is involved in claims litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, both as a
liability insurer defending or providing indemnity for third-party claims brought against insureds and as an insurer defending
coverage claims brought against it. The Hartford accounts for such activity through the
establishment of unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. Subject to the uncertainties
discussed below under the caption “Asbestos and Environmental Claims,” management expects that the
ultimate liability, if any, with respect to such ordinary-course claims litigation, after
consideration of provisions made for potential losses and costs of defense, will not be material to
the consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of The Hartford.

The Hartford is also involved in other kinds of legal actions, some of which assert claims for
substantial amounts. These actions include, among others, putative state and federal class actions
seeking certification of a state or national class. Such putative class actions have alleged, for
example, underpayment of claims or improper underwriting practices in connection with various kinds
of insurance policies, such as personal and commercial automobile, property, life and inland
marine; improper sales practices in connection with the sale of life insurance and other investment
products; and improper fee arrangements in connection with mutual funds and structured settlements.
The Hartford also is involved in individual actions in which punitive damages are sought, such as
claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims. Like many other insurers, The
Hartford also has been joined in actions by asbestos plaintiffs asserting that insurers had a duty
to protect the public from the dangers of asbestos and in a putative class action filed in West
Virginia state court by asbestos plaintiffs alleging that insurers committed unfair trade practices
by asserting defenses on behalf of their policyholders in the underlying asbestos cases.
Management expects that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to such lawsuits, after
consideration of provisions made for estimated losses, will not be material to the consolidated
financial condition of The Hartford. Nonetheless, given the large or indeterminate amounts sought
in certain of these actions, and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, an adverse outcome in
certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
consolidated results of operations or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.

Broker Compensation Litigation

– On October 14, 2004, the New York Attorney General’s Office filed
a civil complaint (the “NYAG Complaint”) against Marsh Inc. and Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
(collectively, “Marsh”) alleging, among other things, that certain insurance companies, including
The Hartford, participated with Marsh in arrangements to submit inflated bids for business
insurance and paid contingent commissions to ensure that Marsh would direct business to them. The
Hartford was not joined as a defendant in the action, which has since settled. Since the filing of
the NYAG Complaint, several private actions have been filed against the Company asserting claims
arising from the allegations of the NYAG Complaint.

Two securities class actions, now consolidated, have been filed in the United States District Court
for the District of Connecticut alleging claims against the Company and certain of its executive
officers under Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act and SEC Rule 10b-5. The consolidated
amended complaint alleges on behalf of a putative class of shareholders that the Company and the
four named individual defendants, as control persons of the Company, failed to disclose to the
investing public that The Hartford’s business and growth was predicated on the unlawful activity
alleged in the NYAG Complaint. The class period alleged is August 6, 2003 through October 13,
2004, the day before the NYAG Complaint was filed. The complaint seeks damages and attorneys’
fees. Defendants filed a motion to dismiss in June 2005, and, on July 13, 2006, the district court
granted the motion. The plaintiffs have noticed an appeal of the dismissal.

Two corporate derivative actions, now consolidated, also have been filed in the same court. The
consolidated amended complaint, brought by shareholders on behalf of the Company against its
directors and an executive officer, alleges that the defendants knew adverse non-public information
about the activities alleged in the NYAG Complaint and concealed and misappropriated that
information to make profitable stock trades, thereby breaching their fiduciary duties, abusing
their control, committing gross mismanagement, wasting corporate assets, and unjustly enriching
themselves. The complaint seeks damages, injunctive relief, disgorgement, and attorneys’ fees.
Defendants filed a motion to dismiss in May 2005, and the plaintiffs thereafter agreed to stay
further proceedings pending resolution of the motion to dismiss the securities class action. All
defendants dispute the allegations and intend to defend these actions vigorously.

The Company is also a defendant in a multidistrict litigation in federal district court in New
Jersey. There are two consolidated amended complaints filed in the multidistrict litigation, one
related to alleged conduct in connection with the sale of property-casualty insurance and the other
related to alleged conduct in connection with the sale of group benefits products. The Company and
various of its subsidiaries are named in both complaints. The actions assert, on behalf of a class
of persons who purchased insurance through the broker defendants, claims under the Sherman Act, the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (“RICO”),

F-49


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

12. Commitments and Contingencies (continued)

state law, and in the case of the group benefits complaint, claims under ERISA arising from
conduct similar to that alleged in the NYAG Complaint. The class period alleged is 1994 through
the date of class certification, which has not yet occurred. The complaints seek treble damages,
injunctive and declaratory relief, and attorneys’ fees. On October 3, 2006, the court denied in
part the defendants’ motions to dismiss the two consolidated amended complaints but found the
complaints deficient in other respects and ordered the plaintiffs to file supplemental pleadings.
After the plaintiffs filed their supplemental pleadings, the defendants renewed their motions to
dismiss. The renewed motions to dismiss and the plaintiffs’ motions for class certification are
pending. The Company also has been named in two similar actions filed in state courts, which the
defendants have removed to federal court. Those actions currently are transferred to the court
presiding over the multidistrict litigation. The Company disputes the allegations in all of these
actions and intends to defend the actions vigorously. In addition, the Company was joined as a
defendant in an action by the California Commissioner of Insurance alleging similar conduct by
various insurers in connection with the sale of group benefits products. The Commissioner’s action
asserted claims under California insurance law and sought injunctive relief only. The Company has
settled the Commissioner’s action.

Additional complaints may be filed against the Company in various courts alleging claims under
federal or state law arising from the conduct alleged in the NYAG Complaint. The Company’s
ultimate liability, if any, in the pending and possible future suits is highly uncertain and
subject to contingencies that are not yet known, such as how many suits will be filed, in which
courts they will be lodged, what claims they will assert, what the outcome of investigations by the
New York Attorney General’s Office and other regulatory agencies will be, the success of defenses
that the Company may assert, and the amount of recoverable damages if liability is established. In
the opinion of management, it is possible that an adverse outcome in one or more of these suits
could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or cash
flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.

Fair Credit Reporting Act Putative Class Action

– In October 2001, a complaint was filed in the
United States District Court for the District of Oregon, on behalf of a putative class of
homeowners and automobile policyholders from 1999 to the present, alleging that the Company
willfully violated the Fair Credit Reporting Act (“FCRA”) by failing to send appropriate notices to
new customers whose initial rates were higher than they would have been had the customer had a more
favorable credit report. In July 2003, the district court granted summary judgment for the
Company, holding that FCRA’s adverse action notice requirement did not apply to the rate first
charged for an initial policy of insurance.

The plaintiff appealed and, in August 2005, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit reversed the district court, holding that the adverse action notice requirement
applies to new business and that the Company’s notices, even when sent, contained inadequate
information. Although no court previously had decided the notice requirements applicable to
insurers under FCRA, and the district court had not addressed whether the Company’s alleged
violations of FCRA were willful because it had agreed with the Company’s interpretation of FCRA and
found no violation, the Court of Appeals further held, over a dissent by one of the judges, that
the Company’s failure to send notices conforming to the Court’s opinion constituted a willful
violation of FCRA as a matter of law. FCRA provides for a statutory penalty of $100 to $1,000 per
willful violation. Simultaneously, the Court of Appeals issued decisions in related cases against
four other insurers, reversing the district court and holding that those insurers also had violated
FCRA in similar ways. On October 3, 2005, the Court of Appeals withdrew its opinion in the
Hartford case and issued a revised opinion, which changed certain language of the opinion but not
the outcome.

On October 31, 2005, the Company timely filed a petition for rehearing and for rehearing en banc in
the Ninth Circuit. While that petition was pending, on January 25, 2006, the Court of Appeals
again withdrew its opinion in the Hartford case and issued a second revised opinion. The new
opinion vacated the Court’s earlier ruling that the Company had willfully violated FCRA as a matter
of law and remanded the case to the district court for further proceedings. On February 15, 2006,
the Company filed a new petition for rehearing and rehearing en banc, and on April 20, 2006, the
Court of Appeals denied the petition. On July 19, 2006, the Company filed a petition for a writ of
certiorari in the United States Supreme Court. On September 26, 2006, the Supreme Court granted
petitions filed by insurers in two of the related cases, and on January 16, 2007, it heard argument
in those cases. The Supreme Court has not yet acted on the Company’s petition.

On July 25, 2006, the parties entered into a memorandum of understanding setting forth the
essential terms of a class settlement in this action, and, on September 8, 2006, the parties
executed and filed with the district court a Stipulation of Settlement. On September 11, 2006, the
district court preliminarily approved the settlement and scheduled a hearing for final approval of
the settlement for February 26, 2007. The settlement is subject to certain contingencies,
including final approval by the district court. If the settlement is completed, management expects
that the Company’s ultimate obligations under the settlement agreement, after consideration of
provisions made for this matter, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
consolidated results of operations or cash flows in any particular quarterly or annual period.

Blanket Casualty Treaty Litigation

– The Company is engaged in pending litigation in Connecticut
Superior Court against certain of its upper-layer reinsurers under its Blanket Casualty Treaty
(“BCT”). The BCT is a multi-layered reinsurance program providing excess-of-loss coverage in
various amounts from the 1930s through the 1980s. The upper layers were first placed in 1950,

F-50


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

12. Commitments and Contingencies (continued)

predominantly with London Market reinsurers, including Lloyd’s syndicates reinsured by
Equitas. The action seeks, among other relief, damages for the reinsurer defendants’ failure to
pay certain billings for asbestos and pollution claims.

In December 2003, the Company entered into a global settlement with MacArthur Company, an asbestos
insulation distributor and installer then in bankruptcy, for $1.15 billion. The Company then billed
the reinsurer defendants under the BCT for $117 of the settlement amount. After the reinsurers
refused to pay the MacArthur billing, the Company amended its complaint to add, among other things,
claims related to that billing. Most of the reinsurer defendants counterclaimed, seeking a
declaration that they did not owe reinsurance for the MacArthur settlement.

The litigation concerns under what circumstances losses arising from multiple claims against a
single insured may be combined and ceded as a single “accident” under the BCT so as to reach the
upper layers of the program. The BCT contains a unique definition of “accident.” The application
of this definition to the ceded losses is the crux of the dispute.

In April 2005, the Superior Court phased the proceedings, providing for a trial of the MacArthur
billing first, in April 2006, with other billings to follow in subsequent trial settings. In
September 2005, the London Market reinsurer defendants moved for summary judgment on the
MacArthur-related claims. After briefing and oral argument, the Superior Court issued a decision
on December 13, 2005, granting the defendants’ motion. The Company noticed an appeal to the
Connecticut Appellate Court; the appeal has since been transferred to the Connecticut Supreme
Court. The Company intends to prosecute its appeal vigorously.

On June 15, 2006, the Company announced an agreement with Equitas and all Lloyd’s syndicates
reinsured by Equitas (collectively, “Equitas”) that resolved, with minor exception, all of the
Company’s ceded and assumed domestic reinsurance exposures with Equitas, including the Company’s
reinsurance recoveries from Equitas under the BCT. Those recoveries consist predominantly of
asbestos and pollution losses, including the billing for the MacArthur settlement. The pending
litigation and appeal continue with other upper-layer reinsurers under the BCT.

The outcome of the appeal is uncertain. If the decision of the Superior Court is affirmed on
appeal, the Company may be unable to collect from the nonsettling reinsurers not only its billing
for the MacArthur settlement but also other current and future billings to which the same relevant
facts and legal analysis would apply. The Company has considered the risk of non-collection of
these recoveries in its allowance for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables associated with older,
long-term casualty liabilities reported in the Other Operations segment. After consideration of
this allowance, management expects that a negative outcome in the BCT litigation would not have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or cash flows in any
particular quarterly or annual period.

Asbestos and Environmental Claims

The Company continues to receive asbestos and environmental claims. Asbestos claims relate
primarily to bodily injuries asserted by people who came in contact with asbestos or products
containing asbestos. Environmental claims relate primarily to pollution and related clean-up costs.

The Company wrote several different categories of insurance contracts that may cover asbestos and
environmental claims. First, the Company wrote primary policies providing the first layer of
coverage in an insured’s liability program. Second, the Company wrote excess policies providing
higher layers of coverage for losses that exhaust the limits of underlying coverage. Third, the
Company acted as a reinsurer assuming a portion of those risks assumed by other insurers writing
primary, excess and reinsurance coverages. Fourth, subsidiaries of the Company participated in the
London Market, writing both direct insurance and assumed reinsurance business.

With regard to both environmental and particularly asbestos claims, significant uncertainty limits
the ability of insurers and reinsurers to estimate the ultimate reserves necessary for unpaid
losses and related expenses. Traditional actuarial reserving techniques cannot reasonably estimate
the ultimate cost of these claims, particularly during periods where theories of law are in flux.
The degree of variability of reserve estimates for these exposures is significantly greater than
for other more traditional exposures. In particular, the Company believes there is a high degree
of uncertainty inherent in the estimation of asbestos loss reserves.

In the case of the reserves for asbestos exposures, factors contributing to the high degree of
uncertainty include inadequate loss development patterns, plaintiffs’ expanding theories of
liability, the risks inherent in major litigation, and inconsistent emerging legal doctrines.
Furthermore, over time, insurers, including the Company, have experienced significant changes in
the rate at which asbestos claims are brought, the claims experience of particular insureds, and
the value of claims, making predictions of future exposure from past experience uncertain.
Plaintiffs and insureds also have sought to use bankruptcy proceedings, including “pre-packaged”
bankruptcies, to accelerate and increase loss payments by insurers. In addition, some
policyholders have asserted new classes of claims for coverages to which an aggregate limit of
liability may not apply. Further uncertainties include insolvencies of other carriers and
unanticipated developments pertaining to the Company’s ability to recover reinsurance for asbestos
and environmental claims. Management believes these issues are not likely to be resolved in the
near future.

F-51


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

12. Commitments and Contingencies (continued)

In the case of the reserves for environmental exposures, factors contributing to the high
degree of uncertainty include expanding theories of liability and damages; the risks inherent in
major litigation; inconsistent decisions concerning the existence and scope of coverage for
environmental claims; and uncertainty as to the monetary amount being sought by the claimant from
the insured.

It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal and legislative environment and their
effect on the future development of asbestos and environmental claims. It is unknown whether
potential Federal asbestos-related legislation will be enacted or what its effect would be on the
Company’s aggregate asbestos liabilities.

The reporting pattern for assumed reinsurance claims, including those related to asbestos and
environmental claims, is much longer than for direct claims. In many instances, it takes months or
years to determine that the policyholder’s own obligations have been met and how the reinsurance in
question may apply to such claims. The delay in reporting reinsurance claims and exposures adds to
the uncertainty of estimating the related reserves.

Given the factors described above, the Company believes the actuarial tools and other techniques it
employs to estimate the ultimate cost of claims for more traditional kinds of insurance exposure
are less precise in estimating reserves for its asbestos and environmental exposures. For this
reason, the Company relies on exposure-based analysis to estimate the ultimate costs of these
claims and regularly evaluates new information in assessing its potential asbestos and
environmental exposures.

As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, the Company reported $2.3 billion and $2.3 billion
of net asbestos reserves and $322 and $366 of net environmental reserves, respectively. The
Company believes that its current asbestos and environmental reserves are appropriate. However,
analyses of future developments could cause The Hartford to change its estimates and ranges of its
asbestos and environmental reserves, and the effect of these changes could be material to the
Company’s consolidated operating results, financial condition, and liquidity.

Regulatory Developments

In June 2004, the Company received a subpoena from the New York Attorney General’s Office in
connection with its inquiry into compensation arrangements between brokers and carriers. In
mid-September 2004 and subsequently, the Company has received additional subpoenas from the New
York Attorney General’s Office, which relate more specifically to possible anti-competitive
activity among brokers and insurers. Since the beginning of October 2004, the Company has received
subpoenas or other information requests from Attorneys General and regulatory agencies in more than
a dozen jurisdictions regarding broker compensation and possible anti-competitive activity. The
Company may receive additional subpoenas and other information requests from Attorneys General or
other regulatory agencies regarding similar issues. In addition, the Company has received a
request for information from the New York Attorney General’s Office concerning the Company’s
compensation arrangements in connection with the administration of workers compensation plans. The
Company intends to continue cooperating fully with these investigations, and is conducting an
internal review, with the assistance of outside counsel, regarding broker compensation issues in
its Property & Casualty and Group Benefits operations.

On October 14, 2004, the New York Attorney General’s Office filed a civil complaint against Marsh &
McLennan Companies, Inc., and Marsh, Inc. (collectively, “Marsh”). The complaint alleges, among
other things, that certain insurance companies, including the Company, participated with Marsh in
arrangements to submit inflated bids for business insurance and paid contingent commissions to
ensure that Marsh would direct business to them. The Company was not joined as a defendant in the
action, which has since settled. Although no regulatory action has been initiated against the
Company in connection with the allegations described in the civil complaint, it is possible that
the New York Attorney General’s Office or one or more other regulatory agencies may pursue action
against the Company or one or more of its employees in the future. The potential timing of any
such action is difficult to predict. If such an action is brought, it could have a material
adverse effect on the Company.

On October 29, 2004, the New York Attorney General’s Office informed the Company that the Attorney
General is conducting an investigation with respect to the timing of the previously disclosed sale
by Thomas Marra, a director and executive officer of the Company, of 217,074 shares of the
Company’s common stock on September 21, 2004. The sale occurred shortly after the issuance of two
additional subpoenas dated September 17, 2004 by the New York Attorney General’s Office. The
Company has engaged outside counsel to review the circumstances related to the transaction and is
fully cooperating with the New York Attorney General’s Office. On the basis of the review, the
Company has determined that Mr. Marra complied with the Company’s applicable internal trading
procedures and has found no indication that Mr. Marra was aware of the additional subpoenas at the
time of the sale.

There continues to be significant federal and state regulatory activity relating to financial
services companies, particularly mutual funds companies. These regulatory inquiries have focused
on a number of mutual fund issues, including market timing and late trading, revenue sharing and
directed brokerage, fees, transfer agents and other fund service providers, and other mutual-fund
related issues. The Company has received requests for information and subpoenas from the SEC,
subpoenas from the New York Attorney General’s Office, a subpoena from the Connecticut Attorney General’s Office, requests for
information from the Connecticut Securities and Investments Division of the Department of Banking,
and requests for information from the New York Department of

F-52


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

12. Commitments and Contingencies (continued)

Insurance, in each case requesting documentation and other information regarding various
mutual fund regulatory issues. The Company continues to cooperate fully with these regulators in
these matters.

The Company has received subpoenas from the New York Attorney General’s Office and the Connecticut
Attorney General’s Office requesting information relating to the Company’s group annuity products,
including single premium group annuities used in terminal and maturity funding programs. These
subpoenas seek information about how various group annuity products are sold, how the Company
selects mutual funds offered as investment options in certain group annuity products, and how
brokers selling the Company’s group annuity products are compensated. The Company continues to
cooperate fully with these regulators in these matters.

On May 10, 2006, the Company entered into an agreement (the “Agreement”) with the New York Attorney
General’s Office and the Connecticut Attorney General’s Office to resolve the outstanding
investigations by these parties regarding the Company’s use of expense reimbursement agreements in
its terminal and maturity funding group annuity line of business. Under the terms of the
Agreement, the Company paid $20, of which $16.1 was paid to certain plan sponsors that purchased
terminal or maturity funding annuities between January 1, 1998 and December 31, 2004, with the
balance of $3.9 divided equally between the states of New York and Connecticut. Also pursuant to
the terms of the Agreement, the Company accepted a three-year prohibition on the use of contingent
compensation in its terminal and maturity funding group annuity line of business. The costs
associated with the settlement had already been accounted for in reserves previously established by
the Company.

On November 8, 2006, the SEC issued an Order setting forth the terms of a settlement reached with
three subsidiaries of the Company that resolved the SEC’s Division of Enforcement’s investigation
of aspects of the Company’s variable annuity and mutual fund operations related to directed
brokerage and revenue sharing. Under the terms of the settlement, the Company has paid $55 to
mutual funds that participated in the Company’s program for directed brokerage in recognition of
mutual fund sales, $40 of which represents disgorgement and $15 of which represents civil
penalties. The costs associated with the settlement had already been accounted for in reserves
previously established by the Company.

The SEC’s Division of Enforcement and the New York Attorney General’s Office are investigating
aspects of the Company’s variable annuity and mutual fund operations related to market timing. The
Company continues to cooperate fully with the SEC and the New York Attorney General’s Office in
these matters. The Company’s mutual funds are available for purchase by the separate accounts of
different variable universal life insurance policies, variable annuity products, and funding
agreements, and they are offered directly to certain qualified retirement plans. Although existing
products contain transfer restrictions between subaccounts, some products, particularly older
variable annuity products, do not contain restrictions on the frequency of transfers. In addition,
as a result of the settlement of litigation against the Company with respect to certain owners of
older variable annuity contracts, the Company’s ability to restrict transfers by these owners has,
until recently, been limited. The Company has executed an agreement with the parties to the
previously settled litigation which, together with separate agreements between these contract
owners and their broker, has resulted in the exchange or surrender of all of the variable annuity
contracts that were the subject of the previously settled litigation.

To date, the SEC’s and New York Attorney General’s market timing investigations have not resulted
in the initiation of any formal action against the Company by these regulators. However, the
Company believes that the SEC and the New York Attorney General’s Office are likely to take some
action against the Company at the conclusion of the respective investigations. The Company is
engaged in discussions with the SEC and the New York Attorney General’s Office regarding the
potential resolution of these investigations. The potential timing of any resolution of these
matters or the initiation of any formal action by these regulators is difficult to predict. After
giving effect to the settlement of the SEC’s directed brokerage investigation, as of December 31,
2006, the Company had a reserve of $83, pre-tax, for the market timing matters. This reserve is an
estimate; in view of the uncertainties regarding the outcome of these regulatory investigations, it
is possible that the ultimate cost to the Company of these matters could exceed the reserve by an
amount that would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of
operations or cash flows in a particular quarterly or annual period.

On May 24, 2005, the Company received a subpoena from the Connecticut Attorney General’s Office
seeking information about the Company’s participation in finite reinsurance transactions in which
there was no substantial transfer of risk between the parties. The Company is cooperating fully
with the Connecticut Attorney General’s Office in this matter.

On June 23, 2005, the Company received a subpoena from the New York Attorney General’s Office
requesting information relating to purchases of the Company’s variable annuity products, or
exchanges of other products for the Company’s variable annuity products, by New York residents who
were 65 or older at the time of the purchase or exchange. On August 25, 2005, the Company received
an additional subpoena from the New York Attorney General’s Office requesting information relating
to purchases of or exchanges into the Company’s variable annuity products by New York residents
during the past five years where the purchase or exchange was funded using funds from a
tax-qualified plan or where the variable annuity purchased or exchanged for was a sub-

F-53


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

12. Commitments and Contingencies (continued)

account of a tax-qualified plan or was subsequently put into a tax-qualified plan. The
Company is cooperating fully with the New York Attorney General’s Office in these matters.

On July 14, 2005, the Company received an additional subpoena from the Connecticut Attorney
General’s Office concerning the Company’s structured settlement business. This subpoena requests
information about the Company’s sale of annuity products for structured settlements, and about the
ways in which brokers are compensated in connection with the sale of these products. The Company is
cooperating fully with the Connecticut Attorney General’s Office in these matters.

The Company has received a request for information from the New York Attorney General’s Office
about issues relating to the reporting of workers’ compensation premium. The Company is
cooperating fully with the New York Attorney General’s Office in this matter.

Lease Commitments

Total rental expense on operating leases was $201 in 2006, $206 in 2005 and $193 in 2004. Future
minimum lease commitments are as follows:


$










Thereafter


Total

$


On June 30, 2003, the Company entered into a sale-leaseback of certain furniture and fixtures with
a net book value of $40. The sale-leaseback resulted in a gain of $15, which was deferred and will
be amortized into earnings over the initial lease term of three years. The lease qualifies as an
operating lease for accounting purposes. At the end of the initial lease term, the Company has the
option to purchase the leased assets, renew the lease for two one-year periods or return the leased
assets to the lessor. If the Company elects to return the assets to the lessor at the end of the
initial lease term, the assets will be sold, and the Company has guaranteed a residual value on the
furniture and fixtures of $20. If the fair value of the furniture and fixtures were to decline
below the residual value, the Company would have to make up the difference under the residual value
guarantee. In December 2006 the Company exercised its option to extend the lease contract until
June 30, 2008. Under the sale-leaseback, the Company must maintain a minimum level of consolidated
statutory surplus and risk based capital ratios. In addition, the Company must not exceed a
maximum ratio of debt to capitalization. As of December 31, 2006, the Company was in compliance
with all such covenants. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, no liability was recorded for this
guarantee, as the fair value of the furniture and fixtures at the end of the initial lease term was
greater than the residual value guarantee.

Tax Matters

The Company’s federal income tax returns are routinely audited by the Internal Revenue Service
(“IRS”). The IRS began its audit of the 2002-2003 tax years in 2005 and is in the examination
phase. Management believes that adequate provision has been made in the financial statements for
any potential assessments that may result from future tax examinations and other tax-related
matters for all open tax years. During 2004, the IRS completed its examination of the 1998-2001
tax years, and the IRS and the Company agreed upon all adjustments. As a result, during 2004 the
Company booked a $216 tax benefit to reflect the impact of the audit settlement on tax years
covered by the examination as well as all other tax years prior to 2004. The benefit relates
primarily to the separate account DRD and interest.

The separate account DRD is estimated for the current year using information from the prior
year-end, adjusted for current year equity market performance. The estimated DRD is generally
updated in the third quarter for the provision-to-filed-return adjustments, and in the fourth
quarter based on current year ultimate mutual fund distributions and fee income from The Hartford’s
variable insurance products. The actual current year DRD can vary from the estimates based on, but
not limited to, changes in eligible dividends received by the mutual funds, amounts of
distributions from these mutual funds, the utilization of capital loss carry forwards at the mutual
fund level and appropriate levels of taxable income.

The Company receives a foreign tax credit (“FTC”) against its U.S. tax liability for foreign taxes
paid by the Company including payments from its separate account assets. The separate account FTC
is estimated for the current year using information from the most recent filed return, adjusted for
the change in the allocation of separate account investments to the international equity markets
during the current year. The actual current year FTC can vary from the estimates due to the actual
FTC’s passed through by the mutual funds.

F-54


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

12. Commitments and Contingencies (continued)

Unfunded Commitments

At December 31, 2006, The Hartford has outstanding commitments totaling approximately $1.4 billion,
of which approximately $1.0 billion is committed to fund limited partnership investments. These
capital commitments can be called by the partnership during the commitment period (on average two
to five years) to fund the purchase of new investments and partnership expenses. Once the
commitment period expires, the Company is under no obligation to fund the remaining unfunded
commitment but may elect to do so. The remaining outstanding commitments are primarily related to
various funding obligations associated with investments in mortgage and construction loans. These
have a commitment period of one month to three years.

Guaranty Fund and Other Insurance-related Assessments

In all states, insurers licensed to transact certain classes of insurance are required to become
members of a guaranty fund. In most states, in the event of the insolvency of an insurer writing
any such class of insurance in the state, members of the funds are assessed to pay certain claims
of the insolvent insurer. A particular state’s fund assesses its members based on their respective
written premiums in the state for the classes of insurance in which the insolvent insurer was
engaged. Assessments are generally limited for any year to one or two percent of premiums written
per year depending on the state.

The Hartford accounts for guaranty fund and other insurance assessments in accordance with
Statement of Position No. 97-3, “Accounting by Insurance and Other Enterprises for
Insurance-Related Assessments”. Liabilities for guaranty fund and other insurance-related
assessments are accrued when an assessment is probable, when it can be reasonably estimated, and
when the event obligating the Company to pay an imposed or probable assessment has occurred.
Liabilities for guaranty funds and other insurance-related assessments are not discounted and are
included as part of other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2006
and 2005, the liability balance was $149 and $223, respectively. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005,
$20 and $20, respectively, related to premium tax offsets were included in other assets.

13. Income Tax

The provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of the following:

For the years ended December 31,




Income Tax Expense (Benefit)

Current  —  U.S. Federal

$


$


$

(24

)

International

—



Total current

$


$


$

(19

)

Deferred —  U.S. Federal

$


$


$


International




Total deferred

$


$


$


Total income tax expense (benefit)

$


$


$


F-55


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

13. Income Tax (continued)

Deferred tax assets (liabilities) include the following as of December 31:

Deferred Tax Assets



Tax discount on loss reserves

$


$


Tax basis deferred policy acquisition costs and reserves



Unearned premium reserve and other underwriting related reserves



Investment-related items


—

Employee benefits



Minimum tax credit



Net operating loss carryover



Other



Total Deferred Tax Assets

3,276

3,304

Valuation Allowance

(60

)

(44

)

Net Deferred Tax Assets

3,216

3,260

Deferred Tax Liabilities

Financial statement deferred policy acquisition costs and reserves

(2,222

)

(1,741

)

Investment-related items

—

(73

)

Net unrealized gain on investments

(463

)

(588

)

Other depreciable & amortizable assets

(135

)

(132

)

Other

(112

)

(51

)

Total Deferred Tax Liabilities

(2,932

)

(2,585

)

Total

$


$


In management’s judgment, the net deferred tax asset will more likely than not be realized.
Included in the deferred tax asset is the expected tax benefit attributable to net operating losses
of $325, consisting of U.S. losses of $59, which expire from 2010-2026, and foreign losses of $266.
The foreign losses consist of $135, which expire from 2011-2012, and foreign losses of $131, which
have no expiration. A valuation allowance of $60 has been recorded which consists of $21 related
primarily to U.S and $39 related to foreign operations.

Prior to the Tax Reform Act of 1984, the Life Insurance Company Income Tax Act of 1959 permitted
the deferral from taxation of a portion of statutory income under certain circumstances. In these
situations, the deferred income was accumulated in a “Policyholders’ Surplus Account” and would be
taxable only under conditions which management considered to be remote; therefore, no federal
income taxes were provided on the balance in this account, which for tax return purposes was $88 as
of December 31, 2005. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which was enacted in October 2004,
allows distributions to be made from the Policyholders’ Surplus Account free of tax in 2005 and
2006. The Company distributed the entire balance in 2006 thereby permanently eliminating the
potential tax of $31.

A reconciliation of the tax provision at the U.S. Federal statutory rate to the provision for
income taxes is as follows:

For the years ended December 31,




Tax provision at U.S. Federal statutory rate

$

1,261

$

1,045

$


Tax-exempt interest

(153

)

(149

)

(145

)

Dividends received deduction

(186

)

(188

)

(136

)

Internal Revenue Service audit settlement (see Note 12)

—

—

(216

)

Sale of Omni Insurance Group, Inc.

(40

)

—

—

Other

(25

)


(1

)

Provision (benefit) for income tax

$


$


$


F-56


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

14. Debt

The following table presents short-term and long-term debt by issuance and consumer notes as of
December 31, 2006 and 2005.

Short-Term Debt



Commercial paper

$


$


Current maturities of long-term debt



Total Short-Term Debt

$


$


Long –Term Debt

Senior Notes and Debentures

7.1% Notes, due 2007

—


4.7% Notes, due 2007

—


6.375% Notes, due 2008



4.1% Equity Units Notes, due 2008

—


5.663% Notes, due 2008


—

2.56% Equity Units Notes, due 2008

—


5.55% Notes, due 2008


—

7.9% Notes, due 2010



5.25% Notes, due 2011


—

4.625% Notes, due 2013



4.75% Notes, due 2014



7.3% Notes, due 2015



5.5% Notes, due 2016


—

7.65% Notes, due 2027



7.375% Notes, due 2031



5.95% Notes, due 2036


—

6.1% Notes, due 2041


—

Total Senior Notes and Debentures

$

3,504

$

3,357

Junior Subordinated Debentures

7.625% Notes, due 2050

—


7.45% Notes, due 2050

—


Total Junior Subordinated Debentures

—


Total Long-Term Debt

$

3,504

$

4,048

Consumer Notes

Retail notes payable, interest rates ranging from 5.0%
to 6.0% for fixed notes and consumer price index plus
175 basis points to 225 basis points for variable notes, due in varying amounts
to 2031, callable
beginning in 2008

$


$

—

Total Consumer Notes

$


$

—

The Hartford’s long-term debt securities are issued by either The Hartford Financial Services
Group, Inc. (“HFSG”) or HLI and are unsecured obligations of HFSG or HLI and rank on a parity with
all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of HFSG or HLI.

On December 15, 2006, The Hartford redeemed its $200 7.1% senior notes due 2007 at a price of $202
plus accrued and unpaid interest.

On November 17, 2006, The Hartford retired its $500 7.45% junior subordinated debentures underlying
the trust preferred securities due 2050 issued by Hartford Capital III at par. The Company
recognized a loss on extinguishment of $17, after-tax, for the write-off of the unamortized issue
costs and discount.

On October 10, 2006, the Company completed offers to exchange existing senior unsecured notes
comprising the $250 of 7.65% notes due 2027 and the $400 of 7.375% notes due 2031 issued by HLI
(‘‘HLI notes’’) for up to $650 in new senior unsecured notes of the Company and a cash payment, in
order to consolidate debt at the holding company. The new notes have an extended maturity and bear
a market interest rate and, together with the cash payment, have a present value not significantly
different than the existing notes using the existing notes’ effective interest rates. On October
10, 2006, the Company issued approximately $409 of 6.1% senior notes due October 1, 2041 and paid
cash totaling $85 in exchange for $101 of the 7.65% notes due 2027 and $308 of the 7.375% notes due
2031. Cash paid to holders of HLI notes in connection with the exchange offers is reflected on our
balance sheet as a reduction of long-term debt.

F-57


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

14. Debt (continued)

On October 3, 2006, the Company issued $400 of 5.25% senior notes due October 15, 2011, $300
of 5.50% senior notes due October 15, 2016, and $300 of 5.95% senior notes due October 15, 2036,
and received total net proceeds of approximately $990.

On July 14, 2006, The Hartford retired its $200 7.625% junior subordinated debentures underlying
the trust preferred securities due 2050 issued by Hartford Life Capital II at par.

On June 1, 2006, the Company repaid $250 of 2.375% senior notes at maturity.

In December 2005, the Company issued $100 of commercial paper and used the proceeds, together with
other sources, to fund a $300 contribution to its defined benefit pension plan.

On June 15, 2005, the Company repaid $250 of 7.75% senior notes at maturity.

Long-Term Debt Maturities

The following table reflects the Company’s long-term debt maturities.


$





—





Thereafter

1,970

Equity Units Offerings

In May 2003, The Hartford issued 13.8 million 7% equity units at a price of fifty dollars per unit
and received net proceeds of approximately $669. Each equity unit initially consisted of one
purchase contract for a certain number of shares of the Company’s stock on August 16, 2006 and a 5%
ownership interest in one thousand dollars principal amount of senior notes due August 16, 2008.
The senior notes had an aggregate principal amount of $690. In May 2006, the senior notes were
successfully remarketed on behalf of the holders of the equity units and the interest rate was
reset from 2.56% to 5.55%, effective May 16, 2006. The Company did not receive any proceeds from
the remarketing. Rather, the remarketing proceeds were utilized to purchase a portfolio of U.S.
Treasury securities, which was pledged to the Company as collateral to satisfy the purchase
contractholders’ obligations to purchase the Company’s stock. In connection with the remarketing,
The Hartford purchased and retired $265 of the senior notes for approximately $265 in cash and
recognized an immaterial gain on the early extinguishment. In August 2006, under the forward
purchase contracts, the Company issued approximately 12.1 million shares of common stock and
received proceeds of approximately $690.

In September 2002, The Hartford issued 6.6 million 6% equity units at a price of fifty dollars per
unit and received net proceeds of $319. Each equity unit initially consisted of one purchase
contract for a certain number of shares of the Company’s stock on November 16, 2006 and fifty
dollars principal amount of senior notes due November 16, 2008. The senior notes had an aggregate
principal amount of $330. In August 2006, the senior notes were successfully remarketed on behalf
of the holders of the equity units and the interest rate was reset from 4.10% to 5.663%, effective
August 16, 2006. The Company did not receive any proceeds from the remarketing. Rather, the
remarketing proceeds were utilized to purchase a portfolio of U.S. Treasury securities, which was
pledged to the Company as collateral to satisfy the purchase contractholders’ obligations to
purchase the Company’s stock. In November 2006, under the forward purchase contracts, the Company
issued approximately 5.7 million shares of common stock and received proceeds of approximately
$330.

For a discussion of the impact to earnings per share from the equity unit offerings, see Note 2.

Shelf Registrations

On December 3, 2003, The Hartford’s shelf registration statement (Registration No. 333-108067) for
the potential offering and sale of debt and equity securities in an aggregate amount of up to $3.0
billion was declared effective by the SEC. The Registration Statement allows for the following
types of securities to be offered: (i) debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, depositary
shares, warrants, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units and junior subordinated deferrable
interest debentures of the

F-58


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

14. Debt (continued)

Company, and (ii) preferred securities of any of one or more capital trusts organized by The
Hartford (“The Hartford Trusts”). The Company may enter into guarantees with respect to the
preferred securities of any of The Hartford Trusts. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had $1.4
billion remaining under the shelf registration.

Contingent
Capital
Facility

On February 12, 2007, The Hartford entered into a put option agreement (the “Put
Option Agreement”) with Glen Meadow ABC Trust, a Delaware statutory trust (the
“ABC Trust”), and LaSalle Bank National Association, as put option calculation
agent.  The Put Option Agreement provides The Hartford with the right to require the ABC
Trust, at any time and from time to time, to purchase The Hartford’s junior subordinated notes
(the “Notes”) in a maximum aggregate principal amount not to exceed $500.
Under the Put Option Agreement, The Hartford will pay the ABC Trust premiums on a
periodic basis, calculated with respect to the aggregate principal amount of Notes that The
Hartford had the right to put to the ABC Trust for such period.  The Hartford has agreed to
reimburse the ABC Trust for certain fees and ordinary expenses.

Commercial Paper, Revolving Credit Facility and Line of Credit

The table below details the Company’s short-term debt programs and the applicable balances
outstanding.

Maximum Available As of

Outstanding As of

Effective

Expiration

December 31,

December 31,

Description

Date

Date





Commercial Paper

The Hartford

11/10/86

N/A

$

2,000

$

2,000

$


$


HLI [1]

2/7/97

N/A



—

—

Total commercial paper

2,250

2,250



Revolving Credit Facility

5-year revolving credit facility

9/7/05

9/7/10

1,600

1,600

—

—

Line of Credit

Life Japan Operations [2]

9/18/02

1/4/08



—

—

Total Commercial Paper, Revolving Credit Facility
and Line of Credit

$

3,892

$

3,867

$


$


[1]

In January 2007, the commercial paper program of HLI was terminated.

[2]

As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company’s Japanese operation line of credit in yen
was ¥5 billion and ¥ 2 billion, respectively.

The revolving credit facility provides for up to $1.6 billion of unsecured credit. Of the
total availability under the revolving credit facility, up to $100 is available to support letters
of credit issued on behalf of The Hartford or other subsidiaries of The Hartford. Under the
revolving credit facility, the Company must maintain a minimum level of consolidated statutory
surplus. In addition, the Company must not exceed a maximum ratio of debt to capitalization.
Quarterly, the Company certifies compliance with the financial covenants for the syndicate of
participating financial institutions. As of December 31, 2006, the Company was in compliance with
all such covenants.

Junior Subordinated Debentures

The Hartford and its subsidiary, HLI, had formed statutory business trusts, which existed for the
exclusive purposes of (i) issuing Trust Securities representing undivided beneficial interests in
the assets of the Trust; (ii) investing the gross proceeds of the Trust Securities in Junior
Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures (“Junior Subordinated Debentures”) of The Hartford or
HLI; and (iii) engaging in only those activities necessary or incidental thereto. The securities
for Hartford Life Capital II and Hartford Capital III were redeemed on July 14, 2006 and November
17, 2006, respectively.

Interest Expense

The following table presents interest expense incurred for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

For the years ended December 31,




Short-term debt

$


$


$


Long-term debt [1]




Total interest expense

$


$


$


[1] Includes junior subordinated debentures.

The weighted-average interest rate on commercial paper was 5.3%, 3.4% and 1.5% for 2006, 2005
and 2004, respectively.

Consumer Notes

On September 8, 2006, Hartford Life Insurance Company filed a shelf registration statement with the
SEC (Registration Statement No. 333-137215), effective immediately, for the offering and sale of
Hartford Life IncomeNotes

SM

and Hartford Life medium-term notes (collectively called
“Consumer Notes”). There are no limitations on the ability to issue additional indebtedness in the
form of Hartford Life IncomeNotes

SM

and Hartford Life medium-term notes.

Institutional Solutions Group began issuing Consumer Notes through its Retail Investor Notes
Program in September 2006. A Consumer Note is an investment product distributed through
broker-dealers directly to retail investors as medium-term, publicly

F-59


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

14. Debt (continued)

traded fixed or floating rate, or a combination of fixed and floating rate, notes. In
addition, discount notes, amortizing notes and indexed notes may also be offered and issued.
Consumer Notes are part of the Company’s spread-based business and proceeds are

used to purchase investment products, primarily fixed rate bonds. Proceeds are not used for
general operating purposes. Consumer Notes are offered weekly with maturities up to 30 years and
varying interest rates and may include a call provision. Certain Consumer Notes may be redeemed by
the holder in the event of death. Redemptions are subject to certain limitations, including
calendar year aggregate and individual limits equal to the greater of $1 or 1% of the aggregate
principal amount of the notes and $250 thousand per individual, respectively. Derivative
instruments will be utilized to hedge the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk in accordance
with Company policy.

As of December 31, 2006, $258 of Consumer Notes had been issued. These notes have interest rates
ranging from 5.0% to 6.0% for fixed notes and consumer price index
plus 175 basis points to 225 basis points for variable
notes. The aggregate maturities of Consumer Notes are as follows: $230 in 2008, $10 in 2009 and
$18 in 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2006 interest credited to holders of Consumer Notes
was $2.

15. Stockholders’ Equity

Common Stock

In February 2007, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized
the Company to repurchase up to an additional $1 billion of its
securities. This brings the Company’s total share repurchase
authorization to $2 billion. The Company’s repurchase authorization permits purchases of common
stock, which may be in the open market or through privately negotiated
transactions. The Company also may enter into derivative transactions to facilitate future
repurchases of common stock. During 2006, The Company announced its plans to
repurchase $800 of its common stock under its existing repurchase authorization. As of December 31,
2006, the Company has made no repurchases under this program. Through February 16, 2007, The
Hartford had repurchased approximately $363 (3.8 million shares) under this program.

In 2006, the Company issued approximately 12.1 million and 5.7 million shares of
common stock in connection with the settlement of purchase contracts originally issued
in 2003 and 2002, respectively, as components of our equity units, see Note 14.

Preferred Stock

The Company has 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock authorized, none of which have been
issued.

Statutory Results

The domestic insurance subsidiaries of HFSG prepare their statutory financial statements in
conformity with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the applicable state
insurance department which vary materially from GAAP. Prescribed statutory accounting practices
include publications of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”), as well as
state laws, regulations and general administrative rules. The differences between statutory
financial statements and financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP vary between
domestic and foreign jurisdictions. The principal differences are that statutory financial
statements do not reflect deferred policy acquisition costs and limit deferred income taxes, life
benefit reserves predominately use interest rate and mortality assumptions prescribed by the NAIC,
bonds are generally carried at amortized cost and reinsurance assets and liabilities are presented
net of reinsurance. The Company’s use of permitted statutory accounting practices does not have a
significant impact on statutory surplus.

For the years ended December 31,




Statutory Net Income

Life operations

$

1,123

$


$

1,048

Property & Casualty operations

1,326

1,382


Total

$

2,449

$

2,203

$

1,404

As of December 31,

Statutory Surplus



Life operations

$

4,734

$

4,364

Japan life operations

1,380

1,017

Property & Casualty operations

8,230

6,981

Total

$

14,344

$

12,362

Dividends to the Company from its insurance subsidiaries are restricted. The payment of dividends
by Connecticut-domiciled insurers is limited under the insurance holding company laws of
Connecticut. These laws require notice to and approval by the state insurance commissioner for the
declaration or payment of any dividend, which, together with other dividends or distributions made
within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of (i) 10% of the insurer’s policyholder
surplus as of December 31 of the preceding year or (ii) net income (or net gain from operations, if
such company is a life insurance company) for the twelve-month period ending on the thirty-first
day of December last preceding, in each case determined under statutory insurance accounting

F-60


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

15. Stockholders’ Equity (continued)

principles. In addition, if any dividend of a Connecticut-domiciled insurer exceeds the
insurer’s earned surplus, it requires the prior approval of the Connecticut Insurance Commissioner.
The insurance holding company laws of the other jurisdictions in which The Hartford’s insurance
subsidiaries are incorporated (or deemed commercially domiciled) generally contain similar
(although in certain instances somewhat more restrictive) limitations on the payment of dividends.
Dividends paid to HFSG by its insurance subsidiaries are further dependent on cash requirements of
HLI and other factors. The Company’s property-casualty insurance subsidiaries are permitted to pay
up to a maximum of approximately $1.5 billion in dividends to HFSG in 2007 without prior approval
from the applicable insurance commissioner. The Company’s life insurance subsidiaries are
permitted to pay up to a maximum of approximately $620 in dividends to HLI in 2007 without prior
approval from the applicable insurance commissioner. The aggregate of these amounts, net of
amounts required by HLI, is the maximum the insurance subsidiaries could pay to HFSG in 2007. In
2006, HFSG and HLI received a combined total of $609 from their insurance subsidiaries.

16. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, Net of Tax

Comprehensive income is defined as all changes in stockholders’ equity, except those arising
from transactions with stockholders. Comprehensive income includes net income and other
comprehensive income (loss), which for the Company consists of changes in net unrealized
appreciation or depreciation of available-for-sale investments carried at market value, changes in
gains or losses on cash-flow hedging instruments, changes in foreign currency translation gains or
losses and changes in the Company’s minimum pension liability.

The components of AOCI were as follows:

Pension and

Net Gain (Loss)

Foreign

Other

Accumulated

Unrealized

on Cash-Flow

Currency

Postretirement

Other

Gain (Loss)

Hedging

Translation

Plan

Comprehensive

For the year ended December 31, 2006

on Securities

Instruments

Adjustments

Adjustment

Income (Loss)

Balance, beginning of year

$


$

(110

)

$

(149

)

$

(620

)

$


Unrealized gain on securities [1] [2]


—

—

—


Net gain on cash-flow hedging instruments [1] [3]

—

(124

)

—

—

(124

)

Change in foreign currency translation adjustments [1]

—

—


—


Change in pension and other postretirement
plan adjustment [1]

—

—

—



Balance, end of year

$

1,058

$

(234

)

$

(120

)

$

(526

)

$


For the year ended December 31, 2005

Balance, beginning of year

$

2,162

$

(215

)

$

(42

)

$

(480

)

$

1,425

Unrealized loss on securities [1] [2]

(1,193

)

—

—

—

(1,193

)

Net loss on cash-flow hedging instruments [1] [3]

—


—

—


Change in foreign currency translation adjustments [1]

—

—

(107

)

—

(107

)

Change in minimum pension liability adjustment [1]

—

—

—

(140

)

(140

)

Balance, end of year

$


$

(110

)

$

(149

)

$

(620

)

$


For the year ended December 31, 2004

Balance, beginning of year

$

1,764

$

(42

)

$

(101

)

$

(375

)

$

1,246

Unrealized gain on securities [1] [2]


—

—

—


Net loss on cash-flow hedging instruments [1] [3]

—

(173

)

—

—

(173

)

Change in foreign currency translation adjustments [1]

—

—


—


Change in minimum pension liability adjustment [1]

—

—

—

(105

)

(105

)

Cumulative effect of accounting change [4]


—

—

—


Balance, end of year

$

2,162

$

(215

)

$

(42

)

$

(480

)

$

1,425

[1]

Unrealized gain on securities is net of tax and Life deferred acquisition costs
of $137, $(644), and $234 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Net gain (loss) on cash-flow hedging instruments is net of tax of $(67), $57, and $(93) for
the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Change in foreign currency
translation adjustments are net of tax of $16, $(58) and $32 for the years ended December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Change in pension and other postretirement plan adjustment
is net of tax of $51, $(75) and $(57) for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

[2]

Net of reclassification adjustment for gains realized in net income of $(74), $45 and
$170 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

[3]

Net of amortization adjustment of $(38), $5 and $20 to net investment income for the
years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

[4]

Cumulative effect of accounting change related to the Company’s adoption of SOP 03-1 is
net of tax of $157 for the year ended December 31, 2004.

F-61


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

17. Pension Plans and Postretirement Health Care and Life Insurance Benefit Plans

The Company maintains a qualified defined benefit pension plan (the “Plan”) that covers
substantially all employees. Effective for all employees who joined the Company on or after
January 1, 2001, a new component or formula was applied under the Plan referred to as the “cash
balance formula”. As of January 1, 2009, the cash balance formula will be used to calculate future
pension benefits for services rendered on or after January 1, 2009 for all employees hired before
January 1, 2001. These amounts are in addition to amounts earned by those employees through
December 31, 2008 under the traditional final average pay formula.

The Company also maintains non-qualified pension plans to accrue retirement benefits in excess of
Internal Revenue Code limitations.

The Company provides certain health care and life insurance benefits for eligible retired
employees. The Company’s contribution for health care benefits will depend upon the retiree’s date
of retirement and years of service. In addition, the plan has a defined dollar cap for certain
retirees which limits average Company contributions. The Hartford has prefunded a portion of the
health care obligations through a trust fund where such prefunding can be accomplished on a tax
effective basis. Effective January 1, 2002, Company-subsidized retiree medical, retiree dental and
retiree life insurance benefits were eliminated for employees with original hire dates with the
Company on or after January 1, 2002.

The Company adopted SFAS 158 as of December 31, 2006. The following table illustrates the effect
of adopting SFAS 158 as well as the incremental adjustment to the consolidated balance sheet to
record the funded status of pension benefits as of December 31, 2006.

Deferred Tax

AOCI, net

Increases/(Decreases) to Balance

Asset

Liability

of tax

SFAS 158 adjustment

$

(754

)

$


$

(490

)

Reversal of previously recorded minimum pension liability


(302

)


Net change

$


$

(38

)

$


The effect of adopting SFAS 158 was a decrease in the asset of $754, with a corresponding after-tax
reduction in AOCI of $490.

As
previously required under SFAS 87, because
the Accumulated Benefit Obligation exceeded the Fair Value of Plan Assets, the Company had recorded
an additional minimum liability adjustment as of December 31, 2005 related to the Plan. Therefore,
the net change in the balance sheet was actually an increase in the asset of $108, with a
corresponding after-tax increase in AOCI of $70.

The following table illustrates the adjustments to the consolidated balance sheet to record the
funded status of other postretirement benefits as required by SFAS 158 as of December 31, 2006.

Accrued

Deferred Tax

AOCI, net

Liability

Asset

of tax

Pre-SFAS 158

$


$


$

—

SFAS 158 adjustment

(37

)

(13

)


Post-SFAS 158

$


$


$


The effect of adopting SFAS 158 was a decrease in the liability of $37, with a corresponding
after-tax increase in AOCI of $24.

Assumptions

Pursuant to accounting principles related to the Company’s pension and other postretirement
obligations to employees under its various benefit plans, the Company is required to make a
significant number of assumptions in order to calculate the related liabilities and expenses each
period. The two economic assumptions that have the most impact on pension and other
postretirement expense are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan
assets. In determining the discount rate assumption, the Company utilizes a discounted cash flow
analysis of the Company’s pension and other postretirement obligations, currently available market
and industry data and consultation with its plan actuaries. The yield curve utilized in the cash
flow analysis is comprised of bonds rated Aa or higher with maturities primarily between zero and
thirty years. Based on all available information, it was determined that 5.75% was the
appropriate discount rate as of December 31, 2006 to calculate the Company’s benefit liability.
Accordingly, the 5.75% discount rate will also be used to determine the Company’s 2007 pension and
other postretirement expense.

The Company determines the expected long-term rate of return assumption based on an analysis of the
Plan portfolio’s historical compound rates of return since 1979 (the earliest date for which
comparable portfolio data is available) and over rolling 5 year and 10 year periods, balanced along
with future long-term return expectations that generally anticipate an investment mix of 60% equity
securities and 40% fixed income securities. The Company selected these periods, as well as shorter
durations, to assess the portfolio’s

F-62


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

17. Pension Plans and Postretirement Health Care and Life Insurance Benefit Plans (continued)

volatility, duration and total returns as they relate to pension obligation characteristics,
which are influenced by the Company’s workforce demographics. In addition, the Company also
applies market return assumptions utilized in Life’s DAC analysis to an investment mix that
generally anticipates 60% equity securities and 40% fixed income securities to derive an expected
long-term rate of return. Based upon this analysis, the portfolio’s historical rates of return and
management’s outlook with respect to market returns and the planned asset mix, management
maintained the long-term rate of return assumption at 8.00% as of December 31, 2006. This
assumption will be used to determine the Company’s 2007 expense.

Weighted average assumptions used in calculating the benefit obligations and the net amount
recognized for the plans per year were as follows:

As of December 31,



Discount rate

5.75

%

5.50

%

Rate of increase in compensation levels

4.25

%

4.00

%

Weighted average assumptions used in calculating the net periodic benefit cost for the plans were
as follows:

Twelve Months Ended

December 31,




Discount rate

5.50

%

5.75

%

6.25

%

Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets

8.00

%

8.50

%

8.50

%

Rate of increase in compensation levels

4.00

%

4.00

%

4.00

%

Assumed health care cost trend rates were as follows:

As of December 31,




Health care cost trend rate

10.00

%

10.00

%

10.00

%

Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to
decline (the ultimate trend rate)

4.50

%

4.50

%

4.50

%

Year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate




Assumed health care cost trends have an effect on the amounts reported for the postretirement
health care and life insurance benefit plans. Increasing/decreasing the health care trend rates by
one percent each year would have the effect of increasing/decreasing the benefit obligation as of
December 31, 2006 by $9 and the annual net periodic expense for the year then ended by $1.

Obligations and Funded Status

The following tables set forth a reconciliation of beginning and ending balances of the benefit
obligation and fair value of plan assets as well as the funded status of The Hartford’s defined
benefit pension and postretirement health care and life insurance benefit plans for the years ended
December 31, 2006 and 2005. International plans represent an immaterial percentage of total
pension assets, liabilities and expense and, for reporting purposes, are combined with domestic
plans.

In addition to the discount rate change, the Company’s other postretirement benefit plan
experienced an actuarial gain predominantly due to more retirees dropping coverage than
anticipated.

F-63


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

17. Pension Plans and Postretirement Health Care and Life Insurance Benefit Plans (continued)

Other Postretirement

Pension Benefits

Benefits

Change in Benefit Obligation





Benefit
obligation — beginning of year

$

3,534

$

3,162

$


$


Service cost (excluding expenses)





Interest cost





Plan participants’ contributions

—

—



Amendments

—


—

—

Actuarial loss/(gain)



(59

)

(24

)

Change in assumptions

(161

)


(97

)


Benefits paid

(145

)

(134

)

(34

)

(29

)

Other / Foreign exchange adjustment

(1

)


—

—

Benefit
obligation — end of year

$

3,604

$

3,534

$


$


Other Postretirement

Pension Benefits

Benefits

Change in Plan Assets





Fair value
of plan assets — beginning of year

$

3,047

$

2,496

$


$


Actual return on plan assets





Employer contributions



—

—

Benefits paid

(136

)

(126

)

—

—

Expenses paid

(11

)

(4

)

—

—

Other / Foreign exchange adjustment

(3

)


—

—

Fair
value of plan assets — end of year

$

3,655

$

3,047

$


$


Funded
status — end of year

$


$

(487

)

$

(254

)

$

(412

)

The fair value of assets for pension benefits, and hence the funded status, presented in the table
above exclude assets of $94 and $83 held in rabbi trusts and designated for the non-qualified
pension plans as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The assets do not qualify as plan
assets and, therefore, have been excluded from the table above. The assets consist of equity and
fixed income securities and are available to pay benefits for certain retired, terminated and
active participants. Such assets are available to the Company’s general creditors in the event of
insolvency. To the extent the fair value of these trusts were included in the table above, pension
plan assets would have been $3,749 and $3,130 as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and
the funded status of pension benefits would have been $145 and $(404) as of December 31, 2006 and
2005, respectively.

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $3,486 and $3,360 as
of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

The following table provides information for The Hartford’s defined benefit pension plans with an
accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005.

December 31,



Projected benefit obligation

$


$

3,510

Accumulated benefit obligation


3,335

Fair value of plan assets

—

3,017

F-64


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

17. Pension Plans and Postretirement Health Care and Life Insurance Benefit Plans (continued)

Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost

Total net periodic benefit cost for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 include the
following components:

Pension Benefits

Other Postretirement Benefits







Service cost

$


$


$


$


$


$


Interest cost







Expected return on plan assets

(244

)

(221

)

(201

)

(8

)

(9

)

(8

)

Amortization of prior service cost

(13

)

(13

)

(13

)

(23

)

(23

)

(23

)

Amortization of unrecognized net losses




—



Net periodic benefit cost

$


$


$


$

(3

)

$


$


Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income on a before-tax basis consist of:

Pension Benefits

Other Postretirement Benefits





Net loss/(gain)

$


$

—

$

(30

)

$

—

Prior service cost/(credit)

(102

)

—

(9

)

—

Transition obligation

—

—


—

Total

$


$

—

$

(37

)

$

—

The estimated net loss and prior service credit for the defined benefit pension plans that will be
amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost during 2007
are $76 and $(13), respectively. The estimated net gain and prior service credit for the other
postretirement benefit plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income
into net periodic benefit cost during 2007 are $(1) and $(6), respectively.

Plan Assets

The Company’s defined benefit pension plan weighted average asset allocation at December 31, 2006
and 2005, and target allocation by asset category are as follows:

Percentage of Pension Plan Assets Fair

Value at December 31,

Target



Allocation

Equity securities


%


%

50% - 70

%

Debt securities


%


%

30% - 50

%

Real estate

—

—

2% maximum

Other

—


%

5% maximum

Total


%


%

There was no Company common stock included in the Plan’s assets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005.

The Company’s other postretirement benefit plans’ weighted average asset allocation at December 31,
2006 and 2005, and target allocation by asset category are as follows:

Percentage of Other Postretirement Benefit

Plan Assets Fair Value at December 31,

Target



Allocation

Equity securities


%


%

20% - 65

%

Debt securities


%


%

35% - 80

%

Total


%


%

There was no Company common stock included in the other postretirement benefit plan assets as of
December 31, 2006 and 2005.

The overall goal of the Plan is to maximize total investment returns to provide sufficient funding
for present and anticipated future benefit obligations within the constraints of a prudent level of
portfolio risk and diversification. Investment decisions are approved by

F-65


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

17. Pension Plans and Postretirement Health Care and Life Insurance Benefit Plans (continued)

the Company’s Pension Fund Trust and Investment Committee. The Company believes that the
asset allocation decision will be the single most important factor determining the long-term
performance of the Plan.

Divergent market performance among different asset classes may, from time to time, cause the asset
allocation to deviate from the desired asset allocation ranges. The asset allocation mix is
reviewed on a periodic basis. If it is determined that an asset allocation mix rebalancing is
required, future portfolio additions and withdrawals will be used, as necessary, to bring the
allocation within tactical ranges.

In order to minimize risk, the Plan maintains a listing of permissible and prohibited investments.
In addition, the Plan has certain concentration limits and investment quality requirements imposed
on permissible investment options. The Company employs a duration overlay program to
adjust the duration of the fixed income component in the Plan assets to better match the duration
of the benefit obligation. The portfolio will invest primarily in U.S. Treasury notes and bond
futures contracts to maintain the duration within +/- 0.75 year of target duration.

Cash Flows

The following table illustrates the Company’s prior and anticipated 2007 contributions.

Employer Contributions

Pension Benefits

Other Postretirement Benefits


$


$

—



—

2007 (best estimate)


—

The Company presently anticipates contributing approximately $200 to its pension plans in 2007
based upon certain economic and business assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not
limited to, equity market performance, changes in interest rates and the Company’s other capital
requirements. For 2007, the Company does not have a required minimum funding contribution for the
Plan and the funding requirements for all of the pension plans are immaterial.

Employer contributions in 2006 and 2005 were made in cash and did not include contributions of the
Company’s common stock.

Benefit Payments

The following table sets forth amounts of benefits expected to be paid over the next ten years from
the Company’s pension and other postretirement plans as of December 31, 2006:

Other

Pension

Postretirement

Benefits

Benefits


$


$














2012-2016

1,319


Total

$

2,269

$


In addition, the following table sets forth amounts of other postretirement benefits expected to be
received under the Medicare Part D Subsidy over the next ten years as of December 31, 2006:


$










2012-2016


Total

$


F-66


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

18. Stock Compensation Plans

The Company has two primary stock-based compensation plans which are described below. Shares
issued in satisfaction of stock-based compensation may be made available from authorized but
unissued shares, shares held by the Company in treasury or from shares purchased in the open
market. The Company typically issues new shares in satisfaction of stock-based compensation. The
compensation expense recognized for the stock-based compensation plans was $61, $56 and $37 for the
years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. The income tax benefit recognized for
stock-based compensation plans was $21, $20 and $13 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively. The Company did not capitalize any cost of stock-based compensation. As of
December 31, 2006, the total compensation cost related to non-vested awards not yet recognized was
$80, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.1 years.

Stock Plan

In 2005, the shareholders of The Hartford approved The Hartford 2005 Incentive Stock Plan (the
“2005 Stock Plan”), which superseded and replaced The Hartford Incentive Stock Plan and The
Hartford Restricted Stock Plan for Non-employee Directors. The terms of the 2005 Stock Plan are
substantially similar to the terms of the superseded plans.

The 2005 Stock Plan provides for awards to be granted in the form of non-qualified or incentive
stock options qualifying under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code, stock appreciation rights,
performance shares, restricted stock, restricted stock units, or any combination of the foregoing.
The aggregate number of shares of stock, which may be awarded, is subject to a maximum limit of
seven million shares applicable to all awards for the ten-year period ending May 18, 2015. To the
extent that any awards under the 2005 Stock Plan, The Hartford Incentive Stock Plan or The Hartford
Restricted Stock Plan for Non-employee Directors are forfeited, terminated, expire unexercised or
are settled for cash in lieu of stock, the shares subject to such awards (or the relevant portion
thereof) shall be available for awards under the 2005 Stock Plan and shall be added to the total
number of shares available under the 2005 Stock Plan. As of December 31, 2006, there were
6,301,163 shares available for future issuance.

The fair values of awards granted under the 2005 Stock Plan are measured as of the grant date and
expensed ratably over the awards’ vesting periods, generally three years. For stock option awards
granted or modified in 2006 and later, the Company began expensing awards to retirement-eligible employees hired before January 1, 2002 immediately or over a period
shorter than the stated vesting period because the employees receive accelerated vesting upon
retirement and therefore the vesting period is considered non-substantive. If, prior to the
adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company had been expensing stock option awards to retirement-eligible
employees over the shorter of the stated vesting period or the date of retirement eligibility, then
the Company would have recognized an immaterial increase in net income for the year ended December
31, 2005 and an immaterial decrease in net income for the year ended December 31, 2004. All awards
provide for accelerated vesting upon a change in control of the Company as defined in the 2005
Stock Plan.

Stock Option Awards

Under the 2005 Stock Plan, all options granted have an exercise price equal to the market price of
the Company’s common stock on the date of grant, and an option’s maximum term is ten years.
Certain options become exercisable over a three year period commencing one year from the date of
grant, while certain other options become exercisable at the later of three years from the date of
grant or upon specified market appreciation of the Company’s common shares. For any year, no
individual employee may receive an award of options for more than 1,000,000 shares. As of December
31, 2006, The Hartford had not issued any incentive stock options under any plans.

The Company uses a hybrid lattice/Monte-Carlo based option valuation model (the “valuation model”)
that incorporates the possibility of early exercise of options into the valuation. The valuation
model also incorporates the Company’s historical termination and exercise experience to determine
the option value. For these reasons, the Company believes the valuation model provides a fair
value that is more representative of actual experience than the value calculated under the
Black-Scholes model.

The valuation model incorporates ranges of assumptions for inputs, and therefore, those ranges are
disclosed below. The term structure of volatility is constructed utilizing implied volatilities
from exchange-traded options on the Company’s stock, historical volatility of the Company’s stock
and other factors. The Company uses historical data to estimate option exercise and employee
termination within the valuation model, and accommodates variations in employee preference and
risk-tolerance by segregating the grantee pool into a series of behavioral cohorts and conducting a
fair valuation for each cohort individually. The expected term of options granted is derived from
the output of the option valuation model and represents, in a mathematical sense, the period of
time that options are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate for periods within the
contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. Constant Maturity Treasury yield curve in
effect at the time of grant.

F-67


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

18. Stock Compensation Plans (continued)

Twelve Months Ended December 31,




Expected dividend yield

1.9%

1.9%

2.1%

Expected annualized spot volatility

20.2% - 32.3%

19.5% - 33.4%

25.2% - 34.7%

Weighted average annualized volatility

28.9%

29.4%

31.5%

Risk-free spot rate

4.4% - 4.6%

2.4% - 4.7%

1.1% - 4.3%

Expected term

7 years

7 years

7 years

A summary of the status of non-qualified stock options included in the Company’s Stock Plan as of
December 31, 2006 and changes during the year ended December 31, 2006 is presented below:

Weighted

Average

Weighted

Remaining

Number of Options

Average

Contractual

Aggregate

(in thousands)

Exercise Price

Term

Intrinsic Value

Outstanding at beginning of year

11,471

$

54.16

5.3

Granted


83.14

Exercised

(2,789

)

50.13

Forfeited

(76

)

57.83

Expired

(37

)

53.84

Outstanding at end of year

8,898

56.48

4.8

$


Exercisable at end of year

7,801

54.23

4.3

$


Weighted average fair value of options granted

$

27.66

The weighted average grant-date fair value of options granted during the years ended December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004 was $27.66, $22.89 and $20.74, respectively. The total intrinsic value of
options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $99, $200 and $86,
respectively.

Share Awards

Share awards are valued equal to the market price of the Company’s common stock on the date of
grant, less a discount for those awards that do not provide for dividends during the vesting
period. Share awards granted under the 2005 Stock Plan and outstanding include restricted stock
units, restricted stock and performance shares. Generally, restricted stock units vest after three
years and restricted stock vests in three to five years. Performance shares become payable within
a range of 0% to 200% of the number of shares initially granted based upon the attainment of
specific performance goals achieved over a specified period, generally three years. The maximum
award of restricted stock units, restricted stock or performance shares for any individual employee
in any year is 200,000 shares or units.

A summary of the status of the Company’s non-vested share awards as of December 31, 2006, and
changes during the year ended December 31, 2006, is presented below:

Weighted-Average

Shares

Grant-Date

Non-vested Shares

(in thousands)

Fair Value

Non-vested at beginning of year

1,080

$

67.94

Granted


82.98

Increase for change in estimated performance factors


66.08

Vested

(312

)

64.94

Forfeited

(53

)

72.98

Non-vested at end of year

1,605

$

75.23

The total fair value of shares vested during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was
$29, $45 and $4, respectively, based on estimated performance factors. The Company, at its
discretion, made cash payments in settlement of stock compensation of $36 during the year ended
December 31, 2006. The Company did not make cash payments in settlement of stock compensation in
the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.

F-68


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

18. Stock Compensation Plans (continued)

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

In 1996, the Company established The Hartford Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”). Under this
plan, eligible employees of The Hartford may purchase common stock of the Company at a 15% discount
from the lower of the closing market price at the beginning or end of the quarterly offering
period. Employees purchase a variable number of shares of stock through payroll deductions elected
as of the beginning of the quarter. The Company may sell up to 5,400,000 shares of stock to
eligible employees under the ESPP. As of December 31, 2006, there were 2,006,422 shares available
for future issuance. During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, 341,330, 328,276 and
348,130 shares were sold, respectively. The weighted average per share fair value of the discount
under the ESPP was $16.05, $13.74 and $12.12 during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively. The fair value is estimated based on the 15% discount off of the beginning
stock price plus the value of three-month European call and put options on shares of stock at the
beginning stock price calculated using the Black-Scholes model and the following weighted average
valuation assumptions:

Twelve Months Ended December 31,




Dividend yield

2.0

%

1.6

%

1.6

%

Implied volatility

19.0

%

20.5

%

19.3

%

Risk-free spot rate

4.7

%

2.9

%

1.2

%

Expected term

3 months

3 months

3 months

Implied volatility was derived from exchange-traded options on the Company’s stock. The risk-free
rate is based on the U.S. Constant Maturity Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
The total intrinsic value of the discounts at purchase was $5 in each of the years ended December
31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Additionally, The Hartford has established employee stock
purchase plans for certain employees of the Company’s international subsidiaries. Under these
plans, participants may purchase common stock of The Hartford at a fixed price. The activity under
these programs is not material.

19. Investment and Savings Plan

Substantially all U.S. employees are eligible to participate in The Hartford’s Investment and
Savings Plan under which designated contributions may be invested in common stock of The Hartford
or certain other investments. These contributions are matched, up to 3% of base salary, by the
Company. In addition, the Company allocates at least 0.5% of base salary to the plan for each
eligible employee. In 2006, the Company allocated 1.5% of base salary to the plan for eligible
employees who received compensation of less than one hundred thousand dollars during the prior
year. The cost to The Hartford for this plan was approximately $59, $52 and $50 for 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively.

20. Sale of Subsidiary

On November 30, 2006, the Company sold its non-standard auto insurance business, Omni
Insurance Group, Inc. (“Omni”). Under the terms the agreement, the Company continues to be
obligated for certain extra contractual liability claims and for claims and expenses arising from
all business written by Omni in the states of California and New York. The Company has since taken
action to cease writing new non-standard business in both California and New York. The Company
believes that exiting the traditional non-standard auto insurance business will streamline its
operations and help the Company align its resources towards achieving core business objectives.

The total consideration for the sale of approximately $104 included a cash dividend prior to the
sale of $38 and a purchase price of $65, of which $60 was received in cash at closing. The
remaining $5 is receivable four months after closing, after an audit has been performed of Omni’s
statutory balance sheet as of the closing date. The purchase price is subject to adjustment based
on the results of the audit and a review of other information used to determine the purchase price.
The Company recorded an after-tax gain from the sale of $25, which included an income tax benefit
of $49 and a pre-tax loss of $24. The pre-tax loss is recorded within realized gains and losses in
the 2006 consolidated statement of operations. The $49 income tax benefit arose because the tax
basis of the Company’s investment in Omni exceeded the financial statement carrying value. The
assets that were sold at the closing date included $172 of cash, $8 of invested assets, $31 of
premiums receivable, $3 of Personal Lines segment goodwill allocated to the Omni business and $23
of other assets. The liabilities sold at the closing date included $111 of loss and loss
adjustment expense reserves, $37 of unearned premium and $14 of other liabilities.

F-69


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

21. Quarterly Results For 2006 and 2005 (unaudited)

Three Months Ended

March 31,

June 30,

September 30,

December 31,









Revenues

$

6,543

$

6,002

$

4,971

$

6,064

$

7,407

$

7,307

$

7,579

$

7,710

Benefits, losses and expenses

$

5,559

$

5,088

$

4,366

$

5,237

$

6,396

$

6,611

$

6,577

$

7,162

Net income

$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Basic earnings per share

$

2.41

$

2.26

$

1.57

$

2.03

$

2.45

$

1.80

$

2.45

$

1.55

Diluted earnings per share

$

2.34

$

2.21

$

1.52

$

1.98

$

2.39

$

1.76

$

2.42

$

1.51

Weighted average common shares outstanding

302.2

294.8

303.3

297.1

310.0

299.2

319.7

300.7

Weighted average common shares
outstanding and dilutive potential common
shares

310.9

301.3

312.3

303.9

316.7

307.0

323.9

310.0

F-70


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

SCHEDULE I

SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS — OTHER THAN INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATES

(In millions)

As of December 31, 2006

Amount at

which shown on

Type of Investment

Cost

Fair Value

Balance Sheet

Fixed Maturities

Bonds and Notes

U.S. Government and Government agencies and
authorities (guaranteed and sponsored)

$


$


$


U.S. Government and Government agencies and
authorities (guaranteed and sponsored) —
asset-backed

4,682

4,662

4,662

States, municipalities and political subdivisions

11,897

12,406

12,406

International governments

1,213

1,294

1,294

Public utilities

4,588

4,717

4,717

All other corporate including international

30,481

31,174

31,174

All other corporate — asset-backed

23,863

23,939

23,939

Short-term investments

1,681

1,681

1,681

Redeemable preferred stock




Total fixed maturities

79,289

80,755

80,755

Equity Securities

Common stocks

Utilities




Banks, trusts & insurance companies




Industrial, miscellaneous and all other

23,993

29,885

29,885

Non-redeemable preferred stocks

1,202

1,239

1,239

Total equity securities

25,203

31,132

31,132

Total fixed maturities and equity securities

104,492

111,887

111,887

Real Estate




Other Investments

Mortgage loans on real estate

3,318

3,298

3,318

Policy loans

2,051

2,051

2,051

Investments in partnerships and trusts

1,244

1,244

1,244

Futures, options and miscellaneous




Total other investments

7,330

7,264

7,284

Total investments

$

111,824

$

119,153

$

119,173

S-1


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

SCHEDULE II

CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

(Registrant)

(In millions)

As of December 31,

Condensed Balance Sheets



Assets

Other assets

$

1,037

$


Investment in affiliates

22,761

19,235

Total assets

23,798

19,646

Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity

Net payable to affiliates



Short-term debt (includes current maturities of
long-term debt)



Long-term debt

3,265

3,003

Other liabilities



Total liabilities

4,922

4,321

Total stockholders’ equity

18,876

15,325

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

$

23,798

$

19,646

(In millions)

For the years ended December 31,

Condensed Statements of Operations




Interest expense (net of interest income)

$


$


$


Other expenses




Loss before income taxes and earnings of subsidiaries

(242

)

(183

)

(180

)

Income tax benefit

(84

)

(63

)

(62

)

Loss before earnings of subsidiaries

(158

)

(120

)

(118

)

Earnings of subsidiaries

2,903

2,394

2,233

Net income

$

2,745

$

2,274

$

2,115

The condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.

S-2


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

SCHEDULE II

CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC. (continued)

(Registrant)

(In millions)

For the years ended December 31,

Condensed Statements of Cash Flows




Operating Activities

Net income

$

2,745

$

2,274

$

2,115

Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries

(2,366

)

(1,904

)

(1,506

)

Change in operating assets and liabilities

(74

)

(304

)


Cash provided by operating activities




Investing Activities

Net sale (purchase) of short-term investments

(292

)


(111

)

Capital contributions to subsidiaries

(527

)

(22

)

(646

)

Cash provided by (used for) investing activities

(819

)


(757

)

Financing Activities

Issuance of shares from equity unit contracts

1,020

—

—

Issuance of common stock in underwritten offering

—

—


Issuance of long-term debt


—


Repayment/maturity of long-term debt

(1,015

)

(250

)

—

Change in short-term debt

(173

)


(477

)

Proceeds from issuances of shares under incentive
and stock compensation plans, net




Return of shares to treasury stock under incentive
and stock compensation plans

(5

)

(2

)

(2

)

Excess tax benefits on stock-based compensation


—

—

Dividends paid

(460

)

(345

)

(325

)

Cash provided by (used for) financing activities


(107

)

(35

)

Net change in cash

—

—

—

Cash — beginning of year

—

—

—

Cash — end of year

$

—

$

—

$

—

Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information

Interest Paid

$


$


$


Dividends Received from Subsidiaries

$


$


$


The condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.

S-3


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

SCHEDULE III

SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION

(In millions)

Future Policy

Benefits,

Other

Unpaid Losses

Policyholder

Deferred Policy

and

Funds and

Acquisition

Loss Adjustment

Unearned

Benefits

Segment
[1]

Costs [2]

Expenses

Premiums

Payable

As of December 31, 2006

Life

Retail Products Group

$

4,706

$


$


$

15,095

Retirement Plans



—

5,544

Institutional Solutions Group


5,925


11,405

Individual Life

2,113



5,343

Group Benefits


6,150



International

1,509


—

31,782

Other

(25

)


—

1,790

Total Life

9,070

14,016


71,311

Property & Casualty

Ongoing Operations

Business Insurance


7,794

2,646

—

Personal Lines


1,959

1,863

—

Specialty Commercial


6,522

1,010

—

Total Ongoing Operations

1,197

16,275

5,519

—

Other Operations

—

5,716


—

Total Property & Casualty

1,197

21,991

5,522

—

Corporate


—

(5

)

—

Consolidated

$

10,268

$

36,007

$

5,620

$

71,311

As of December 31, 2005

Life

Retail Products Group

$

4,714

$


$

—

$

16,410

Retirement Plans



—

5,194

Institutional Solutions Group


5,315

—

9,233

Individual Life

1,975



4,990

Group Benefits


5,828



International

1,281


—

26,102

Other



—

1,988

Total Life

8,567

12,987


64,452

Property & Casualty

Ongoing Operations

Business Insurance


7,066

2,566

—

Personal Lines


2,152

1,809

—

Specialty Commercial


6,202

1,076

—

Total Ongoing Operations

1,134

15,420

5,451

—

Other Operations

—

6,846


—

Total Property & Casualty

1,134

22,266

5,502

—

Corporate


—

(5

)

—

Consolidated

$

9,702

$

35,253

$

5,566

$

64,452

S-4


Earned

Benefits, Losses

Amortization of

Premiums,

Net

and Loss

Deferred Policy

Fee Income

Investment

Adjustment

Acquisition

Other

Net Written

Segment [1]

and Other

Income

Expenses

Costs

Expenses [3]

Premiums

For the year ended December 31, 2006

Life

Retail Products Group

$

2,611

$


$


$


$


$

Retirement Plans






Institutional Solutions Group


1,003

1,484



Individual Life






Group Benefits

4,150


3,002


1,102

International






Other


1,978

1,985



Total Life

9,316

5,008

8,040

1,452

2,708

N/A

Property & Casualty

Ongoing Operations

Business Insurance

5,118

3,066

1,184

5,185

Personal Lines

3,895

2,478


3,877

Specialty Commercial

1,888

1,098


1,596

Total Ongoing Operations

10,901

1,225

6,642

2,106

1,211

10,658

Other Operations




—



Total Property & Casualty

10,906

1,486

7,002

2,106

1,223

10,662

Corporate



—

—


N/A

Consolidated

$

20,236

$

6,515

$

15,042

$

3,558

$

4,298

$

10,662

For the year ended December 31, 2005

Life

Retail Products Group

$

2,273

$


$


$


$


$

Retirement Plans






Institutional Solutions Group



1,212



Individual Life






Group Benefits

3,810


2,794


1,022

International






Other


4,021

4,166



Total Life

8,203

6,845

9,809

1,172

2,522

N/A

Property & Casualty

Ongoing Operations

Business Insurance

4,785

2,971

1,138

5,001

Personal Lines

3,731

2,294


3,676

Specialty Commercial

2,099

1,486


1,806

Total Ongoing Operations

10,615

1,082

6,751

2,000

1,326

10,483

Other Operations




(3

)



Total Property & Casualty

10,619

1,365

6,963

1,997

1,348

10,487

Corporate




—


N/A

Consolidated

$

18,835

$

8,231

$

16,776

$

3,169

$

4,153

$

10,487

For the year ended December 31, 2004

Life

Retail Products Group

$

2,024

$

1,011

$

1,074

$


$


$

Retirement Plans






Institutional Solutions Group



1,116



Individual Life






Group Benefits

3,652


2,703



International






Other


1,007

1,017



Total Life

7,536

3,675

6,630


2,145

N/A

Property & Casualty

Ongoing Operations

Business Insurance

4,298

2,633

1,058

4,575

Personal Lines

3,568

2,512


3,557

Specialty Commercial

2,040

1,414


1,840

Total Ongoing Operations

9,906


6,559

1,845

1,213

9,972

Other Operations






(10

)

Total Property & Casualty

9,930

1,248

7,004

1,850

1,272

9,962

Corporate




—


N/A

Consolidated

$

17,474

$

4,943

$

13,640

$

2,843

$

3,702

$

9,962

[1]

Segment information is presented in a manner by which The Hartford’s chief operating decision maker views and manages the business.

[2]

Also includes present value of future profits.

[3]

Includes insurance operating costs, interest and other expenses.

N/A

- Not applicable to life insurance pursuant to Regulation S-X.

S-5


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

SCHEDULE IV

REINSURANCE

Gross

Ceded to Other

Assumed From Other

Percentage of Amount

(In millions)

Amount

Companies

Companies

Net Amount

Assumed to Net

For the year ended December 31, 2006

Life insurance in force

$

872,536

$

218,795

$

48,428

$

702,169


%

Insurance revenues

Property and casualty insurance

$

11,465

$

1,291

$


$

10,433


%

Life insurance and annuities

7,092



7,006


%

Accident and health insurance

2,280



2,310


%

Total insurance revenues

$

20,837

$

1,660

$


$

19,749


%

For the year ended December 31, 2005

Life insurance in force

$

764,293

$

251,853

$

51,274

$

563,714


%

Insurance revenues

Property and casualty insurance

$

11,356

$

1,418

$


$

10,156


%

Life insurance and annuities

6,072



6,017


%

Accident and health insurance

2,122



2,186


%

Total insurance revenues

$

19,550

$

1,873

$


$

18,359


%

For the year ended December 31, 2004

Life insurance in force

$

778,134

$

300,627

$

75,050

$

552,557


%

Insurance revenues

Property and casualty insurance

$

10,811

$

1,535

$


$

9,494


%

Life insurance and annuities

5,392



5,519


%

Accident and health insurance

1,831



2,017


%

Total insurance revenues

$

18,034

$

2,033

$

1,029

$

17,030


%

S-6


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

SCHEDULE V

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

Write-offs/

Balance

Charged to Costs

Translation

Payments/

(In millions)

January 1,

and Expenses

Adjustment

Other

Balance December 31,


Allowance for
doubtful accounts
and other

$


$


$

—

$

(41

)

$


Allowance for
uncollectible
reinsurance



—

(285

)


Accumulated
depreciation of
property and
equipment

1,150


—

(102

)

1,241

Valuation allowance
for deferred taxes



—

—



Allowance for
doubtful accounts
and other

$


$


$

—

$

(83

)

$


Allowance for
uncollectible
reinsurance



—



Accumulated
depreciation of
property and
equipment

1,051


—

(107

)

1,150

Valuation allowance
for deferred taxes



—

—



Allowance for
doubtful accounts
and other

$


$


$

—

$

(46

)

$


Allowance for
uncollectible
reinsurance



—

(47

)


Accumulated
depreciation of
property and
equipment



—

(63

)

1,051

Valuation allowance
for deferred taxes


—

—

(1

)


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

SCHEDULE VI

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION CONCERNING PROPERTY

AND CASUALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS

Discount

Losses and Loss Adjustment

Paid Losses and

Deducted From

Expenses Incurred Related to:

Loss Adjustment

(In millions)

Liabilities [1]

Current Year

Prior Year

Expenses

Years ended December 31,


$


$

6,706

$


$

6,150


$


$

6,715

$


$

6,291


$


$

6,590

$


$

7,031

[1]

Reserves for permanently disabled claimants and certain structured settlement contracts
that fund loss run-offs have been discounted using the weighted average interest rates of
5.6%, 5.6% and 5.7% for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

S-7


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

By:

/s/ Robert J. Price

Robert J. Price

Senior Vice President and Controller

Date: February 23, 2007

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and
on the dates indicated.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ Ramani Ayer

Chairman, President, Chief

February 23, 2007

Ramani Ayer

Executive Officer and Director
(Principal Executive Officer)

*

Executive Vice President and Director

February 23, 2007

Thomas M. Marra

*

Executive Vice President and Director

February 23, 2007

David K. Zwiener

/s/ David M. Johnson

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

February 23, 2007

David M. Johnson

(Principal Financial Officer)

/s/ Robert J. Price

Senior Vice President and Controller

February 23, 2007

Robert J. Price

(Principal Accounting Officer)

*

Director

February 23, 2007

Ramon de Oliveira

*

Director

February 23, 2007

Trevor Fetter

*

Director

February 23, 2007

Edward J. Kelly, III

*

Director

February 23, 2007

Paul G. Kirk, Jr.

*

Director

February 23, 2007

Gail J. McGovern

*

Director

February 23, 2007

Michael G. Morris

*

Director

February 23, 2007

Robert W. Selander

*

Director

February 23, 2007

Charles B. Strauss

*

Director

February 23, 2007

H. Patrick Swygert

*By:

/s/ Neal S. Wolin

Neal S. Wolin

As Attorney-in-Fact

II-1


THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2006

FORM 10-K

EXHIBITS LIST

The exhibits attached to this

Form 10-K

are those that are required by Item 601 of Regulation
S-K.

Exhibit No.

Description

3.01

Corrected Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The Hartford Financial
Services Group, Inc. (“The Hartford”), effective May 21, 1998, as amended by Amendment No. 1,
effective May 1, 2002 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.01 to The Hartford’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004).

3.02

Amended and Restated By-Laws of The Hartford, amended effective May 19, 2005
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to The Hartford’s Current Report on Form
8-K, filed May 24, 2005).

4.01

Corrected Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws
of The Hartford (incorporated herein by reference as indicated in Exhibits 3.01 and 3.02
hereto, respectively).

4.02

Senior Indenture, dated as of October 20, 1995, between The Hartford and The Chase Manhattan
Bank (National Association) as Trustee (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.03 to
the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-103915) of The Hartford, Hartford
Capital IV, Hartford Capital V and Hartford Capital VI).

4.03

Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of December 27, 2000, to the Senior Indenture filed as
Exhibit 4.02 hereto, between The Hartford and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.30 to The Hartford’s Registration Statement on
Form S-3 (Amendment No. 1) (Registration No. 333-49666) dated December 27, 2000).

4.04

Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of September 13, 2002, to the Senior Indenture filed
as Exhibit 4.02 hereto, between The Hartford and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Trustee (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to The Hartford’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed
September 17, 2002).

4.05

Form of Global Security (included in Exhibit 4.04).

4.06

Supplemental Indenture No. 3, dated as of May 23, 2003, to the Senior Indenture filed as
Exhibit 4.02 hereto, between The Hartford and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Trustee (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of The Hartford’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed May
30, 2003).

4.07

Senior Indenture, dated as of March 9, 2004, between The Hartford and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as
Trustee (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to The Hartford’s Current Report on
Form 8-K, filed March 12, 2004).

4.08

Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of February 12, 2007, between The Hartford and
LaSalle Bank, N.A., as Trustee (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to The
Hartford’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed February 16, 2007).

4.09

5.25% Senior Note due October 15, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of The
Hartford’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed October 3, 2006).

4.10

5.50% Senior Note due October 15, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of The
Hartford’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed October 3, 2006).

4.11

5.95% Senior Note due October 15, 2036 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of The
Hartford’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed October 3, 2006).

4.12

6.10% Senior Note due October 1, 2041 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of The
Hartford’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed October 11, 2006).

II-2


Exhibit No.

Description

*10.01

Employment Agreement, amended and restated as of September 7, 2006,
between The Hartford and Ramani Ayer (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.01 to The Hartford’s Current Report on Form
8-K, filed September 12, 2006).

*10.02

Employment Agreement, amended and restated as of September 7, 2006,
between The Hartford and David K. Zwiener (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.02 to The Hartford’s Current Report on Form
8-K, filed September 12, 2006).

*10.03

Employment Agreement, amended and restated as of September 7, 2006,
between The Hartford and Thomas M. Marra (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.03 to The Hartford’s Current Report on Form
8-K, filed September 12, 2006).

*10.04

Employment Agreement, amended and restated as of September 7, 2006,
between The Hartford and Neal S. Wolin (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.05 to The Hartford’s Current Report on Form
8-K, filed September 12, 2006).

*10.05

Employment Agreement, amended and restated as of September 7, 2006,
between The Hartford and David M. Johnson (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.04 to The Hartford’s Current Report on Form
8-K, filed September 12, 2006).

*10.06

Form of Key Executive Employment Protection Agreement between The
Hartford and certain executive officers of The Hartford, as amended
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.06 to The
Hartford’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed September 12, 2006).

*10.07

The Hartford Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.05 to The
Hartford’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period
ended September 30, 2004).

*10.08

The Hartford 1995 Incentive Stock Plan, as amended (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.09 to The Hartford’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).

*10.09

The Hartford Incentive Stock Plan, as amended (incorporated herein
by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to The Hartford’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).

*10.10

The Hartford 2005 Incentive Stock Plan, as amended (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to The Hartford’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).

*10.11

The Hartford Deferred Restricted Stock Unit Plan, as amended
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to The
Hartford’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2005).

*10.12

The Hartford Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.03 to The Hartford’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30,
2004).

*10.13

The Hartford Senior Executive Severance Pay Plan, as amended
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.07 to The
Hartford’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed September 12, 2006).

*10.14

The Hartford Executive Severance Pay Plan I, as amended
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to The
Hartford’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2002).

*10.15

The Hartford Planco Non-Employee Option Plan, as amended
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to The
Hartford’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2002).

*10.16

The Hartford Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to The Hartford’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).

*10.17

The Hartford Investment and Savings Plan, as amended (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to The Hartford’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).

*10.18

The Hartford 2005 Incentive Stock Plan Forms of Individual Award
Agreements (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to The
Hartford’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed May 24, 2005).

*10.19

Summary of Annual Executive Bonus Program (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.3 to The Hartford’s Current Report on Form
8-K, filed May 24, 2005).

*10.20

Summary of Certain 2006-2007 Compensation for Named Executive
Officers (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to The
Hartford’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed
February 23, 2007).

II-3


Exhibit No.

Description

*10.21

Summary of 2007-2008 Compensation for Non-Employee Directors
(incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to The Hartford’s
Current Report on Form 8-K, filed February 23, 2007).

10.22

Amended and Restated Five-Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility, dated
December 19, 2006, among The Hartford and the syndicate of lenders named therein, including
Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A.,
as syndication agents, and Wachovia Bank, N.A., as documentation agent (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to The Hartford’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed December 22,
2006).

10.23

Remarketing Agreement, dated as of May 9, 2006, between The Hartford and Merrill Lynch,
Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Goldman Sachs & Co., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., and
J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to The
Hartford’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed May 15, 2006).

10.24

Initial Remarketing Agreement, dated as of August 10, 2006, between The Hartford, and
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, and
J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to The
Hartford’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed August 11, 2006).

10.25

Form of Agreement among the Attorney General of the State of Connecticut and the Attorney
General of New York and The Hartford dated May 10, 2006 (incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 of the Hartford’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed May 11, 2006).

10.26

Form of Order of the Securities and Exchange Commission dated November 8, 2006. †

10.27

Put Option Agreement, dated February 12, 2007, among The Hartford, Glen Meadow ABC Trust and
LaSalle Bank, N.A. (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of The Hartford’s Current
Report on Form 8-K, filed February 16, 2007).

12.01

Statement Re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges. †

21.01

Subsidiaries of The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. †

23.01

Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP to the incorporation by reference into The Hartford’s
Registration Statements on Form S-8 and Form S-3 of the report of Deloitte & Touche LLP
contained in this Form 10-K regarding the audited financial statements is filed herewith. †

24.01

Power of Attorney. †

31.01

Certification of Ramani Ayer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. †

31.02

Certification of David M. Johnson pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. †

32.01

Certification of Ramani Ayer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. †

32.02

Certification of David M. Johnson pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. †

*

Management contract, compensatory plan or arrangement.

†

Filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to this report.

II-4