
10-K405
UDRT, INC. 10-K405



                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549

                                   FORM 10-K405

    FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

               (X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the fiscal year  ended December 31, 1996

                                       OR

           (   )  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

              For the transition period from ________ to _________

                         Commission file number 1-10524

                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

         Virginia                              54-0857512
 -------------------------                   -----------------
(State or other jurisdiction of              (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation of organization)              Identification No.

             10 South Sixth Street,  Richmond, Virginia 23219-3802
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
              (Address of principal executive offices - zip code)

                                 (804) 780-2691
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

                   Securities registered pursuant to Section
                               12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class                       Name of exchange on which registered
- - ---------------------                    -------------------------------------
Common Stock, $1 par value                New York Stock Exchange
9 1/4% Series A Cumulative Redeemable     New York Stock Exchange
Preferred Stock

            Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to filing requirements
for at least the past 90 days.

                              Yes     X        No


Indicate by check mark if the disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained , to
the best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K. (X)

The aggregate market value of the shares of common stock held by non-affiliates
(Based upon the closing sales price on the New York Stock Exchange) on March 14,
1997 was approximately $1.3 billion.* As of March 14, 1997, there were
86,288,728 shares of common stock, $1 par value, outstanding.

Part III incorporates certain information be reference from the definitive proxy
statement to be filed with respect to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May
6, 1997.

*In determining this figure, the Company has assumed that all of its officers &
directors, and persons known to the Company to be beneficial owners of more than
5% of the Company's shares, are affiliates. Such assumptions should not be
deemed conclusive for any other purpose.


                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.

                               







                                     Part I

Item 1. Business

The Company
General

         United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc., a Virginia corporation,
(collectively with its subsidiaries, the "Company"), is a self-administered
equity real estate investment trust ("REIT"), formed in 1972 which acquires,
repositions, develops, manages and selectively sells apartment homes for its own
portfolio in the Sunbelt region of the United States. Effective at the close of
business on December 31, 1996, the Company acquired South West Property Trust,
Inc. ("South West") in a statutory merger ("Merger"). South West was a
Texas-based real estate investment trust that owned 44 apartment communities
containing 14,320 completed apartment homes and 675 under development, located
primarily in Texas. The South West apartment portfolio consists primarily of B
grade communities. The Merger provided several strategic and operational
benefits which include (i) operating efficiencies through economies of scale,
(ii) added development experience and capability, (iii) increased liquidity in
common stock and the potential to lower the Company's cost of capital, (iv)
geographic expansion which provided significant investment in several major
markets including Dallas, Houston, San Antonio and Phoenix, (v) additional
investment opportunities in the Sunbelt markets and (vi) broadening of the
Company's management. The Merger was accounted for under the purchase method
of accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles Board No. 16, and as
such, had no impact on the Company's results of operations for 1996.
Following the merger, at December 31, 1996, the Company owned 55,664 completed
apartment homes in 210 apartment communities and had 1,475 apartment homes under
development.

         The Company is headquartered in Richmond, Virginia with divisional
offices in Richmond and Dallas plus regional offices in Richmond, Atlanta,
Georgia, Dallas, Texas and Orlando, Florida, and area offices in the previously
mentioned cities plus Columbia, Maryland, Raleigh, North Carolina, Charlotte,
North Carolina, Tampa, Florida, Nashville, Tennessee, San Antonio, Texas and
Phoenix, Arizona. The regional offices are responsible for the operation,
acquisition, construction and asset management activities in their respective
geographic regions. The Company had approximately 1,900 associates as of March
15, 1997.

         The Company manages its properties directly, rather than through
outside property management firms. During 1996, the cost of internal property
management of the Company's apartment properties totaled approximately 2.4% of
rental revenue versus the 4-5% fee typically charged by independent fee
management companies in the Company's major markets. In determining its cost of
self management, the Company considers all direct and indirect costs associated
with the internal property management function.

         The Company is operated so as to qualify as a real estate investment
trust under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the "Code"). To qualify, the Company must meet certain tests which,
among other things, require that its assets consist primarily of real estate,
its income be derived primarily from real estate, and at least 95% of its
taxable income be distributed to its common shareholders. Because the Company
qualifies as a REIT, it is generally not subject to Federal income taxes.

Apartments and Markets

         At the end of 1996, the apartment portion of the Company's portfolio
included 210 apartment communities having a total of 55,664 completed apartment
homes and constituting 98% of the Company's real estate owned, at cost. The
Company operates in 21 major markets dispersed throughout a 15 state area from
Delaware to Nevada. (See Item 2, "Properties.") During 1996, 1995 and 1994, the
Company's apartment portfolio provided approximately 98%, 96% and 93%,
respectively of the Company's rental income. The Company's apartment communities
consist primarily of upper middle to moderate income garden and townhouse
communities which make up the broadest segment of the apartment market. Most of
the communities are considered to be B grade quality although the Company does
own class A properties that compete at or near the top of their respective
markets. Management believes that well located apartments offer the Company a
good combination of current income and longer term equity growth.

         Although there is no known move toward rent control in any of the
markets in which the Company now owns apartments, should rent control
legislation be enacted, the Company's ability to raise rents to cover increases
in operating expenses might be impaired. While the Company has been largely
unaffected by military cutbacks and base closures, the effect of future defense
cuts on the Company's regions is unknown. As the Company has expanded, it has
attempted to avoid markets where the exposure to reduced defense spending is
believed to be high. The size and geographical diversification of the Company
can smooth the performance during natural real estate cycles.

         Apartment markets in the Company's regions in 1994 and 1995 generally
benefitted from the combination of job growth which led to increases in the
number of renter households and only modest apartment construction. Physical
occupancy peaked in mid-1994 and remained above 95% through mid-1995 before
trending downward during the second half of 1995. During the first half of 1996,
most of the southeast apartment markets were in equilibrium with supply and
demand balanced but occupancy fell during the second half. This was due to a
combination of factors including slower job growth, an




increase in the home ownership rate and an increase in the supply of new
apartments. Physical occupancy at the Company's apartment properties averaged
91.9% for December, 1996 compared with 93.9% for December, 1995. Despite this
market softness, the Company expects rent growth and other income growth to
remain strong over the next several years. It is anticipated that the Company
will benefit more from higher rent growth in 1997 and 1998 than from occupancy
gains. The Company expects to maintain rent growth in the 4% range and physical
occupancy in the 92% range during 1997. On December 31, 1996, the Company
acquired South West Property Trust Inc. and expanded its geographical markets.
Approximately 80% of the South West apartment portfolio is located in Texas,
with 50% in Dallas. Like the southeast markets, the southwest markets have
experienced population and job growth above the national average, strong young
household formation and growing demand for apartment homes. With the anticipated
increase in young household formation and immigration trends, the Company
believes there will be good long-term demand for B grade apartment communities
in the Sunbelt.

Business and Operating Strategies

         The Company seeks to maximize shareholder value through increasing
its funds from operations ("FFO") and quarterly distributions to shareholders,
while building equity primarily through real estate appreciation. FFO is defined
as income before gains [losses] on investments, minority interest of unitholders
in operating partnership and extraordinary items [computed in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles] plus real estate depreciation, less
preferred dividends and after adjustment for significant nonrecurring items, if
any).

         The Company's current strategy is to be a major apartment owner in the
larger Sunbelt markets. Generally, the list of top 20 U.S. growth markets is
dominated by Sunbelt cities including cities in which the Company operates. The
Company operates primarily in 21 major markets dispersed throughout a 15 state
area from Delaware to Nevada. The Company believes that being a large or
dominant owner in a market has the following advantages:

o        Being a local market leader.
o        Obtaining economies of scale in use of personnel, advertising and
         purchasing goods and services locally.
o        Efficiently adding services to produce other sources of income.
o        Benefitting from utility deregulation by purchasing utilities in bulk
         and remarketing them to residents.
o        Building stronger local and regional teams of associates.


         To fully execute this strategy, the Company will continue to grow
principally through acquisitions. However, given its size, as well as its
objective to be a dominant owner in its larger Sunbelt markets, the Company's
development capability provides it with added flexibility to grow in its
existing markets.


Acquisitions


         The Company's acquisition strategy focuses on acquiring two types of
apartment communities: (i) near Class A properties built since 1980 where the
investment (purchase price plus planned improvements) represents a significant
discount to replacement cost and (ii) well located older communities that can be
upgraded and repositioned for the longer term. When evaluating potential
acquisitions, the Company considers, among other things (i) the geographic
location, (ii)construction quality, condition and design of the property, (iii)
the current and projected cash flow of the property and the ability to increase
cash flows, (iv) the potential for rent increases, (v) the potential for
economic growth of the community in which the property is located, (vi)
occupancy demands for similar properties in the area, (vii) competition from
existing multifamily residential properties, and (viii) construction of new
properties in the area.

         In addition to the Merger, during 1996, the Company purchased 30
apartment communities containing 7,712 apartment homes throughout the southeast
for approximately $321 million. These acquisitions occurred in 13 of the
Company's 21 major markets. This includes 18 apartment communities with 4,508
apartment homes located primarily in North Carolina and South Carolina acquired
in a portfolio purchase for approximately $183 million, including closing costs.
A geographic distribution of the Company's portfolio of apartment communities
held for investment is included in Item 2, "Properties". The Company expects to
acquire approximately 7,000 to 9,000 apartment homes for an aggregate purchase
price ranging from $300 million to $400 million during 1997.




Merger

         The real estate industry is in the midst of a consolidation phase which
began around 1990. Prior to 1990, the Company was the only major publicly held
REIT focusing predominantly on apartment investments. Since then, a number of
new multifamily REITs have been formed. According to the National Association of
Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT), there were more than 31 apartment REITs
as of February 28, 1997. It is believed that some of these REITs may be forced
to seek to be acquired by larger, better capitalized REITs with superior access
to the capital markets, such as the Company. The Company has been a major
participant in this real estate consolidation, having acquired apartment
portfolios in each of the last three years and completing the Merger with South
West on December 31, 1996. The Company expects to continue to participate in the
consolidation process as an acquirer of other apartment portfolios and/or
apartment REITs when such transactions are accretive to FFO earnings, can
enhance dividend growth and shareholder value and can provide strategic and
operational benefits.

Development

         Consistent with the Company's acquisition strategy, apartment home
development activity will be primarily focused in its major markets by investing
in good site locations for new development and additions to existing apartment
communities. The capability to develop provides the Company with added
flexibility to grow in its existing major markets. During 1996, the Company
completed the development of a second phase to an apartment community which
added 60 apartment homes in Wilmington, North Carolina, and began developing a
360 apartment home community in Nashville, Tennessee. The Merger provides the
Company with additional development capabilities as South West grew primarily
through development during the last few years. During 1996, South West completed
the development of three new apartment communities containing 1,194 apartment
homes and the second phase to another apartment community containing 246
apartment homes. As a result of the development projects started by both
companies during 1996, there were 1,580 apartment homes under construction, of
which 105 were completed, at December 31, 1996. At December 31, 1996, the
Company had $37.9 million of real estate under development with a total
estimated costs to complete of approximately $102 million. The Company expects
to fund in excess of $50 million on development activity during 1997 on these
development projects.

Existing Communities

         The Company seeks to achieve income growth from its portfolio of mature
apartment communities by increasing rental revenues while maintaining occupancy
and controlling operating expenses. During 1996, the Company's mature apartment
communities (those communities acquired prior to January 1, 1995 and held
throughout the annual reporting period) experienced strong rent and other income
growth of 4.6% and 33%, respectively. Rental expenses at these mature
communities increased 8.1% as the Company experienced pressure in many of its
operating expense categories such as real estate taxes, insurance, salaries and
wages, security, maintenance and weather related expenses.

         During 1996, the Company began the process of upgrading the interiors
of its older apartment communities, primarily by modernizing the kitchens and
bathrooms. The decision to upgrade the existing apartment portfolio is designed
to enhance rent growth and add value to the apartment communities. This program
which will take several years to complete, entails replacing or refurbishing
appliances, light fixtures, floor coverings, cabinets, countertops and shelving.
These improvements, which are considered revenue enhancing, contributed to
the 4.6% rent growth at the mature apartment communities during 1996 and will
continue to give these communities a competitive advantage in their respective
markets. The Company also began several initiatives






in 1995 and 1996 that were designed to improve the property, grow occupancy,
reduce turnover, increase rents and reduce expenses which include: (i)
submetering of water and sewer to residents where local and state regulations
allow the cost to be passed on to the resident, (ii) gating and fencing of
apartment communities where feasible in order to control access into the
communities and promote a sense of privacy, (iii) installing monitoring devices
such as intrusion alarms or controlled access devices on the front doors of
enclosed hallways, (iv) enlarging fitness centers and (v) adding business
centers where computers, fax machines, copiers and meeting places are available
to residents. The Company expects to fund approximately $400 per unit on revenue
enhancing expenditures and $400 per unit on recurring capital expenditures
during 1997 to improve the interiors and exteriors of the Company's apartment
communities.

Sales

         The Company continually assesses its real estate portfolio in order to
make hold, upgrade or sell decisions on each of its apartment communities. The
Company's strategy is to selectively sell certain apartment communities that no
longer meet long term investment objectives that have been established for its
apartment portfolio due to size, location, age or projected earnings potential.
During 1996, the Company sold four apartment communities, four shopping centers,
one industrial park and two parcels of undeveloped land for net cash proceeds of
approximately $33.8 million. The sale of the five commercial properties furthers
the Company's objective of disposing of its non-apartment portfolio. At December
31, 1996, the Company had six apartment communities, three shopping centers,
three other commercial properties and one parcel of undeveloped land classified
as "Real estate held for disposition" in its consolidated balance sheet
aggregating $39.6 million, net of accumulated depreciation and valuation
allowance. The Company hopes to dispose of these properties during the next
twelve months.

         At December 31, 1996, commercial properties, primarily shopping
centers, constituted the remaining 2% of the Company's real estate owned at
cost. During 1996, 1995, and 1994, commercial properties provided 2%, 4%, and
7%, respectively, of the Company's rental income. The commercial portfolio has
become a non-material portion of the Company's total portfolio and will be
divested over time.

Financing Strategies

         The Company is committed to maintaining a conservative capital
structure. Prior to 1996, the Company generally managed its debt levels at or
below 40% of total market capitalization (debt and equity). During 1996, the
Company modestly increased the proportion of debt in its capital structure as
interest rates were at historical lows. At December 31, 1996, total senior debt
equaled 43% of the Company's total market capitalization (debt and equity) of
$2.4 billion. The Company's senior debt is currently rated BBB+ by Standard &
Poor's and Baal by Moody's. As a result of its investment grade debt ratings,
the Company has used and expects to continue to use unsecured debt as its
primary debt funding source. Depending on the volume and timing of acquisition
and development activity during 1997, the Company anticipates raising additional
debt and equity capital during the next twelve months.

         As a qualified REIT, the Company distributes a substantial portion of
its cash flow to its shareholders in the form of distributions. Over the past
several years, the Company has sought to retain a greater portion of its cash
flow. During 1996, the Company's cash flow from operating activities exceeded
cash distributions paid to common shareholders by approximately $26.4 million.
The Company funds new acquisitions, development activity, property renovations,
major capital improvements and balloon debt payments primarily through the
private and public sale of capital stock and the issuance of medium and
long-term unsecured notes payable. The Company has frequently utilized its bank
lines of credit to temporarily finance these expenditures and has subsequently
replaced the short-term bank debt with longer term debt or equity. In addition,
the Company may also fund its capital requirements through (i) sales of
properties, (ii) assumption of mortgage indebtedness, (iii) cash invested
through the Company's dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plan, (iv) the
issuance of operating partnership units and (v) retained cash flow.

         At December 31, 1996, the Company had the following credit facilities
outstanding: (i) $70 million of revolving credit facilities with four commercial
banks, (ii) $33.5 million of additional available lines of credit with three of
its commercial banks, (iii) a $50 million interim credit facility with one of
its commercial banks and (iv) a $75 million unsecured revolving credit facility
assumed on December 31, 1996 in connection with the Merger which was repaid in
January, 1997. At December 31, 1996, the Company had $125.3 million of
borrowings outstanding under these credit facilities. The Company plans to
increase its current bank credit facilities from $103.5 million to $250 million
during






1997.

Competition

         In most of the Company's markets, the competition for residents among
properties is very intense. Some competing properties are larger and/or newer
than the Company's properties and offer features for prospective residents not
offered by properties owned by the Company. The competitive situation of each
property varies and intensifies as additional properties are constructed.

         The Company expects to continue to aggressively acquire additional
apartment properties within the Sunbelt during 1997. When it is in the market
for new acquisitions, the Company competes with numerous other investors,
including other REITs, individuals, partnerships, corporations, pension funds,
insurance companies, foreign investors, and other real estate entities.
Management believes that the Company, in general, is well positioned in terms of
economic and other resources to compete effectively. Even though the Company has
certain advantages over some of its competitors because of its substantial
presence in the region and its access to capital, some competing investors are
larger than the Company in terms of assets and other investment resources and
may have a competitive advantage.

Environmental Regulations

         To date, compliance with Federal, State, and local environmental
protection regulations has not had a material effect upon the capital
expenditures, earnings, or competitive position of the Company. However, over
the past few years, there have been increasing concerns raised regarding the
presence of asbestos and other hazardous materials in existing real estate
properties. In response to this, on March 1, 1991, the Company adopted a
property management plan for hazardous materials. As part of the plan, Phase I
environmental site investigation and reports have been completed for each
property owned by the Company and not previously inspected. In addition, all
proposed acquisitions are inspected prior to acquisition. The inspections are
conducted by qualified environmental consultants and the report issued is
reviewed by the Company prior to the purchase or development of any property.
Nevertheless, it is possible that the Company's environmental assessments will
not reveal all environmental liabilities or that there are material
environmental liabilities of which the Company is unaware. In some cases, the
Company has abandoned otherwise economically attractive acquisitions because the
costs of removal or control have been prohibitive and/or the Company has been
unwilling to accept the potential risks involved. The Company does not believe
it will be required to remediate any asbestos materials at any of its properties
as asbestos is managed in place in accordance with current environmental laws
and regulations. Management believes that through professional environmental
inspections and testing for asbestos and other hazardous materials, coupled with
a conservative posture toward accepting known risk, the Company can minimize its
exposure to potential liability associated with environmental hazards.

         The Company is not aware of any environmental hazards at any of its
properties which individually or in the aggregate may have a material adverse
impact on its operations or financial position. The Company has not been
notified by any governmental authority, and is not otherwise aware, of any
material non-compliance, liability or claim relating to environmental
liabilities in connection with any of its properties. The Company does not
believe that the cost of continued compliance with applicable environmental laws
and regulations will have a material adverse effect on the Company or its
financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance,
however, that future environmental laws, regulations or ordinances will not
require additional remediation of existing conditions that are not currently
actionable, or impose more stringent requirements on the Company, the costs of
compliance with which could have a material adverse effect on the Company or its
financial condition. To the best of its knowledge, the Company is in compliance
with all applicable environmental rules and regulations.

 Operating Partnership - United Dominion Realty Trust, L.P.

         On October 23, 1995, the Company organized United Dominion Realty, L.P.
(the "Partnership") under the Virginia Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act,
as amended (the "Partnership Act"). The Company is the sole General Partner of
the Partnership and currently holds a 97% interest therein and 1% is currently
held by UDRT of North Carolina, L.L.C., a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Company. The remaining 2% is held by outside parties. In 1995, the Company
acquired two apartment communities and land to develop an additional apartment
community using the Partnership and transferred seven of its Tennessee
properties into the Partnership. During 1996, the Company






issued approximatley 136,000 operating partnership units valued at approximately
$2 million in connection with the acquisition of an apartment community. The
Partnership is intended to assist the Company in competing for the acquisition
of properties that meet the Company's investment strategies from seller
partnerships some or all of whose partners may wish to defer taxation of gain
realized on sale through an exchange of partnership interests.

         The Partnership is organized under a First Amended and Restated
Agreement of Limited Partnership dated as of December 31, 1995 (the "Partnership
Agreement"). A summary of certain provisions of the Partnership Agreement is set
forth below. The summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to and
qualified in its entirety by reference to applicable provisions of the
Partnership Act and the complete Partnership Agreement, which is filed as an
exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 1995.

Admission of Limited Partners; Investment Agreements

         The Company presently intends to limit admission to the Partnership to
Limited Partners who are "accredited investors," as defined in Rule 501(a) under
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). Limited Partners
will be admitted upon executing and delivering to the Company an Investment
Agreement (the "Investment Agreement") and delivering to the Partnership the
consideration prescribed therein. In the Investment Agreement, the prospective
Limited Partner makes representations as to his status as an accredited investor
and other representations and agreements regarding the Units, defined below, to
be issued to him, intended to assure compliance with the Securities Act. Any
rights to Securities Act registration of the Common Stock of the Company, if
any, issued to such Limited Partner upon redemption of his Units (see
"Redemption Rights" below), will also be set forth in the Investment Agreement.

Units

         The interests in the Partnership of the Partnership's limited partners
(the "Limited Partners") are represented by units of limited partnership
interest (the "Units"). All holders of Units are entitled to share in cash
distributions from, and in the profits and losses of, the Partnership.
Distributions by the Partnership are made equally for each Unit outstanding. As
the Partnership's sole General Partner, the Company intends to make
distributions per Unit in the same amount as the cash dividends paid by the
Company on each share of Common Stock. However, because the Partnership
properties, which are the primary source of cash available for distribution to
Unit holders, are significantly fewer than the properties held directly by the
Company and may not perform as well, there can be no assurance that
distributions per Unit will always equal Common Stock dividends per share. A
distribution made to the Company to enable it to maintain its REIT status (see
"Management and Operations" below) may deplete cash otherwise distributable to
Unit holders. The Partnership may borrow from the Company for the purpose of
equalizing per Unit and per Common share distributions, but neither the
Partnership nor the Company is under any obligation regarding Partnership
borrowings for this or any other purpose.

         The Limited Partners have the rights to which limited partners are
entitled under the Partnership Act. The Units are illiquid; they are not
registered for secondary sale under any securities laws, state or federal, and
cannot be transferred by a holder unless they are so registered or an exemption
from such registration is available. Neither the Partnership nor the Company is
under any obligation to effect any such registration or to establish any such
exemption. The Partnership Agreement imposes additional restrictions on the
transfer of Units, as described below under "Transferability of Interests."

Management and Operations

         The Company, as the sole General Partner of the Partnership, has full,
exclusive and complete responsibility and discretion in the management and
control of the Partnership, and the Limited Partners have no authority to
transact business for, or participate in the management activities or decisions
of, the Partnership.

         The Partnership Agreement requires that the Partnership be operated in
a manner that will enable the Company to satisfy the requirements for being
classified as a REIT and to avoid any federal income tax liability. The General
Partner is expressly directed, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Partnership Agreement, to cause the Partnership to distribute amounts (including
proceeds of Partnership borrowings) sufficient to enable the Company to





pay distributions to its shareholders required to maintain its REIT status and
avoid income tax or excise tax liability.

Ability to Engage in Other Businesses; Conflicts of Interest

         The Company and other persons (including officers, directors,
employees, agents and other affiliates of the Company) are not prohibited under
the Partnership Agreement from engaging in other business activities, including
business activities substantially similar or identical to those of the
Partnership, and the Company will not be required to present any business
opportunities to the Partnership or to any Limited Partner.

Borrowing by the Partnership

         The General Partner is authorized under the Partnership Agreement to
cause the Partnership to borrow money and to issue and guarantee debt as it
deems necessary for the conduct of the activities of the Partnership. Such debt
may be secured by mortgages, deeds of Company, pledges or other liens on the
assets of the Partnership.

Reimbursement of General Partner; Transactions with the General Partner and its
Affiliates

         The General Partner will receive no compensation for its services as
General Partner of the Partnership. However, as a partner in the Partnership,
the General Partner has the same right to allocations of profit and loss and
distributions as other partners of the Partnership. In addition, the Partnership
will reimburse the General Partner for all expenses it incurs relating to the
ownership and operation of, or for the benefit of, the Partnership and any
offering of Units or other partnership interests, and for the pro rata share of
the expenses of any offering of securities of the Company some or all of the
proceeds of which are contributed to the Partnership.


Liability of General Partner and Limited Partners

         The General Partner is liable for all general obligations of the
Partnership to the extent not paid by the Partnership. The General Partner is
not liable for the non-recourse obligations of the Partnership.

         The Limited Partners are not required to make further capital
contributions to the Partnership after their respective initial contributions
are fully paid. Assuming that a Limited Partner acts in conformity with the
provisions of the Partnership Agreement, the liability of the Limited Partner
for obligations of the Partnership under the Partnership Agreement and
Partnership Act will be limited, subject to certain possible exceptions, to the
loss of the Limited Partner's investment in the Partnership.

         The Partnership is qualified to conduct business in each state in which
it owns property and may qualify to conduct business in other jurisdictions.
Maintenance of limited liability may require compliance with certain legal
requirements of those jurisdictions and certain other jurisdictions. Limitations
on the liability of a limited partner for the obligations of a limited
partnership have not clearly been established in many states. Accordingly, if it
were determined that the right, or exercise of the right by the Limited
Partners, to make certain amendments to the Partnership Agreement or to take
other action pursuant to the Partnership Agreement constituted "control" of the
Partnership's business for the purposes of the statutes of any relevant state,
the Limited Partners might be held personally liable for the Partnership's
obligations. The Partnership will operate in a manner the General Partner deems
reasonable, necessary and appropriate to preserve the limited liability of the
Limited Partners.

Exculpation and Indemnification of the General Partner

         The Partnership Agreement provides that the General Partner will incur
no liability for monetary damages to the Partnership or any Limited Partner for
losses sustained or liabilities incurred as a result of errors in judgment or of
any act or omission if the General Partner acted in good faith. In addition, the
General Partner is not responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part
of its agents, provided the General Partner appointed such agents in good faith.

         The Partnership Agreement also provides for indemnification of the
General Partner, the directors, officers and






employees of the General Partner, and such other persons as the General Partner
may from time to time designate, against any and all losses, claims, damages,
liabilities (joint or several), expenses (including reasonable legal fees and
expenses), judgments, fines, settlements, and other amounts arising from any and
all claims, demands, actions, suits or proceedings, whether civil, criminal,
administrative or investigative, that relate to the operations of the
Partnership in which any such indemnitee may be involved, or is threatened to be
involved, unless it is established that (i) the act or omission of such
indemnitee was material to the matter giving rise to the proceeding and either
was committed in bad faith or was the result of active and deliberate
dishonesty, (ii) such indemnitee actually received an improper personal benefit
in money, property or services, or (iii) in the case of any criminal proceeding,
such indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that the act or omission was
unlawful.

Sale of Assets

         Under the Partnership Agreement, the General Partner generally has the
exclusive authority to determine whether, when and on what terms the assets of
the Partnership will be sold.

Removal of the General Partner; Transfer of General Partner's Interest

         The Partnership Agreement does not authorize the Limited Partners to
remove the General Partner and the Limited Partners have no right to remove the
General Partner under the Partnership Act. The General Partner may not transfer
any of its interest as General Partner and withdraw as General Partner, except
(a) to a wholly-owned subsidiary of the General Partner or the owner of all the
ownership interests in the General Partner, (b) in connection with a merger or
sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the General Partner or (c) as
a result of the bankruptcy of the General Partner. A substitute or additional
General Partner may be admitted upon compliance with the applicable provisions
of the Partnership Agreement, including delivery by counsel for the Partnership
of an opinion that admission of such General Partner will not cause (i) the
Partnership to be classified other than as a partnership for federal income tax
purposes, or (ii) the loss of any Limited Partner's limited liability. The
General Partner may not sell all or substantially all of its assets, or enter
into a merger, unless the sale or merger includes the sale of all or
substantially all of the assets of, or the merger of, the Partnership and the
Limited Partners receive for each Unit substantially the same consideration as
the holder of one share of Common Stock.

Transferability of Interests

         A Limited Partner may transfer his interest in the Partnership without
the consent of the General Partner, unless in the opinion of counsel for the
Partnership such transfer would require the registration of such interest under
the Securities Act or would otherwise violate any applicable federal or state
securities or blue sky law (including investment suitability standards) and
unless such transfer would have undesirable federal income tax consequences for
the Partnership. The General Partner may require, as a condition of any
transfer, that the transferring Limited Partner assume all costs incurred by the
Partnership in connection with such transfer.

Redemption Rights

         Each Limited Partner has the right (the "Redemption Right"), subject to
the purchase right of the General Partner described below, to cause the
redemption of such Limited Partner's Units for cash in an amount per Unit equal
to the average of the closing sale prices of the Common Stock of the Company on
the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") for the ten trading days immediately
preceding the date of receipt by the General Partner of notice of such Limited
Partner's exercise of the Redemption Right. Subject to certain restrictions
intended to prevent undesirable tax consequences and assure compliance with the
Securities Act, a Limited Partner may exercise the Redemption Right at any time
but not more than twice within the same calender year and not with respect to
less than 1,000 Units (or all Units owned by such Limited Partner, if less than
1,000). A Limited Partner that exercises the Redemption Right shall be deemed to
have offered to sell the Units to be redeemed to the General Partner, and the
General Partner may elect to purchase such Units by paying to such Limited
Partner either the redemption price in cash or by delivering to such Limited
Partner a number of shares of Common Stock of the Company equal to the product
of the number of such Units, multiplied by the "Conversion Factor," which is
1.0, subject to customary antidilution provisions in the event of stock
dividends on or subdivisions or combinations of the Common Stock subsequent to
issuance of such Units. Any Common Stock issued to the redeeming Limited Partner
will be listed on the NYSE and if and to the extent provided






in such Redeeming Partner's Investment Agreement, registered under the
Securities Act and/or entitled to rights to Securities Act registration.

No Withdrawal of Capital by Limited Partners

         No Limited Partner has the right to withdraw any part of his capital
contribution to the Partnership or to interest thereon or to receive any
distribution, except as provided in the Partnership Agreement.

Issuance of Additional Limited Partnership Interests and Other Partnership
Securities

         The General Partner is authorized, without the consent of the Limited
Partners, to cause the Partnership to issue additional Units or other
Partnership securities to the partners or to other persons on such terms and
conditions and for such consideration, including cash or any property or other
assets permitted by the Partnership Act, as the General Partner deems
appropriate.

Meetings

         The Partnership Agreement does not provide for annual meetings of the
Limited Partners, and the General Partner does not anticipate calling such
meetings.

Amendment of Partnership Agreement

         Amendments to the Partnership Agreement may, with four exceptions, be
made by the General Partner without the consent of the Limited Partners. Any
amendment to the Partnership Agreement which would (i) affect the Conversion
Factor or the Redemption Rights of the Limited Partners, (ii) adversely affect
the rights of the Limited Partners to receive distributions payable to them
under the Partnership Agreement, (iii) alter the Partnership's profit and loss
allocations or (iv) impose any obligation upon the Limited Partners to make
additional capital contributions to the Partnership shall require the consent of
Limited Partners owning more than 50% of the percentage interests in the
Partnership.

Books and Reports

         The General Partner is required to keep at the specified office of the
Partnership the Partnership's books and records, including copies of the
Partnership's federal, state and local tax returns, a list of the partners and
their last known business addresses, the Partnership Agreement, the Partnership
certificate and all amendments thereto and any other documents and information
required under Partnership Act. Any partner or his duly authorized
representative, upon paying duplicating, collection and mailing costs, is
entitled to inspect or copy such records during ordinary business hours.

         The General Partner will furnish to each Limited Partner, as soon as
practicable after the close of each fiscal year, an annual report containing
financial statements of the Partnership (or the Company, if consolidated
financial statements including the Partnership are prepared) for such fiscal
year. The financial statements will be audited by accountants selected by the
General Partner. In addition, as soon as practicable after the close of each
fiscal quarter (other than the last quarter of the fiscal year), the General
Partner will furnish to each Limited Partner a quarterly report containing
unaudited financial statements of the Partnership (or the Company and the
Partnership, consolidated).

         The General Partner will furnish to each Limited Partner, within 75
days after the close of each fiscal year of the Partnership, the tax information
necessary to file such Limited Partner's individual tax returns.

Loans to Partnership

         The Partnership Agreement provides that the General Partner may borrow
additional Partnership funds for any Partnership purpose from the General
Partner or a subsidiary or subsidiaries of the General Partner or otherwise.

Adjustments of Capital Accounts and Percentage Interests






         A separate capital account will be established and maintained for each
Partner. If (i) a new or existing general or limited partner of the Partnership
(a "Partner" or collectively "Partners") acquires an additional interest in the
Partnership interest in exchange for more than a de minimis capital
contribution, (ii) the Partnership distributes to a Partner more than a de
minimis amount of Partnership property as consideration for a Partnership
interest, or (iii) the Partnership is liquidated for federal income tax
purposes, the General Partner shall revalue the property of the Partnership to
its fair market value (as determined by the General Partner, in its sole
discretion) in accordance with applicable federal income tax regulations. When
the Partnership's property is revalued by the General Partner, the capital
accounts of the partners shall be adjusted in accordance with such regulations,
which generally require such capital accounts to be adjusted to reflect the
manner in which the unrealized gain or loss inherent in such property (that has
not been reflected in the capital accounts previously) would be allocated among
the Partners pursuant to the Partnership Agreement if there were a taxable
disposition of such property for its fair market value on the date of the
revaluation.

         If the number of outstanding Units increases or decreases during a
taxable year, each Partner's percentage interest in the Partnership shall be
adjusted by the General Partner effective as of the effective date of each such
increase or decrease to a percentage equal to the number of Units held by such
Partner divided by the aggregate number of Units outstanding after giving effect
to such increase or decrease, and profits and losses for the year will be
allocated among the Partners in a manner selected by the General Partner to give
appropriate effect to such adjustments.

Registration Rights

         Limited Partners have no rights to Securities Act registration of any
Common Stock of the Company received in connection with redemption of Units
except as provided in their respective Investment Agreements.

Tax Matters; Profit and Loss Allocations

         Pursuant to the Partnership Agreement, the General Partner is the tax
matters partner of the Partnership and, as such, has the authority to handle tax
audits and to make tax elections under the Code on behalf of the Partnership.

         Profit and loss of the Partnership generally will be allocated among
the Partners in accordance with their respective interests in the Partnership
based on the number of Units held by the Partners.

Distributions

         The Partnership Agreement provides that the General Partner shall
distribute cash quarterly, in amounts determined by the General Partner in its
sole discretion, to the partners in accordance with their respective percentage
interests in the Partnership, except that the amount of cash distributable to a
Limited Partner who has not been a Limited Partner for the full quarter for
which the distribution is paid is subject to pro rata reduction. Upon
liquidation of the Partnership, after payment of, or adequate provision for,
debts and obligations of the Partnership, including any Partner loans, any
remaining assets of the Partnership will be distributed to all Partners with
positive capital accounts in accordance with their respective positive capital
account balances. If the General Partner has a negative balance in its capital
account following a liquidation of the Partnership, it will be obligated to
contribute cash to the Partnership equal to the negative balance in its capital
account.

Term

         The Partnership will continue until December 31, 2051, or until sooner
dissolved upon (i) the bankruptcy, dissolution, death or withdrawal of a General
Partner (unless the Limited Partners elect to continue the Partnership by
electing by unanimous consent a substitute General Partner within 90 days of
such occurrence), (ii) the passage of 90 days after the sale or other
disposition of all or substantially all the assets of the Partnership, (iii) the
redemption of all Limited Partners' interests in the Partnership, or (iv)
election by the General Partner. Upon dissolution of the Partnership, the
General Partner will proceed to liquidate the assets of the Partnership and
distribute the proceeds remaining after payment or adequate provision for
payment of all debts and obligations of the Partnership as provided in the
Partnership Agreement.






Item 2.  Properties
Real Estate Held for Investment

The table below sets forth a summary by major geographic market of the Company's
portfolio of apartment rental properties held for investment at December 31,
1996.

See also Notes 1 and 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule III
- - - Summary of Real Estate Owned.








At December 31, 1996, the Company had six apartment properties, three shopping
centers, three other commercial properties and one parcel of undeveloped land
classified in the consolidated balance sheet  as real estate held for
disposition in the amount of $39,556,055, net of accumulated depreciation in the
amount of $14,617,873 and impairment loss valuation allowance in the amount of
$290,000. These properties are not included in the above schedule.

* Average Monthly Rental Rates for the Year Ended December 31, 1996, represents
  potential rent collections (gross potential rents less market adjustments),
  which  approximates net effective rents. These amounts exclude the 1996
  acquisitions.

(a) These apartment communities were acquired on December 31, 1996 in connection
    with the statutory merger (the "Merger") with South West Property Trust Inc.
    ("South West") and as such, this information is presented for informational
    purposes only, as South West  is not included in the Company's results of
    operations for the year ended December 31, 1996.

(b) Excludes the South West apartment communities.

(c) This community was under major rehabilitation by South West during 1996 and
    as such this information is excluded.

(d) In connection with the Merger, the Company assumed $94,868,076  of REMIC
    Financings which encumber 27 of the apartment communities acquired.

(e) These properties were acquired during 1996, and as such, this information
    is not available.





Item  3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         Neither the Company nor any of its apartment communities is presently
subject to any material litigation nor, to the Company's knowledge, is any
litigation threatened against the Company or any of the communities, other than
routine actions arising in the ordinary course of business, some of which are
expected to be covered by liability insurance and all of which collectively are
not expected to have a material adverse effect on the business or financial
condition or results of operations of the Company.

Item  4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         On December 10, 1996, the Company held a special meeting of
shareholders. A total of 34,976,019 shares of common stock, representing 59% of
the 58,754,315 shares outstanding and entitled to vote as of the record date
(November 1, 1996) were represented in person or by proxy and constituted a
quorum.

         At the meeting, the shareholders approved an Amended and Restated
Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") among the Company, United
Sub, Inc. ("Sub"), a wholly-owned subidiary of the Company and South West dated
as of October 1, 1996 pursuant to which: (i) South West would merge with and
into Sub; (ii) each outstanding shares of South West Common Stock $.01 par
value, would be converted into the right to receive 1.0833 shares of the
Company's Common Stock , $1.00 par value, with cash in lieu of the issuance of
any fractional share interest, (iii) the Articles of Incorporation of the
Company would be amended to increase the number of authorized shares of the
Company from 100,000,000 shares to 150,000,000 shares; and (iv) the Board of
Directors of the Company would increase from nine members to 13 members and four
persons designated by South West would become members of the Board of Directors
of the Company filling the vacancies created by the increase in the size of the
Board. The Merger Agreement received 34,123,357 shares, representing 58.1% of
the total number of shares entitled to vote at the meeting and 97.6% of the
shares voted.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

         The executive officers of the Company, listed below, serve in their
respective capacities for approximate one year terms and are subject to
re-election annually by the Board of Directors, normally in May of each year.








         Mr. McCann has been the Company's managing Chief Excecutive Officer
since 1974.  Mr. McCann was elected Chairman of the Board in 1996.

         Mr. Schneider is the former Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the
Board of South West.  Mr. Schneider was employed with the investment banking
firm of Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette until from 1967 until 1973, when he
cofounded a predecessor firm to South West.  Mr. Schneider was elected Vice
Chairman of the Board and Executive Vice President in 1996 in connction with the
Merger.

         Mr. Dolphin was first employed by the Company in 1979 as Controller. He
was elected Vice President of Finance in 1985 and has served as the Company's
Chief Financial Officer since that time, Senior Vice President in 1987 and
Executive Vice President in 1996.

         Mr. Kornblau  joined the Company  in 1991 as Senior Vice President and
Director of Apartment Operations.

         Mr. Giannotti joined the Company as Director of Development and
Construction in September, 1985. He was elected Assistant Vice President in
1988, Vice President in 1989 and Senior Vice President in 1996.

         Mr. Sherman is the former President and Chief Operating Officer of
South West.  Mr. Sherman was in charge of South West's management division from
1973 until 1996.  Mr. Sherman was elected Senior Vice President in 1996 in
connection with the Merger.

         Mr. Johnston is the former Executive Vice President-Real Estate
Investments of South West, a position he held since joining South West in 1992.
From 1989 until 1992, Mr. Johnston was Senior Vice President of Property Company
of America.

         Ms. Surface joined the Company in 1992 as Assistant Vice President and
Legal Counsel and in 1994 was elected General Counsel, Corporate Secretary and
Vice President. From 1986 to 1992, she was an attorney with the law firm of
Hunton & Williams, the Company's outside counsel.

         Mr. Davis joined the Company  in March, 1989 as Controller and was
subsequently elected Assistant Secretary.  In 1991 he was elected Vice
President.  He is a certified public accountant.








                                    PART II


Item 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

         The Company's Common Stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange
("NYSE") under the symbol "UDR". The following table sets forth the quarterly
high and low closing sale prices per share reported on the NYSE for each quarter
of the last two years. Distribution information reflects distributions declared
per share for each calender quarter and paid at the end of the following month.

                                                  Distributions
1995                 High           Low             Declared
1st Quarter       $  14 5/8      $  13              $  .225
2nd Quarter          15 3/8         13 1/2             .225
3rd Quarter          15             13 1/2             .225
4th Quarter          15             13 1/4             .225

1st Quarter       $  15 5/8      $  14 1/8          $  .24
2nd Quarter          15 1/4         14 1/8             .24
3rd Quarter          14 1/2         13 1/8             .24
4th Quarter          15 3/4         13 5/8             .24


The Company determined that, for Federal income tax purposes, approximately
63.8% of the distributions for each of the four quarters of 1996 represented
ordinary income to its shareholders, 30.7% represented return of capital to its
shareholders and there were no capital gains to its shareholders.

On March 14, 1997, the closing sale price of the Common Stock was $15.25 per
share on the NYSE. On March 14, 1997, there were 6,898 holders of record of the
86,288,728 shares of Common Stock.

The Company pays regular quarterly distributions to holders of shares of Common
Stock. Future distributions by the Company will be at the discretion of its
Board of Directors and will depend on the actual funds from operations of the
Company, the Company's financial condition and capital requirements, the annual
distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant. The annual
distribution payment for calender year 1996 necessary for the Company to
maintain its status as a REIT was approximately $.61 per share. The Company
paid total distributions of $.945 per share for 1996.

The Company has a Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan under which
holders of Common and Preferred Stock may elect to automatically reinvest their
distributions and make additional cash payments to acquire additional shares of
the Company's Common Stock.

Item 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

         The following table sets forth selected consolidated financial and
other information for the Company as of and for each of the years in the five
year period ended December 31, 1996. The table should be read in conjunction
with the Consolidated Financial Statements of United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc.
and the Notes thereto included elsewhere herein.






SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA



(a)   All share and per share information has been adjusted to give effect to a
      2-for-1 stock split in May, 1993.
(b)   Effective at the close of business on December 31, 1996, South West
      Property Trust Inc. merged with and into a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
      Company (the "Merger").  The Merger has been accounted for under the
      purchase method of accounting in accordance with Accounting Principles
      Board Opinion No. 16.
(c)   Funds from operations ("FFO") is defined as income before gains (losses)
      on sales of investments, minority interest of unitholders in operating
      partnership  and extraordinary item (computed in accordance with generally
      accepted accounting principles) plus real estate depreciation, less
      preferred dividends and after adjustment for significant non- recurring
      items, if any.  This definition conforms to the recommendations set forth
      in a White Paper adopted by the National Association of Real Estate
      Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") in early 1995.  FFO for years prior to 1995
      have been adjusted to conform to the NAREIT definition.  The Company
      considers FFO in evaluating property acquisitions and its operating
      performance and believes that FFO should be considered along with, but not
      as an alternative to, net income and cash flows as a measure of the
      Company's operating performance and liquidity.  FFO does not represent
      cash generated from operating activities in accordance with generally
      accepted accounting principles and is not necessarily indicative of cash
      available to fund cash needs.
(d)   Prior years' payroll tax liability resulting from an Internal Revenue
      Service examination for the years 1993 and 1994.





Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of  Financial Condition and
         Results of Operations

Overview
        The Company operates in 21 major markets dispersed throughout a 15 state
area extending from Delaware to Nevada. At December 31, 1996, the Company did
not own more than 13% of its apartment homes in any one market. The following
table summarizes the Company's major apartment market information for real
estate held for investment and excludes real estate held for disposition:



(A) These apartment communities were acquired on December 31, 1996 in
connection with the Merger and as such, this information is presented for
informational purposes only, as South West is not included in the Company's
results of operations for the year ended December 31, 1996.

(B) Excludes the South West apartment communities.

  * Average Monthly Rental Rates for the Year Ended December 31, 1996,
represents potential rent collections (gross potential rents less market
adjustments), which approximates net effective rents. These figures exclude
1996 acquisitions.





 ** Economic Occupancy is defined  as rental income (gross potential rent less
vacancy loss, management units and credit loss) divided by potential
collections (gross potential rent less  management units) for the period,
expressed as a percentage.

         The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the
Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this
report. This annual report contains forward-looking statements within the
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1993, as amended, and Section
21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking
statements include, without limitation, statements concerning expected benefits
of the Merger, 1997 property acquisitions, 1997 development activity and
capital expenditures, 1997 capital raising activities, 1997 rent growth,
occupancy and rental expense growth. Such statements involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results,
performance or achievement of the Company to be materially different from the
results of operations or plans expressed or implied by such forward-loo king
statements. Such factors include, among other things, unanticipated adverse
business developments affecting the Company, and/or its properties, adverse
changes in the real estate markets and general and local economies and business
conditions. Although the Company believes that the assumptions underlying the
forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could be inaccurate, and therefore there can be no assurance that
such statements included in this report will prove to be acc1urate. In light of
the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements
included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as
representation by the Company or any other person that the results or conditions
described in such statements or the objectives and plans of the Company will be
achieved.

         At December 31, 1996, the Company owned 210 apartment communities
containing 55,664 completed apartment homes, including six apartment communities
containing 1,270 apartment homes included in real estate held for disposition.
During 1996, the Company acquired in separate transactions 7,712 apartment homes
in 30 communities at an aggregate cost of approximately $321 million which
includes a portfolio of 18 apartment communities (the "Carolina Portfolio") and
44 communities containing 14,320 completed apartment homes and 675 apartment
homes under development included in the Merger with South West Property Trust
Inc. ("South West") for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $572
million.

         Effective at the close of business on December 31, 1996, the Company
purchased South West Property Trust Inc., in a statutory merger (the "Merger")
for total consideration of approximately $572 million. The Merger has been
accounted for as a purchase in accordance with Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 16. Assets and liabilities acquired were recorded at their estimated
fair values at December 31, 1996 and results of operations are included from the
date of acquisition. Accordingly, the results of operations for South West are
excluded from the Company's consolidated statements of operations for the year
ended December 31, 1996.

         Prior to the Merger, the Company's investments had been concentrated in
the Mid-Atlantic and Southeast, however, the Merger added four new major markets
and expanded the Company's investment geography to include the entire Sunbelt.
The Company expects to achieve additional benefits from the Merger through
operating economies of scale, enhanced development capabilities, broadening of
the Company's management team and increased investment opportunities due to the
geographic expansion.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

         As a qualified REIT, the Company distributes a substantial portion of
its cash flow to its shareholders in the form of quarterly distributions. The
Company seeks to retain sufficient cash to cover normal operating needs,
including routine replacements and to help fund additional acquisitions and
development activity. For the year ended December 31, 1996, the Company's cash
flow from operating activities exceeded cash distributions paid to preferred and
common shareholders by approximately $26.4 million. The Company utilizes a
variety of primarily external financing sources to fund portfolio growth, major
capital improvement programs and balloon debt payments. The Company's bank lines
of credit generally have been used to temporarily finance these expenditures and
subsequently this short-term bank debt has been replaced with longer term debt
or equity. The Company has, from time to time, used derivative instruments to
synthetically alter on-balance sheet liabilities or to hedge anticipated
financing transactions. Derivative contracts did not have a material impact on
results of operations during the years ended December 31, 1996 or 1995.

         At December 31, 1996, the Company's outstanding indebtedness totaled
$1.0 billion with a weighted average interest rate of 7.4%. This amount includes
(i) secured notes payable aggregating $376.6 million with a weighted average
interest rate of 7.4%, (ii) unsecured notes payable aggregating $543.0 million
with a weighted average interest rate of 7.6 % and (iii) short-term bank
borrowings and credit facilities aggregating $125.3 million with a weighted
average interest rate of 6.3%. At December 31, 1996, total senior debt equaled
43% of the Company's total market capitalization (debt and equity) of $2.4
billion.

          At the beginning of 1996, the Company had approximately $2.9 million
of cash and cash equivalents and $85.1 million of available and unused bank
lines of credit.




         For the year ended December 31, 1996, the Company's cash flow from
operating activities increased approximately $23.6 million over the same period
last year. This increase was the direct result of the significant expansion of
the Company's portfolio of apartment communities as discussed below and under
"Results of Operations".

         During the year ended December 31, 1996, net cash used for investing
activities was approximately $161.6 million. During 1996, the Company acquired
in separate transactions 30 apartment communities containing 7,712 apartment
homes for a total cost, net of debt and liabilities assumed and common stock
issued of $137.2 million. In addition to these acquisitions, the Company funded
$53.1 million of capital improvements to its properties and funded $9.2 million
of development costs. The Company also received net cash proceeds of
approximately $33.8 million from the sales of real estate held for disposition
during 1996.

         Excluding communities that were acquired during 1994 and which were
still undergoing rehabilitation in 1996, the remaining mature apartment homes
(those communities acquired prior to January 1, 1995 and held throughout the
annual reporting period) averaged $832 per unit in capital expenditures. This
includes the following: carpet and tile replacements ($233 /unit), appliances
($95/unit), HVAC equipment ($58/unit), various interior improvements
($202/unit), various exterior improvements including new roofs ($134/unit),
various land improvements including parking lots and site lighting ($89/unit)
and various other improvements ($21/ unit). Some of these capital expenditures
related to an upgrade program that began in 1996 to modernize the kitchens and
bathrooms at certain of the Company's older apartment communities. These
upgrades are believed to have enhanced rent growth in 1996.

         Net cash provided by financing activities during 1996 was approximately
$82.1 million reflecting (i) the issuance of shares of common stock for an
aggregate equity value of $15.0 million, primarily through the Company's
dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plan, (ii) net proceeds from the
issuance of unsecured notes payable in the amount of $200.1 million, (iii) net
short-term bank borrowings of $37.8 million and (iv) net proceeds from the
issuance of tax-exempt bonds totaling $5.9 million. These cash inflows were
partially offset by (i) $63.7 million of cash distributions paid to common and
preferred shareholders, (ii) scheduled mortgage principal payments of $2.7
million and (iii) and principal note repayments aggregating $112.7 million.

         In connection with the Merger, the Company acquired primarily real
estate assets totaling $559.6 million. Consideration given by the Company
included 22.8 million shares of the Company's common stock valued at $14.125 per
share for all of the outstanding common stock of South West for an aggregate
equity value of approximately $322.1 million. In addition, the Company assumed
debt and other liabilities totaling $248.8 million, including the following: (i)
a renegotiated unsecured line of credit with an investment bank in the amount of
$69.1 million with a weighted average interest rate of 6.3%, (ii) an unsecured
note payable in the amount of $55.9 million bearing interest of 7.0%, (iii) two
REMIC financings aggregating $94.9 million with a weighted average interest rate
of 7.76%, (iv) one mortgage note payable in the amount of $5.1 million bearing
interest of 8.5% and (v) other liabilities aggregating $23.8 million. The
renegotiated unsecured line of credit and the unsecured note were repaid in
January, 1997.

         During 1996, the Company completed several significant financing
activities. On July 9, 1996, the Company issued $125 million of ten year
medium-term notes (MTN's) under its $200 million MTN program at an interest rate
of 7.95%. Net proceeds of approximately $124.2 million were used to (i) curtail
existing bank debt in the amount of $93.1 million, and (ii) repay a portion of a
9.57%, $35 million senior note that matured on July 15, 1996. In July, 1995, the
Company executed a forward starting interest rate swap with a notional amount of
$50 million which had the effect of fixing the interest rate on a 10-year
Treasury starting July 15, 1996 at 6.544%. In anticipation of implementing the
MTN program, the Company entered into a second interest rate hedge agreement for
$75 million (notional amount) on June 28, 1996 which allowed the Company to
lock-in a 10 year Treasury rate of 6.75%. The two interest rate hedge agreements
were terminated simultaneously with the issuance of the MTN's and the Company
received $3.0 million in cash which had the economic effect of reducing the
interest rate on the MTN's issued to approximately 7.61% over the ten year term.
On November 12, 1996, the Company issued the remaining $75 million of notes
under its MTN program which consisted of $25 million of ten year notes at a




7.07% interest rate and $50 million of nine year notes at a 7.02% interest rate.
Net proceeds of approximately $74.5 million were used to curtail existing bank
debt of approximately $43.3 million, and to repay a $31.2 million variable-rate
credit facility which had been assumed in connection with the Carolina
Portfolio.

         On August 15, 1996, the Company acquired the Carolina Portfolio
consisting of 18 apartment communities, located primarily in North Carolina and
South Carolina, at an aggregate cost of $182.6 million, including closing costs.
The Carolina Portfolio was financed with (i) borrowings under bank lines of
credit of $25.1 million, (ii) the assumption of secured debt aggregating
approximately $109.8 million, (iii) Seller financing of $25 million which
subsequently was repaid on December 31, 1996, and (iv) the issuance of
approximately 1.7 million shares of the Company's common stock valued at $22.7
million.

         The Company's strategy is to selectively sell certain apartment
communities that no longer meet its long-term investment objectives due to size,
location, age or unsatisfactory projected earnings growth, with the intent of
reinvesting the proceeds in apartment acquisitions. During 1996, the Company
sold four apartment communities, four shopping centers, one industrial park and
two parcels of undeveloped land for an aggregate sales price of approximately
$41 million. In connection with the sales, the Company recognized an aggregate
$4.3 million financial reporting gain and received net cash proceeds of
approximately $33.8 million. Included in the December 31, 1996 consolidated
balance sheet as "Real estate held for disposition" are 12 properties in the
aggregate amount of $39.6 million.

         The Company considers its cash provided by operating activities
adequate to meet its operating requirements and payments of distributions to
both common and preferred shareholders. During 1997, the Company expects to
complete the following: (i) the acquisition of approximately 7,000 to 9,000
apartment homes for an aggregate purchase price ranging from $300 to $400
million, (ii) the development of additional phases to existing apartment
communities and the completion of one apartment community which, in total, is
estimated to cost in excess of $50 million and (iii) capital expenditures of
approximately $400 per unit on revenue enhancing expenditures and $400 per unit
on recurring capital expenditures.

At December 31, 1996, the Company had 1,475 apartment homes under development as
outlined below (dollars in thousands):



         The Company's liquidity and capital resources are believed to be more
than adequate to meet its cash requirements for the next several years. The
Company expects to meet its short- and long-term liquidity requirements, such as




balloon debt maturities, property acquisitions, development activity and
significant capital improvements primarily through the public and private sale
of capital stock and the issuance of medium and long-term unsecured notes
payable. The Company may also fund its capital requirements through (i) the
assumption of mortgage indebtedness, (ii) sales of properties, (iii) cash
invested through the Company's Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan,
(iv) retained operating cash flow and (v) the issuance of operating partnership
units. The Company's senior debt is currently rated BBB+ by Standard & Poor's
and Baa1 by Moody's. As a result of its investment grade debt ratings, the
Company expects to use unsecured debt as its primary debt funding source.

         Depending upon the volume and timing of acquisition activity, the
Company anticipates raising additional debt and equity capital during the next
twelve months. In anticipation of the issuance of unsecured debt in early 1997,
the Company entered into a $100 million (notional amount) Treasury rate lock
agreement in November 1996. On January 27, 1997, the Company issued $125 million
of 7.25% Notes due January 15, 2007 under its $462.5 million shelf registration
statement. The Notes were priced to yield 7.31% which was 79 basis points over
the 10 year Treasury at the time of issuance. The interest rate protection
agreement was terminated simultaneously with the $125 million Note issuance and
the Company received $1.5 million in cash. This had the economic effect of
lowering the interest rate on the Notes to approximately 7.14%. Net proceeds of
approximately $124 million were used to curtail bank line debt. On January 28,
1997, the Company issued 4,000,000 shares of its common stock at $15.75 per
share for an aggregate value of approximately $63 million. Net proceeds of
approximately $59.7 million were used to repay an unsecured credit facility
assumed in connection with the Merger. The Company plans to increase its current
bank lines of credit from $103.5 million to $250 million during the first half
of 1997.

Funds from Operations

         Funds from operations ("FFO") is defined as income before gains
(losses) on sales of investments, minority interest of unitholders in operating
partnership and extraordinary items (computed in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles) plus real estate depreciation, less preferred
dividends and after adjustment for significant non-recurring items, if any. The
Company computes FFO in accordance with the recommendations set forth by the
National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"). The Company
considers FFO in evaluating property acquisitions and its operating performance,
and believes that FFO should be considered along with, but not as an alternative
to, net income and cash flows as a measure of the Company's operating
performance and liquidity. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating
activities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and is
not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs.

         For the year ended December 31, 1996, FFO increased 14.9% to $71.7
million, compared with $62.4 million or for the same period last year. The
increase in FFO was principally due to the increased net rental income from the
Company's 12,914 non-mature apartment homes in 52 apartment communities (those
acquired and developed subsequent to December 31, 1994 and four apartment
communities sold during this same period, excluding those acquired in the
Merger). During 1996, the Company employed more leverage than 1995 which
resulted in a smaller increase in FFO over the same period last year. For the
year ended December 31, 1995, FFO increased $14.1 million or 29.3% over the
prior year principally due to the increased net rental income from the Company's
then 16,308 non-mature apartment homes.






Results of Operations

         The Company's net income is primarily generated from the operations of
its apartment communities. For purposes of evaluating the Company's comparative
operating performance, the Company categorizes its apartment communities into
two categories (i) mature--those communities acquired prior to January 1, 1995
and held throughout the annual reporting period and (ii) non-mature--those
communities acquired and developed subsequent to December 31, 1994 plus four
apartment communities sold during this same period.

         For the year ended December 31, 1996, the Company reported increases
over the same period last year in rental income and income before gains (losses)
on sales of investments and minority interest of unitholders in operating
partnership and net income. Net income available to common shareholders
increased $1.8 million, with a decrease of $.01 per share compared to 1995.
Since the beginning of 1995, the Company acquired and developed a total of
12,914 apartment homes in 52 communities (excluding those acquired in the
Merger) representing a 44.1% expansion in the number of apartment homes owned
during that period. These non-mature apartment homes provided a substantial
portion of the aggregate reported increases.

All Communities

        The operating performance for the Company's 166 apartment communities
containing 41,344 apartment homes (excluding those acquired in the Merger) and
the 141 apartment communities containing 34,224 apartment homes for the years
ended December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively, is summarized as follows:







(1) Net rental income for an apartment community is defined as total rental
    income, less rental expenses, less depreciation expense.
(2) Economic occupancy is defined as rental income (gross potential rent less
    vacancy loss, management units and credit loss) divided by potential
    collections (gross potential rent less management units) for the period,
    expressed as a percentage.

1996-vs-1995

         Due to the acquisition and development of 12,914 apartment homes since
January 1, 1995, the weighted average number of apartment homes increased 20% to
37,481 for the year ended December 31, 1996. As a result of the increase in the
number of apartment homes acquired since January 1, 1995, the Company has
experienced significant increases in rental income, rental expenses and real
estate depreciation for the year ended December 31, 1996.

         The non-mature apartment homes (see discussion under "Non-Mature
Communities") provided the majority of the increases in rental income, rental
expenses and depreciation expense for the year ended December 31, 1996, however,
higher average rents at the Company's mature communities also contributed to the
increases in rental income. For the 41,344 apartment homes in the 166 apartment
communities owned at December 31, 1996, economic occupancy averaged 92.9% and
the operating expense ratio (ratio of rental expenses to rental income) averaged
43.5% during 1996.

         The major markets in which the Company operates experienced rent growth
of 4.6% for the Company's mature apartment communities despite some declines in
occupancy, primarily attributable to increased home buying. The Company's mature
apartments experienced increases in most of the operating expense catagories
compared to the same period last year (see discussion under "Mature
Communities").

1995-vs-1994

         Due to the acquisition of 16,308 apartment homes (net of sales) since
January 1, 1994, the weighted average number of apartment homes increased
approximately 35% to 31,242 for the year ended December 31, 1995. As a result of
the increase in the number of apartment homes acquired since January 1, 1994,
the Company has experienced significant increases in rental income, rental
expenses and real estate depreciation for the year ended December 31, 1995.

         The non-mature apartment homes provided the majority of the increases
in rental income, rental expenses and depreciation expense for the year ended
December 31, 1995, however, higher average rents at the Company's mature
communities also contributed to the increases in rental income. For the 34,224
apartment homes in the 141 apartment communities owned at December 31, 1995,
economic occupancy averaged 94.1% and the operating expense ratio (ratio of
rental expenses to rental income) averaged 42.7% for the year ended December 31,
1995. For 1994, the 29,282 apartment homes then owned had economic occupancy of
93.7% and an expense ratio of 43.8% for that year.

Mature Communities

        The operating performance for the Company's 114 mature apartment
communities containing 28,430 apartment homes for the year ended December 31,
1996 and the 74 mature apartment communities containing 17,916 apartment homes
for the year ended December 31, 1995 is summarized as follows:






1996-vs-1995

         For the year ended December 31, 1996, the Company's mature communities
provided approximately 74% of the Company's apartment rental income and 71% of
its net rental income. Compared to the same period last year, total rental
income from these apartment homes grew 4.1%, or $7 million, reflecting an
increase in average monthly rents of 4.6% to $540 per month, or an increase of
$8.1 million. In addition, other income, primarily fee income, increased $1.6
million or 33%. The rental rate increases were offset by a $2.7 million decrease
attributable to a 1.3% decline in economic occupancy to 92.8%, which resulted
from a decrease in physical occupancy of 1.0% and an increase in credit loss of
 .3%. The economic occupancy declined due to the weakening of certain major
markets during the last half of the year including Richmond, Columbia,
Greenville, Washington, DC and Hampton Roads. The Company attributes the market
softness primarily to increased home buying. The Company expects to maintain
rent growth in the 4% range and economic occupancy in the 92% range during 1997.

         For the year ended December 31, 1996 rental expenses at these
communities increased 8.1%, or $ 5.9 million, resulting in an increase in the
operating expense ratio (the ratio of rental expenses to rental income) of 1.7%
to 44.6%. The increase in rental expenses is partly attributable to the severe
winter of 1996 compared to the relatively mild winter of 1995. Of the $5.9
million increase, approximately $400,000 was weather related which included
increases in gas, snow removal and repair labor expenses. During 1996, the
Company's mature apartments experienced increases in most of its operating
expense categories compared to the same period last year. Payroll and
payroll-related expenses increased approximately $1.1 million or 7% due to
several factors: (i) increased salaries and wages in 1996 as several positions
were re-priced, (ii) tightening in the labor markets and (iii) overtime
attributable to the upgrade process discussed below. Exterior painting and other
exterior improvements, such as striping and sealcoating parking lots, accounted
for almost $1.1 million of the increase. In addition, real estate taxes,
security and water and sewer expenses have increased $232,000, $427,000 and
$416,000, respectively, over the same period last year. For 1996, casualty
insurance expense increased approximately $406,000 over the same period last
year. Over the past several years, the Company experienced several large
casualty insurance claims relating to hurricane and storm damage which resulted
in a significant increase in insurance rates beginning with its July 1, 1996
policy year. The Company expects the rate of growth in rental expenses to
moderate during 1997 partly due to the high base of 1996 expenses. However, the
Company expects continuing pressure on certain expenses such as real estate
taxes, insurance and water/sewer rates.

         In 1996, the Company began the process of upgrading certain of its
older apartment communities in order to enhance rent growth over the long term.
The upgrades relate primarily to the modernization of the kitchens and bathrooms
with new appliances, cabinets, light fixtures, ceiling fans, shelving,
countertops, doors and floor coverings. Although certain of these costs have
been capitalized, a portion has been expensed. The process of upgrading has also
contributed to higher turnover costs and an increase in repair labor costs.
Turnover (measured by move-outs) for 1996, was 61.7% at the mature communities
which is 4.8% higher than turnover last year.

         For the year ended December 31, 1996, depreciation expense increased
$2.2 million or 6.5%, primarily as a result of capital expenditures. During
1996, the Company had significant capital expenditures on several apartment
communities acquired during 1994.

1995 -vs- 1994

              For 1995, the Company's mature communities provided approximately
55% of the Company's rental income. Total rental income from these apartment
homes grew 4.9%, or $4.9 million in 1995, reflecting an increase in economic
occupancy to 94.8% from 94.1% for 1994, and growth in average rents and other
income of 4.4%. The improvement in occupancy reflected stronger apartment
markets throughout the Company's region. Occupancy peaked in mid-1994 and
remained above 95% through mid-1995 before trending downward slightly in the
second half of the year.

              Rental expenses at these communities increased only 2.5%, or $1.1
million, resulting in an overall decrease in the operating expense ratio (the
ratio of rental expenses to rental income) of 1.0% to 43.4%. The increase in
rental




expenses reflected increased repairs, real estate taxes and exterior painting
expenses. These increases were offset somewhat by lower gas, property
management, and promotional expenses caused primarily by the combination of
stronger occupancy and efficiencies of size. As a result of an Internal Revenue
Service examination, property management expenses for the 1995 period include a
$395,000 payment for employment and other taxes associated with employee
occupied apartment homes for the 1993 and 1994 tax years. In 1995, the Company
was able to internally manage its mature apartment communities at a cost of
approximately 2.6% of rental income versus 3.4% in 1994. This reduction was
achieved through economies of scale, as the Company acquired a significant
number of apartment communities over the past two years without a corresponding
increase in property management costs. Turnover (measured by move-outs) was 60%
at the mature communities for 1995 versus 59% in 1994.

         For the year ended December 31, 1995, depreciation expense increased
$612,000 or 3.0%, primarily as a result of capital expenditures during this
period.

Non-Mature Communities

              The operating performance for the year ended December 31, 1996 for
the Company's 52 non-mature apartment communities which includes (i) the 12,914
apartment homes acquired and developed since January 1, 1995 and (ii) the seven
apartment communities containing 919 apartment homes sold since December 31,
1994, and the Company's 67 non-mature communities containing 16,308 apartment
homes in 1995 is summarized as follows:



1996 -vs- 1995

              For the year ended December 31, 1996, the Company's non-mature
apartment communities provided approximately 26% of the Company's rental income
and 29% of its net rental income. Rental income, rental expenses and real estate
depreciation increased from 1995 to 1996 directly as a result of the increase in
the number of apartment homes acquired during 1995 and 1996. For the 12,914
apartments in the 52 non-mature communities acquired and developed since January
1, 1995, average economic occupancy was 93.1% and the operating expense ratio
was 40.5% during 1996. During 1996, these communities provided increases of
$42.6 million, $17.2 million and $17.2 million, respectively, in rental income,
rental expenses , and net rental income. For the year ended December 31, 1996
the 30 apartment communities containing 7,712 apartment homes which were
acquired during 1996, provided rental income, rental expenses and net rental
income of $27.1 million, $10.7 million and $11.6 million, respectively, and the
1995 acquisitions which consist of 42 apartment communities containing 5,142
apartment homes provided rental income, rental expenses and net rental income of
$30.4 million, $12.3 million and $11.6 million, respectively.

1995-vs-1994

         For the year ended December 31, 1995, the Company's non-mature
apartment communities provided approximately 45% of the Company's apartment
rental income and 47% of its net rental income. For the 16,308 apartments in the
67 non-mature communities acquired since January 1, 1994 (net of sales), average
occupancy was 93.1% and the operating expense ratio was 41.9% during 1995.
Rental income, rental expenses and real estate depreciation increased from 1994
to 1995 directly as a result of the increase in the number of apartment homes
acquired during 1994 and 1995. These communities provided increases of $52.4
million, $22.0 million and $20.5 million, respectively, in rental income, rental
expenses and net rental income.




Commercial Properties

         Rental income, rental expenses and real estate depreciation from
commercial properties decreased $3.7 million, $762,000 and $2.9 million,
respectively during the year ended 1996 compared to the same period last year.
The decrease is directly attributable to the sale of eleven shopping centers and
one industrial park since the beginning of 1995. For 1995, rental income, rental
expenses and real estate depreciation from commercial properties decreased $1.8
million, $370,000 and $741,000, respectively since 1994, primarily due to the
sales of eight shopping centers during 1995 and 1994.

Interest Expense

         For 1996, interest expense increased $10.2 million or $.10 per common
share over the same period last year. The weighted average amount of debt
employed during 1996 was higher than it was in 1995 ($647 million in 1996 versus
$512 million in 1995). The weighted average interest rate on this debt was
slightly lower in 1996 decreasing from 7.9% in 1995 to 7.6%. The lower interest
rate during 1996 reflected the fact that the weighted average interest rate on
short-term bank borrowings decreased compared to last year and the Company's
reliance on these lower rate short-term bank borrowings increased in 1996
compared to 1995 ($49.9 million weighted average outstanding in 1996 versus $8.2
million in 1995). The Company funded its 1996 acquisitions and development
activity primarily with debt compared to 1995 when a combination of debt and
equity was used.

         For 1995, interest expense increased approximately $12.1 million over
1994. The Company used both debt and equity to finance its growth over the past
two years; however, the weighted average amount of debt employed was higher in
1995 than it was in 1994 ($512 million in 1995 versus $392 million in 1994). The
$.15 per common share increase in interest expense reflected this higher average
amount of outstanding debt in 1995 together with an increase in the weighted
average interest rate on this debt from 7.3% in 1994 to 7.9% in 1995. The rate
increase reflected the Company's increased reliance on lower rate short-term
bank borrowings in 1994 than in 1995 ($33.8 million weighted average outstanding
in 1994 versus $8.2 million in 1995).

General and Administrative

         During 1996, general and administrative expenses increased by $553,000
over the same period last year. In 1996, the Company incurred increases in most
of its general and administrative expense categories. The largest increases
occurred in payroll expenses, investor relations expenses and office rent which
are directly related to the higher administrative costs associated with
increasing the size of the Company, however, general and administrative expense
as a percentage of rental revenues has remained relatively flat compared to last
year.

         General and administrative expenses were relatively flat in 1995,
increasing by only $62,000 over 1994. General and administrative expense for
1994 included a $450,000 charge related to the adoption of SFAS No. 112,
"Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits". In 1995, the Company
incurred increases in most of its general and administrative expense categories
with the largest percentage increase attributable to costs related to abandoned
acquisitions, including $204,000 associated with an unsuccessful business
combination with another apartment company.

Gains on Sales of Investments

         During 1996, the Company recognized gains for financial reporting
purposes aggregating $4.3 million on the sale of four apartment communities,
four shopping centers, one industrial park and two parcels of undeveloped land.
Seven of the sales were structured to qualify as tax deferred exchanges which
enabled the Company to defer approximately $7.8 million of capital gains for
income tax purposes.

         During 1995, the Company sold seven shopping centers and two apartment
communities and recognized gains for financial reporting purposes totaling $5.1
million. Four of the shopping centers were sold to First Washington Realty
Trust, Inc. on June 30, 1995. In connection with the sales, the Company received
cash and 358,000 shares of First Washington's 9.75% Series A Cumulative
Participating Convertible Preferred Stock having a fair value of $7.7 million on
the date of sale. Five of the shopping center sales during the year were
structured to qualify as tax deferred exchanges which enabled the Company to
defer approximately $4.5 million of capital gains for income tax purposes. The




Company also sold two apartment communities, both of which were acquired as part
of the Clover Portfolio in 1994. No significant book gain or loss was recognized
on the sale of either property. The Company recorded a $1.7 million impairment
loss in 1995 associated with management's decision to sell a shopping center at
a discount as part of a portfolio transaction.

Inflation

The Company believes that the direct effects of inflation on the Company's
operations have been inconsequential.






Item 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

         See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule on page F-1
         of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


Item 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         None.







                                    Part III


Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on May 6, 1997.

         Information required by this item regarding the executive officers of
the Company is included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in the
section entitled "Executive Officers of the Registrant".

Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on May 6, 1997.


Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on May 6, 1997.

Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on May 6, 1997.







                                    PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

         (a)      (1&2)    See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and
                           Schedule on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form
                           10-K.

                  (3)      Exhibits . The exhibits listed below are filed as
                           part of this annual report. References under the
                           caption "Location" to exhibits, forms, or other
                           filings indicate that the form or other filing has
                           been filed, that the indexed exhibit and the exhibit
                           referred to are the same and that the exhibit
                           referred to is incorporated by reference.




         The Company agrees to furnish to the Commission on request a copy of
any instrument with respect to long-term debt of the Company or its subsidiaries
the total amount of securities authorized under which does not exceed 10% of the
total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.




23                Consent of Independent                      Filed herewith.
                  Auditors

Exhibits 10(i) through 10(viii) inclusive, are management contracts or
compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed as an exhibit to this
Form 10-K pursuant to Item 14(c) of this report.

(b)      Reports on Form 8-K

                   (i)     A Form 8-K dated October 1, 1996 was filed with the
                           Securities and Exchange






                           Commission on October 4, 1996. The filing reported
                           the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of October
                           1, 1996 between the Company, United Dominion Sub,
                           Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and
                           South West Property Trust Inc.

                  (ii)     A Form 8-K dated October 31, 1996 was filed with the
                           Securities and Exchange Commission on November 14,
                           1996. The filing reported the acquisition of two
                           apartment communities which in the aggregate were
                           deemed to be significant. The financial statements
                           filed as part of this report are the statements of
                           rental operations of Westland Park Apartments and
                           Steeplechase Apartments.

                 (iii)     A Form 8-K dated December 31, 1996 was filed with the
                           Securities and Exchange Commission on January 15,
                           1997. The filing reported the acquisition by the
                           Company of South West Property Trust Inc. effective
                           at the close of business on December 31, 1996. This
                           Form 8-K was amended by a Form 8-K/A filed March 17,
                           1997. The financial statements filed as part of this
                           report were the consolidated financial statements and
                           notes thereto of South West Property Trust Inc. for
                           the year ended December 31, 1996

                  (iv)     A Form 8-K dated January 21, 1997 was filed with the
                           Securities and Exchange Commission on January 21,
                           1997. The filing reported the pro forma results of
                           the Company for the nine months ended September 30,
                           1996 and the year ended December 31, 1995.








                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Annual Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

United Dominion Realty Company, Inc.
      (registrant)


By  /s/ James Dolphin
    -----------------------
    James Dolphin
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
    March 27, 1997

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below on March 27, 1997 by the following persons on behalf of
the registrant and in the capacities indicated.

/s/ John P. McCann
- - ----------------------------                         ---------------------------
John P. McCann                                       R. Toms Dalton, Jr.
Chariman of the Board, President and Chief           Director
  Executive Officer

/s/ James Dolphin                                    /s/ Jeff C. Bane
- - -----------------------------                        ---------------------------
James Dolphin                                        Jeff C. Bane
Director, Executive Vice President,                  Director
  and Chief Financial Officer

/s/ Jerry A. Davis
- - ------------------------------                       ---------------------------
Jerry A. Davis                                       John C. Lanford
Vice President, Controller-Corporate                 Director
 Accounting  and Chief Accounting Officer


/s/ C. Harmon Williams, Jr.                          /s/ H. Franklin Minor
- - ------------------------------                       ---------------------------
C. Harmon Williams, Jr.                              H. Franklin Minor
Director                                             Director


/s/ Barry M. Kornblau
- - ------------------------------                       ---------------------------
Barry M. Kornblau                                    Ira T. Wender
Director, Senior Vice President and                  Director
  Director of Apartments/Eastern Division

/s/John S. Schneider
- - -------------------------------                      ---------------------------
John S. Schneider                                    Lynne Sagalyn
Director, Vice Chairman of the Board and             Director
Executive Vice President


- - -------------------------------                      ---------------------------
Mark J. Sandler                                      Robert W. Scharar
Director                                             Director






            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE

                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.





See accompanying notes.

                                            F-4



                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF  CASH FLOWS
                                 (In thousands)


See accompanying notes.

                                      F-5



                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
               (In thousands, except share and per share amounts)












See accompanying notes.



                                      F-6





                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Organization United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries,
the "Company"), a Virginia corporation, was formed in 1972. The Company is a
fully integrated real estate company that owns and operates income producing
real estate, primarily multifamily apartment communities. As of December 31,
1996, the Company owned 210 apartment communities containing 55,664 completed
apartment homes located in the Sunbelt states from Delaware to Nevada.

Basis of presentation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries (including United
Dominion Realty, L.P., its Operating Partnership). All significant inter-company
accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The financial
statements of the Company include the minority interest of unitholders in the
operating partnership.

Effective December 31, 1996, the Company acquired South West Property Trust Inc.
("South West") in a statutory merger (the "Merger"). South West was a
Texas-based public real estate investment trust. The Merger has been accounted
for as a purchase in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 16.
Assets and liabilities acquired were recorded at their estimated fair values at
December 31, 1996 and results of operations are included from the date of
acquisition. Accordingly, the results of operations for South West have been
excluded from the Company's consolidated statements of operations for the year
ended December 31, 1996.

Use of estimates The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Federal income taxes The Company is operated as and annually elects to be taxed
as a real estate investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the "Code"). Generally, a real estate investment trust, which complies
with the provisions of the Code and distributes at least 95% of its taxable
income to its shareholders, does not pay federal income taxes on its distributed
income. Accordingly, no provision has been made for federal income taxes.

Cash and cash equivalents All highly liquid investments with maturities of three
months or less, when purchased, are considered to be cash equivalents.

Real estate assets and depreciation On October 1, 1995, the Company adopted the
provisions of SFAS No. 121 "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of". The statement requires impairment
losses to be recognized for long-lived assets used in operations when indicators
of impairment are present and the undiscounted future cash flows are not
sufficient to recover the asset's carrying value. If such indicators are
present, an impairment loss is recognized based on the excess of the carrying
amount of the impaired asset over its fair value.

For long-lived assets to be disposed of, impairment losses are recognized when
the fair value of the asset less estimated cost to sell is less than the
carrying value of the asset measured at the time management commits to a plan to
dispose of the asset. Real estate is classified as real estate held for
disposition when management has committed to sell and is actively marketing the
property. Real estate held for disposition is carried at the lower of cost or
fair value less cost to dispose, determined on an asset by asset basis.
Depreciation is not recorded during the period in which real estate is held for
disposition and gains(losses) from initial and subsequent adjustments to the
carrying value of the assets, if any, are recorded as a separate component of
income from continuing operations. Real estate held for disposition is reported
separately on the consolidated balance sheet, net of accumulated depreciation
and impairment loss valuation allowance.

                                      F-7





                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Ordinary repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred; significant
improvements, renovations, and replacements are capitalized and depreciated over
their estimated useful lives.

Depreciation is computed on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
lives of the related assets which is 35 years for buildings, 10 to 35 years for
major improvements, and 5 to 20 years for fixtures, equipment and other assets.

The cost of development properties includes interest, property taxes, insurance
and allocated development overhead during the construction period.

Revenue Recognition Residential rental properties are leased under operating
leases with terms generally of one year or less. Rental income is recognized as
it is earned, which is not materially different than on a straight-line basis.

Interest Interest is capitalized on accumulated expenditures relating to the
acquisition and development of certain qualifying properties. During 1996, 1995
and 1994, total interest capitalized was $541,000, $40,000 and $0, respectively.

Deferred financing costs Deferred financing costs are generally amortized over a
period not to exceed the term of the related debt. Amortization of deferred
financing costs is classified as interest expense and was included in the
consolidated statements of operations in the amounts of $1,319,000, $1,078,000
and $1,180,000, for 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

Interest rate swap agreements The Company enters into interest rate swap
agreements to alter the interest rate characteristics of outstanding debt
instruments. The interest rate swaps involve the periodic exchange of payments
over the life of the related agreements. Amounts received or paid on the
interest rate swaps are recorded on an accrual basis as an adjustment to the
related interest expense of the outstanding debt. The related amounts payable to
and receivable from counterparties are included in other liabilities and other
assets, respectively. Changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap
agreements accounted for under the accrual method are not reflected in the
financial statements.

Interest rate protection agreements The Company enters into interest rate
futures contracts to hedge interest rate risk associated with anticipated debt
transactions. The Company follows SFAS No.80 "Accounting for Futures Contracts"
which permits hedge accounting for anticipatory transactions meeting certain
criteria. Gains and losses, if any, on these transactions are deferred as an
adjustment to the carrying amount of the outstanding debt and amortized over the
terms of the related debt as an adjustment to interest expense. The fair values
of interest rate protection agreements are not recognized in the financial
statements.At the time the anticipated transaction is no longer likely to occur,
the Company would mark the derivative instrument to market and would recognize
any adjustment in the consolidated statement of operations.

Net income per common share Primary net income per common share is calculated
using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each year.
Stock options and other potentially dilutive securities outstanding are not
included since their inclusion would not be materially dilutive.

Investment in marketable equity securities In connection with certain property
sales, the Company received marketable preferred stock with a fair value of $7.7
million on the date of receipt. These securities are classified as
available-for-sale and are included in other assets. Securities
available-for-sale are stated at fair value.

                                      F-8






                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Unrealized gains and losses are reported as a separate component of
shareholders' equity and are not reported in earnings until realized or until a
decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary.

Minority Interest Capital contributions, distributions and profits and losses
are allocated to minority interests in accordance with the terms of the
individual partnership agreements. Net income allocated to minority interests
for 1996 aggregated approximately $58,000.

Stock Based Compensation In October, 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (Statement
123) which provides an alternative to APB Opinion No.25 in accounting for
stock-based compensation plans and is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 31, 1995. The Company has elected to follow Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB 25) and related
Interpretations in accounting for its employee stock options because the
alternative fair value accounting provided for under Statement 123 requires use
of option valuation models that were not developed for use in valuing employee
stock options. Under APB 25, because the exercise price of the Company's
employee stock options equals the market price of the underlying stock on the
date of grant, no compensation cost has been recognized.

Reclassifications Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to
conform with the current financial statement presentation.


                                      F-9




                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


2.  Real Estate Owned

The Company operates primarily in 21 separate markets dispersed throughout a 15
state area. At December 31, 1996, the Company's largest apartment market was
Dallas, Texas, where it owned 13% of its apartment homes. Excluding Dallas,
Texas, the Company did not own more than 7% of its apartment homes in any one
market.

The following table summarizes real estate held for investment at December 31,
1996 and 1995:

Dollars in thousands                             1996                  1995
- - --------------------                             ----                 -----
Land and land improvements                $    353,092           $   193,672
Buildings and improvements                   1,537,387               864,331
Furniture, fixtures and equipment              115,308                72,576
Construction in progress                         1,825                   519
                                          --------------         ------------
Real estate held for investment              2,007,612             1,131,098
Accumulated depreciation                      (173,291)             (129,454)
                                           -------------          ----------
Real estate held for investment, net       $ 1,834,321           $ 1,001,644
                                           ===========             ==========

The following is a summary of real estate owned at December 31, 1996 (dollars in
thousands):

Real Estate Held for Investment
(Excluding real estate under development)







                                      F-10






                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(A)           In connection with the Merger on December 31, 1996, the Company
              assumed two REMIC financings aggregating $94,868 which encumber 27
              of the apartment communities acquired.

Real estate held for disposition contributed net rental income (rental income
less rental expenses and depreciation expense) in the aggregate amount of
approximately $3.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1996. The Company
expects to dispose of these properties within the next twelve months.

The following is a reconciliation of the carrying amount of real estate held for
investment (dollars in thousands):

                                       1996             1995            1994
                               ---------------   ---------------- ----------
Balance at January 1           $  1,131,098      $   1,007,599    $   582,213
Real estate purchased               843,277            198,136        409,280
Improvements                         49,434             35,682         18,857
Real estate sold                       (230)           (34,031)        (2,751)
Transferred to real estate
 held for disposition               (15,967)           (76,288)            --
                               ---------------   ---------------- ------------
Balance at December 31         $  2,007,612       $  1,131,098    $ 1,007,599
                               ===============   ================ ============

The following is a reconciliation of accumulated depreciation (dollars in
thousands):

                                    1996             1995             1994
                               ------------      -----------      --------
Balance at January 1           $ 129,454         $ 120,341        $  91,444
Depreciation expense
  for the year*                   48,039            39,442           29,049
Transferred to real estate
 held for disposition             (4,202)          (23,572)              --
Real estate sold                      --            (6,757)            (152)
                               ---------------   ------------     -----------
Balance at December 31          $ 173,291        $ 129,454        $ 120,341
                               ==========           =========     =========

*  Depreciation expense of $629,000, $503,000 and $320,000 for 1996, 1995 and
   1994, respectively, is included in "Other depreciation and amortization" in
   the consolidated statements of operations.


                                      F-11





                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

3. Acquisitions

In connection with the Merger, the Company issued 22.8 million shares of its
common stock at $14.125 per share for total market equity of approximately $322
million, assumed debt and other liabilities of approximately $246 million and
incurred transaction costs of approximately $4 million for total consideration
of approximately $572 million. No goodwill was recorded in connection with this
transaction. In addition to the Merger, during 1996, the Company acquired 30
apartment communities containing 7,172 apartment homes in separate transactions
at a total cost of approximately $321 million, including closing costs. During
1995, the Company acquired 23 apartment communities containing 5,142 apartment
homes for a total cost of approximately $195 million, including closing costs.

Information concerning unaudited pro forma results of operations for the years
ended December 31, 1996 and 1995 are set forth below. For 1996, such pro forma
information assumes (i) the consummation of the Merger and (ii) the acquisition
of 20 apartment communities containing 5,157 apartment homes at a total cost of
approximately $213 million , as if the transactions had occurred on January 1,
1996. For 1995, such pro forma information assumes (i) the consummation of the
South West Merger, (ii) the acquisition of 20 apartment communities containing
5,157 apartment homes at a total cost of approximately $213 million and , (iii)
the acquisition of 13 apartment communities containing 2,417 units at a total
cost of approximately $99 million, as if the transactions had occurred on
January 1, 1995.

                                              Pro Forma            Pro Forma
                                             Year Ended           Year Ended
In thousands, except per share amounts      Dec. 31, 1996        Dec. 31, 1995
- - ---------------------------------------     -------------        -------------
(Unaudited)

Rental income                               $   341,765          $   301,106
Income before extraordinary item                 53,650               49,402
Net income per common share before
     extraordinary item                     $       .54          $       .54

The unaudited information is not necessarily indicative of what the Company's
consolidated results of operations would have been if the acquisitions had
occurred at the beginning of each period presented. Additionally, the pro forma
information does not purport to be indicative of the Company's results of
operations for future periods.


                                      F-12




                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

4. Secured Notes Payable

Secured notes payable consist of the following:
(dollars in thousands)




Fixed-Rate Mortgage Notes Payable Fixed-rate mortgage notes payable included 23
loans encumbering 18 properties at December 31, 1996, and 19 loans encumbering
13 properties at December 31, 1995. Fixed-rate mortgage notes payable are
generally due in monthly installments of principal and interest and mature at
various dates through 2008. At December 31, 1996 and 1995, this debt carried
interest rates ranging from 7.125% to 9.625% (8.3% weighted average) and 7.00%
to 9.625% (8.2% weighted average), respectively. During 1996, the Company
assumed six fixed-rate mortgage notes payable aggregating $53.6 million with a
weighted average interest rate of 8.4% in connection with the acquisition of
apartment communities, including $5.1 million assumed in connection with the
Merger.

Fixed-Rate Tax-Exempt Notes Payable At December 31, 1996, 17 properties were
encumbered by fixed-rate mortgage notes which secure related tax-exempt housing
bond issues. Interest on these notes is generally payable in semi-annual
installments and the notes mature at various dates through 2025. At December 31,
1996 and 1995, tax-exempt fixed-rate mortgage notes had interest rates ranging
from 6.00% to 8.50% (weighted average interest rate of 6.88%), and 5.98% to
8.50% (weighted average interest rate of 6.90%), respectively. During 1996, the
Company refunded one bond issue relating to a 1995 property acquisition in the
amount of $5.9 million bearing interest of 6.35%.

Fixed-Rate REMIC Secured Notes Payable In connection with the Merger, the
Company assumed two fixed-rate REMIC Financings in the aggregate amount of $94.9
million. The REMIC Financings encumber 27 apartment communities and have
interest rates of 7.01% and 8.5% (weighted average of 7.76%). Monthly principal
and interest payments in the amount of $821,893 are required. The first phase of
the REMIC financing matures on December 10, 2000 and the second phase of the
REMIC financing matures on February 10, 2001, the principal balances on the
maturity dates are expected to be $39.9 million and $41.7 million, respectively.

Fixed-Rate Secured Notes Payable In connection with the acquisition of an 18
apartment community portfolio on August 15, 1996, the Company assumed two
variable-rate construction notes payable and two variable-rate secured senior
credit facilities aggregating $89.5 million plus five related interest rate swap
agreements with an aggregate notional value of $45 million, all of which mature
in August, 1999. The Company repaid one of the secured senior credit facilities
in the amount of $31.2 million on November 12, 1996. Variable-rate secured notes
payable which have been effectively swapped to a fixed-rate at December 31, 1996
consist of a $40 million variable-rate secured senior credit facility which
encumbers six apartment communities and a variable-rate construction note
payable.
                                      F-13





                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


The variable-rate secured notes payable bear interest at LIBOR + 1% or 6.61% at
December 31, 1996. The five interest rate swap agreements aggregate $45 million
under which the Company pays a fixed-rate of interest and receives a
variable-rate on the notional amounts. The interest rate swap agreements
effectively change the Company's interest rate exposure on $45 million from a
variable-rate to a weighted average fixed-rate of 7.29%.

Variable-Rate Secured Notes Payable Variable-rate secured notes payable at
December 31, 1996 consist of two variable-rate construction notes payable which
were assumed in connection with the acquisition of an 18 apartment community
portfolio on August 15, 1996, both of which mature in August, 1999. The
variable-rate secured notes payable bear interest at LIBOR + 1% or 6.61% at
December 31, 1996.

Variable-Rate Tax-Exempt Notes Payable At December 31, 1996 two of the Company's
properties were encumbered by variable-rate mortgage notes which secure
tax-exempt housing bond issues. Interest on these notes is generally payable in
semi-annual installments and the notes mature at various dates through 2010. At
December 31, 1996 and 1995, tax-exempt variable-rate notes had interest rates
ranging from 4.56% to 7.27% (weighted average interest rate of 6.20%) and
5.00% to 7.29% (weighted average interest rate of 5.80%), respectively.

The loan documents relating to the REMIC financing contain certain covenants,
which require among other things, that debt service coverage ratios on the
mortgaged properties be maintained at certain levels.

The aggregate maturities of secured notes payable for the five years subsequent
to December 31, 1996 were as follows (dollars in thousands):

              Year                                 Amount
              ----                                 ------
              1997                      $           7,393
              1998                                 22,382
              1999                                 86,559
              2000                                 57,917
              2001                                 51,119
              Thereafter                          151,190
                                                  -------
                                        $         376,560
                                                  =======


                                      F-14



                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

5.  Unsecured Notes Payable

A summary of unsecured notes payable at December 31, 1996 and 1995 is as
follows:



(a)           Includes $69,050 outstanding under a renegotiated $75,000
              unsecured revolving credit facility assumed on December 31, 1996
              in connection with the Merger. The note was paid in full on
              January 29, 1997.
(b)           Payable in seven equal principal installments of $7.4 million.
(c)           Payable in two equal annual principal installments of $2 million.
(d)           Includes $5.6 million and $3.0 million at December 31, 1996 and
              1995, respectively, of deferred gain from the termination of
              interest rate hedge transactions.
(e)           Represents an unsecured note assumed in connection with the Merger
              on December 31, 1996.  The note was paid in full on
              January 3, 1997.
(f)           Debentures include an investor put feature which grants the
              debentureholder a one time option to redeem debentures at the end
              of 10 years.

On January 27, 1997, the Company issued $125 million of 7.25% Notes due January
15, 2007 under its $462.5 million shelf registration statement. In November
1996, the Company entered into an interest rate protection agreement for a
notional amount of $100 million in anticipation of issuance of debt early in
1997. The interest rate protection agreement was terminated simultaneously with
the $125 million Note issuance and the Company received $1.5 million in cash on
the settlement. This had the economic effect of lowering the interest rate on
the Notes to approximately 7.14% over the ten year term of the Notes. Net
proceeds of approximately $124 million were used to curtail approximately $83.1
million of bank line debt and the remaining proceeds were temporarily invested
in short-term money market instruments and subsequently used to repay debt
assumed in connection with the Merger.


                                      F-15





                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



Information concerning short-term bank borrowings is summarized in the table
that follows:



*  Includes a renegotiated $75 million unsecured revolving credit facility
   assumed on December 31, 1996 in connection with the Merger.
** Maximum daily borrowings outstanding excludes the $69.1 million revolving
   credit facility assumed on December 31, 1996.

The underlying loan agreements contain certain covenants which, among other
things, require the Company to maintain minimum consolidated tangible net worth,
as defined, and maintain certain financial ratios.

At December 31, 1996, the Company had $70 million of unsecured revolving credit
facilities with four commercial banks. At December 31, 1996, there was $45
million outstanding under the revolving credit facilities. These credit
agreements currently expire at dates between June 1997 and June 1998, but are
renewable annually by mutual agreement between the Company and each bank.
Interest on borrowings outstanding under these agreements are at varying rates
depending on the level of the Company's debt and the term of the borrowing.
Generally, loans for 30 days or more are priced at LIBOR plus 5/8% to 1%. Loans
of shorter duration are priced at spreads of 5/8% to 1.125% over the bank's
applicable base rate. The Company is obligated to pay a fee equal to 1/4% of 1%
per annum on the average daily amount of the unused portion of the commitment
during the revolving loan period. None of these agreements have compensating
balance requirements.

At December 31, 1996, the Company had unsecured lines of credit with three
commercial banks totaling $33.5 million. At December 1996, there was $11.2
million outstanding under the lines of credit. These credit facilities currently
expire on June 30, 1997, but are renewable annually by mutual agreement between
the Company and each bank. Each line is subject to periodic bank review and
requires the Company to maintain a depository relationship with the respective
bank, however, there are no formal compensating balance arrangements. Borrowings
bear interest generally at negotiated rates in line with borrowings under the
Company's revolving credit facilities.

At December 31, 1996, the Company had a $50 million interim credit agreement
expiring on May 31, 1997, with one of its commercial banks. Borrowings bear
interest generally at negotiated rates in line with borrowings under the
Company's revolving credit facilities negotiated by the Company. There were no
borrowings outstanding under this credit facility at December 31, 1996.






                                      F-16





                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

6. Financial Instruments

Fair Value of Financial Instruments The following disclosures of estimated fair
value of financial instruments were determined by the Company using available
market information and appropriate valuation methodologies. Considerable
judgment is necessary to interpret market data and develop estimated fair value.
Accordingly, the estimates presented herein are not necessarily indicative of
the amounts that the Company could realize upon disposition of the financial
instruments. The use of different market assumptions and/or estimation
methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.
The carrying amounts and estimated fair value of the Company's financial
instruments at December 31, 1996 and 1995, both on and off-balance sheet, are
summarized as follows:



The following methods and assumptions were used by the Company in estimating the
fair values set forth above.

The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value because
of the short-term nature of these instruments.

Investment in equity securities Securities available-for-sale are carried at
fair value based upon market quotations.

Notes payable Estimated fair value is based on mortgage rates and tax-exempt
bond rates believed to be available to the Company for issuance of debt with
similar terms and remaining maturities as of December 31, 1996 and 1995. The
carrying amount of the Company's variable-rate secured notes payable approximate
fair value at December 31, 1996 and 1995. The carrying amounts of the Company's
borrowings under short-term revolving credit agreements and lines of credit
approximate their fair values at December 31, 1996 and 1995 due to the short
term maturity of these instruments and the fact that they are variable-rate
instruments.

Interest rate swap agreements Fair value is based on external market quotations
from investment banks.

Interest rate risk management agreements Fair value is based on external market
quotations from investment banks.

Interest rate swap agreements At December 31, 1996, the Company had six interest
rate swap agreements outstanding with an aggregate notional amount of $122.2
million which effectively change the cost on certain debt instruments from a
variable-rate to a fixed-rate. Of this amount, $77.2 million was assumed in
connection with the Merger which fixes the interest rate on a portion of the
Company's variable-rate debt at 7.9% through April, 1997. The Company also
assumed a $45 million interest rate swap on August 15, 1996 in connection with a
portfolio acquisition which effectively fixes $45 million of the variable-rate
secured notes payable assumed to a weighted average fixed rate of 7.29%. The
Company's credit exposure on swaps is limited to the value of interest rate
swaps that are favorable to the Company at December 31, 1996. At December 31,
1996, the market value of interest rate swaps in a favorable value position was
$21,000, while the net fair value of all positions was unfavorable to the
Company at $589,000.


                                      F-17





                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

At December 31, 1995, there were no interest rate swap agreements outstanding,
nor were there any interest rate swap agreements during 1995. For all periods
presented, the Company had no deferred gains or losses relating to terminated
swap contracts.

Interest rate risk management agreements In June 1995, the Company entered into
a $50 million (notional amount) fixed pay forward starting swap agreement with a
major Wall Street investment banking firm in order to reduce the interest rate
risk associated with the anticipated refinancing of fixed-rate debt maturing in
1996. The transaction allowed the Company to lock-in a ten year Treasury rate of
6.544% on or before July, 15, 1996. In November, 1995, in anticipation of the
issuance of medium-term notes during 1996, the Company entered into a $50
million (notional amount) interest rate protection agreement with one of its
commercial banks which allowed the Company to lock-in a 10 year Treasury rate of
5.946% beginning on or before March 1, 1996. This transaction was terminated at
no cost to the Company in February 1997. In June, 1996, the Company entered into
a $75 million (notional amount) fixed pay forward starting swap agreement with a
major Wall Street investment banking firm in order to reduce the interest rate
risk associated with the anticipated issuance of medium-term notes during 1996.
This transaction allowed the Company to lock-in a ten year Treasury rate of
6.75%. In July, 1996, the Company issued $125 million of ten year notes under
this its $200 million medium-term note program (MTN's) at an interest rate of
7.95%. The two outstanding interest rate risk management agreements were
terminated simultaneously with the $125 million MTN's issuance and the Company
received $3.0 million in cash. This had the economic effect of reducing the
interest rate on the MTN's to approximately 7.61% over the ten year term.

In November 1996, the Company entered into a $100 million (notional amount)
fixed pay forward starting swap agreement with a major Wall Street investment
banking firm in order to reduce the interest rate risk associated with the
anticipated issuance of unsecured notes in January 1997. The transaction allowed
the Company to lock-in a ten year Treasury rate of 6.544% on or before January
21, 1997.

The Company has not obtained collateral or other security to support financial
instruments subject to credit risk but monitors the credit standing of
counterparties. While the Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of
nonperformance by the counterparty, such nonperformance is not anticipated as
the counterparties are highly rated, credit quality companies.

7. Income Taxes

The differences between net income available to common shareholders for
financial reporting purposes and taxable income before dividend deductions
relate primarily to temporary differences, principally real estate depreciation
and the deferral for tax purposes of certain gains on property sales.

All realized gains (losses) on sales of investments are distributed to
shareholders if and when recognized for income tax purposes. Since 1980, gains
aggregating approximately $19.4 million have been deferred for income tax
purposes and are undistributed at December 31, 1996.

For income tax purposes, distributions paid to common shareholders consist of
ordinary income, capital gains, return of capital or a combination thereof. For
the three years ended December 31, 1996, distributions paid per common share
were taxable as follows:

                           1996              1995              1994
                           ----             -----            ------
Ordinary income           $.638             $.715            $ .629
Capital gains               ---              .003              .004
Return of capital          .307              .152              .127
                          ------            ------           -------
                          $.945             $.870            $ .760
                          =====             =====            ======

                                      F-18





                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

8. Profit Sharing Plan

The "United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc. Profit Sharing Plan" (the Plan) is a
defined contribution plan covering all eligible full-time employees. Under the
Plan the Company makes discretionary profit sharing and matching contributions
to the Plan as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors. Aggregate contributions, both matching and discretionary, which are
included in the Company's consolidated statements of operations for the three
years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 were $600,000 $536,000 and
$350,000, respectively.

9. Stock Option Plan

The Company's 1985 Share Option Plan, (the "Plan") as amended, authorizes the
grant of options, at the discretion of the Board, to certain officers, directors
and key employees of the Company, for up to 4,200,000 shares of the Company's
common stock. The Plan generally provides, among other things, that options be
granted at exercise prices not lower than the market value of the shares on the
date of grant. Shares under options which subsequently expire or are canceled
are available for subsequent grant. For options granted prior to December 12,
1995, the optionee has up to five years from the date on which the options first
become exercisable during which to exercise the options. For all options granted
subsequent to December 12, 1995, the options have 10 year terms and vest on
December 31 of the year subsequent to grant.

Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is required by
Statement 123, and has been determined as if the Company had accounted for its
employee stock options under the fair value method of accounting as defined in
Statement 123. The fair value for these options was estimated at the date of
grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted
average assumptions for 1996 and 1995:

                                            1996             1995
                                            ----             ----
Risk free interest rate                     6.6%             6.5%
Dividend yields                             6.1%             6.1%
Volatility factor                          .166             .166
Weighted average expected life (years)      8.6              8.6

For the options granted in 1995 and 1996, the contractual life is 10 years and
the stock price on the date of grant is equal to the exercise price. The
Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the
fair value of traded options which have no vesting restrictions and are fully
transferrable. In addition, option valuation models require the input of highly
subjective assumptions, including the expected stock price volatility. The
Company's employee stock options are significantly different from traded options
and slight changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the
fair value estimate. In management's opinion, the existing models do not
necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of its employee
stock options.

For purposes of the pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the
options is amortized to expense over the options' vesting period. Statement 123
is applicable only to options granted subsequent to December 31, 1994,
consequently, the pro forma effect will not be fully reflected until 1997. The
Company's pro forma information is as follows (in thousands, except per share
amounts):



                                              1996            1995
                                              ----          ------
Net income available to
        common shareholders   As reported   $ 28,278       $ 26,490
                              Pro forma       27,659         26,460
Earnings per common
        share                 As reported       $.49           $.50
                              Pro forma          .48            .50



                                      F-19





                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A summary of the Company's stock option activity during the three years ended
December 31, 1996 is provided in the following table (in thousand of dollars,
except per share amounts).



Exercise prices for the options outstanding as of December 31, 1996, ranged from
$7.44 to $15.25. The weighted average remaining contractual life on all options
outstanding is 6.3 years. Approximately 817,000 of share options had exercise
prices between $14.00 and $15.25 and approximately 958,000 had exercise prices
between $11.50 and $13.99.

The weighted-average fair value of options granted during 1996 and 1995 was
$1.74 and $1.64, respectively.

10. Shareholders' Equity

Preferred Stock The preferred stock is redeemable on or after April 24, 2000 at
the sole option of the Company from the proceeds from the sale of additional
capital stock (common or preferred). The preferred stock has no voting rights,
no stated maturity, is not subject to any sinking fund or mandatory redemption
and is not convertible into any other securities of the Company.

Common Stock On January 28, 1997, the Company completed a public offering of
4,000,000 shares of its common stock at $15.75 per share. Net proceeds of the
offering after deducting underwriting commissions and direct offering costs,
aggregated approximately $59.7 million and were used to repay unsecured notes
payable.

Officers' Stock Purchase and Loan Plan At December 31, 1996, 585,500 shares of
common stock had been issued under the Officer Stock Purchase and Loan Plan.
Under the plan, certain officers have purchased common stock at the then current
market price with financing provided by the Company at 7% interest only. The
underlying notes mature beginning in November, 1998. A total of 14,500 shares
are available for future issuance under this Plan.

                                      F-20





                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan The Company's Dividend
Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan (the "Plan") allows common and preferred
shareholders the opportunity to purchase, through reinvestment of cash
dividends, additional shares of the Company's common stock at 95% of Average
Market Value, as defined. Shareholders may make additional optional cash
payments of not less than $50 and not more than $25,000 per quarter, of the
Company's common stock at 97% of Average Market Value, as defined. As of
December 31, 1996, 1,063,262 shares of common stock had been issued under the
Company's Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. Shares in the amount of
2,936,738 are reserved for further issuance under this plan. During 1996,
970,718 shares were issued under the Plan for a total market equity value of
approximately $13.2 million. All costs of administration of the Plan are paid by
the Company.





                                      F-21







                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

11. Unaudited Summarized Consolidated Quarterly Financial Data
Summarized consolidated quarterly financial data for the years ended December
31, 1996 and 1995 is as follows (In thousands, except per share information):



*             For the quarters ended March 31, 1996, September 30, 1996 and
              December 31, 1996, the Company recognized $1.0 million, $1.3
              million and $2.0 million, respectively, of aggregate book gains on
              the sale of real estate held for disposition.

- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------


**            For the quarter ended June 30, 1995, the Company recognized a $4.6
              million aggregate book gain on the sales of real estate owned.

***           For the quarter ended September 30, 1995, the Company recognized a
              $1.7 million impairment loss on real estate held for disposition.

                                      F-22





SCHEDULE III.
Summary of Real Estate Owned




SCHEDULE III.
Summary of Real Estate Owned












(a) The aggregate cost for federal income tax purposes was approximately
    $1.932 billion and  $1.192 billion at December 31, 1996 and 1995,
    respectively.

(b) These properties were purchased at the close of business on 12/31/96 in
    connection with the statutory merger (the "Merger") with South West Property
    Trust Inc.  The Merger has been accounted for as a purchase in accordance
    with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 16.
(c) Represents  a $46,289,018 REMIC financing encumbering 13 apartment
    communities assumed on December 31, 1996 in connection with the Merger.
(d) Represents a $48,579,058 REMIC financing encumbering 14 apartment
    communities assumed on December 31, 1996 in connection with the Merger.


