
10-K
FORM 10-K





                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, DC 20549

                                   Form 10-K


       ( X )    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                                [FEE REQUIRED]

                    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993

                                       OR

       (   )     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                      OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                                [NO FEE REQUIRED]

               For the transition period from _______ to _______

                         Commission file number 1-10524
                       United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc.
               (Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)

               VIRGINIA                                    54-0857512
    (State or other jurisdiction of                     (I.R.S. employer
     incorporation or organization)                    Identification No.)

  10 South Sixth Street Suite 203, Richmond, Virginia           23219-3802
          (Address of principal executive                       (Zip Code)

                                  804-780-2691
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

        Title of Class              Name of exchange on which registered
  Common Stock $1 par value                New York Stock Exchange


         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      None

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

          YES    ( X )                               NO

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.      (   )

     The aggregate market value of voting shares held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant was approximately $610,000,000* as of March 28, 1994.

                                   41,700,885
     (Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of March 28, 1994)

     Part I and Part II incorporate certain information by reference from the
registrant's Form S-3, Registration Statement (Registration No. 33-52521), filed
with the Commission on March 7, 1994 and amended on March 29, 1994. Part III
incorporates certain information by reference from the definitive proxy
statement to be filed with respect to the Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
May 10, 1994.


*  In determining this figure, the Trust has assumed that all of its officers
and Directors, and persons known to the Trust to be beneficial owners of more
than 5% of the Trust's shares, are affiliates.  Such assumptions should not be
deemed to be conclusive for any other purpose.  The aggregate market value has
been computed with reference to the closing sales price reported by the
New York Stock Exchange on March 28, 1994.



                                  Part I
Item 1.   Business

     United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc. (the "Trust"), a Virginia
corporation, is a self-administered equity real estate investment trust
("REIT"), formed in 1972, whose business is devoted to one industry segment,
the ownership of income-producing real estate, primarily apartments. The
Trust acquires, upgrades and operates its properties with the goals of
maximizing its funds from operations (defined as income before gains(losses)
on investments and extraordinary items adjusted for certain non-cash items,
primarily real estate depreciation) and quarterly distributions to
shareholders, while building equity primarily through real estate
appreciation. Prior to 1991, the Trust's investment policy was to emphasize
the acquisition of under-leased, under-managed, and/or under-maintained
properties that could be physically or otherwise upgraded and could be acquired
at significant discounts from replacement costs.  At the beginning of 1991,
changed economic conditions and the Trust's financial strength enabled it to
embark on a major expansion of its apartment portfolio involving (i) the
acquisition of more stable apartment properties having high occupancy levels
and not requiring substantial renovation, and (ii) entry into new markets,
most recently the Baltimore/Washington area, central Florida and Nashville,
Tennessee.  The properties have been acquired generally at significant
discounts from replacement cost and at attractive current yields.  The
sellers have been primarily financially distressed real estate limited
partnerships, the RTC, the FDIC, lenders who had foreclosed and insurance
companies seeking to reduce their real estate exposure.  Since 1991, the
Trust has acquired 38 apartment properties containing 9,885 units at a total
cost of approximately $277 million.  As of March 28, 1994, the Trust's
portfolio of income-producing real estate consisted of ninety-five properties
including seventy-six apartment complexes, fifteen shopping centers, and four
other properties.  (See Item 2.  "Properties".)

     The Trust is operated so as to qualify as a real estate investment trust
under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the "Code").  To qualify, the Trust must meet certain tests which,
among other things, require that its assets consist primarily of real estate,
its income be derived primarily from real estate, and at least 95% of its
taxable income be distributed to its shareholders.  Because the Trust
qualifies as a REIT, it is generally not subject to Federal income taxes.

     Prior to 1990, all of the Trust's properties were managed by independent
property management companies whose primary responsibilities included
leasing, maintenance, and rent collection activities.  In December, 1989 the
Trust received a Private Letter Ruling from the Internal Revenue Service
permitting the Trust to manage its properties directly, rather than through
outside property management firms.  During 1993, the estimated cost of
internal property management of the Trust's apartment properties was
approximately 3.2% of rents collected versus the 4-5% fee typically charged
by independent fee management companies in the Trust's region.  In
determining its cost, the Trust considers all direct and indirect costs
associated with the internal property management function.  Near the end of
1992, management of the Trust determined that the Trust should devote
substantially all of its resources to the apartment business.  Consequently,
the Trust has decided not to acquire additional commercial properties over
the next few years.  Although no formal plans for divestiture have been made,
the Trust expects them to be sold or otherwise disposed of at gains.
Effective April 1, 1993, the Trust engaged independent fee management
companies to manage all but three of its commercial properties.  Prior to
that time, the Trust had self-managed all but three of its properties.

     A significant aspect of the Trust's investment strategy has been to
concentrate its investments within the Southeast.  The Trust currently owns
properties from the Baltimore/ Washington corridor to Tampa, Florida, as well
as Nashville, Tennessee.  This strategy of geographically focusing on one
region, the southeastern U.S., has enabled management to regularly inspect
each property and to monitor developments in local real estate markets.  Over
the past few years, the Trust has entered several new markets within this
region including, Washington, D.C.; Greensboro, North Carolina;
Greenville/Spartanburg, South Carolina; Orlando, Tampa and Melbourne,
Florida; Baltimore, Maryland; and Nashville, Tennessee.  As of December 31,
1993, the Trust's real estate portfolio was geographically distributed as set
forth in the table on the following page.


                                    Number of           Percentage of Real
                                 Properties owned      Estate owned at Cost
  Virginia:
     Richmond                              21                    20%
     Tidewater (1)                          7                     8%
     Alexandria/Northern Va                 3                     4%
     Other                                  5                     2%
                                           36                    34%
  North Carolina:
     Charlotte                              8                     9%
     Raleigh/Durham                         7                     9%
     Wilmington                             3                     3%
     Other                                  8                     6%
                                           26                    27%

  South Carolina:
     Columbia                               6                     7%
     Greenville/Spartanburg                 3                     3%
     Other                                  3                     4%
                                           12                    14%
  Florida:
     Tampa/Clearwater                       5                     7%
     Orlando                                2                     2%
     Other                                  1                     1%
                                            8                    10%

  Tennessee:
     Nashville                              3                     3%
     Other                                  1                     1%
                                            4                     4%

  Georgia (all Atlanta)                     4                     6%

   Maryland:
     Columbia                               2                     3%
     Other                                  1                     2%
                                            3                     5%

     Total                                 93                   100%


(1)  Includes Virginia Beach, Hampton, Newport News, Portsmouth and
     Gloucester.


    As a qualified REIT, the Trust distributes a substantial portion of its
cash flow to its shareholders in the form of dividends.  Over the past
several years, these distributions have exceeded 80% of the Trust's cash flow
from operating activities and its funds from operations.  Consequently, the
Trust has financed its portfolio growth through a variety of primarily
external sources.  On February 24, 1993, the Trust completed a private
placement of $52 million of senior unsecured notes with three insurance
companies at an interest rate of 7.98%, maturing in annual installments of
$7.4 million each in 1997 through 2003.  The proceeds of the debt placement
were utilized to repay $50 million of short term bank debt that had been
incurred in connection with certain apartment acquisitions since mid-
December, 1992.  In early July, 1993, the Trust issued 6,095,000 shares of
Common Stock in a public offering at $13.50 per share.  Net proceeds of the
offering, after deducting underwriting commissions and direct offering costs,
aggregated approximately $78 million of which approximately $35 million was
used to repay, in full, then outstanding short term bank debt.  The remaining
proceeds were invested primarily in additional apartment acquisitions during
the second half of 1993.  Also, at the beginning of July, 1993, the Trust
completed a refunding of $13.8 million of 30-year tax-exempt housing bonds
encumbering two Maryland apartment communities that had been acquired at the
end of 1992.  The bonds were sold in a public offering, mature in 30 years
and have a weighted average life of 22.3 years and bear a weighted average
interest rate of 5.91%.  Because a portion of the funds raised through these
financing transactions was used to retire or replace debt, the Trust utilized
62% equity and 38% debt during the year to fund its apartment acquisition and
improvement program.  These funds had an estimated first year cost to the
Trust of 7.2%.

     In the past, the Trust leveraged a portion of its real estate portfolio
with fixed rate mortgage debt.  As the Trust's capital base has broadened
over the past several years primarily through its sale of Common Stock in
1986, 1988, 1989, 1991, 1992, and 1993, its financial strength and credit
standing have improved.  In 1992, the Trust's implied senior debt rating was
upgraded to BBB+ by Standard & Poor's.  As a result of this investment grade
rating, alternate forms of debt having a lower cost than traditional mortgage
financing have become available.  Management anticipates that the Trust will
continue to retire its higher rate mortgage debt when it can be replaced with
lower cost debt or equity. As of March, 1994, seventy-three properties and
parts of several other properties are unencumbered by mortgage debt.  The
unencumbered properties have a total cost of approximately $456 million.
Consequently, if these properties were leveraged with 50% mortgage debt, then
the Trust could generate in excess of $200 million in mortgage financing
proceeds, should it become necessary, thereby providing some flexibility in
the Trust's financing alternatives.

     In mid-December, 1992, the Trust entered into revolving credit
agreements with three  commercial banks for an aggregate of $40 million which
was subsequently increased to $45 million in July, 1993.  These credit
facilities currently expire in June, 1994, but are renewable annually by
mutual agreement between the Trust and each bank.  In March, 1994, the Trust
entered into another line of credit agreement for $12.5 million with one of
these banks and simultaneously renewed its $15 million revolving credit
facility with that bank through June, 1995.  Borrowings under the lines bear
interest at rates ranging from LIBOR plus 5/8% to the respective bank's prime
rate, depending on the level of debt employed by the Trust.  The Trust also
has $16 million of additional available lines of credit with the same three
banks at rates generally below the respective lending bank's prime rate.  The
Trust will seek to further expand these credit arrangements during 1994.  At
December 31, 1993, the Trust had $28.65 million of borrowings outstanding
under the revolving credit facilities and no borrowings outstanding under its
lines of credit.  On March 7, 1994, the Trust filed a Registration Statement
for the purpose of selling $75 million of senior unsecured notes.  The
proceeds will be used to curtail bank debt and for additional apartment
acquisitions.

     At the end of 1993, the apartment portion of the Trust's portfolio
included seventy-four complexes having a total of 17,914 units and
constituting 86% of the Trust's real estate owned, at cost.  During 1993, the
Trust acquired seventeen apartment complexes having a total of 4,082 units,
a 30% increase in the number of units owned.  During 1993, 1992, and 1991,
apartments provided approximately 89%, 85% and 82% respectively, of the
Trust's rental income.  The Trust's apartments consist primarily of middle
and moderate income complexes  which make up the broadest segment of the
apartment market.  Management believes that well located apartments offer the
Trust a good combination of current income and longer term equity growth.
Although there is no known move toward rent control in any of the markets in
which the Trust now owns apartments, should rent control legislation be
enacted, the Trust's ability to raise rents to cover increases in operating
expenses might be impaired.  While the Trust has been largely unaffected by
announced military cutbacks and base closures, the effect of future defense
cuts on the Trust's region is unknown, but as the Trust has expanded beyond
Virginia and North Carolina, the impact of significant reductions should be
less than it might have been a few years ago.  The Trust has purposely
avoided entering new markets such as Charleston, South Carolina and
Jacksonville, Florida because of their exposure to reduced defense spending.

     Management expects the Trust's apartment business to strengthen during
the next three years as expectations are high for steady growth in the
Trust's apartment portfolio. While vigorous single-family home buying due to
low mortgage rates, lower down payments and increased consumer confidence had
a moderating effect on the Trust's occupancy levels during 1993, the market
for apartments generally benefitted from job growth that occurred during this
same period. Management believes that demand for apartments within the
Southeast will grow faster than the national average for several reasons
including both population and job growth rates that are projected to be
approximately 50% greater than the national average.

     The volume of new apartment construction has been very low for the past
three years both nationally and in the Southeast.  Thus, very few new units
will come to market in 1994 or the first half of 1995 in the Trust's region.
Factors such as high impact fees and increasing material prices, including
lumber, make new apartment development and construction expensive.  With few
new apartments coming into the market in 1994 and a steady job growth in the
Southeast region, management expects occupancy gains and rent growth for the
properties currently owned by the Trust.

     The Trust has increased the number of apartments owned by 64% over the
past two years not only because of the outlook for apartments, but also
because of several factors that have created an environment conducive to
making attractive apartment acquisitions:

     -    Prior to the 1986 Tax Reform Act, many apartments were over-
          financed by syndication groups in order to maximize tax write-offs.
          With too much debt and not enough growth in occupancy and rents,
          these apartments needed an infusion of capital in order to be
          properly operated and maintained.  However, there was no incentive
          for their owners to invest additional capital because their
          original inducement, tax benefits, was no longer available.
          Consequently, many of these properties were placed in bankruptcy,
          were taken back by the lender to be resold, or have been sold by
          the owning syndicate.

     -    Much of the over-financing of apartments came from savings and loan
          institutions many of which, in turn, became troubled and were taken
          over by the RTC.

     -    The combination of the demise of the savings and loan industry as
          an apartment lender, pressure on banks to reduce real estate loans,
          FHLMC leaving the multi-family mortgage market, and a general
          tightening of mortgage requirements by the lending community made
          it more difficult to obtain permanent loans for apartments.  Thus,
          refinancing has not been an option to a financially weak owner,
          whose only option, then, is to sell.

     These factors have led to a larger supply of apartments on the market
for sale over the past few years at a time when the Trust's cost of funds has
been at or near historical lows.  The competition for apartment acquisitions
has driven prices higher over the past few years.  However, the Trust has
been able to locate suitable apartment properties at acceptable prices within
its region.  The Trust plans to continue to commit a substantial portion of
its portfolio to apartments and to aggressively buy apartments during 1994
assuming the continued supply of apartment product and the availability of
investment capital at acceptable costs.  Management believes that apartments
will outperform other areas of investment real estate over the long term.

     At December 31, 1993, commercial properties, primarily shopping centers,
constituted the remaining 14% of the Trust's real estate owned at cost.
During 1993, 1992, and 1991, commercial properties provided 11%, 15%, and
18%, respectively, of the Trust's rental income.  The commercial portfolio
has become and will continue to become a less material portion of the total
portfolio.

     Currently, shopping centers are overbuilt in the Southeast.
Additionally, major tenant changes over the last few years from leveraged
buy-outs, recapitalization, and bankruptcies have made the shopping center
business more volatile.  The occupancy of the Trust's nineteen commercial
properties remained at 84% in 1993, however, net operating income increased
4% as vacancies at larger spaces were offset during the year by the steady
absorption of smaller tenant space at higher rents.

     After thoroughly evaluating its shopping center portfolio, retail trends
and the trends in shopping center business, the decision has been made not to
acquire any additional commercial properties.  Management has also committed
to developing alternative strategies that will enable the Trust to dispose of
most of these properties over the next few years although no formal plan has
been adopted.  In the interim, in April, 1993, the Trust engaged outside
property management for most of its shopping centers.

    In most of the Trust's markets, the competition for tenants among
properties is very intense.  Some competing properties are larger and/or
newer than the Trust's properties and offer features for prospective tenants
not offered by properties owned by the Trust.  The competitive situation of
each property varies and intensifies as additional properties are
constructed.

     The Trust expects to continue to aggressively acquire additional
apartment properties within the Southeast during 1994.  When it is in the
market for new acquisitions, the Trust competes with numerous other
investors, including REITs, individuals, partnerships, corporations, pension
funds, syndicators, insurance companies, foreign investors, and other real
estate entities.  Management believes that the Trust, in general, is well
positioned in terms of economic and other resources to compete effectively.
Even though the Trust has certain advantages over some of its competitors
because of its substantial presence in the region and its access to capital,
some competing investors are larger than the Trust in terms of assets and
other investment resources and may have a competitive advantage.

     To date, compliance with Federal, State, and local environmental
protection regulations has not had a material effect upon the capital
expenditures, earnings, or competitive position of the Trust.  However, over
the past few years, there have been increasing concerns raised regarding the
presence of asbestos and other hazardous materials in existing real estate
properties.  In response to this, the Trust has adopted a property management
plan for hazardous materials.  The plan (adopted March 1, 1991) calls for a
Phase I environmental site investigation and report to be completed over a
three year period for each property owned by the Trust and not previously
inspected.  In addition, the plan requires that all proposed acquisitions be
inspected prior to acquisition.  In general, within the Trust's region,
owners of property for sale have been required by purchasers to remove or
control asbestos and other environmental hazards prior to the transfer of the
property.  Consequently, when the Trust sells properties in the future,
management anticipates that the Trust will similarly be required to remove or
control such hazards, if any.  In some cases, the Trust has abandoned
otherwise economically attractive acquisitions because the costs of removal
or control have been prohibitive and/or the Trust has been unwilling to
accept the potential risks involved.  Management believes that through
thorough professional environmental inspections and testing for asbestos and
other hazardous materials, coupled with a conservative posture toward
accepting known risk, the Trust can minimize its exposure to potential
liability associated with environmental hazards.  The Trust is not aware of
any environmental hazards on or in its properties which individually or in
the aggregate may have a material adverse impact on its operations or
financial position.  To the best of its knowledge, the Trust is in compliance
with all applicable environmental rules and regulations.

Item 2. Properties

 The table below sets forth a summary of the Trust's portfolio of rental 
properties owned at December 31, 1993.  See also Notes 1 and 2 to Financial 
Statements and Schedule XI - Summary of Real Estate Owned.



Item 2. Properties (continued)
December 31, 1993


(1) Two anchor tenants occupying more than 60,000 square feet at this center 
filed for bankruptcy during 1991.
(2) An anchor tenant occupying 53,000 sqaure feet at this center filed for 
bankruptcy.
(3) An anchor tenant occupying 34,800 square feet vacated its space in May, 
1992.  This space has been leased as of June 1, 1994.
(4) On June 30, 1993 the Trust sold a specialty medical building that had been
vacant for the first half of the year.
(5) Building was vacated by the anchor tenant.  The space was fully leased 
effective June 15, 1993.



Item 3.   Legal proceedings

     None

Item 4.   Submission of matters to a vote of security holders

     No matters were submitted to a vote of the Trust's shareholders during
the last quarter of its fiscal year ended December 31, 1993.

Executive officers

     The executive officers of the Trust, listed below, serve in their
respective capacities for approximate one year terms and are subject to
re-election annually by the Board of Directors, normally in May of each year.

Name                Age       Office                             Since

John P. McCann      49        President and Chief                1974
                                Executive Officer

James Dolphin       44        Senior Vice President              1979
                                and Chief Financial Officer

Barry M. Kornblau   44        Senior Vice President and          1991
                                Director of Apartment
                                Operations

     Mr. McCann, a Director, has been the Trust's managing officer since
1974, serving as its President since 1979, its Secretary from 1974 to 1980,
and its Treasurer from 1982 to 1985.

     Mr. Dolphin, a Director, was first employed by the Trust in May, 1979 as
Controller and served as Corporate Secretary from 1980 to January, 1993.  He
was elected Vice President of Finance in 1985 and Senior Vice President in
1987.  Prior to joining the Trust, Mr. Dolphin was employed by Arthur Young
and Company, Certified Public Accountants.

     Mr. Kornblau joined the Trust in 1991 as Senior Vice President and
Director of Apartment Operations.  From 1985 through 1990, he was President
and Chief Executive Officer of Summit Realty Group, Inc. which managed the
Trust's apartment properties during that period.  He is a licensed real
estate broker and a C.P.M.

                                 Part II


Item 5.   Market for registrant's common equity and related stockholder matters

     Incorporated herein by reference from the captions "Common Stock Price"
and "Shareholders" appearing on the inside back cover of the Trust's 1993
Annual Report to Shareholders, included in Exhibit 13. Information regarding the
Trust's dividend policy is included in Item 7.

Item 6.   Selected financial data

     Incorporated herein by reference from the caption "Selected Financial
Information" appearing on page 7 of the Trust's preliminary prospectus dated
March 29, 1994, included in the Form S-3 Registration Statement (Registration
No. 33-52521) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 7, 1994
and amended on March 29, 1994 included in Exhibit 99(ii).

Item 7.   Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and
results of operations.

     Incorporated herein by reference from the caption "Management's
Discussion of Financial Condition and Operations" appearing on pages 8 through
10 of the Trust's preliminary prospectus dated March 29, 1994, included in the
Form S-3 Registration Statement (Registration No. 33-52521) filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on March 7, 1994 and amended on March 29,
1994 included in Exhibit 99(ii).

Item 8.  Financial statements and supplementary data

     The Trust's financial statements at December 31, 1993 and 1992 and for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1993, and the
independent auditor's report thereon and the Trust's unaudited quarterly
financial data for the two-year period ended December 31, 1993 are
incorporated herein by reference from pages  F-1 through F-14 of the Trust's
preliminary prospectus dated March 29, 1994, included in the Form S-3
Registration Statement (Registration No. 33-52521) filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on March 7, 1994 and amended on March 29, 1994 included in
Exhibit 99(ii).

Item 9.  Changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and
financial disclosure

     None


                                Part III


Item 10.  Directors and executive officers of the registrant

     Incorporated herein by reference from the Trust's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
be held on May 10, 1994.

     Information regarding the executive officers of the Trust is included in
Part I.  The Trust also employs five other officers who hold the office of
vice president or equivalent as follows:

     Curtis W. Carter, 37, joined the Trust in 1991 as Assistant Vice
President in charge of apartment property management and was subsequently
elected Vice President.  From December 1985 through 1990, he was Vice
President of Property Management for Summit Realty Group, Inc.  He is a CPM.

     Richard B. Chess, 40, joined the Trust in October, 1987 as Director of
Acquisitions. He was elected Assistant Vice President in 1988 and Vice
President in 1989.  From 1984 to 1987 he was employed by Manufacturers Life
Insurance Company as Senior Analyst - Real Estate Syndications.  He
previously served in the Pennsylvania General Assembly and is admitted to the
practice of law in Virginia and Pennsylvania.

     Jerry A. Davis, 31, joined the Trust in March, 1989 as Controller and
was subsequently elected Assistant Secretary.  In 1991 he was elected Vice
President and Controller-Corporate Accounting.  From 1986 to 1989, he was
employed by Crestar Bank, Richmond, Virginia, as an officer and financial
analyst.  He was previously employed by Arthur Young & Company, Certified
Public Accountants, Richmond, Virginia.  He is a certified public accountant.

     Richard A. Giannotti, 38, joined the Trust as Director of Development
and Construction in September, 1985.  He was elected Assistant Vice President
in 1988 and Vice President in 1989.  Prior to joining the Trust he was
employed as Project Manager by Vaughan Associates, Architects and by
Beckstoffer and Associates, Architects, both of Richmond, Virginia.  He is a
registered architect.

     Katheryn E. Surface, 35, joined the Trust in 1992 as Assistant Vice
President and Legal Counsel and in 1993 was elected General Counsel,
Corporate Secretary and Vice President.  From 1986 to 1992, she was an
attorney with the law firm of Hunton and Williams, the Trust's outside
counsel.

Item 11.  Executive compensation

     Incorporated herein by reference from the Trust's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
be held on May 10, 1994.

Item 12.  Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management

     Incorporated herein by reference from the Trust's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
be held on May 10, 1994.

Item 13.  Certain relationships and related transactions

     Incorporated herein by reference from the Trust's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
be held on May 10, 1994.


                                 Part IV


Item 14.  Exhibits, financial statement schedules, and reports on Form 8-K

(a)  The following documents are filed as a part of this report and are
     hereby incorporated by reference:

                                     Page Numbers (manually signed original)

                                              Preliminary Prospectus
                                               Dated March 29, 1994,
                                                 Contained in the 
                                                 Trust's Form S-3
                                             Registration Statement
                                           (Registration No. 33-52521)
                                                 Filed with the
                                                 Securities and
                                              Exchange Commission
                                              on March 7, 1994 and 
                                             amended on March 29, 1994   Form
                                                 (Exhibit 99(ii))        10-K

     1. Financial Statements:

     Report of Ernst & Young, Independent Auditors          F-2           27

     Balance sheets at December 31, 1993 and 1992           F-3           28

     Statements of operations for each of the three
     years in the period ended December 31, 1993            F-4           29

     Statements of shareholders' equity for each of
     the three years in the period ended
     December 31, 1993                                      F-6           31

     Statements of cash flows for each of the three
     years in the period ended December 31, 1993            F-5           30

     Notes to financial statements             F-7 through F-14        32-39

     Supplementary information - Quarterly
     financial data (unaudited)                            F-14           39

     2. Financial Statement Schedules

     Schedule II - Amounts Receivable from Directors,
     Officers, and Employees                                               41

     Schedule VIII - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                     42

     Schedule X - Supplementary Earnings Statement
     Information                                                           43

     Schedule XI - Summary of Real Estate Owned                         44 - 45

All other schedules  are omitted since the required information is not
present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of
the schedule, or  because the information required is included in the
financial statements and notes thereto.

     3. Exhibits

     The exhibits listed on the accompanying exhibit index are filed as part
     of this annual report.

     (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

          (i)  A Form 8-K dated December 22, 1993 was filed with the
               Securities and Exchange Commission on December 22, 1993
               and amended by Form 8-K/A dated February 18, 1994.
               The filing reported the acquisition of certain properties
               which in the aggregate were deemed to be significant. The
               financial statements filed as part of this report are
               statements of rental operations of the Village at Old Tampa
               Bay Apartments, Peppertree Apartments and Beechwood
               Apartments.


                           UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.

                                    EXHIBIT INDEX

                                      Item 14 (a)


     References to pages under the caption "Location" are to sequentially
numbered pages of the manually signed original of this Form 10-K, and
references to exhibits, forms, or other filings indicate that the form or
other filing has been filed, that the indexed exhibit and the exhibit
referred to are the same and that the exhibit referred to is incorporated by
reference.

Exhibit                   Description                      Location

3(a)(i)        Restated Articles of Incorporation   Exhibit 3 to the Trust's
                                                    Quarterly Report on Form
                                                    10-Q for the quarter
                                                    ended June 30, 1992

3(a)(ii)       Amendment of Restated Articles       Exhibit 6(a)(l) to the
               of Incorporation                     Trust's Form 8-A
                                                    Registration Statement

3(b)           By-Laws                              Exhibit 4(c) to the
                                                    Trust's Form S-3
                                                    Registration Statement
                                                    (Registration No.
                                                    33-44743) filed
                                                    with the Commission on
                                                    December 31, 1991

4(i)          Specimen Common Stock                 Pages 46 through 47
              Certificate

4(ii)(a)      Loan Agreement dated as of            Exhibit 6(c)(l) to the
              November 7, l991, between the         Trust's Form 8-A
              Trust and Aid Association for         Registration Statement
              Lutherans

4(ii)(b)      Loan Agreement dated as of            Exhibit 6(c)(2)
              November 14, 1991, between the        to the Trust's Form 8-A
              Trust and Signet Bank/Virginia        Registration Statement

4(ii)(c)      Note Purchase Agreement dated         Exhibit 6(c)(3) to
              as of February 19, 1992, between      the Trust's Form 8-A
              the Trust and Principal Mutual        Registration Statement
              Life Insurance Company

4(ii)(d)      Credit Agreement dated as of          Exhibit 6(c)(4) to the
              December 15, 1992, between the        Trust's Form 8-A
              Trust and Signet Bank/Virginia        Registration Statement

4(ii)(e)      Note Purchase Agreement dated         Exhibit 6(c)(5) to the
              as of January 15, l993, between       Trust's Form 8-A
              the Trust and CIGNA Property          Registration Statement
              and Casualty Insurance Company,
              Connecticut General Life
              Insurance Company, Connecticut
              General Life Insurance Company,
              on behalf of one or more
              separate accounts, Insurance
              Company of North America,
              Principal Mutual Life
              Insurance Company and Aid
              Association for Lutherans


     The Trust agrees to furnish to the Commission on request a copy of any
instrument with respect to long-term debt of the Trust or its subsidiary the
total amount of securities authorized under which does not exceed 10% of the
total assets of the Trust.

10(i)         Employment Agreement between          Exhibit 10(v)(i)to
              the Trust and John P. McCann,         Form 10-K for the year
              dated October 29, l982                ended December 31, 1982.

10(ii)        Employment Agreement between          Exhibit 10(v)(ii) to
              the Trust and James Dolphin,          Form 10-K for the year
              dated October 29, l982                ended December 31, 1982.

10(iii)       Employment Agreement between          Exhibit 10(iii) to
              the Trust and Barry M. Kornblau,      Form 10-K for the year
              dated January 1, 1991.                December 31, 1990.

10(iv)        1985 Stock Option Plan,               Exhibit B to the Trust's
              as amended                            definitive proxy
                                                    statement dated
                                                    April 13, 1992.

10(v)         1991 Stock Purchase and Loan          Exhibit 10(v) to
              Plan                                  Form 10-K for the year
                                                    ended December 31, 1991.

13            Page of the Trust's 1993              Page 21
              Annual Report to Shareholders
              that includes information 
              incorporated by reference 
              into this Form 10-K. 

21            The Trust's only subsidiary is The Commons of Columbia, Inc.,
              a Virginia corporation, which does not do business under
              any other name.

24            Consent of Independent                Page 40
              Auditors

99(ii)        Pages 7 through 10,                   Pages 22 through 39
              inclusive, and pages F-1              
              through F-14, inclusive               
              of the preliminary
              prospectus dated March 29,
              1994, included in the Trust's
              Form S-3 Registration
              Statement (Registration No.
              33-52521) filed with the
              Commission on March 7, 1994
              and amended on March 29, 1994.

     With the exception of the information incorporated by reference into
Item 5, the 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders is not deemed filed as part of
this report.



                        ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                    ITEM 14(a)(1) and (2), (c) and (d)

          FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                             CERTAIN EXHIBITS

                       FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                       YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993

                    UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.

                            RICHMOND, VIRGINIA




General information

General Offices
United Dominion Realty Trust
10 S. Sixth Street, Suite 203
Richmond, Virginia 23219-3802
(804)780-2691
(804)343-1912 FAX

General Counsel
Hunton & Williams
Riverfront Plaza-East Tower
901 E. Byrd Street
Richmond, Virginia 23219-4074

Independent Auditors
Ernst & Young
901 East Cary Street
Richmond, Virginia 23219

Transfer Agent
Mellon Securities Trust Company
Four Station Square, 3rd Floor
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219-1173

Shareholders
On March 1, 1994, the Trust had 4,505
shareholders of record.

Employees
As of February 20, 1994, the Trust had
556 full and part-time employees.

Annual Meeting
The Annual Meeting of Shareholders is
scheduled for Tuesday, May 10, 1994, at
4:00 p.m., at the Omni Richmond Hotel in
Richmond, Virginia. All Shareholders are
cordially invited to attend.

Member
National Association of Real Estate
  Investment Trusts (NAREIT)
National Apartment Association
National Multi-Housing Council
International Council of Shopping Centers

Stock Listing
New York Stock Exchange
Symbol UDR

10-K Report
The Trust offers its shareholders, without
charge, copies of its Annual Report on Form
10-K, as reported to the Securities and
Exchange Commission.

Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan
The Trust offers its shareholders the opportunity
to purchase additional shares of common stock
through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase
Plan. Information regarding the Plan can be obtained
directly from the Trust's office. Requests should be
addressed to Shareholder Relations, United Dominion
Realty Trust, at the Trust's office.

Common Stock Price
The table below sets forth the range of the
high and low sales prices per share for each
quarter of the last two years. Dividend information
reflects dividends declared for each calendar
quarter and paid at the end of the following month.
Information for 1992 and the first quarter of 1993
give retroactive effect to a 2-for-1 stock split in
May 1993.

                                            Dividend
1992              High             Low      Declared
1st Quarter     $11 1/2         $10          $.165
2nd Quarter      10 13/16         9 3/4       .165
3rd Quarter      12 3/16         10 9/16      .165
4th Quarter      12 11/16        10 7/8       .165

1st Quarter     $14 13/16       $11 7/8      $.175
2nd Quarter      14 5/8          12 1/2       .175
3rd Quarter      16 5/8          13 1/2       .175
4th Quarter      16 7/8          12 5/8       .175







(1)  In 1991, 1992 and 1993 the Trust entered into stock purchase agreements
whereby certain officers purchased shares of common stock at the then current
market price.  The Trust provides 100% financing for the purchase of the stock
with interest payable quarterly at rates escalating from 7% to 8-1/2%.  The
underlying notes mature beginning in November, 1998. The Trust holds as
collateral all stock purchased through this plan.






(1) The balance is netted against the cost of real estate owned on the balance
sheet



                                                                    SCHEDULE X

                           UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.

                     SUPPLEMENTARY EARNINGS STATEMENT INFORMATION

                         THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993

                                  (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

                                    Charged to Expense


Description                 1993         1992         1991

Advertising                $1,078        $731         $652
Rental Promotions             420         650          553

Other items requiring disclosure are not shown as they are less than 1% of
rental income.
















                                                                    Depreciable
                                                                      Life of
                                      Date of            Date         Building
                                   Construction        Acquired      Component
Apartments:
  2131 Apartments/Nashville, TN        1972            12/16/92        35 yrs.
  Azalea/Richmond, VA                  1967            12/31/84        35 yrs.
  Bay Cove/Clearwater, FL              1972            12/16/92        35 yrs.
  Bayberry Commons/Portsmouth, VA     1973/74          04/07/88        35 yrs.
  Beechwood/Greensboro, NC             1985            12/22/93        35 yrs.
  Braeland Commons/Columbia, MD        1983            12/29/92        35 yrs.
  Bramblewood/Goldsboro, NC           1980/82          12/31/84        35 yrs.
  Brynn Marr/Jacksonville, NC         1973/77          12/31/84        35 yrs.
  Canterbury Woods/Charlotte, NC      1968/70          12/18/85        35 yrs.
  Cedar Point/Raleigh, NC              1972            12/18/85        35 yrs.
  Cinnamon Ridge/Raleigh, NC          1968/70          12/01/89        35 yrs.
  Colonial Villa/Columbia, SC          1974            09/16/92        35 yrs.
  Colony of Stone Mtn/Atlanta, GA     1970/72          06/12/90        35 yrs.
  Colony Village/New Bern, NC         1972/74          12/31/84        35 yrs.
  Country Walk/Columbia, SC            1974            12/19/91        35 yrs.
  Courthouse Green/Richmond, VA       1974/78          12/31/84        35 yrs.
  Courtney Square/Raleigh, NC         1979/81          07/08/93        35 yrs.
  The Cove at Lake Lynn/Raleigh, NC    1986            12/01/92        35 yrs.
  Craig Manor/Salem,VA                 1975            11/06/87        35 yrs.
  The Creek/Wilmington, NC             1973            06/30/92        35 yrs.
  Crescent Square/Atlanta, GA          1970            03/22/89        35 yrs.
  Dover Village/Orlando, FL            1981            03/31/93        35 yrs.
  Eastwind/Virginia Beach, VA          1970            04/04/88        35 yrs.
  Eden Commons/Columbia, MD            1984            12/29/92        35 yrs.
  Emerald Bay/Charlotte, NC            1972            02/06/90        35 yrs.
  English Hills/Richmond, VA          1969/76          12/06/91        35 yrs.
  Forest Hills/Wilmington, NC         1964/69          06/30/92        35 yrs.
  Forestbrook/Columbia, SC             1974            07/01/93        35 yrs.
  Foxcroft/Tampa, FL                   1972            01/28/93        35 yrs.
  Gable Hill/Columbia, SC              1985            12/04/89        35 yrs.
  Gatewater Landing/Glen Burnie, MD    1970            12/16/92        35 yrs.
  Grand Oaks/Charlotte, NC            1966/67          05/01/84        35 yrs.
  Hampton Court/Alexandria, VA         1967            02/19/93        35 yrs.
  Harbour Town/Nashville, TN           1974            12/10/93        35 yrs.
  Heather Lake/Hampton, VA            1972/74          03/01/80        35 yrs.
  Heatherwood/Greenville, SC           1978            09/30/93        35 yrs.
  Heritage Trace/Newport News, VA      1973            06/30/89        35 yrs.
  The Highlands/Charlotte, NC          1970            01/17/84        35 yrs.
  Key Pines/Spartanburg, SC            1974            09/25/92        35 yrs.
  The Lakes/Nashville, TN              1986            09/15/93        35 yrs.
  Lake Washington Downs/Melbourne,FL   1984            09/24/93        35 yrs.
  Laurel Ridge/Roanoke, VA            1970/72          05/17/88        35 yrs.
  Laurel Village/Richmond, VA          1972            09/06/91        35 yrs.
  The Ledges/Winston-Salem, NC         1959            08/13/86        35 yrs.
  Liberty Crossing/Jacksonville, NC   1972/74          11/30/90        35 yrs.
  Meadow Run/Richmond, VA             1973/74          12/31/84        35 yrs.
  Meadowdale Lakes/Richmond, VA       1967/71          12/31/84        35 yrs.
  The Melrose/Dumfries, VA             1951            12/11/85        35 yrs.
  Mill Creek/Atlanta, GA               1972            11/11/88        35 yrs.
  Mill Creek/Wilmington, NC            1986            09/30/91        35 yrs.
  Northview/Salem, VA                  1969            09/29/78        35 yrs.
  Olde West Village/Richmond, VA   1978/82/85/87   12/31/84 & 8/27/91  35 yrs.
  Orange Orlando/Orlando, FL           1971            01/21/93        35 yrs.
  Park Green/Raleigh, NC               1987            09/27/91        35 yrs.
  Parkwood Court/Alexandria, VA        1964            06/30/93        35 yrs.
  Patriot Place/Florence, SC           1974            10/23/85        35 yrs.
  Peppertree/Charlotte, NC             1987            12/14/93        35 yrs.
  Pinebrook/Clearwater,FL              1977            09/28/93        35 yrs.
  Plum Chase/Columbia, SC              1974            01/04/91        35 yrs.
  River Road/Ettrick, VA              1973/74          08/31/81        35 yrs.
  Riverwind/Spartanburg, SC            1987            12/31/93        35 yrs.
  Rollingwood/Richmond, VA            1974/78          12/31/84        35 yrs.
  St. Andrews Commons/Columbia, SC     1986            05/20/93        35 yrs.
  Spring Forest/Raleigh, NC           1978/81          05/21/91        35 yrs.
  Stanford Village/Atlanta, GA         1985            09/26/89        35 yrs.
  Summit-on-Park/Charlotte, NC         1963            01/17/84        35 yrs.
  Summit West/Tampa, FL                1972            12/16/92        35 yrs.
  Timbercreek/Richmond, VA             1969            08/31/83        35 yrs.
  Towne Square/Hopewell, VA            1967            08/27/85        35 yrs.
  Twin Rivers/Hopewell, VA             1972            01/06/82        35 yrs.
  Village at Old Tampa Bay/Oldsmar,FL  1986            12/08/93        35 yrs.
  Windsor Harbor/Charlotte, NC         1971            01/13/89        35 yrs.
  Woodland Hollow/Charlotte, NC       1974/76          11/03/86        35 yrs.
  Woodscape/Newport News, VA          1974/76          12/29/87        35 yrs.




SCHEDULE XI.
Summary of Real Estate Owned (continued)


                                                                     Depreciable
                                                                       Life of
                                       Date of           Date          Building
                                     Construction      Acquired       Component
Shopping Centers:
  Circle/Richmond, VA               1956/62/67         11/01/73       25/35 yrs.
  Cumberland Square/Dunn, NC        1972/78/84         08/28/86        35 yrs.
  Deerfield Plaza/Myrtle Beach, SC     1979            01/17/84        35 yrs.
  Glen Lea/Richmond, VA               1964/85          05/25/83        25 yrs.
  Gloucester Exchange/Gloucester, VA   1974            11/12/87        35 yrs.
  Hanover Village/Richmond, VA        1971/72          06/30/86        35 yrs.
  Kroger Sav-On/Waynesboro, VA         1975            03/07/80        35 yrs.
  Laburnum Park/Richmond, VA          1988/89          09/28/90        35 yrs.
  Laburnum Square/Richmond, VA        1978/85          02/11/81        40 yrs.
  Meadowdale/Richmond, VA             1976/82          12/31/84        35 yrs.
  Rite Aid/Richmond, VA                1974            12/31/84        35 yrs.
  Rose Manor/Smithfield, NC           1972/75          08/28/86        35 yrs.
  The Village/Durham, NC               1965            08/28/86        35 yrs.
  Village Square/Myrtle Beach, SC     1978/79          05/25/88        35 yrs.
  Willow Oaks/Hampton, VA             1968/74          08/01/84        35 yrs.

Office and Industrial Buildings:
  Franklin St./Richmond, VA            1890            07/01/86        35 yrs.
  Meadowdale Offices/Richmond, VA      1983            12/31/84        35 yrs.
  Statesman Park/Roanoke, VA           1974            05/22/75        33 yrs.
  Tri-County Buildings/Bristol, TN    1976/79          01/21/81        33 yrs.



                               SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Annual Report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc.
           (registrant)

By  /s/ James Dolphin
    James Dolphin
    Senior Vice President, Secretary, and Chief Financial Officer
    March 15, 1994

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below on March 15, 1994 by the following persons on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.

/s/ John P. McCann                                     /s/ R. Toms Dalton,Jr.
John P. McCann                                         R. Toms Dalton, Jr.
Director, President and Chief                          Director
  Executive Officer


/s/ James Dolphin                                      /s/ Jeff C. Bane
James Dolphin                                          Jeff C. Bane
Director, Senior Vice President,                       Director
  Secretary and Chief Financial
  Officer


/s/ Jerry A. Davis                                     /s/ John C. Lanford
Jerry A. Davis                                         John C. Lanford
Vice President, Controller-Corporate Accounting        Director
  and Chief Accounting Officer


/s/ C. Harmon Williams, Jr.                            /s/ H. Franklin Minor
C. Harmon Williams, Jr.                                H. Franklin Minor
Chairman of the Board of Directors                     Director


/s/ Barry M. Kornblau                                  /s/ Robert P. Buford
Barry M. Kornblau                                      Robert P. Buford
Director, Senior Vice President and                    Director
  Director of Apartments



