
10-K
1999 10-K




                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, DC 20549

                                  FORM  10-K

FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

              (X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999

                                      OR

            ( )  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


             For the transition period from ________ to _________


                        Commission file number 1-10524
                                               -------

                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                      ----------------------------------
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


            Virginia                                          54-0857512
- -------------------------------                           --------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                            (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation of organization)                            Identification No.)


             10 South Sixth Street,  Richmond, Virginia 23219-3802
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              (Address of principal executive offices - zip code)

                                (804) 780-2691
                                --------------
             (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                     None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to filing requirements
for at least the past 90 days.

                              Yes   X      No
                                   ---         ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or other information
statements incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K ( ).

The aggregate market value of the shares of common stock held by non-affiliates
(based upon the closing sales price on the New York Stock Exchange) on March 2,
1999 was approximately $1 billion. *  As of March 21, 2000 there were
103,127,425 shares of common stock, $1 par value, outstanding.

Part III incorporates certain information by reference from the Proxy Statement
to be filed with respect to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 9, 2000.

*In determining this figure, the Company has assumed that all of its officers &
directors, and persons known to the Company to be beneficial owners of more than
5% of the Company's shares, are affiliates.  Such assumptions should not be
deemed conclusive for any other purpose.


                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.

                               



                                    Part I

Item 1.  BUSINESS
- -----------------

General

United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc. ("United Dominion"), a Virginia corporation,
is a self-administered equity real estate investment trust with activities
related to the ownership, development, acquisition, renovation, management,
marketing and strategic disposition of multifamily apartment communities
nationwide.

Formed in 1972, United Dominion is headquartered in Richmond, Virginia with
regional offices in Richmond, Dallas and Atlanta. The regional offices are
responsible for the operation, acquisition, construction and asset management
activities in their respective geographic regions. United Dominion had
approximately 2,400 employees as of January 31, 2000.

The Company operates as a real estate investment trust under the applicable
provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. To qualify, the
Company must meet certain tests which, among other things, require that its
assets consist primarily of real estate, its income be derived primarily from
real estate and at least 95% of its taxable income be distributed to its common
shareholders. Because the Company qualifies as a REIT, it is generally not
subject to federal income taxes.

Business and Operating Strategies

The apartment industry has become increasingly competitive, as ownership has
shifted to large companies with more resources and sophisticated management.  In
order to compete more effectively, United Dominion began a strategic
repositioning in 1996, with the objective of being better positioned to achieve
more consistent earnings growth in the future in order to increase shareholder
value over the long-term.  During the past several years, United Dominion
implemented this strategy through the following:

 .    the acquisition of portfolios and mergers with companies primarily in
     different markets and different regions;

 .    the disposition of communities that do not meet the long-term strategic
     objectives set for the portfolio due to location, size, age, quality and/
     or operating performance;

 .    the development of higher quality apartment communities in target markets
     that can provide higher returns on investment;

 .    the upgrade of our communities through various capital investments and
     through the addition of revenue enhancing and/or expense reducing features;

 .    building local operating management groups throughout the country in order
     to bring local market knowledge in order to run our business effectively;

 .    refocusing on serving our residents by providing high quality apartment
     homes and uncompromising service;

 .    the hiring of experienced corporate and operations staff; and

 .    the investment in efficient, scalable systems.

United Dominion believes that the repositioning strategy provides the following
benefits:

 .    more consistent property net operating income growth;

 .    lower capital expenditures per apartment home;

 .    improved operating margins;



 .    operating efficiencies;

 .    increased cash flow per apartment home and per common share; and

 .    a balance between acquisitions and development that will provide better
     investment returns.

1999 Accomplishments

 .    Net operating income (property operating income less property operating
     expenses) from our same communities (those acquired or developed prior to
     January 1, 1998) increased 5.6% in 1999 compared to 1998; the third
     consecutive year same community net operating income growth has exceeded
     5%;

 .    Completed seven development projects aggregating $120 million with 1,846
     apartment homes in five different markets. Lease-ups were generally ahead
     of projected absorption at these communities;

 .    Return on investment of the American Apartment Communities II acquisition
     that occurred in December 1998 of  9.1%, which is better than the initial
     projection of 9.0%;

 .    Completed the disposition of $241 million of apartment homes that no longer
     met our investment criteria, which included exiting certain non-core
     markets including Greenville, South Carolina;

 .    Instituted a share repurchase program, which resulted in the buyback of $44
     million of common and preferred stock and operating partnership units (OP
     Units);

 .    Repurchased $70 million of higher rate debt using proceeds from the
     disposition program in order to proactively manage the balance sheet;

 .    Paid dividends of $1.06 per share, which represents United Dominion's 23rd
     year of consecutive dividend increases to shareholders;

 .    Systems upgrades and technology initiatives that make United Dominion a
     leader in the apartment industry, which included the installation of the
     PeopleSoft financial system, the ongoing development of a web-based
     property management system and the ability to provide high-speed broadband
     Internet service to residents;

 .    Concluded the upgrade of our core portfolio of apartments, which included
     the addition of new features and enhanced amenities to attract resident
     customers; and

 .    Higher resident satisfaction as indicated by United Dominion winning the
     1999 Level 1 National Multifamily Customer Service Award for Excellence.

Apartments and Markets
Apartments

At December 31, 1999, United Dominion's apartment portfolio included 301
communities having a total of 82,154 completed apartment homes (See Item 2,
Properties).  In addition, United Dominion had three new communities and three
additional phases to existing communities with 1,622 apartment homes under
development at December 31, 1999.  United Dominion's apartment communities
consist primarily of upper and middle-income garden and townhouse communities
that make up the broadest segment of the apartment market.  Most of the
communities are considered to be "A" and "B" grade quality that compete at or
near the top of their respective markets.  "A" grade communities are generally
properties less than five years old with superior amenity packages.  "B" grade
communities are generally either of 1970's or 1980's construction, located in
good neighborhoods.  Management believes that these well-located apartments
offer United Dominion a good combination of current income and longer-term
income growth.  As a result of the upgrade program, the overall quality of
United Dominion's apartment portfolio has improved.



Markets

Geographic market diversification increases investment opportunity and decreases
the risk associated with cyclical local real estate markets and economies,
thereby increasing the stability of United Dominion's earnings growth. In a
given year, United Dominion will have some markets that are strong or
recovering, some will be balanced and others may be softening. However, with its
market diversification, United Dominion's aggregate results of operations are
anticipated to be balanced from year to year.

During 1999, for the first time in United Dominion's history, we operated a
national portfolio of apartment homes. In 1999, West Coast markets,
including Seattle, Portland, Sacramento, San Francisco, the Monterey Peninsula
and Southern California, became important markets for United Dominion, providing
almost 20% of its property operating income by the fourth quarter. These markets
have barriers to apartment construction, which limits new supply and offers the
prospect for higher revenue growth in the future. In addition, new Midwest
markets, including Columbus, Detroit and Indianapolis, provided another 8% of
our property operating income. Most of the West and Midwest markets provided
occupancy rates above the average of the portfolio during 1999. As a result of
the geographic diversification, no single market is expected to provide more
than 10% of our property net operating income in 2000.

United Dominion's three largest markets, Dallas, Houston and Orlando, provided
above average rent growth in 1999. Although there has been an increase in
multifamily permits in these markets, they have benefited from strong economic
and job growth during the past several years.

During 1999, apartment supply and demand was in relative balance in most of
United Dominion's markets. Although there was an increase in apartment
construction in 1999, a strong economy led to good absorption of the new supply
of apartments. In 1999, United Dominion experienced a slight increase in
physical occupancy to 92.6% along with higher rent growth. A key objective for
2000 will be to grow average occupancy during a time when economic growth may
slow slightly and new apartment home completions are near the levels where they
have been the past two years. This can be achieved through aggressive property
management, use of the Internet to lease apartments and use of revenue
maintenance tools to manage vacant inventory.

Acquisitions and Mergers

During the past five years, United Dominion acquired 65,000 apartment homes as
part of our strategy to diversify geographically. However, this pace slowed
during 1999, with acquisitions being funded with disposition proceeds in order
to complete 1031 tax-deferred exchanges. During 1999, using the proceeds from
its disposition program, United Dominion acquired five communities with 1,230
apartment homes at a total cost of $74 million. The communities are located in
markets that are considered strategically important to United Dominion, such as
Baltimore, Maryland, South Florida and Riverside and San Diego, California where
we have locally based infrastructure.

When evaluating potential acquisitions, United Dominion considers geographic
location, construction quality, condition and design of the community, asset
quality and age of the property, current and projected cash flow of the
property, the ability to increase the value and cash flow of the property
through upgrades and repositioning, potential for rent increases, competition
from existing multifamily communities, anticipated new construction and the
potential for economic growth in the market.

The following table summarizes United Dominion's growth during the last five
years (dollars in thousands):



(a)  Includes 7,550 apartment homes acquired in the ASR Merger on March 27, 1998
     and 14,001 apartment homes acquired in the AAC Merger on December 7, 1998.

(b)  Includes 14,320 completed apartment homes and 675 homes under development
     acquired in connection with the South West Merger on December 31, 1996.



During 2000, United Dominion does not anticipate acquiring communities except to
reinvest a portion of the proceeds from property sales.

Prior to 1990, United Dominion was the only major publicly held REIT focusing
predominantly on apartment investments.  Since then, a number of new
multifamily REITs have been formed. Some of these REITs may seek to be acquired
by larger, more strongly capitalized REITs that have superior access to the
capital markets. During the past few years, the apartment sector has undergone
consolidation and United Dominion has been a major participant in this real
estate consolidation process, completing the following mergers:

     On December 31, 1996, United Dominion completed the acquisition of South
     West Property Trust Inc. ("South West") in a statutory merger (the "South
     West Merger").  South West was a publicly traded multifamily REIT that
     owned 44 communities with 14,320 apartment homes primarily located in Texas
     and several other Southwestern markets. The South West Merger provided the
     company with significant diversification beyond its traditional Southeast
     and Mid-Atlantic markets, expanding United Dominion into Southwestern
     markets.

     On March 27, 1998, United Dominion completed the acquisition of ASR
     Investments Corporation ("ASR") in a statutory merger (the "ASR Merger").
     ASR was a publicly traded multifamily REIT that owned 39 communities with
     7,550 apartment homes located in Arizona, Texas, New Mexico and the state
     of Washington. The ASR Merger furthered the company's investment in
     Southwestern markets, provided an initial presence in the Pacific
     Northwest, and provided United Dominion with critical size in Houston and
     Phoenix.

     On December 7, 1998, United Dominion completed the acquisition of American
     Apartment Communities II, Inc. (AAC) in a statutory merger  (the "AAC
     Merger").   In connection with the acquisition of AAC, the Company acquired
     53 communities with 14,001 apartment homes located primarily in California,
     the Pacific Northwest, the Midwest and Florida. The AAC Merger allowed
     United Dominion to enter into new major markets that are believed to have
     the potential for good long-term growth, such as, Portland, San Francisco,
     Sacramento, San Jose, Monterey, Los Angeles, Denver, Indianapolis and
     Detroit. In addition, it added size to our existing portfolios in Columbus,
     Tampa, South Florida and Seattle.

Development

During 1999, United Dominion continued to expand its development capability,
both as a way of upgrading the portfolio and increasing investment options.
There is balance between acquisition and development capabilities that will
allow United Dominion to achieve better long-term investment returns.

During 1999, United Dominion continued its commitment to development as part of
its strategic repositioning, shifting capital into development activity which
can provide returns on investment (property operating income less property
operating expenses divided by the average investment in real estate)  in excess
of 10% and away from lower yielding acquisitions.  During 1999, United Dominion
invested $114 million on the development of over 1,500 apartment homes, up from
890 homes completed during 1998.   United Dominion believes that having a
development capability provides the following benefits:

     .    returns on investment in excess of returns on acquisitions;

     .    control over the quality of the product which includes quality of
          features, size and floor plan;

     .    by acting as our own general contractor, we have more control over the
          schedule, including building delivery; and

     .    the ability to add presence in existing markets where we have a strong
          operating group in place.

During 2000, we plan to undertake a development joint venture with a financial
partner.  This will allow us to reduce our development capital commitment,
generate fee income as the general contractor and developer and continue to
increase our development expertise and capability.



In determining whether to develop in a certain market, United Dominion analyzes
demographic and market data such as income levels, occupancy rates, household
formation, employment growth and supply demand ratios.

Same Communities

United  Dominion's net income is primarily  generated from the operations of its
apartment  communities.  During 1999,  the company's same  communities  provided
rental growth of 3.1% that was coupled with a 0.6% decrease in rental  expenses.
Average  physical occupancy, rental rates, and operating margins at United
Dominion's  same communities during the comparable periods are set forth below:


                                 1999      1998      1997
                                ------    ------    ------
Physical occupancy               93.1%     92.9%     92.6%
Average monthly rental rates    $ 631     $ 602     $ 572
Operating margin                 61.3%     59.6%     57.3%


Over the past three years, United Dominion's strategic objectives include
upgrading the apartment portfolio through the addition of features and
initiatives to the communities that are appropriate for the market and which
will support higher rents. United Dominion completed the same community upgrade
program in 1999 as part of the strategic plan to improve the overall quality of
the portfolio. United Dominion recognized the need to improve its asset quality
in order to compete with an increase in the supply of newer communities, and
consequently, embarked on the upgrade program. In addition, several initiatives
which are considered revenue enhancing or expense reducing were underway that
either allowed United Dominion to increase rents by more than the inflationary
rate or allowed United Dominion to pass expenses to residents including: sub-
metering of water and sewer to residents where local and state regulations
allow, gating and fencing of apartment communities, installing monitoring
devices such as intrusion alarms or controlled access devices, adding business
and fitness centers and constructing carports, garages and self storage units.
Capital expenditures decreased from 1998 as the overall age and physical
condition of the apartment portfolio has improved.

Dispositions

As part of its strategic repositioning, United Dominion determined that it would
selectively dispose of assets that are not in core markets, have a lower net
operating income growth rate than the overall portfolio or no longer meet the
operating and investment strategies of United Dominion. The disposition program
allowed United Dominion to reduce the age of its existing portfolio, which
should result in lower operating expense and capital expenditure growth
associated with the older communities. During 1999, the focus of United
Dominion's investment activities was the sale of non-strategic properties.

During the past three years, United Dominion sold approximately 15,000 of its
slow-growth, non-core apartment homes while exiting certain markets which have
proved to be less profitable. These sales allowed United Dominion to exit
markets that had low growth opportunities and improve the average age of the
apartment portfolio by selling communities with an average age of 25 years.
Proceeds from the disposition program were used to strengthen the balance sheet
by paying down debt, as well as to fund new development projects and to
selectively repurchase shares of United Dominion's preferred and common stock.

At December 31, 1999, there were 37 communities with 7,182 apartment homes and
four commercial properties classified as real estate held for disposition.
United Dominion intends to sell 6,000 to 7,000 apartment homes during 2000,
which will substantially complete the sale of its non-strategic assets.
However, a REIT must constantly monitor and adjust its assets in order to
achieve the best return on invested capital. Proceeds from the 2000 sales,
expected to be at levels similar to 1999, are expected to be used to reduce
debt, repurchase preferred shares, fund development activity and acquire
communities through 1031 exchanges.

Financing

United Dominion's significant 1998 acquisition activity was financed primarily
with debt, and to a lesser extent, preferred stock and Operating Partnership
Units. Since completing these acquisitions, United Dominion's objective has been
to maintain Baa2/BBB investment grade debt ratings and to improve its overall
financial flexibility through proactive balance sheet management.



During the first half of 1999 United Dominion refinanced a significant portion
of the debt that resulted from the 1998 acquisitions. During 1999, our two major
financing activities consisted of selling $190 million of medium-term notes at a
weighted average interest rate of 7.6% and closing on $195.7 million of a $200
million revolving credit facility with the Federal National Mortgage Association
that had a weighted average interest rate of 6.3% at December 31, 1999.

During 1999, $141 million of the proceeds from the disposition program were used
to repay $70 million of unsecured debt at a weighted average interest rate of
7.7% and to repurchase $43.5 million of common and preferred shares and OP
Units. In addition, United Dominion was relieved of $57.7 million of mortgage
debt. We expect to use a significant portion of our 2000 disposition proceeds to
repay debt and repurchase common shares and Operating Partnership Units and
further increase our financial flexibility.

Competition

In most of United Dominion's markets, the competition for residents among
communities is extremely intense as some competing communities offer features
that United Dominion's communities do not have. Also, some competing communities
are larger and/or newer than United Dominion's communities. The competitive
situation of each community varies and intensifies as additional properties are
constructed.

Management believes that United Dominion, in general, is well positioned in
terms of economic and other resources to compete effectively and intends to
maintain its pricing discipline while continuing to pursue acquisitions that
meet United Dominion's long-term investment objectives.

United Dominion believes it has certain competitive advantages that include:

     .    A fully integrated organization with property management, development,
          acquisition, redevelopment, marketing and financing expertise;

     .    geographic diversification of its apartment portfolio with market
          presence in over 30 markets across the country; and

     .    local presence in many of its major markets which allows us to become
          local market experts.

Environmental Regulations

To date, compliance with federal, state, and local environmental protection
regulations has not had a material effect on the capital expenditures, earnings
or competitive position of United Dominion. However, over the past few years,
the issue has been raised regarding the presence of asbestos and other hazardous
materials in existing real estate properties. United Dominion has a property
management plan for hazardous materials. As part of the plan, Phase I
environmental site investigation and reports have been completed for each
property owned. In addition, all proposed acquisitions are inspected prior to
acquisition. Acquisitions through merger are inspected on a case by case basis
given historical information available. The inspections are conducted by
qualified environmental consultants, and the report issued is reviewed by United
Dominion prior to the purchase or development of any property. Nevertheless, it
is possible that United Dominion's environmental assessments will not reveal all
environmental liabilities, or that some material environmental liabilities exist
in which United Dominion is unaware. In some cases, United Dominion has
abandoned otherwise economically attractive acquisitions because the costs of
removal or control have been prohibitive and/or United Dominion has been
unwilling to accept the potential risks involved. United Dominion does not
believe it will be required to engage in any large-scale abatement at any of its
properties as asbestos is managed in place in accordance with current
environmental laws and regulations. Management believes that through
professional environmental inspections and testing for asbestos and other
hazardous materials, coupled with a conservative posture toward accepting known
risk, United Dominion can minimize its exposure to potential liability
associated with environmental hazards.

Recently enacted federal legislation requires owners and landlords of
residential housing constructed prior to 1978 to disclose to potential residents
or purchasers of the communities any known lead paint hazards and will impose
treble damages for failure to so notify. In addition, lead based paint in any of
the communities may result in lead poisoning in children residing in that
community if chips or particles of such lead based paint are ingested, and
United Dominion



may be held liable under state laws for any such injuries caused by ingestion of
lead based paint by children living at the communities.

United Dominion is unaware of any environmental hazards at any of its properties
which individually or in the aggregate may have a material adverse impact on its
operations or financial position. United Dominion has not been notified by any
governmental authority, and is not otherwise aware, of any material non-
compliance, liability or claim relating to environmental liabilities in
connection with any of its properties. United Dominion does not believe that the
cost of continued compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations
will have a material adverse effect on the company or its financial condition or
results of operations. There can be no assurance, however, that future
environmental laws, regulations or ordinances will not require additional
remediation of existing conditions that are not currently actionable. Also, if
more stringent requirements are imposed on United Dominion in the future, the
costs of compliance could have a material adverse effect on United Dominion or
its financial condition. To the best of its knowledge, United Dominion is in
compliance with all applicable environmental rules and regulations.

Operating Partnership - United Dominion Realty, L.P.

On October 23, 1995, United Dominion organized United Dominion Realty, L.P. (the
"Partnership") under the Virginia Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, as
amended (the "Partnership Act"). United Dominion is the sole General Partner of
the Partnership and currently holds a 90.8% interest. The Partnership is
intended to assist United Dominion in competing for the acquisition of
properties that meet United Dominion's investment strategies from seller
partnerships, some or all of whose partners may wish to defer taxation of gain
realized on sale through an exchange of partnership interests.

The Partnership was organized under a First Amended and Restated Agreement of
Limited Partnership dated as of December 31, 1995 which was subsequently amended
in the Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership dated as of
August 30, 1997 and later amended by the Third Amended and Restated Agreement of
Limited Partnership dated as of December 7, 1998 (the "Partnership Agreement").
A summary of certain provisions of the Partnership Agreement is set forth below.
The summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in
its entirety by reference to applicable provisions of the Partnership Act and
the complete Partnership Agreement. The Partnership Agreement is filed as an
exhibit to United Dominion's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1998.

Admission of Limited Partners; Investment Agreements

United Dominion presently intends to limit admission to the Partnership to
Limited Partners who are "accredited investors," as defined in Rule 501(a) under
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). Limited Partners
will be admitted upon executing and delivering to United Dominion an Investment
Agreement (the "Investment Agreement") and delivering to the Partnership the
consideration prescribed therein. In the Investment Agreement, the prospective
Limited Partner makes both representations as to his status as an accredited
investor and other representations and agreements regarding the Units (defined
below) to be issued to him, thus, assuring compliance with the Securities Act.
Any rights to Securities Act registration of the Common Stock of United Dominion
issued to such Limited Partner upon redemption of his Units (see "Redemption
Rights" below), will also be set forth in the Investment Agreement or a separate
registration rights agreement.

Units

The interests in the Partnership of the Partnership's limited partners (the
"Limited Partners") are represented by units of limited partnership interest
(the "Units"). All holders of Units are entitled to share in the cash
distributions from, and in the profits and losses of, the Partnership.
Distributions by the Partnership are made equally for each Unit outstanding
except that outside partners have first priority as described in the
"Distributions" section. As the Partnership's sole General Partner, United
Dominion intends to make distributions per Unit in the same amount as the cash
dividends paid by United Dominion on each share of Common Stock. However,
because Partnership properties, which are the primary source of cash available
for distribution to Unit holders, are significantly fewer than properties held
directly by United Dominion and may not perform as well, there can be no
assurance that distributions per Unit will always equal Common Stock dividends
per share. A distribution made to United Dominion that enables it to maintain
its REIT status (see "Management and Operations" below) may deplete cash
otherwise available to Unit holders. The Partnership may borrow from United
Dominion for the purpose of equalizing per Unit and per Common share
distributions, but neither the Partnership nor United Dominion is under any
obligation regarding Partnership borrowings for this or any other



purpose.

The Limited Partners have the rights to which limited partners are entitled
under the Partnership Act. The Units are illiquid, they are not registered for
secondary sale under any securities laws, state or federal, and they cannot be
transferred by a holder except as provided in the Partnership Agreement and
unless they are registered as such or an exemption from such registration is
available. Except as provided in any Investment Agreement or other agreement
with a partner, neither the Partnership nor United Dominion is under any
obligation to effect any such registration or to establish any such exemption.
The Partnership Agreement imposes additional restrictions on the transfer of
Units, as described below under "Transferability of Interests."

Management and Operations

United Dominion, as the sole General Partner of the Partnership, has full,
exclusive and complete responsibility and discretion in the management and
control of the Partnership. The Limited Partners have no authority to transact
business for, or participate in the management activities or decisions of the
Partnership.

The Partnership Agreement requires that the Partnership be operated in a manner
that will enable United Dominion to both satisfy the requirements for being
classified as a REIT and avoid any federal income tax liability. The General
Partner is expressly directed, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Partnership Agreement, to cause the Partnership to distribute amounts (including
proceeds of Partnership borrowings) that sufficiently enable United Dominion to
pay distributions to its shareholders that are required in order to maintain
REIT status and to avoid income tax or excise tax liability.

Ability to Engage in Other Businesses; Conflicts of Interest

United Dominion and other persons (including officers, directors, employees,
agents and other affiliates of United Dominion) are not prohibited under the
Partnership Agreement from engaging in other business activities, including
business activities substantially similar or identical to those of the
Partnership. United Dominion will not be required to present any business
opportunities to the Partnership or to any Limited Partner.

Borrowing by the Partnership

The General Partner is authorized under the Partnership Agreement to cause the
Partnership to borrow money and to issue and guarantee debt as it deems
necessary for the conduct of the activities of the Partnership. Such debt may be
secured by mortgages, deeds of United Dominion, pledges or other liens on the
assets of the Partnership.

Reimbursement of General Partner; Transactions with the General Partner and its
Affiliates

The General Partner will receive no compensation for its services as General
Partner of the Partnership. However, as a partner in the Partnership, the
General Partner has the same right to allocations of profit and loss and
distributions as other partners of the Partnership. In addition, the Partnership
will reimburse the General Partner for all expenses it incurs relating to the
ownership and operation of, or for the benefit of, the Partnership and any
offering of Units or other partnership interests, and for the pro rata share of
the expenses of any offering of securities of United Dominion some or all of the
proceeds of which are contributed to the Partnership.

Liability of General Partner and Limited Partners

The General Partner is liable for all general obligations of the Partnership to
the extent not paid by the Partnership. The General Partner is not liable for
the non-recourse obligations of the Partnership.

The Limited Partners are not required to make further capital contributions to
the Partnership after their respective initial contributions are fully paid.
Assuming that a Limited Partner acts in conformity with the provisions of the
Partnership Agreement, the liability of the Limited Partner for obligations of
the Partnership under the Partnership Agreement and Partnership Act will be
limited to, subject to certain possible exceptions, the loss of the Limited
Partner's investment in the Partnership.

The Partnership is qualified to conduct business in each state in which it owns
property and may qualify to conduct business in other jurisdictions. Maintenance
of limited liability may require compliance with certain legal requirements of
those jurisdictions and certain other jurisdictions. Limitations on the
liability of a limited partner for the obligations of a limited partnership have
not clearly been established in many states. Accordingly, if it were determined
that the



right, or exercise of the right by the Limited Partners, to make certain
amendments to the Partnership Agreement or to take other action pursuant to the
Partnership Agreement constituted "control" of the Partnership's business for
the purposes of the statutes of any relevant state, the Limited Partners might
be held personally liable for the Partnership's obligations. The Partnership
will operate in a manner the General Partner deems reasonable, necessary and
appropriate to preserve the limited liability of the Limited Partners.

Exculpation and Indemnification of the General Partner

If acting in good faith, the Partnership Agreement provides that the General
Partner will incur no liability for monetary damages to the Partnership or any
Limited Partner for losses sustained or liabilities incurred as a result of
errors in judgment or of any act or omission. In addition, the General Partner
is not responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of its agents,
provided the General Partner appointed such agents in good faith.

The Partnership Agreement also provides for indemnification of the General
Partner, the directors, officers and employees of the General Partner, and such
other persons as the General Partner may from time to time designate, against
any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities (joint or several), expenses
(including reasonable legal fees and expenses), judgments, fines, settlements
and other amounts arising from any and all claims, demands, actions, suits or
proceedings, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, that
relate to the operations of the Partnership in which any such indemnitee may be
involved, or is threatened to be involved, unless it is established that (i) the
act or omission of such indemnitee was material to the matter giving rise to the
proceeding and either was committed in bad faith or was the result of active and
deliberate dishonesty, (ii) such indemnitee actually received an improper
personal benefit in money, property or services or (iii) in the case of any
criminal proceeding, such indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that the
act or omission was unlawful.

Sale of Assets; Merger

Under the Partnership Agreement, the General Partner generally has the exclusive
authority to determine whether, when and on what terms the assets of the
Partnership will be sold or on which the Partnership will merge or consolidate
with another entity.

Removal of the General Partner; Transfer of General Partner's Interest

The Partnership Agreement does not authorize the Limited Partners to remove the
General Partner and the Limited Partners have no right to remove the General
Partner under the Partnership Act. The General Partner may not transfer any of
its interest as General Partner and withdraw as General Partner, except (a) to a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the General Partner or the owner of all the ownership
interests in the General Partner, (b) in connection with a merger or sale of all
or substantially all of the assets of the General Partner or (c) as a result of
the bankruptcy of the General Partner. A substitute or additional General
Partner may be admitted upon compliance with the applicable provisions of the
Partnership Agreement, including delivery by counsel for the Partnership of an
opinion that admission of such General Partner will not cause (i) the
Partnership to be classified other than as a partnership for federal income tax
purposes or (ii) the loss of any Limited Partner's limited liability. The
General Partner may not sell all or substantially all of its assets, or enter
into a merger, unless the sale or merger includes the sale of all or
substantially all of the assets of, or the merger of, the Partnership and the
Limited Partners receive for each Unit substantially the same consideration as
the holder of one share of Common Stock.

Transferability of Interests

A Limited Partner generally may not transfer his interest in the Partnership
without the consent of the General Partner which may be withheld at its absolute
discretion. The General Partner may require, as a condition of any transfer,
that the transferring Limited Partner assume all costs incurred by the
Partnership in connection with such a transfer.

Redemption Rights

Each Limited Partner has the right (the "Redemption Right"), subject to the
purchase right of the General Partner described below, to cause the redemption
of such Limited Partner's Units for cash in an amount per Unit equal to the
average of the closing sale prices of the Common Stock of United Dominion on the
New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") for the ten trading days immediately
preceding the date of receipt by the General Partner of notice of such Limited
Partner's exercise of the Redemption Right provided that such Units have been
outstanding for at least one year. Subject to certain restrictions intended to
prevent undesirable tax consequences and assure compliance with the Securities
Act, a Limited Partner may exercise the Redemption Right at any time but not
more than twice within the



same calendar year and not with respect to less than 1,000 Units (or all Units
owned by such Limited Partner, if less than 1,000). A Limited Partner that
exercises the Redemption Right shall be deemed to have offered to sell the Units
to be redeemed to the General Partner, and the General Partner may elect to
purchase such Units by paying to such Limited Partner either the redemption
price in cash or by delivering to such Limited Partner a number of shares of
Common Stock of the Company equal to the product of the number of such Units,
multiplied by the "Conversion Factor," which is 1.0, subject to customary
antidilution provisions in the event of stock dividends on or subdivisions or
combinations of the Common Stock subsequent to issuance of such Units. Any
Common Stock issued to the redeeming Limited Partner will be listed on the NYSE
and, if to the extent provided in such Redeeming Partner's Investment Agreement
or other agreement, registered under the Securities Act and/or entitled to
rights to Securities Act registration.

No Withdrawal of Capital by Limited Partners

No Limited Partner has the right to withdraw any part of his capital
contribution to the Partnership or interest thereon or to receive any
distribution, except as provided in the Partnership Agreement.

Issuance of Additional Limited Partnership Interests and Other Partnership
Securities

The General Partner is authorized, without the consent of the Limited Partners,
to cause the Partnership to issue additional Units or other Partnership
securities to the partners or to other persons on such terms and conditions and
for such consideration, including cash or any property or other assets permitted
by the Partnership Act, as the General Partner deems appropriate.

Meetings

The Partnership Agreement does not provide for annual meetings of the Limited
Partners, and the General Partner does not anticipate calling such meetings.

Amendment of Partnership Agreement

Amendments to the Partnership Agreement may, with four exceptions, be made by
the General Partner without the consent of the Limited Partners. Any amendment
to the Partnership Agreement which would (i) affect the Conversion Factor or the
Redemption Rights of the Limited Partners, (ii) adversely affect the rights of
the Limited Partners to receive distributions payable to them under the
Partnership Agreement, or (iii) alter the Partnership's profit and loss
allocations shall require the consent of Limited Partners. Any amendment that
would impose any obligation upon the Limited Partners to make additional capital
contributions to the Partnership shall require the consent of each Limited
Partner owning more than 50% of the percentage interests in the Partnership.

Books and Reports

The General Partner is required to keep at the specified office of the
Partnership the Partnership's books and records, including copies of the
Partnership's federal, state and local tax returns, a list of the partners and
their last known business addresses, the Partnership Agreement, the Partnership
certificate and all amendments thereto and any other documents and information
required under the Partnership Act. Any partner or his duly authorized
representative, upon paying duplicating, collection and mailing costs, is
entitled to inspect or copy such records during ordinary business hours.

The General Partner will furnish to each Limited Partner, as soon as practicable
after the close of each fiscal year, an annual report containing financial
statements of the Partnership (or United Dominion, if consolidated financial
statements including the Partnership are prepared) for such fiscal year. The
financial statements will be audited by accountants selected by the General
Partner. In addition, as soon as practicable after the close of each fiscal
quarter (other than the last quarter of the fiscal year), the General Partner
will furnish to each Limited Partner a quarterly report containing unaudited
financial statements of the Partnership (or the Company and the Partnership,
consolidated).

The General Partner will furnish to each Limited Partner, within 75 days after
the close of each fiscal year of the Partnership, the tax information necessary
to file such Limited Partner's individual tax returns.

Loans to Partnership

The Partnership Agreement provides that the General Partner may borrow
additional Partnership funds for any Partnership purpose from the General
Partner or a subsidiary or subsidiaries of the General Partner or otherwise.



Adjustments of Capital Accounts and Percentage Interests

A separate capital account will be established and maintained for each Partner.
The General Partner shall revalue the property of the Partnership to its fair
market value (as determined by the General Partner, in its sole discretion) in
accordance with applicable federal income tax regulations if: (i) a new or
existing general or limited partner of the Partnership (a Partner or
collectively Partners) acquires an additional interest in the Partnership in
exchange for more than a de minimis capital contribution, (ii) the Partnership
distributes to a Partner more than a de minimis amount of Partnership property
as consideration for a Partnership interest or (iii) the Partnership is
liquidated for federal income tax purposes.  When the Partnership's property is
revalued by the General Partner, the capital accounts of the partners shall be
adjusted in accordance with such regulations, which generally requires such
capital accounts to be adjusted to reflect the manner in which the unrealized
gain or loss inherent in such property (that has not been reflected in the
capital accounts previously) would be allocated among the Partners pursuant to
the Partnership Agreement if there were a taxable disposition of such property
for its fair market value on the date of the revaluation.

If the number of outstanding Units increases or decreases during a taxable year,
each Partner's percentage interest in the Partnership shall be adjusted by the
General Partner as of the effective date of each such increase or decrease to a
percentage equal to the number of Units held by such Partner divided by the
aggregate number of Units outstanding, after giving effect to such increase or
decrease, and profits and losses for the year will be allocated among the
Partners in a manner selected by the General Partner to give appropriate effect
to such adjustments.

Registration Rights

Limited Partners have no rights to Securities Act registration of any Common
Stock of United Dominion received in connection with redemption of Units except
as provided in their respective Investment Agreements or other agreements with
United Dominion.

Tax Matters; Profit and Loss Allocations

Pursuant to the Partnership Agreement, the General Partner is the "tax matters"
partner of the Partnership and, as such, has the authority to handle tax audits
and to make tax elections under the Code on behalf of the Partnership.

Profits of the Partnership are to be allocated first to partners in proportion
to and up to the amount of cash distributions, and second in accordance with the
respective partnership interests.  Losses are allocated in accordance with each
partners percentage interest.

Distributions

The Partnership Agreement provides that the General Partner shall distribute
cash quarterly, in amounts determined by the General Partner in its sole
discretion (i) first to the outside limited partners, (ii) second to United
Dominion (or appropriate subsidiary) until United Dominion has received an
amount equal to prior distributions to the outside limited partners, and (iii)
third, to the outside limited partners and United Dominion (or the appropriate
subsidiary) in accordance with their percentage interests in the Partnership.
Also, the amount of cash distributable to a Limited Partner who has not been a
Limited Partner for the full quarter for which the distribution is paid is
subject to pro rata reduction. Upon liquidation of the Partnership, after
payment of, or adequate provision for, debts and obligations of the Partnership,
including any Partner loans, any remaining assets of the Partnership will be
distributed to all Partners with positive capital accounts in accordance with
their respective positive capital account balances. If the General Partner has a
negative balance in its capital account following a liquidation of the
Partnership, it will be obligated to contribute cash to the Partnership equal to
the negative balance in its capital account.

Term

The Partnership will continue until December 31, 2051, or until sooner dissolved
upon (i) the bankruptcy, dissolution, death or withdrawal of a General Partner
(unless the Limited Partners elect to continue the Partnership by electing by
unanimous consent a substitute General Partner within 90 days of such
occurrence), (ii) the passage of 90 days after the sale or other disposition of
all or substantially all the assets of the Partnership, (iii) the redemption of
all Limited Partners' interests in the Partnership or (iv) election by the
General Partner. Upon dissolution of the Partnership, the General Partner will
proceed to liquidate the assets of the Partnership and distribute the proceeds
remaining after payment or adequate provision for payment of all debts and
obligations of the Partnership as provided in the Partnership Agreement.



Item 2.  Properties
Real Estate Owned

The table below sets forth a summary by major geographic market of United
Dominion's real estate portfolio at December 31, 1999.
See also Notes 1 and 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule
III - Summary of Real Estate Owned.



(A) These communities are encumbered by the following: (i) 21 communities
    encumbered by two REMIC financings aggregating $59.2 million, (ii) 19
    communities encumbered by one secured note payable in the amount of $195.7
    million and (iii) 29 communities encumbered by two fixed rate debt
    aggregating $161.5 million. The amount of debt is not included in the
    encumbrances shown for the individual markets.

(B) Average Monthly Rental Rates for the Year Ended December 31, 1999,
    represents potential rent collections (gross potential rents less market
    adjustments), which approximates net effective rents. These amounts exclude
    the 1999 acquisitions.

(C) Includes four commercial properties and one parcel of land included in real
    estate held for disposition.




Item  3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
- ---------------------------

     Neither United Dominion nor any of its apartment communities is presently
subject to any material litigation nor, to United Dominion's knowledge, is any
litigation threatened against United Dominion or any of the communities, other
than routine actions arising in the ordinary course of business. Some of these
routine actions are expected to be covered by liability insurance, and none are
expected to have a material adverse effect on the business or financial
condition or results of operations of United Dominion.

Item  4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
- -------------------------------------------------------------

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of United Dominion's fiscal year ended December 31, 1999.

Executive Officers of the Registrant
- ------------------------------------

     The executive officers of United Dominion, listed below, serve in their
respective capacities for approximate one year terms.

Name                     Age          Office                      Since
- ----                     ---          ------                      -----

John P. McCann           55   Chairman of the Board                1974
                              and Chief Executive Officer

John S. Schneider        61   Vice-Chairman of the Board,          1996
                              Chief Operations Officer
                              and President

A. William Hamill        52   Executive Vice President             1999
                              and Chief Financial Officer

Richard A. Giannotti     44   Senior Vice President and Director   1985
                              of Development-East

Mark E. Wood             55   Senior Vice President and Director   1996
                              of Development-West

Katheryn E. Surface      41   Senior Vice President, Corporate     1992
                              Secretary and General Counsel

Kevin W. Walsh           45   Senior Vice President of             1999
                              Finance

Curt W. Carter           43   Senior Vice President and Director   1985
                              of Apartment Operations-Northern
                              Region

Robert L. Landis         41   Senior Vice President and Director   1996
                              of Apartment Operations-Western
                              Region




Walter J. Lamperski      42   Senior Vice President and Director      1996
                              of Apartment Operations-Southern
                              Region

Blake W. Clemens         42   Senior Vice President and Director      1998
                              of Acquisitions

Thomas J. Corcoran       53   Senior Vice President and
                              Director of Human Resources             1997

Patrick S. Gregory       50   Senior Vice President and
                              Director of Information Technology      1997


     Mr. McCann has been United Dominion's managing Chief Executive Officer
since 1974.  Mr. McCann was elected Chairman of the Board in 1996.

     Mr. Schneider is the former Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the
Board of South West Property Trust Inc. (South West). Mr. Schneider was employed
with the investment banking firm of Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette until from
1967 until 1973, when he co-founded a predecessor firm to South West. Mr.
Schneider was elected Vice Chairman of the Board and Executive Vice President in
1996 in connection with the merger with South West and President in 1998.

     Mr. Hamill joined United Dominion as Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer in October 1999. Prior to joining United Dominion, Mr. Hamill
was the Chief Financial Officer of Union Camp Corporation. Mr. Hamill also
previously served as an investment banker with Morgan Stanley & Co.
Incorporated, where he was a managing director.

     Mr. Giannotti joined United Dominion as Director of Development and
Construction in September 1985. He was elected Assistant Vice President in 1988,
Vice President in 1989 and Senior Vice President in 1996. In 1998, Mr. Giannotti
was elected Director of Development-East.

     Mr. Wood joined United Dominion as Vice President of Construction in
connection with the merger of South West in 1996. He was promoted to Senior Vice
President and Director Development -West in 1998.

     Ms. Surface joined United Dominion in 1992 as Assistant Vice President and
Legal Counsel, elected General Counsel, Corporate Secretary and Vice President
in 1994 and elected to Senior Vice President in 1997.

     Mr. Walsh joined United Dominion as Vice President of Finance in May 1998.
In 1999, Mr. Walsh was elected to Senior Vice President. Prior to joining United
Dominion, Mr. Walsh was the Vice President of Finance and Treasurer of Tultex
Corporation. His experience also includes fifteen years in corporate banking
with predecessors to both First Union and NationsBank.

     Mr. Carter joined United Dominion in 1991 as an Assistant Vice President of
Apartment Operations. In 1992, he was promoted to Vice President of Apartment
Operations. In 1995, he was elected Regional Vice President- Northern Region,
and in 1997 was promoted to Senior Vice President and Director of Apartment
Operations- Northern Region.

     Mr. Landis joined United Dominion in 1996 as Regional Vice President-
Florida Region and was promoted in 1997 to Senior Vice President and Director of
Apartment Operations-Florida Region. During 1998, Mr. Landis became the Senior
Vice President and Director of Apartment Operations-Western Region. Prior to
joining United



Dominion, he was Vice President of Asset Management and Property Management for
CRI/CAPREIT, Inc.

     Mr. Lamperski joined United Dominion in 1996 as the Regional Vice
President-Southern Region and was promoted in 1997 to Senior Vice President and
Director of Apartment Operations-Southern Region. From February 1990 to August
1996, he was Vice President and Director of Property Management for Steven D.
Bell, a property management company located in Greensboro, North Carolina.

     Mr. Clemens joined United Dominion in 1998 as a Vice President and Director
of Acquisitions and was promoted to Senior Vice President in 1999. Prior to
joining United Dominion, Mr. Clemens was the Vice President of Acquisitions for
McNeil Real Estate Management Company from 1996 to 1998. Prior to this,
Mr. Clemens was the Vice President of Acquisitions and Finance at Insignia
Commercial Group, Incorporated.

     Mr. Corcoran joined United Dominion in 1997 as the Assistant Vice President
of Human Resources and was promoted to Vice President in 1998 and Senior Vice
President in 1999. Prior to joining United Dominion, Mr. Corcoran was the Vice
President of Human Resources for Acordia, Inc., a national insurance brokerage
firm from 1993 to 1995.

     Mr. Gregory joined United Dominion in 1997 as the Vice President and
Director Information Technology and was promoted to Senior Vice President in
1999. From 1976 to 1997, Mr. Gregory was employed by Crestar Bank as a New
Technology Analyst.



                                    PART II

Item 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     United Dominion's Common Stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE) under the symbol  UDR.  The following tables set forth the quarterly high
and low sale prices per common share reported on the NYSE for each quarter of
the last two years.  Distribution information for Common Stock reflects
distributions declared per share for each calendar quarter and paid at the end
of the following month.


COMMON STOCK
                                        Distributions
                    High        Low       Declared

1st Quarter       $14 13/16  $13 3/4       $.2625
2nd Quarter        14 1/2     13 5/16       .2625
3rd Quarter        14 1/16    10 11/16      .2625
4th Quarter        11 3/4     10 1/16       .2625

1st Quarter       $11 1/4    $ 9 1/16      $.2650
2nd Quarter        11 15/16    9 13/16      .2650
3rd Quarter        12 1/16    10 3/4        .2650
4th Quarter        11 5/8      9 1/8        .2650

United Dominion determined that, for federal income tax purposes, approximately
58.6% of the distributions for each of the four quarters of 1999 represented
ordinary income to its shareholders, 29.2% represented return of capital to its
shareholders and 12.2% represented long-term capital gain to its shareholders.

On March 21, 2000, the closing sale price of the Common Stock was  $9 7/8 per
share on the NYSE, and there were 8,874 holders of record of the 103,127,425
shares of Common Stock.

United Dominion pays regular quarterly distributions to holders of shares of
Common Stock. Future distributions by United Dominion will be at the discretion
of its Board of Directors after considering the company's actual funds from
operations, financial condition and capital requirements, the annual
distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
and other factors. The annual distribution payment for calendar year 1999
necessary for United Dominion to maintain its status as a REIT was approximately
$.78 per share. United Dominion paid total distributions of $1.06 per share for
1999.



SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK

     United Dominion's Series A Preferred Stock ("Series A Preferred") and
Series B Preferred Stock ("Series B Preferred") is traded on the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol "UDRpfa" and "UDRpfb", respectively.  The
following tables set forth the quarterly high and low sale prices per share
reported on the NYSE for each quarter of the last two years for the Series A
Preferred and Series B Preferred. Distribution information for the Series A
Preferred and Series B Preferred reflects distributions declared per share for
each calendar quarter and paid at the end of the following month.

                                             Distributions
                       High          Low       Declared
1st Quarter         $26 11/16      $26 1/8      $.5775
2nd Quarter          26 7/8         25 3/4       .5775
3rd Quarter          25 15/16       24 1/2       .5775
4th Quarter          25 11/16       24 3/8       .5775

1st Quarter         $25 1/8        $24          $.5775
2nd Quarter          25 1/4         23 13/16     .5775
3rd Quarter          25 1/16        20 9/16      .5775
4th Quarter          22 3/8         17 13/16     .5775

On or after April 24, 2000, the Series A Preferred Stock may be redeemed for
cash at a redemption price of $25 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends
from the proceeds from the sale of additional capital stock (common or
preferred).


SERIES B PREFERRED STOCK

                                              Distributions
                       High           Low       Declared
1st Quarter         $27 3/8        $26 3/16     $.5375
2nd Quarter          26 1/2         25 5/8       .5375
3rd Quarter          26 13/16       24 9/16      .5375
4th Quarter          25 7/8         24 9/16      .5375

1st Quarter         $26 1/16       $24          $.5375
2nd Quarter          25 1/2         23 5/8       .5375
3rd Quarter          25 5/16        20 1/4       .5375
4th Quarter          22 5/8         15 5/8       .5375

The Series B Preferred Stock may be redeemed beginning May 29, 2007 at the sole
option of United Dominion at a redemption price of $25 per share, plus accrued
and unpaid dividends from the proceeds from the sale of additional capital stock
(common or preferred).



SERIES D PREFERRED STOCK

On December 7, 1998, in connection with the acquisition of American Apartment
Communities II, Inc. (AAC), United Dominion issued eight million shares of
Series D Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock (Series D) to one of the sellers
of AAC. The Series D is convertible into 1.5385 shares of common stock at the
option of the holder at any time at $16.25 per share. The Series D is not
redeemable prior to December 7, 2003. On or after this date, United Dominion
may, at its option, redeem all or part of the Series D at a price per share of
$25, plus accrued and unpaid dividends from the proceeds from the sale of
additional capital stock (common or preferred). Distributions declared for 1999
were $1.89 per share or $.4725 per quarter. The Series D is not listed on any
exchange.

DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT AND STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

United Dominion has a Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan under which
holders of Common and Preferred Stock may elect to automatically reinvest their
distributions and make additional cash payments to acquire additional shares of
United Dominion's Common Stock at a discount.

OPERATING PARTNERSHIP UNITS

From time to time, United Dominion issues shares of its common stock in exchange
for Operating Partnership Units (OP Units) tendered to United Dominion's
operating partnership, United Dominion Realty L.P., for redemption in accordance
with the provisions of the Agreement of Limited Partnership of United Dominion
Realty L.P.  Such shares are issued based on the exchange ratio of one share for
each OP Unit. During 1999, United Dominion issued a total of 71,373 shares of
common stock in exchange for OP Units.

Item 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
- --------------------------------

     The following table sets forth selected consolidated financial and other
information for United Dominion as of and for each of the years in the five year
period ended December 31, 1999.  The table should be read in conjunction with
the Consolidated Financial Statements of United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc. and
the Notes thereto included elsewhere herein.



Selected Financial Data



(a)  From 1996 to 1998, United Dominion completed the following statutory
     mergers: (i) South West Property Trust, Inc. on December 31, 1996 for an
     aggregate purchase price of $572 million, (ii) ASR Investments Corporation
     Inc. on March 27, 1998 for an aggregate purchase price of $323 million, and
     (iii) American Apartment Communities II on December 7, 1998, for an
     aggregate purchase price of $794 million.

(b)  Funds from operations ("FFO") is defined as income before gains (losses) on
     sales of investments, minority interests and extraordinary items (computed
     in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles) plus real
     estate depreciation, less preferred dividends and after adjustment for
     significant non-recurring items, if any. This definition conforms to
     recommendations set forth in a White Paper adopted by the National
     Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) in early 1995. United
     Dominion considers FFO in evaluating property acquisitions and its
     operating performance and believes that FFO should be considered along
     with, but not as an alternative to, net income and cash flows as a measure
     of United Dominion's activities in accordance with generally accepted
     accounting principles and is not necessarily indicative of cash available
     to fund cash needs.

(c)  Reflects the adjustment for internal acquisition costs that were
     capitalized prior to March 19, 1998.



  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
                                  Operations

Overview

This annual report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1993, as amended, and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements
include, without limitation, statements concerning property acquisitions and
dispositions, development activity and capital expenditures, capital raising
activities, rent growth, occupancy and rental expense growth. Such statements
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause
the actual results, performance or achievement of United Dominion Realty Trust,
Inc. ("United Dominion") to be materially different from the results of
operations or plans expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Such factors include, among other things, unanticipated adverse business
developments affecting United Dominion, or its properties, adverse changes in
the real estate markets and general and local economies and business conditions.
Although United Dominion believes that the assumptions underlying the forward-
looking statements contained herein are reasonable, any of the assumptions could
be inaccurate, and therefore there can be no assurance that such statements
included in this report will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant
uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements included herein, the
inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by
United Dominion or any other person that the results or conditions described in
such statements or the objectives and plans of United Dominion will be achieved.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
Financial Statements and Notes thereto of United Dominion appearing elsewhere in
this annual report.

United Dominion is a real estate investment trust ("REIT") with activities
related to the ownership, development, acquisition, renovation, management,
marketing and strategic disposition of multifamily apartment communities
nationwide. Management's strategy is to be a national, highly efficient provider
of quality apartment homes. During the past several years, United Dominion has
implemented this strategy through the acquisition of portfolios of higher
quality communities, the disposition of non-strategic communities, a greater
commitment to development and the upgrade of its core portfolio of apartment
communities. Through a combination of dispositions and acquisitions over the
past two years, United Dominion aggressively moved the company into better
performing markets with attractive prospects for long-term growth. During this
same period, more emphasis has been placed on higher quality development
projects. This strategy resulted in the upgrade of the overall quality and
average age of United Dominion's portfolio which is now solidly positioned with
"B" and "A" grade communities. United Dominion seeks to be a market leader by
operating a sufficiently sized portfolio of apartments within each of its target
markets in order to drive down operating costs through economies of scale and
management efficiencies. United Dominion believes that geographic market
diversification increases investment opportunities and decreases the risk
associated with cyclical local real estate markets and economies.

At December 31, 1999, United Dominion owned 301 communities containing 82,154
apartment homes nationwide, including 37 communities with 7,182 completed
apartment homes included in real estate held for disposition and 330 recently
completed apartment homes included in real estate under development.



The following table summarizes United Dominion's apartment market information by
major geographic markets and other geographic areas (including real estate under
development and excluding four commercial properties):





Liquidity and Capital Resources

United Dominion expects to meet its short-term financial requirements through
net cash provided by operations and borrowings under its unsecured bank lines of
credit. United Dominion believes that cash provided by operations will be
adequate to meet normal operating requirements and payment of distributions by
United Dominion in accordance with REIT requirements in both the short and long-
term. In addition, budgeted capital expenditures and monthly principal
amortization of debt are also expected to be funded from net cash provided by
operating activities.

United Dominion meets certain long-term liquidity requirements, such as
scheduled debt maturities, development activity and significant capital
improvements through: (i) the issuance of long-term secured and unsecured
borrowings, (ii) proceeds from the sales of assets, (iii) common and preferred
stock offerings, (iv) retained operating cash flow and (v) the use of unused
credit facilities. To facilitate future fund raising activities in the public
capital markets, management believes that it is prudent to maintain shelf
registration statement capacity. In this regard, United Dominion filed such a
shelf registration statement in December 1999 providing for the issuance of up
to $700 million in common shares, preferred shares and debt securities.

In March 2000, United Dominion sold $100 million of senior unsecured notes due
March 2003 at an interest rate of 8.625%. The proceeds from the offering were
used to prepay certain mortgage debt and repay revolving bank debt.

United Dominion currently plans to establish during 2000, a program for the sale
of up to $150 million aggregate principal amount of medium-term notes.

United Dominion has no significant maturities of debt until the fourth quarter
of 2000 at which time approximately $175 million of secured and unsecured debt
will mature. At this time, management expects to refinance the maturing debt
with debt of similar characteristics and prevailing market rates.

The following discussion explains the changes in net cash provided by operating
activities, net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing
activities which are presented in United Dominion's Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows.

Operating Activities

For the year ended December 31, 1999, United Dominion's cash flow from operating
activities was $190.9 million compared to $152.9 million in 1998. The increase
was primarily due to the increased operating income from United Dominion's
acquired communities as well as increases in property operating income achieved
through higher rent growth as discussed under "Results of Operations".

Investing Activities

For the year ended December 31, 1999, net cash used in investing activities was
$34.3 million compared to $276.1 million for 1998, a decrease of $241.8 million.
During 1999, United Dominion shifted its focus from the acquisition of real
estate assets to the disposition and development of real estate assets. Changes
in the level of investing activities from period to period reflect the changing
levels of United Dominion's acquisition, capital expenditure, development and
disposition programs, as well as the impact of the capital market environment on
these activities.

Disposition of Investments

As part of its strategic repositioning, United Dominion determined that it would
selectively dispose of assets that are not in core markets, have a lower net
operating income growth rate than the overall portfolio or no longer meet the
operating and investment strategies of United Dominion. The disposition program
allows United Dominion to reduce the age of its existing portfolio, which should
result in lower operating expense and capital expenditure growth associated with
the older communities.

During 1999, United Dominion sold 36 communities with 7,443 apartment homes for
an aggregate sales price of $241.2 million and recognized gains for financial
reporting purposes of $38.0 million. These sales allowed United Dominion to exit
certain markets that had low growth opportunities and improve the average age of
the company's overall apartment portfolio by selling communities with an average
age of 25


years. During 1998, 18 communities with 5,318 apartment homes and an average age
of 25 years were sold for an aggregate sales price of $156.6 million, which
resulted in gains for financial reporting purposes of $26.7 million.

Proceeds from the disposition program were used to strengthen the balance sheet
by paying down debt, as well as to fund new development projects and to
selectively repurchase shares of United Dominion's preferred and common stock.
Where necessary to defer capital gain taxes, disposition proceeds have been
reinvested in strategically attractive communities.

United Dominion intends to sell 6,000 to 7,000 apartment homes during 2000.
Proceeds from the 2000 dispositions, expected to be at levels similar to 1999,
are to be used to reduce debt, repurchase preferred shares, fund development
activity and acquire communities through 1031 exchanges.

Subsequent to year-end, United Dominion sold three communities for approximately
$18.5 million. In addition, United Dominion entered into contracts to sell two
communities with 285 apartment homes for an aggregate sales price in excess of
$17 million. For financial reporting purposes, aggregate gains on the sales of
investments are not expected to be material. The transactions are expected to
close during the first and second quarters of 2000; however, there can be no
assurance that these transactions will be consummated as planned.

Real Estate under Development

During 1999, United Dominion continued its commitment to development as part of
its strategic repositioning, shifting capital into development activity and away
from lower yielding acquisitions. During 1999, the development of over 1,500
homes was completed, up from 890 homes during 1998. Development activity is
focused in core markets that have locally based development teams and strong
operations managers in place.

During 1999, the following development projects were completed:



The following projects are under development at December 31, 1999:





In addition to the apartment homes under development at December 31, 1999,
United Dominion has land held for future development with a carrying value of
$37.9 million. Future development activity will be based upon the availability
of capital and real estate fundamentals. Additional development starts planned
in 2000 are expected to be undertaken with financial partners through joint
venture arrangements.

Acquisitions

During 1999, United Dominion curtailed its active pace of acquisitions,
investing in new communities only when necessary to complete 1031 exchanges in
order to defer taxes on large capital gains. During 1999, using proceeds from
its disposition program, United Dominion acquired five communities with 1,230
apartment homes at a total cost (including closing costs) of $74.3 million or
$60,400 per home during 1999. These communities are located in markets that are
considered strategically important to United Dominion, such as Baltimore,
Maryland, South Florida and Riverside and San Diego, California.

During 2000, United Dominion does not anticipate acquiring communities except to
reinvest a portion of the proceeds from property dispositions in order to defer
taxes on capital gains.

Capital Expenditures

United Dominion capitalizes those expenditures related to acquiring new assets,
materially enhancing the value of an existing asset, or substantially extending
the useful life of an existing asset. Expenditures necessary to maintain an
existing property in ordinary operating condition are expensed as incurred.

During 1999, United Dominion substantially completed the upgrade program which
was part of the strategic plan to improve the overall quality of its portfolio.
Capital expenditures decreased from 1998 as the overall age and physical
condition of the apartment portfolio has improved. For the year ended December
31, 1999, $32.8 million or $639 per home was spent on capital expenditures for
United Dominion's same communities (those acquired or developed prior to January
1, 1998). These capital improvements included recurring capital expenditures,
including floor coverings, HVAC equipment, roofs, appliances, landscaping,
siding, parking lots and other non-revenue enhancing capital expenditures, which
aggregated $19.8 million or $386 per home. In addition, non-recurring / revenue
enhancing capital expenditures, including water sub-metering, gating and access
systems, the additions of microwaves, washer-dryers, interior upgrades and new
business and fitness centers totaled $13.0 million or $253 per home for the year
ended December 31, 1999. United Dominion reduced capital expenditures related to
same communities throughout 1999, but will continue to selectively add revenue-
enhancing improvements, which are budgeted to provide a high return on
investment. Capital expenditures during 2000 are expected to be at levels
similar to 1999.

In addition to capital improvements to its same communities, United Dominion
invested approximately $42 million or $1,220 per home on its non-mature
communities (those acquired or developed subsequent to January 1, 1998) during
1999, which includes both recurring and revenue enhancing capital improvements.

Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities during 1999 was $175.0 million compared to
net cash provided by financing activities of $148.9 million for 1998. During
1999, as part of its strategic plan to improve its balance sheet position,
United Dominion used approximately 60% of the proceeds from its disposition
program to pay down secured and unsecured debt. The remaining proceeds were used
to acquire assets where necessary to complete 1031 exchanges and, to a lesser
extent, to repurchase shares of preferred and common stock.

In January 1999, United Dominion established a program for the sale of up to
$200 million aggregate principal amount of medium-term notes (the "MTN
Program"). For the year ended December 31, 1999, United Dominion sold an
aggregate of $190 million of senior unsecured notes under the MTN Program with a
weighted average interest rate of 7.61%. Net proceeds from the offerings were
used to repay amortizing unsecured debt, repay maturing mortgage debt, repay a
$75 million senior unsecured note that matured in April 1999 and repay revolving
bank debt.



During 1999, United Dominion closed on $195.7 million of a $200 million
revolving credit facility with the Federal National Mortgage Association (the
"FNMA Credit Facility"). The FNMA Credit Facility is for an initial term of five
years, bears interest at a floating rate which can be fixed for periods of up to
270 days, and can be extended for an additional five or ten years at United
Dominion's discretion. The FNMA Credit Facility had a weighted average interest
rate of 6.32% at December 31, 1999. United Dominion used interest rate swap
agreements to limit its interest rate exposure on $57 million of this borrowing
(see Secured Credit Facilities in Note 3). The proceeds from the FNMA Credit
Facility were used to repay a $91 million secured credit facility assumed in
connection with the American Apartment Communities II transaction, to replace
$58 million in maturing secured debt and the remaining proceeds were used to
repay revolving bank debt.

United Dominion issued 1.6 million shares of its common stock and received $16.7
million under its Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan during 1999 that
included $1.2 million in optional cash investments and $15.5 million of
reinvested dividends.

For the year ended December 31, 1999, United Dominion paid distributions to its
common shareholders and unitholders in its operating partnerships aggregating
$118.8 million. The distribution to common shareholders and holders of operating
partnership units equates to a dividend rate of $1.06 per share or unit. In
addition, $35.0 million of preferred dividends were paid to Series A, B and D
preferred shareholders.

In June 1999, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 5.5
million common shares, or 5% of the total common shares outstanding, using
proceeds from the disposition program. Such purchases will be made from time to
time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions; the timing,
volume and price of such purchases will be at the discretion of management and
the Board of Directors. For the year ended December 31, 1999, United Dominion
repurchased 2.6 million common shares at an average price of $11.22 per share.
The Board of Directors, also approved the repurchase of up to $25 million of
United Dominion's Series A and Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock
from time to time as market conditions permit. For the year ended December 31,
1999, United Dominion repurchased 31,440 Series A preferred shares at an average
price of $19.76 per share and 53,700 Series B preferred shares at an average
price of $18.35 per share. In addition, United Dominion redeemed one million
operating partnership units for $12.0 million.

During 1999, using proceeds from its disposition program, United Dominion
repurchased $70.0 million of certain of its higher rate outstanding unsecured
debt with a weighted average yield of 7.74%. In addition, in connection with the
disposition program, United Dominion was relieved of $57.7 million of mortgage
debt and $9.3 million of revolving bank debt.

Credit Facilities

United Dominion has a $200 million three-year unsecured revolving credit
facility (the "Bank Credit Facility") which expires in August 2000 and a $110
million one-year unsecured line of credit (the "Line of Credit") which expires
in August 2000 that are provided by a consortium of banks. Under the Bank Credit
Facility, pricing is based upon the higher of United Dominion's senior unsecured
debt ratings from Standard & Poor's Corporation and Moody's Investor Services
that are currently BBB and Baa2, respectively. At these rating levels, interest
under the Bank Credit Facility is LIBOR plus 0.50% and interest under the Line
of Credit is LIBOR plus 1.0%. However, these rates are subject to change as
United Dominion's credit ratings change. The Bank Credit Facility also includes
a $100 million competitive bid option, which allows United Dominion to solicit
bids from participating banks at rates below the contractual rate. At December
31, 1999, $277.6 million was outstanding under these credit facilities leaving
$32.4 million available for use.

The Bank Credit Facility and Line of Credit are subject to customary financial
covenants and limitations.

Derivative Instruments

United Dominion, from time to time, uses derivative instruments to synthetically
alter on-balance sheet liabilities or to hedge anticipated financing
transactions. Derivative contracts did not have a material impact on the results
of operations during 1999.



Market Risk

United Dominion is exposed to market risk principally from interest rate risk
associated with variable rate notes payable and maturing debt that has to be
refinanced. United Dominion does not hold financial instruments for trading
purposes, but rather issues these financial instruments to finance owning and
managing real estate. United Dominion's interest rate sensitivity position is
managed by its treasury department. Interest rate sensitivity is the
relationship between changes in market interest rates and the fair value of
market rate sensitive assets and liabilities. United Dominion's earnings are
affected by changes in short-term interest rates on its variable rate debt and
the repricing of fixed rate debt. A large portion of United Dominion's market
risk is exposure to short-term interest rates from variable rate borrowings
outstanding under its bank credit facilities, which totaled $277.6 million at
December 31, 1999. The impact on United Dominion's financial statements of
refinancing fixed rate debt that matured during 1999 was not material.

At December 31, 1999, the notional value of United Dominion's derivative
products for the purpose of managing interest rate risk was $177 million of
interest rate swaps under which United Dominion pays a fixed rate of interest
and receives a variable rate. These agreements effectively fix $177 million of
United Dominion's variable rate notes payable to a weighted average fixed rate
of 6.78% (see Note 5 - Financial Instruments). At December 31, 1999, the fair
market value of the interest rate swaps in a favorable value position to United
Dominion would have been $626 thousand. If interest rates were 100 basis points
more or less at December 31, 1999, the fair market value of the interest rate
swaps would have increased or decreased $500 thousand, respectively.

If market interest rates for variable rate debt averaged 100 basis points more
in 2000 than they did during 1999, United Dominion's interest expense, after
considering the effects of its interest rate swap agreements, would increase,
and income before taxes would decrease by $4.0 million. Comparatively, if market
interest rates for variable rate debt averaged 100 basis points more in 1999
than it did in 1998, United Dominion's interest expense, after considering the
effects of its interest rate swap agreements, would increase, and income before
taxes would decrease by $4.0 million. If market rates for fixed rate debt were
100 basis points higher at December 31, 1999, the fair value of fixed rate debt
would have decreased from $1.55 billion to $1.50 billion. If market interest
rates for fixed rate debt were 100 basis points lower at December 31, 1999, the
fair value of fixed rate debt would have increased from $1.55 billion to $1.62
billion.

These amounts are determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical
interest rates on United Dominion's borrowing cost and interest rate swap
agreements. These analyses do not consider the effects of the reduced level of
overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. Further, in
the event of a change of such magnitude, management would likely take actions to
further mitigate its exposure to the change. However, due to the uncertainty of
the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the
sensitivity analysis assumes no change in United Dominion's financial structure.

Results of Operations

United Dominion's net income is primarily generated from the operations of its
apartment communities.

1999-vs-1998

For 1999, net income available to common shareholders increased $7.2 million,
with a corresponding increase of $.05 for both basic and diluted earnings per
share, compared to 1998. The increase per share was primarily attributable to
aggregate gains on the sale of investments of $38.0 million ($.37 per share) for
the year ended December 31, 1999, compared to $26.7 million ($.27 per share) in
1998. However, the increases associated with the gain on sales of investments
were moderated in part due to the $19.3 million of impairment losses recorded
during 1999. United Dominion's non-mature communities with 31,454 apartment
homes at December 31, 1999 provided a substantial portion of the increase in
United Dominion's operating income during 1999.

1998-vs-1997

For 1998, net income available to common shareholders decreased $4.1 million,
with a corresponding decrease of $.12 and $.11 for basic and diluted earnings
per share, respectively, compared to 1997.  The



decrease per share was primarily attributable to the $15.6 million ($.15 per
share) loss on the termination of an interest rate risk management agreement
during the fourth quarter of 1998. Net income available to common shareholders
for the year ended December 31, 1998 included aggregate gains on the sales of
investments of $26.7 million ($.27 per share) compared to $12.7 million ($.15
per share) in 1997.

The following is a combined summary of the operating performance for United
Dominion's apartment portfolio (dollars in thousands):



Same Communities

1999-vs-1998 (51,316 apartment homes)

In 1999, property rental income grew 3.1%, or approximately $11.1 million,
reflecting an increase in average monthly rental rates of 3.4% while physical
occupancy remained constant at 93.1%.

For 1999, property operating expenses at these same communities decreased 0.6%,
or $827 thousand.  Utility expense decreased due to the continued transfer of
water and sewer costs to residents, repair and maintenance expense decreased as
a result of the upgrade program and taking more turnover work in-house and
property management expenses decreased due to better economies of scale.
However, these decreases were offset by an increase in personnel costs due to
higher salaries and benefit costs, an increase in real estate taxes, the
addition of monitored alarms in more communities and higher technology costs.

As a result of the increase in property rental income and the decrease in
property operating expenses, the operating margin (property operating income
divided by property rental income) improved 1.5% to 61.3%.



1998-vs-1997 (47,875 apartment homes)

Compared to the same period in 1997, property rental income from these
communities grew 3.5%, or approximately $11.0 million, reflecting an increase in
average monthly rental rates of 3.4%.  During 1998, physical occupancy of 92.9%
was the same as reported in 1997.

For 1998, property operating expenses at these communities were unchanged.
Utility expenses decreased as a result of United Dominion's water and sewer sub-
metering initiative and repair and maintenance expenses decreased as United
Dominion continued to benefit from a centralized purchasing initiative and the
upgrade program. However, these expense decreases were offset by increases in
real estate taxes primarily in certain Florida and Texas markets and increases
in personnel costs as United Dominion experienced pressure on wages due to low
unemployment and tighter job markets.

Due to the increase in property rental income and the unchanged property
operating expenses, the operating margin improved 1.4% to 59.5%.

Non-Mature Communities

1999-vs-1998

Property rental income and property operating expenses increased from 1998 to
1999 directly as a result of the increase in the weighted average number of
apartment homes owned during 1999. For the year ended December 31, 1999, average
economic occupancy was 88.2%, and the operating margin was 58.8% for the non-
mature communities.

United Dominion's non-mature apartment portfolio can be categorized as follows
for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998:

1998 Acquisitions
- -----------------

American Apartment Communities II, Inc. (AAC)

On an average investment of $761 million, the AAC portfolio (13,728 homes net of
sales) provided a first year return on investment (property rental income less
property operating expenses divided by the average capital investment in real
estate) of 9.1% which is slightly better than the projection of 9.0%. These
communities achieved physical occupancy of 93.6%, which is higher than United
Dominion's average physical occupancy primarily due to the California markets
included in this portfolio. For the year, these communities had an economic
occupancy of 92.1% and an operating margin of 62.7%.

1998 Acquisitions (Excluding AAC)

For the 13,577 homes (net of sales) acquired in 1998, the return on investment
for the year ended December 31, 1999, on an average investment of $611 million
was 8.4%. This return on investment was below amounts projected for 1999,
however, these communities continue to be upgraded, repositioned and selectively
sold, which is expected to improve overall operating results over the long-term.
These communities had an economic occupancy of 88.8% and an operating margin of
57.8%.

1999 Acquisitions
- -----------------

Included in this category are five communities with 1,230 apartment homes
acquired by United Dominion during 1999 that are projected to provide a first
year return on investment of 9.0% on an initial investment of $74 million. These
communities did not have a material impact on 1999 results of operations.

Disposition Communities
- -----------------------

Included in this category are the 12,761 apartment homes sold for an aggregate
sales price of $398 million as part of United Dominion's strategic repositioning
(see Disposition of Investments under Liquidity and Capital Resources) since
January 1, 1998.  The communities sold during 1999 and 1998 had a capitalization
rate (budgeted property operating income less a reserve placement divided by the
sales price) in the 10% range.



Development Communities
- -----------------------

United Dominion developed 2,404 homes at various times since January 1, 1998,
which included the completion of six new communities and one additional phase to
an existing community during 1999. Once stabilized, development communities are
projected to generate an average return on investment in the 10% range, however,
the full impact on property operating income is not realized until after the
communities are stabilized, which is generally six months after construction is
completed. United Dominion considers a development community stabilized on the
earlier to occur of (i) one year after completion of construction or (ii)
attainment of 90% physical occupancy. Construction activity is staged to allow
for leasing and occupancy during the construction period in order to minimize
the lease-up period subsequent to the completion of construction.

1998-vs-1997

Property rental income and property operating expenses increased from 1997 to
1998 directly as a result of the increase in the weighted average number of
apartment homes owned during 1998. For the year ended December 31, 1998, average
economic occupancy was 88.6%, and the operating margin was 55.7% for the non-
mature communities.

1997 Acquisitions
- -----------------

On an average investment of $355 million, the 1997 acquisitions which consisted
of 8,524 apartment homes provided a 9.1% return on investment during 1998. For
the year, these communities had economic occupancy of 91.5% and an operating
margin of 56.6%. During 1998, property operating expenses were adversely
impacted by (i) an increase in real estate taxes due to reassessments at several
Florida communities and (ii) the delay in United Dominion's implementation of
its water billing and reimbursement schedule for these communities.

1998 Acquisitions
- -----------------

1998 Single Acquisitions

On an average investment of $312 million, the 1998 acquisitions which consisted
of 6,959 apartment homes provided an annualized return on investment of 8.7%.
These results were below the full year forecasted return on investment of 9.0%
as a result of delays in water billing and reimbursement and market softness in
San Antonio and Phoenix where United Dominion acquired communities in 1998.

ASR Investments Corporation (ASR)

A total of 7,550 apartment homes were included in the ASR merger on March 27,
1998, which provided the largest increase in property rental income and property
operating expenses for United Dominion's apartment portfolio during 1998. The
annualized return on investment for the ASR properties was 7.3% on an average
investment of $313 million during 1998. The under-performance of this portfolio
was primarily attributable to weak markets in Phoenix, Tucson and Albuquerque
and certain assets were undergoing upgrading and repositioning. For the year
ended December 31, 1998, these communities had economic occupancy of 87.9% and
an operating margin of 49.3%.

American Apartment Communities (AAC)

This included 14,001 apartment homes in the AAC merger on December 7, 1998 for
an initial investment of $767 million. This acquisition did not have a material
effect on 1998 results of operations.

Disposition  Communities
- ------------------------

During 1998 and 1997, United Dominion sold approximately $225 million of real
estate consisting of 30 communities with 7,888 apartment homes, the net proceeds
from which were used to acquire newer communities that provide higher long-term
returns on investment than the communities being sold. The properties sold
during 1998 had a capitalization rate (budgeted property operating income less a
replacement reserve divided by the sales price) in excess of 10%.

Development Communities
- -----------------------

These communities consisted of 1,957 apartment homes in five new communities and
five additional phases to existing communities developed from January 1, 1997 to
December 31, 1998. Once stabilized, development communities are projected to
generate an average return on investment in excess of 10%.



Interest Expense

During 1999, interest expense increased $47.5 million over the corresponding
amount in 1998 as the weighted average amount of debt employed during 1999 was
higher than it was in 1998 ($2.1 billion in 1999 versus $1.5 billion in 1998).
The increase in the weighted average amount of debt employed in 1999 is
primarily due to debt assumed during 1998 to fund United Dominion's investment
activities. The weighted average interest rate on this debt was 7.4% in both
1999 and 1998. For 1999, 1998 and 1997, total interest capitalized was $5.2
million, $3.4 million and $2.6 million, respectively.

For 1998, interest expense increased $27.2 million over 1997. The weighted
average amount of debt employed during 1998 was higher than it was in 1997 ($1.5
billion in 1998 versus $1.0 billion in 1997) which accounted for the majority of
the increase in interest expense. The weighted average interest rate on this
debt was slightly lower than it was in 1997, decreasing from 7.5% in 1997 to
7.4% in 1998 reflecting greater usage of lower rate short-term bank borrowings
in 1998 ($238.6 million weighted average outstanding in 1998 versus $74.6
million in 1997).

General and Administrative

During the year ended December 31, 1999, general and administrative expenses
increased $3.7 million, or 36.6%, over 1998, primarily due to the expanded
operations of United Dominion and its continued investment in professional
staff, technology and scaleable accounting and information systems.

During 1998, general and administrative expenses increased by $3.1 million over
1997. In 1998, United Dominion incurred increases in most of its general and
administrative expense categories which was directly attributable to the
expanded operations of United Dominion and its investment in infrastructure. The
largest increases occurred in payroll and payroll-related expenses. General and
administrative expense as a percentage of rental income increased 0.3% from 1.8%
during 1997 to 2.1% during 1998 primarily due to (i) the added infrastructure
costs incurred due to the expanded operations of United Dominion and (ii) the
change in accounting for internal acquisition costs subsequent to March 19,
1998.

Impairment Loss

For the year ended December 31, 1999, United Dominion recognized $18.3 million
in impairment losses on its real estate portfolio. At the beginning of June
1999, United Dominion embarked on an accelerated disposition plan for non-
strategic properties. As a result of the review of its real estate apartment
portfolio, 21 properties included in real estate held for investment were moved
to real estate held for disposition during the second quarter. Accordingly,
through the review and analysis of communities targeted for strategic
disposition, an aggregate $7.1 million impairment loss was recognized on five
communities in the second quarter. Based on United Dominion's review and
analysis of the sales planned for 2000 and the periodic evaluation of its
apartment portfolio, an additional $11.2 million impairment loss was recognized
in the fourth quarter of 1999, related principally to communities acquired in
the ASR merger in 1998.

During 1997, the company recorded and impairment loss of $1.4 million relating
to two communities included in United Dominion's real estate held for
investment. These communities were subsequently moved to real estate held for
disposition based upon management's decision to dispose of these properties.

Distributions to Preferred Shareholders

Distributions to preferred shareholders totaled $37.7 million for 1999 compared
to $23.6 million for 1998. The increase was a result of the issuance of eight
million shares of Series D 7.50% Cumulative Convertible Redeemable Preferred
Stock in December 1998.

Distributions to preferred shareholders totaled $23.6 million for the year ended
December 31, 1998 compared to $17.3 million for 1997. The increase was a result
of the issuance of six million shares of Series B 8.60% Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Stock in May 1997.



age of 25

Inflation

United Dominion believes that the direct effects of inflation on United
Dominion's operations have been inconsequential.

Information Technology

United Dominion is currently engaged in the development of an innovative on-site
property management system (the "system") to enable management to capture,
review and analyze data to a greater extent than is possible using available
existing commercial software. United Dominion believes the new system will
enable it to become a more efficient provider of a high quality living
environment for its residents, and provide the scalability necessary to support
future growth. These development activities are being conducted through a joint
venture with another public multifamily real estate company. The system
development process is currently managed by the employees of United Dominion and
its joint venture partner who have significant related project management
experience. The actual programming and documentation of the system is being
conducted by employees and third party consultants under the supervision of
these experienced project managers.

Current projections indicate that total development costs over a three-year
period will be approximately $7.5 million (including hardware costs and
expenses, the costs of employees and related overhead, and the costs of engaging
third party consultants) and that such development costs will be shared on an
equal basis by the joint venture partners. Once developed, the system would be
used in place of current property management information systems for which a
license fee is paid to third parties.

The system is currently projected to undergo an on-site test (i.e., a "beta
test") during the third quarter of 2000 and the system should be functional by
the fourth quarter of 2000.

Neither United Dominion nor its joint venture partner have been engaged in the
development of systems software. There are several risks associated with the
development of the system for internal use, such as: (i) the inability to
maintain the schedule or budget that has been projected for the development and
implementation of the software, and (ii) the system may not have the
functionality and efficiencies desired.

Year 2000

United Dominion completed the transition to the Year 2000 with all of its
computer platforms Year 2000 compliant and the transition took place without
incident. There have been no reported problems with any equipment or software,
nor have any disruptions with suppliers or vendors occurred. United Dominion
will continue to monitor its systems in 2000 to insure that any latent issues
with Year 2000 are identified and addressed.

Taxable REIT Subsidiary

In December 1999, the REIT Modernization Act ("RMA") was signed into law. The
RMA contains several provisions that, when effective in 2001, will allow REIT's
to compete more effectively in the real estate industry by allowing REIT's to
offer the same types of services as other competitors in the marketplace. The
most important feature of the RMA is the allowance for REIT's to create a
taxable REIT subsidiary ("TRS") that can provide services to residents and
others without disqualifying the rents that a REIT receives from its residents.

Under the prior law, REIT's were not allowed to provide non-customary or tenant
specific services to its residents, such as concierge services, beyond a de
minimus amount. As the apartment industry has become a competitive customer
focused business, these constraints inhibited REIT's from maintaining a
competitive edge in attracting and maintaining residents. As such, the RMA has
several significant benefits for the REIT industry REIT's will be allowed,
through a TRS, to provide a wide range of increasingly important services that
residents have come to expect. In addition, the TRS will allow REIT's to
generate new sources of income for REIT shareholders.

Effective January 1, 2001, a REIT can own 100% of the stock of a TRS. However,
the legislation contains a number of safeguards that would limit the size of a
TRS to ensure that REIT's remain focused on their core business of owning and
operating real estate assets.



  The RMA provides another significant change to the existing law. The RMA
changes the minimum distribution requirement from 95% to 90% of the REIT's
taxable income. This will allow REIT's to retain a greater level of capital
which can be used to invest back into expenditures to maintain the quality of
their real estate assets as well as repay outstanding debt.

During 2000, United Dominion will determine the best uses of the TRS in order to
be in a position to take full advantage of the opportunities the new legislation
has to offer in 2001.



Item 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
- --------------------------------------------------------------------

     Information required by this regarding Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures about Market Risk is included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K included in Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Item 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
- -----------------------------------------------------

     See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule on page 45 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
- --------------------

     None.



                                   Part III


Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
- ------------------------------------------------------------

     Incorporated herein by reference from United Dominion's Proxy Statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 9,
2000.

     Information required by this item regarding the executive officers of
United Dominion is included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in the
section entitled "Executive Officers of the Registrant".

Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
- --------------------------------

     Incorporated herein by reference from United Dominion's Proxy Statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 9,
2000.

Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------

     Incorporated herein by reference from United Dominion's Proxy Statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 9,
2000.

Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------

     Incorporated herein by reference from United Dominion's Proxy Statement to
be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 9,
2000.



                                    PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------

     (a)  (1&2) See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule on
          page 45 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

          (3)  Exhibits

     The exhibits listed below are filed as part of this Annual Report.
References under the caption Location to exhibits, forms, or other filings
indicate that the form or other filing has been filed, that the indexed exhibit
and the exhibit referred to are the same and that the exhibit referred to is
incorporated by reference.











21        The Company has the following subsidiaries, all of which but United
          Dominion Realty, L.P. are wholly owned. The Company owns general and
          limited partnership interests in United Dominion Realty, L.P.,
          constituting 90.8% of the aggregate partnership interest.

          United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc.
          The Commons of Columbia, Inc.
          UDRT of Virginia, Inc.
          United Dominion Residential, Inc.
          UDR at Marble Hill, LLC
          United Dominion Realty, L.P.
          UDRT of North Carolina, L.L.C.
          UDRT of Alabama, Inc.
          Cleary Court Property Owners' Association, Inc.



          UDR South Carolina Trust
          UDR Western Residential, Inc.
          SWPT II Arizona Properties, Inc.
          SRL Amarillo Investors, Inc.
          Little Rock Apartment Management, Inc.
          SWP Arkansas Properties, Inc.
          SWP Developers, Inc.
          SWP Depositor, Inc.
          South West REIT Holding, Inc.
          South West Properties, L.P.
          SWP REMIC Properties II, Inc.
          SWP REMIC Properties II-A, L.P.
          SWP Creeks Properties, Inc.
          UDR Summit Ridge, L.P.
          SWP Woodscape Properties, Inc.
          SWP Woodscape Properties I, L.P.
          SWP Properties, Inc.
          SWP Properties I, L.P.
          South West Property Apartments, L.P.
          UDR Pecan Grove, L.P.
          UDR Camino Village, L.P.
          United Sub, Inc.
          ASR Acquisition Sub, Inc.
          UDR Audubon, L.P.
          UDR Villages of Thousand Oaks, L.P.
          UDR Cimarron City, L.P.
          UDR Kenton, L.P.

          ASR Investments Corporation
          Heritage Communities L.P.
          Heritage SGP Corporation
          Heritage - Aspen Court L.P.
          Heritage - Gentry Place L.P.
          Heritage - Greenwood Creek L.P.
          Heritage - Highlands of Preston L.P.
          Heritage - 14400 Montfort L.P.
          Heritage - Preston Park L.P.
          Heritage - Smith Summit L.P.
          Heritage - Springfield L.P.
          Heritage - Briar Park L.P.
          Heritage - Chelsea Park L.P.
          Heritage - Country Club Place L.P.
          Heritage - Ivystone L.P.
          Heritage - London Park L.P.
          Heritage - Marymont L.P.
          Heritage - Riverway L.P.
          Heritage - Timbercreek Landings L.P.
          Heritage - Campus Commons North, L.L.C.
          Heritage - Campus Commons South, L.L.C.
          Heritage - Court, L.L.C.
          Heritage - On The Boulevard, L.L.C.
          Heritage - Pacific South Center, L.L.C.



          Heritage - Arbor Terrace I, L.L.C.
          Heritage - Arbor Terrace II, L.L.C.
          ASR Properties, Inc.
          ASC Properties, Inc.
          ASC-I Properties, Inc.
          ASC-II Properties, Inc.
          ASC-III Properties, Inc.
          ASC-IV Properties, Inc.
          ASC-V Properties, Inc.
          Rescap Inc.
          Rescap Manager Limited Partnership
          Contempo Heights L.L.C.
          La Privada L.L.C.
          Finisterra Apartments L.L.C.
          ASV-I Properties, Inc.
          ASV-II Properties, Inc.
          ASV-III Properties, Inc.
          ASV-IV Properties, Inc.
          ASV-V Properties, Inc.
          ASV-VI Properties, Inc.
          ASV-VII Properties, Inc.
          ASV-VIII Properties, Inc.
          ASV-IX Properties, Inc.
          ASV-X Properties, Inc.
          ASV-XI Properties, Inc.
          ASV-XII Properties, Inc.
          ASV-XIII Properties, Inc.
          ASV-XIV Properties, Inc.
          ASV-XV Properties, Inc.
          ASV-XVI Properties, Inc.
          ASV-XVII Properties, Inc.
          Heritage Residential Group, Inc.
          RMA Investments Holdings, Inc.
          CIMSA Financial Corporation
          RMA Investments I, Inc.
          RMA Investments II, Inc.
          Cholla Estates Construction L.L.C.
          ASR Finance Corporation
          Southwest Capital Mortgage Funding L.P.
          ASR Mortgage Acceptance, Inc.
          UDR Developers, Inc.
          UDR Texas Properties, L.P.
          UDR of Tennessee, L.P.
          UDR Seniors Housing, L.P.
          UDR Aspen Creek, LLC
          United Dominion Residential Ventures, L.L.C.

          American Apartment Communities Holdings, Inc.
          AAC Funding II, Inc.
          AAC Funding III, Inc.
          AAC Funding IV, Inc.
          AAC Seattle I, Inc.



          FMP Member, Inc.
          AAC Funding IV LLC
          AAC Funding Partnership II
          AAC Funding Partnership III
          AAC Vancouver I, L.P.
          AAC/FSC Crown Pointe Investors, LLC
          AAC/FSC Hilltop Investors, LLC
          AAC/FSC Seattle Properties, LLC
          CMP-1, LLC
          Coastal Anaheim Properties, LLC
          Coastal Long Beach Properties, LLC
          Coastal Monterey Properties LLC
          Fountainhead Apartments Limited Partnership
          Governour's Square of Columbus Co.
          Jamestown of St. Matthews Co.
          Northbay Properties II, L.P.
          Parker's Landing Venture I
          Parker's Landing Venture II
          Polo Chase Venture Limited Partnership
          Regency Park, L.P.
          Sunset Company
          Tivoli of Columbus Limited Partnership
          Windward Point, LLC
          Winterland San Francisco Partners
          Woodlake Village, L.P.
          UDR Virginia Properties, LLC
          UDR California Properties, L.L.C.
          UDR Florida Properties, L.L.C.
          UDR Holdings, LLC
          UDR Lakeside Mills, LLC
          UDR Maryland Properties, LLC

23        Consent of Independent                       Filed herewith.
          Auditors

27        Financial Data Schedule                      Filed electronically with
                                                       the Securities and
                                                       Exchange Commission.

Exhibits 10(i) through 10(v) inclusive, are management contracts or compensatory
plans or arrangements required to be filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K
pursuant to Item 14(c) of this report.

  (b)   Reports on Form 8-K

        A Form 8-K was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
        February 25, 2000. The filing reported United Dominion's 1999 fourth
        quarter and year to date results of operations as reported on its Press
        Release issued on February 1, 2000.

        A Form 8-K was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
        December 22, 1999. The filing reported United Dominion's 1999
        dispositions and plans for 2000 dispositions as reported on its Press
        Release issued on December 16, 1999.



        A Form 8-K was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
        March 29, 1999. The filing reported pro forma financial information with
        respect to the American Apartment Communities II, Inc. merger.

        A Form 8-K was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
        January 20, 1999. The filing reported pro forma financial information
        with respect to the American Apartment Communities II, Inc. merger.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Annual Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc.
- ----------------------------------
     (registrant)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below on March 17, 2000 by the following persons on behalf of
the registrant and in the capacities indicated.


/s/ John P. McCann                           /s/ Jeff C. Bane
- -------------------------------------        -----------------------------------
John P. McCann                               Jeff C. Bane
Chairman of the Board and Chief              Director
Executive Officer


/s/ Lynne Sagalyn
- -------------------------------------        ___________________________________
Lynne Sagalyn                                Mark J. Sandler
Director                                     Director


/s/ John S. Schneider                        /s/ Robert W. Scharar
- -------------------------------------        -----------------------------------
John S. Schneider                            Robert W. Scharar
Director, Vice Chairman of the Board,        Director
President and Chief Operating Officer


_____________________________________        ___________________________________
Robert P. Freeman                            Jon A. Grove
Director                                     Director


/s/ James D. Klingbeil                       /s/ Barry M. Kornblau
- -------------------------------------        -----------------------------------
James D. Klingbeil                           Barry M. Kornblau
Director                                     Director


/s/ R. Toms Dalton                           /s/ Robin R. Flanagan
- -------------------------------------        -----------------------------------
R. Toms Dalton                               Robin R. Flanagan
Director                                     Vice President,
                                             Controller-Corporate Accounting
                                             and Chief Accounting Officer

/s/ A. William Hamill
- -------------------------------------
A. William Hamill
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer



            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE

                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.




All other schedules are omitted since the required information is not present or
is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or
because the information required is included in the financial statements and
notes thereto.



                        Report of Independent Auditors
                        ------------------------------



The Board of Directors and Shareholders
United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc.

  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of United
Dominion Realty Trust, Inc. (the "Company") as of December 31, 1999 and 1998,
and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity, and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999.
Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at
Item 14(a). The financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

  We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit also includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimate made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc. at December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States. Also, in our opinion, the
related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects,
the information set forth therein.



                                        Ernst & Young LLP

Richmond, Virginia
January 31, 2000



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                       (In thousands, except share data)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                     (In thousands, except per share data)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                (In thousands)




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                     (In thousands, except per share data)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999


1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Organization and Formation United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc., a Virginia
corporation, was formed in 1972. United Dominion operates within one defined
business segment with activities related to the ownership, development,
acquisition, renovation, management, marketing and strategic disposition of
multifamily apartment communities nationwide. At December 31, 1999, United
Dominion owned 301 communities with 82,154 completed apartment homes and had
three communities and three additional phases to existing communities with 1,622
apartment homes under development.

Basis of presentation  The accompanying consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of United Dominion and its subsidiaries, including United
Dominion Realty, L.P., (the "Operating Partnership"), and Heritage Communities
L.P. (collectively, "United Dominion"). As of December 31, 1999, there were
74,463,788 units in the Operating Partnership outstanding, of which, 67,619,425,
or 90.8%, were owned by United Dominion and 6,844,363, or 9.2%, were owned by
non-affiliated limited partners. In connection with the acquisition of ASR
Investment Corporation in March 1998, United Dominion acquired Heritage
Communities L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "Heritage OP"). As of
December 31, 1999, there were 4,502,668 units in the Heritage OP outstanding, of
which 3,839,330, or 85.3%, were owned by United Dominion and 663,338 units, or
14.7%, were owned by non-affiliated limited partners. The consolidated financial
statements of United Dominion include the minority interests of the unitholders
in the operating partnerships. All significant inter-company accounts and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Income taxes  United Dominion is operated as, and elects to be taxed as, a real
estate investment trust ("REIT") under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the "Code"). Generally, a REIT that complies with the provisions of the
Code and distributes at least 95% of its taxable income to its shareholders will
not be subject to U.S. federal income taxes. Accordingly, no provision has been
made for federal income taxes. However, United Dominion is subject to certain
state and local excise or franchise taxes.

The differences between net income available to common shareholders for
financial reporting purposes and taxable income before dividend deductions
relate primarily to temporary differences, principally real estate depreciation
and the tax deferral of certain gains on property sales. The temporary
differences in depreciation result from differences in the book and tax basis of
certain real estate assets and the differences in the methods of depreciation
and lives of the real estate assets.

For income tax purposes, distributions paid to common shareholders consist of
ordinary income, capital gains, return of capital or a combination thereof. For
the three years ended December 31, 1999, distributions paid per common share
were taxable as follows:

                                   1999       1998       1997
                                  ------     ------     ------
     Ordinary income              $ .620      $.913      $.727
     Long-term capital gain         .129        ---       .021
     Return of capital              .309       .127       .249
                                  ------      -----      -----
                                  $1.058     $1.040      $.997
                                  ======     ======      =====

Dividends declared on all series of United Dominion's preferred stock represent
ordinary income to preferred stockholders for tax purposes in the year paid.

Use of estimates  The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999

Reclassifications  Certain reclassifications have been made to amounts in prior
years' financial statements to conform with current year presentation.

Cash and cash equivalents  Cash and cash equivalents include all cash and
liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased.

Real estate  Real estate assets held for investment are carried at historical
cost less accumulated depreciation less any recorded impairment losses.

Expenditures for ordinary repair and maintenance costs are charged to expense as
incurred. Significant expenditures for improvements, renovations and
replacements related to the acquisition and improvement of real estate assets
are capitalized at cost and depreciated over their estimated useful lives.

United Dominion recognizes impairment losses on long-lived assets used in
operations when there is an event or change in circumstance that indicates an
impairment in the value of an asset and the undiscounted future cash flows are
not sufficient to recover the asset's carrying value. If such indicators of
impairment are present, an impairment loss is recognized based on the excess of
the carrying amount of the asset over its fair value.

For long-lived assets to be disposed of, impairment losses are recognized when
the fair value of the asset less estimated cost to sell is less than the
carrying value of the asset. Real estate is classified as real estate held for
disposition when management has committed to sell and is actively marketing the
property, and United Dominion expects to dispose of these properties within the
next twelve months. Real estate held for disposition is carried at the lower of
cost, net of accumulated depreciation or fair value less the cost to dispose,
determined on an asset by asset basis. Depreciation is not recorded on real
estate held for disposition and gains (losses) from initial and subsequent
adjustments to the carrying value of the assets, if any, are recorded as a
separate component of income from continuing operations.

Depreciation is computed on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
lives of the related assets which is 35 years for buildings, 10 to 35 years for
major improvements, and 5 to 20 years for furniture, fixtures, equipment and
other assets.

All development projects and related carrying costs are capitalized and reported
on the balance sheet as "real estate under development" until such time as the
development project is completed. Upon completion, the total cost of the
building and associated land is transferred to real estate held for investment
and the assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives. The cost of
development projects includes interest, real estate taxes, insurance and
allocated development overhead during the construction period.

Interest and real estate taxes incurred during the development period are
capitalized as part of the real estate under development to the extent that such
charges do not cause the carrying value of the asset to exceed its net
realizable value. During 1999, 1998 and 1997, total interest capitalized was
$5.2 million, $3.4 million and $2.6 million, respectively.

Commencing with the adoption of EITF No. 97-11, "Accounting for Internal Costs
Relating to Real Estate Property Acquisitions" in March 1998, United Dominion
expenses direct internal costs of identifying and acquiring operating
properties.

Revenue recognition  United Dominion's apartment homes are leased under
operating leases with terms generally of one year or less. Rental income is
recognized after it is earned and paid.



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999

Restricted cash   Restricted cash consists of escrow deposits held by lenders
for real estate taxes, insurance and replacement reserves and security deposits.

Deferred financing costs  Deferred financing costs include fees and other costs
incurred to obtain debt financings and are generally amortized on a straight-
line basis, which approximates the effective interest method, over a period not
to exceed the term of the related debt. Unamortized financing costs are written-
off when debt is retired before its maturity date.

Interest rate swap agreements  United Dominion enters into interest rate swap
agreements to alter the interest rate characteristics of outstanding debt
instruments. Each interest rate swap agreement is designated with all or a
portion of the principal balance and term of a specific debt obligation. The
interest rate swaps involve the periodic exchange of payments over the life of
the related agreements. Amounts received or paid on the interest rate swaps are
recorded on an accrual basis as an adjustment to the related interest expense of
the outstanding debt based on the accrual method of accounting. The related
amounts payable to and receivable from counterparties are included in other
liabilities and other assets, respectively. The fair value of and changes in the
fair value as a result of changes in market interest rates for the interest rate
swap agreements are not reflected in the financial statements.

Gains and losses on terminations of interest rate swap agreements are deferred
as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the outstanding debt and amortized
into interest expense over the remaining term of the original contract life of
the terminated swap agreement. In the event of early extinguishment of a
designated debt obligation, any realized or unrealized gain or loss from the
swap would be recognized in income coincident with the extinguishment gain or
loss. There were no gains or losses on terminations of interest rate swap
agreements recognized by United Dominion for the periods presented.

Any interest rate swap agreements that are not designated with outstanding debt
or notional amounts of interest rate swap agreements in excess of the original
amounts of the underlying debt obligations are recorded as an asset or liability
at fair value, with the changes in the fair value recorded in other income or
expense (fair value method).

Interest rate risk management agreements  United Dominion enters into interest
rate futures contracts to hedge interest rate risk associated with anticipated
debt transactions. United Dominion follows SFAS No. 80, "Accounting for Futures
Contracts," which permits hedge accounting for anticipatory transactions meeting
certain criteria. Gains and losses, if any, on these transactions are deferred
as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the outstanding debt and amortized
over the term of the related debt as an adjustment to interest expense. The fair
values of interest rate risk management agreements are not recognized in the
financial statements. At the time the anticipated transaction is no longer
likely to occur, United Dominion would mark the derivative instrument to market
and would recognize any adjustment in the consolidated statement of operations.

Earnings per share  Basic earnings per common share is computed based upon the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted
earnings per common share is computed based on common shares outstanding plus
the effect of dilutive stock options and other potentially dilutive common stock
equivalents. The dilutive effect of stock options and other potentially dilutive
common stock equivalents is determined using the treasury stock method based on
United Dominion's average stock price. The early extinguishment of debt does not
have an effect on the earnings per share calculation for the periods presented.
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earning per
share (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999



The effect of the conversion of the operating partnership units and convertible
preferred stock is not dilutive and is therefore not included as a dilutive
security in the earnings per share computation. The weighted average effect of
the conversion of the operating partnership units for the years ended December
31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 was 8,180,409, 2,963,427, and 317,120, respectively. The
weighted average effect of the conversion of the convertible preferred stock for
the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 was 12,307,692 and 809,273,
respectively.

Minority interests in operating partnerships  Interests in operating
partnerships held by limited partners are represented by operating partnership
units (OP Units). The operating partnerships' income is allocated to holders of
OP Units based upon net income available to common shareholders and the weighted
average number of OP Units outstanding to total common shares plus OP Units
outstanding during the period. Capital contributions, distributions and profits
and losses are allocated to minority interests in accordance with the terms of
the individual partnership agreements. OP Units can be exchanged for cash or
shares of United Dominion's common stock on a one-for-one basis, at the option
of United Dominion. OP Units as a percentage of total OP Units and shares
outstanding was 6.8%, 7.7% and 1.1% at December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

Minority interest in other partnerships  United Dominion has limited partners in
certain real estate partnerships acquired as part of the acquisition of American
Apartment Communities II on December 7, 1998. Net income for these partnerships
is allocated based on the percentage interest owned by these limited partners in
each respective real estate partnership.

Stock based compensation United Dominion has elected to follow Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees"
("APB 25") in accounting for its employee stock options because the alternative
fair value accounting provided for under SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock
Based Compensation," requires use of option valuation models that were not
developed for use in valuing employee stock options. Under APB 25, because the
exercise price of United Dominion's employee stock options equals the market
price of the underlying stock on the date of grant, no compensation cost has
been recognized.



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999

Impact of recently issued accounting standards  In June 1998, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("Statement 133"), as amended by Statement
No. 137, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities -Deferral
of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 133 - an Amendment of FASB Statement
No. 133," which is required to be adopted in years beginning after June 15,
2000. Statement 133 permits early adoption as of the beginning of any fiscal
quarter after its issuance, however, United Dominion does not anticipate
adopting Statement 133 until such time as it is required. Statement 133 will
require United Dominion to recognize all derivatives on the balance sheet at
fair value. Derivatives that are not hedges must be adjusted to fair value
through income. If the derivative is a hedge, depending on the nature of the
hedge, changes in fair value of derivatives will either be offset against the
change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities, or firm commitments
through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive income until the hedged
item is recognized in earnings. The ineffective portion of the derivative's
change in fair value will be immediately recognized in earnings. United Dominion
has not yet determined what the effect of Statement 133 will be on earnings and
the financial position of United Dominion, however, management does not
anticipate that the adoption of Statement 133 will have a significant effect on
earnings or the financial position of United Dominion.

2.  REAL ESTATE OWNED

United Dominion operates in over 30 major markets dispersed throughout a 22
state area. At December 31, 1999, the company's largest apartment market was
Dallas, Texas, where it owned 9.7% of its apartment homes, based upon carrying
value. Excluding Dallas, United Dominion did not own more than 5.5% of its
apartment homes in any one market, based upon carrying value.

The following table summarizes real estate held for investment at December 31,
(dollars in thousands):



The following is a summary of real estate owned by market at December 31, 1999
(dollars in thousands):
Real Estate Held for Investment by Market (in order of carrying value and
excluding real estate under development):






                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999



Real Estate Held for Disposition (B)





                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999

(A)  There are 21 communities encumbered by two REMIC financings aggregating
     $59.2 million, 19 communities encumbered by one secured note payable
     aggregating $195.7 million and 29 communities encumbered by fixed rate debt
     aggregating $161.5 million. The amount of this debt is not included in the
     encumbrances shown for the individual markets or in real estate held for
     disposition.

(B)  Real estate held for disposition contributed property operating income
     (property rental income less property rental expenses) in the aggregate
     amount of approximately $25.2 million for the year ended December 31, 1999.
     The properties classified as held for disposition at December 31, 1999
     reflect properties management has committed to sell during the next twelve
     months.

For the year ended December 31, 1999, United Dominion recognized $18.3 million
in impairment losses on its real estate owned.  At the beginning of June 1999,
United Dominion embarked on an accelerated disposition plan for non-strategic
properties.  Accordingly, through the review and analysis of communities
targeted for strategic disposition which included exiting one of United
Dominion's major markets and planned sales in 2000, an aggregate $14.8 million
impairment loss was recognized on assets held for disposition.  An impairment
loss was indicated as a result of the net book value of the assets held for
disposition being greater than the estimated fair market value less the cost of
disposal.

In connection with the periodic evaluation of its apartment portfolio, United
Dominion recorded a $3.5 million impairment loss on three communities acquired
in the ASR merger in 1998 which are classified in real estate held for
investment.  An impairment loss was indicated as the sum of the estimated future
cash flows from the assets was deemed to be less than their carrying amounts.

The following is a reconciliation of the carrying amount of real estate held for
investment at December 31, (dollars in thousands):



The following is a reconciliation of accumulated depreciation for real estate
held for investment at December 31,  (dollars in thousands):



 *  Includes $1,157, $1,095 and $752 for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively,
    classified as "Other depreciation and amortization" in the Consolidated
    Statements of Operations.



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999

3.  SECURED DEBT

Secured debt, which encumber $1.9 billion or 48.0% of United Dominion's real
estate owned, ($2.1 billion or 52.0% of United Dominion's real estate owned is
unencumbered) consist of the following at December 31, 1999 (dollars in
thousands):



(a)  Includes fair value adjustments aggregating  $14.8 million recorded in
     connection with two statutory mergers consummated in 1998.

Fixed Rate Debt

Mortgage Notes Payable  Fixed rate mortgage notes payable are generally due in
monthly installments of principal and interest and mature at various dates from
August 2000 through June 2034 and carry interest rates ranging from 7.13% to
9.58%.

Tax-Exempt Secured Notes Payable  Fixed rate mortgage notes payable which secure
tax-exempt housing bond issues mature at various dates through November 2025 and
carry interest rates from 6.13% to 8.50%. Interest on these notes is generally
payable in semi-annual installments.

REMIC Financings  United Dominion has two fixed rate REMIC Financings which bear
interest of 7.01% and 8.50% and mature in December 2000 and February 2001,
respectively. United Dominion makes monthly installments of principal and
interest over the term of the REMIC Financings.

Secured Credit Facilities  On March 18, 1999, United Dominion closed on the
first part of a $200 million revolving credit facility with the Federal National
Mortgage Association (the "FNMA Credit Facility"). The FNMA Credit Facility is
for an initial term of five years, bear interest at a floating rate which can be
fixed for periods of up to 270 days, and can be extended for an additional five
or ten years at United Dominion's discretion. The $102.3 million initially
borrowed under the terms of the FNMA Credit Facility had an interest rate of
5.70%. In April 1999, United Dominion borrowed an additional $16.6 million at an
interest rate of 5.68% and $10.7 million at an interest rate of 5.72%. In
August, an additional $66.1 million was borrowed under the FNMA Credit Facility
at an interest rate of 6.53%. At December 31, 1999, the FNMA Credit Facility had
a weighted average floating rate of interest of 6.32%. In order to limit a
portion of its interest rate exposure on the Credit Facility, United Dominion
entered into three forward rate swap agreements. These agreements have an
aggregate notional value of $57 million under which United Dominion pays a fixed
rate of interest and receives a variable rate on the notional amount. The
interest rate swap agreements effectively change United Dominion's interest rate
exposure on $57 million of



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999


secured debt from a variable rate to a weighted average fixed rate of 6.65% (see
Note 5 - Financial Instruments).

Variable Rate Debt
Secured Credit Facilities  Variable rate secured credit facilities consists of
$138.7 million of the $195.7 million outstanding on the FNMA Credit Facility.

Tax-Exempt Secured Notes Payable  Variable rate mortgage notes payable which
secure tax-exempt housing bond issues mature at various dates from December 2002
to April 2029. At December 31, 1999, these notes carry interest rates ranging
from 4.75% to 5.90%.

Mortgage Notes Payable  Variable rate mortgage notes payable are generally due
in monthly installments of principal and interest and mature at various dates
from February 2001 through September 2027. At December 31, 1999, these notes
carry interest rates ranging from 6.86% to 7.50%.

The extraordinary loss for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997 resulted
from the write-off of deferred financing costs on mortgage debt satisfied.

The aggregate maturities of secured debt for the five years subsequent to
December 31, 1999 are as follows (dollars in thousands):




4.  UNSECURED DEBT

A summary of unsecured debt at December 31, 1999 and 1998 is as follows (dollars
in thousands):

                                                 1999      1998
                                               --------  --------
Commercial Banks
          Borrowings outstanding under
             credit facilities (a) (b)         $277,600  $240,000

Insurance Companies--Senior Unsecured Notes
          7.98% due March, 2000-2003 (c)         29,800    37,228

Other  (d)                                        4,931     5,836




                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999



(a)  Weighted average interest rate of 6.7% and 6.0% at December 31, 1999 and
     1998, respectively.
(b)  As of December 31, 1999, United Dominion had seven  interest rate swap
     agreements associated with commercial bank borrowings with an aggregate
     notional value of $110 million under which United Dominion pays a fixed
     rate of interest and receives a variable rate of interest on the notional
     amounts.  The interest rate swaps effectively change United Dominion's
     interest rate exposure on these borrowings from a variable rate to a
     weighted average fixed rate of approximately 6.77% (see Note 5 - Financial
     Instruments).
(c)  Payable annually in four equal principal installments of $7.4 million.
(d)  Includes  $4.6 million and $5.4 million at December 31, 1999 and 1998,
     respectively, of deferred gains from the termination of interest rate risk
     management agreements.
(e)  United Dominion has one interest rate swap agreement associated with these
     unsecured notes with an aggregate notional value of $10 million under which
     United Dominion pays a fixed rate of interest and receives a variable rate
     on the notional amount.  The interest rate swap agreement effectively
     changes United Dominion's interest rate exposure on the $10 million from a
     variable rate to a fixed rate of 7.65% (see Note 5 - Financial
     Instruments).
(f)  Debentures include an investor put feature which grants a one-time option
     to redeem debentures in September 2004.

For the year ended December 31, 1999, United Dominion recognized a $927 thousand
extraordinary gain related to the repurchase of $70.0 million of its unsecured
notes payable at less than face value.

Information concerning short-term bank borrowings is summarized in the table
that follows (dollars in thousands):





                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999

(a)  Includes balances on a $75 million bridge facility funded in July 1998 that
matured in November 1998.

At December 31, 1999, United Dominion had in place a syndicated three year $200
million unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Bank Credit Facility") of
which  $197.6 million was outstanding at December 31, 1999.  The Bank Credit
Facility will expire on August 4, 2000. Borrowings under the Bank Credit
Facility generally bear interest at LIBOR plus .50%.  United Dominion is also
required to pay a fee of .20% of the committed amount.  This fee and the
interest rate are both subject to change should United Dominion's credit ratings
change.

At December 31, 1999, United Dominion had a $110 million syndicated 364-day
credit agreement (the "Line of Credit") of which $80 million was outstanding at
December 31, 1999.  The Line of Credit  will mature on September 15, 2000.
Borrowings under the Line of Credit generally bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.00%.
United Dominion is also required to pay a fee of  .20% of the committed amount.
This fee and the interest rate are both subject to change should United
Dominion's credit ratings change.

The Bank Credit Facility and the Line of Credit are subject to customary
financial covenants and limitations. The underlying loan agreements contain
certain covenants which, among other things, require United Dominion to maintain
minimum consolidated tangible net worth, as defined, and maintain certain
financial ratios.

5. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The following disclosures of estimated fair value of financial instruments were
determined by United Dominion using available market information and appropriate
valuation methodologies. Considerable judgement is necessary to interpret market
data and develop estimated fair value. Accordingly, the estimates presented
herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts United Dominion would
realize on the disposition of the financial instruments.  The use of different
market assumptions or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the
estimated fair value amounts.  The carrying amounts and estimated fair value of
United Dominion's financial instruments at December 31, 1999 and 1998, both on
and off-balance sheet, are summarized as follows (dollars in thousands):



The following methods and assumptions were used by United Dominion in estimating
the fair values set forth above.

Cash and cash equivalents  The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents
- -------------------------
approximates fair value.

Secured and unsecured debt   Estimated fair value is based on mortgage rates,
- --------------------------
tax-exempt bond rates and corporate unsecured debt rates believed to be
available to United Dominion for the issuance of debt with similar terms and
remaining lives.  The carrying amount of United Dominion's variable rate secured
debt approximate fair value at December 31, 1999 and 1998.  The carrying amounts
of United Dominion's borrowings under variable rate unsecured debt arrangements,
short-term revolving credit agreements and lines of credit approximate their
fair values at December 31, 1999 and 1998.

Interest rate swap agreements   Fair value is based on external market
- -----------------------------
quotations from investment banks.



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999

Derivative Instruments
- ----------------------
The following table summarizes certain information pursuant to interest rate
limitation and swap contracts at December 31, 1999 (dollars in thousands):



For all periods presented, United Dominion had no deferred gains or losses
relating to terminated swap contracts.

Interest rate risk management agreements

In order to reduce the interest rate risk associated with the anticipated
issuance of unsecured debt during 1998, United Dominion entered into a $100
million (notional amount) fixed pay forward starting swap agreement (interest
rate risk management agreement) with an investment banking firm in July 1997.
United Dominion settled the interest rate risk management agreement on November
9, 1998, by paying $15.6 million to the counterparty. United Dominion was unable
to issue the unsecured debt contemplated by the interest rate risk management
agreement, and accordingly, the cost associated with this settlement is
reflected in the 1998 Statement of Operations.  United Dominion has no interest
rate risk management agreements outstanding at December 31, 1999.

Risk of counterparty non-performance

United Dominion has not obtained collateral or other security to support
financial instruments. In the event of non-performance by the counterparty,
United Dominion's credit loss on its derivative instruments is limited to the
value of the derivative instruments that are favorable to United Dominion at
December 31, 1999.  However, such non-performance is not anticipated as the
counterparties are highly rated, credit quality U.S. financial institutions and
management believes that the likelihood of realizing material losses from
counterparty non-performance is remote.

6. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

Profit Sharing Plan

The United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc. Profit Sharing Plan (the "Plan") is a
defined contribution plan covering all eligible full-time employees.  Under the
Plan, United Dominion makes discretionary profit sharing and matching
contributions to the Plan as determined by the Compensation Committee of the
Board of Directors.  Aggregate contributions, both matching and discretionary,
which are included in United Dominion's consolidated statements of operations
for the three years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 were $2.2 million,
$550,000 and $646,000, respectively.

Stock Option Plan

United Dominion's 1985 Share Option Plan, (the "Option Plan"), authorizes the
grant of options, at the discretion of the Board of Directors, to certain
officers, directors and key employees of United Dominion, for up to ten million
shares of



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999

United Dominion's common stock which is limited to 8% of the number of shares of
common stock issued and outstanding. The Option Plan generally provides, among
other things, that options be granted at exercise prices not lower than the
market value of the shares on the date of grant. Shares under options which
subsequently expire or are canceled are available for subsequent grant. For
options granted prior to December 12, 1995, the optionee has up to five years
from the date on which the options first become exercisable during which to
exercise the options. For options granted on or after December 12, 1995, the
options have a ten-year term. Options granted prior to December 9, 1997 vest on
December 31 of the year subsequent to grant while options granted on and after
this date vest ratably over a three year period beginning on December 31 of the
year subsequent to grant. On December 8, 1998, United Dominion cancelled
1,047,165 options which were granted on December 9, 1997 at $14.25. United
Dominion subsequently issued options on December 8, 1998, which vest over a
three-year period, at United Dominion's then market price of $10.875.

Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is required by
SFAS No. 123 "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation" ("SFAS No. 123"), and has
been determined as if United Dominion had accounted for its employee stock
options under the fair value method of accounting as defined in SFAS No. 123.
The fair value for these options was estimated at the date of grant using a
Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average
assumptions for 1999, 1998 and 1997:

                                          1999   1998   1997
                                          -----  -----  -----
Risk free interest rate                    6.7%   4.9%   4.8%
Dividend yields                            6.9%   6.6%   6.6%
Volatility factor                         .144   .150   .150
Weighted average expected life (years)       9      9      9


The weighted average fair value of options granted during 1999, 1998 and 1997
was $.76, $.66 and $1.35, respectively.

For purposes of the pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the
options is amortized to expense over the options' vesting period. United
Dominion's pro forma information is as follows (dollars in thousands, except per
share amounts):


                                      1999      1998      1997
                                     -------  --------  --------
Net income available
     to common shareholders
       As reported                   $55,908   $48,739   $52,804
       Pro forma                      54,847    47,841    52,221
Earnings per common share-diluted
       As reported                   $   .54   $   .49   $   .60
       Pro forma                         .53       .48       .60




                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999

A summary of United Dominion's stock option activity during the three years
ended December 31, 1999 is provided in the following table (dollars in
thousands, except per share amounts):



(a) The number of shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of options
outstanding is limited to 8% of the number of shares of common stock issued and
outstanding.

Exercisable at December 31,

    1997                         916,981      $12.67        $7.44-$15.38
    1998                       1,691,863       13.79         7.44-15.38
    1999                       2,042,505       13.28         9.19-15.38

The weighted average remaining contractual life on all options outstanding is
7.5 years.  Approximately 1,407,315 of share options had exercise prices between
$14.13 and $15.38, approximately 1,967,691 of share options had exercise prices
between $10.81 and $13.94 and approximately 840,586 of share options had
exercise prices between $9.19 and $10.25.

7.  SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

Preferred Stock  Both Series A and Series B Preferred Stock have no stated par
value and a liquidation preference of $25 per share. With no voting rights and
no stated maturity, the preferred stock in both series is not subject to any
sinking fund or mandatory redemption and is not convertible into any other
securities of United Dominion. The Series A and Series B Preferred Stock are not
redeemable prior to April 24, 2000 and May 29, 2007, respectively. On or after
these dates, the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock may be redeemed for cash
at the option of United Dominion, in whole or in part, at a redemption price of
$25 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends. The redemption price is payable
solely out of the sales proceeds of other capital stock of United Dominion. All
dividends due and payable on the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock have been
accrued or paid as of the end of each fiscal year. United Dominion declared
total distributions of $2.31 and $2.15 per share on the Series A and Series B
Preferred Stock, respectively, during 1999.

On December 7, 1998, in connection with the AAC merger, United Dominion issued
eight million shares of newly created Series D Convertible Redeemable Preferred
Stock (Series D), with a liquidation preference of $25 per share. The Series D
has no voting rights, no stated maturity and is not subject to any sinking fund
or mandatory redemption. Series D is convertible into 1.5385 shares of common
stock at the option of the holder of Series D at any time at $16.25 per share.
The Series D is not redeemable prior to December 7, 2003. On or after this date,
United Dominion may, at its option, redeem at any time all or part of the Series
D at a price per share of $25, payable in cash, plus all accrued and unpaid
dividends,



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999

provided that the current market price of the common stock at least equals the
conversion price, initially set at $16.25 per share. The redemption is payable
solely out of the sale proceeds of other capital stock. In addition, United
Dominion may not redeem in any consecutive 12 month period a number of shares of
Series D having an aggregate liquidation preference of more than $100 million.
United Dominion declared total distributions of $1.89 per share on the Series D
Preferred Stock during 1999.

Officers' Stock Purchase and Loan Plan Under the Officer Stock Purchase and Loan
Plan (the "Loan Plan"), certain officers have purchased common stock at the then
current market price with financing provided by United Dominion at an interest
rate of 7%.  The underlying notes mature between November 2001 and October 2006.
A total of 848,500 shares have been issued and 551,500 shares are available for
future issuance under the Loan Plan.

Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan  United Dominion's Dividend
Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan (the "Stock Purchase Plan") allows common
and preferred shareholders the opportunity to purchase, through reinvestment of
cash dividends, additional shares of United Dominion's common stock. As of
December 31, 1999, 8,337,961 shares of common stock had been issued under the
Stock Purchase Plan. Shares in the amount of 5,662,039 were reserved for further
issuance under the Stock Purchase Plan at December 31, 1999. During 1999,
1,597,841 shares were issued under the Stock Purchase Plan for a total
consideration of approximately $16.7 million.

Restricted Stock Awards  United Dominion's 1999 Restricted Stock Awards Plan
authorizes the granting of restricted stock awards to employees, officers and
directors of United Dominion. The shares of common stock vest ratably over a
three year period. Deferred compensation expense is recorded over the vesting
period and is based upon the value of the common stock on the date of issuance.
A total of 46,000 shares of restricted stock have been issued under the
Restricted Stock Awards Plan as of December 31, 1999.

Purchase Rights  On January 27, 1998, the Board of Directors authorized a
Shareholders Rights Plan (the "Rights Plan") which will become exercisable only
if a person or group (the "Acquiring Person") acquires or announces a tender
offer for more than 15% of the outstanding common stock of United Dominion.
Upon exercise, United Dominion may issue one share of common stock in exchange
for each right.  Each right will entitle the holder to purchase for $45 one
thousandth of a share of Series C Preferred stock or, at the option of United
Dominion, common stock of United Dominion having a value of $90.

8.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Land and Other Leases
- ---------------------

United Dominion is party to several ground leases relating to operating
communities.  In addition, United Dominion is party to various other operating
leases related to the operation of its corporate and regional offices.  Future
minimum lease payments for noncancelable land and other leases at December 31,
1999 are as follows (dollars in thousands):

          2000                                              $ 2,177
          2001                                                1,800
          2002                                                1,746
          2003                                                1,566
          2004                                                1,444
          Thereafter                                         26,631
                                                            -------
             Total                                          $35,364
                                                            =======



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999

United Dominion incurred $2.8 million, $1.6 million and $1.2 million,
respectively, of rent expense for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and
1997.

Contingencies
- -------------

United Dominion is party to various legal actions which are incidental to its
business.  Management believes that these actions will not have a material
adverse affect on the consolidated balance sheets and statements of operation.

Commitments
- -----------

United Dominion is committed to completing its real estate currently under
development which has an estimated cost to complete of $59.0 million at December
31, 1999.

9.   ACQUISITIONS AND PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION

On March 27, 1998, United Dominion completed the acquisition of ASR Investments
Corporation in a statutory merger (the "ASR Merger"). In connection with the ASR
Merger, United Dominion acquired 39 communities with 7,550 apartment homes.
Each share of ASR's common stock was exchanged for 1.575 shares of United
Dominion's common stock.  The acquisition was structured as a tax-free
transaction and was treated as a purchase for accounting purposes. In connection
with the acquisition, United Dominion acquired primarily real estate assets
totaling $313.7 million.  Consideration given by United Dominion included
7,742,839 shares of United Dominion's common stock valued at $14 per share for
an aggregate equity value of $108.4 million plus the issuance of 1,529,990 Units
in the ASR Operating Partnership valued at $21.4 million.  In addition, United
Dominion assumed, at fair value, mortgage debt totaling $179.4 million and other
liabilities of $13.6 million.

On December 7, 1998, United Dominion completed the acquisition of American
Apartment Communities II ("AAC") in a statutory merger (the "AAC Merger").  In
connection with the acquisition of AAC, United Dominion acquired 53 communities
with 14,001 apartment homes. The AAC Merger was structured as a tax-free merger
and exchange of partnership units and was treated as a purchase for accounting
purposes.  In connection with the AAC Merger, United Dominion acquired primarily
real estate assets totaling $766.9 million.  The aggregate purchase price
consisted of the following: (i) 8,000,000 shares of United Dominion's 7.5%
Series D Convertible Preferred Stock ($25 liquidation preference value) which is
convertible into United Dominion's Common Stock at $16.25 per share with a fair
market value of $175 million, (ii) the issuance of 5,614,035 units of limited
partnership interest in the Partnership with an aggregate fair market value of
$67.4 million, (iii) the assumption of $457.7 million of secured notes payable
at fair market value, (iv) the assumption of liabilities and minority interest
aggregating $27.8 million and (v) $59.8 million of cash.

Information concerning unaudited pro forma results of operations of United
Dominion for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997 are set forth below. For
1998, such pro forma information assumes the following transactions occurred on
January 1, 1998: (i) the acquisition of ASR, (ii) the acquisition of AAC and
(iii) the acquisition of 13 communities with 4,318 apartment homes for an
aggregate purchase price of $144 million. For 1997, in addition to the
acquisitions previously described, such pro forma information assumes the
following transactions occurred on January 1, 1997: (i) the acquisition by
United Dominion of 17 communities with 5,659 apartment homes at a total cost of
$219 million and (ii) the acquisition by ASR of 22 communities with 4,208
apartment homes at total cost of $176 million.



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999

In addition to the ASR Merger and the AAC Merger, all of the acquisitions
described have been accounted for as purchases of real estate and operating
results for those communities are reflected in the accompanying consolidated
financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition.


                                                        Pro Forma
                                                        Year Ended
                                                       December 31,
                                                   -------------------
In thousands, except per share amounts               1998       1997
- --------------------------------------             --------   --------
(Unaudited)

Rental income                                      $597,460   $566,681
Net income available to common shareholders
 before extraordinary item                           43,218     37,468
Net income available to common shareholders          43,080     37,418
Net income per common share before
  extraordinary item - basic and diluted           $    .41   $    .39
Net income per common share -
   basic and diluted                                    .41        .39

The unaudited information is not necessarily indicative of what United
Dominion's consolidated results of operations would have been if the
acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of each period presented.
Additionally, the pro forma information does not purport to be indicative of
United Dominion's results of operations for future periods.

10.  INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

United Dominion adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement
No. 131, Disclosure about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information"
("Statement 131") in the fourth quarter of 1998. Statement 131 superseded FASB
Statement No. 14, "Financial Reporting for Segments of a Business Enterprise."
Statement 131 establishes standards for the way public business enterprises
report information regarding reportable operating segments. The adoption of
Statement 131 did not affect the results of operations or financial position of
United Dominion.

United Dominion owns and operates multifamily apartment communities throughout
the United States which generated rental and other property related income
through the leasing of apartment units to a diverse base of tenants.  United
Dominion separately evaluates the performance of each of its apartment
communities.  However, because each of the apartment communities have similar
economic characteristics, facilities, services and tenants, the apartment
communities have been aggregated into a single apartment communities segment.
All segment disclosure are included in or can be derived from United Dominion's
consolidated financial statements.

All revenues are from external customers and no revenues are generated from
transactions with other segments. There are no tenants which contributed 10% or
more of United Dominion's total revenues during 1999, 1998 or 1997.



                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999


11.  UNAUDITED SUMMARIZED CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA

Summarized consolidated quarterly financial data for the year ended December 31,
1999 is as follows (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):



(a)  The second quarter of 1999 includes $32.2 million of gains on the sales of
     investments and a $7.1 million impairment loss on real estate and
     investments.
(b)  The fourth quarter of 1999 includes $ 5.5 million of gains on the sales of
     investments and a $12.2 million impairment loss on real estate and
     investments.
________________________________________________________________________________
Summarized consolidated quarterly financial data for the year ended December 31,
1998 is as follows (dollars in thousands, except per share information):





                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999

(a)  United Dominion completed the acquisition of ASR Investments Corporation on
     March 27, 1998 and the acquisition of American Apartment Communities II on
     December 7, 1998.
(b)  The fourth quarter of 1998 includes a $15.6 million charge associated with
     the termination of an interest rate risk management agreement.



SCHEDULE III.
Summary of Real Estate Owned



















   SCHEDULE III.
   Summary of Real Estate Owned









SCHEDULE III.
Summary of Real Estate Owned




SCHEDULE III
Summary of Real Estate Owned



        (a) The aggregate cost for federal income tax purposes was approximately
            $3.3 billion at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.
        (b) Represents a $30,581,553 REMIC financing encumbering 12 apartment
            communities.
        (c) Represents a $28,585,050 REMIC financing encumbering 9 apartment
            communities.
        (d) Represents a $195,675,000 secured credit facility which encumbers
            19 apartment communities.
        (e) Represents $107,492,963 of fixed rate debt which encumbers 15
            apartment communities.
        (f) Represents $43,010,206 of fixed rate debt which encumbers 9
            apartment communities.
        (g) Represents $11,031,634 of fixed rate debt which encumbers 5
            apartment communities.
        (h) The depreciable life for all buildings is 35 years.
        (i) Total initial acquisition cost includes a purchase price
            reallocation of $8.5 million.
        (j) Encumbrances include a fair market value adjustment of $14.8
            million.

