
10-K
UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC. 10-K


                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

    FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                                   SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

               (X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997

                                       OR

           (   )  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

              For the transition period from ________ to _________

                         Commission file number 1-10524

                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            Virginia                                     54-0857512
 (State or other jurisdiction of                     (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation of organization)                     Identification No.)

              10 South Sixth Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219-3802
              (Address of principal executive offices - zip code)

                                 (804) 780-2691
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:


          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to filing requirements
for at least the past 90 days.

                              Yes     X        No

Indicate by check mark if the disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K. (X)

The aggregate market value of the shares of common stock held by non-affiliates
(based upon the closing sales price on the New York Stock Exchange) on March 13,
1998 was approximately $1.3 billion.* As of March 13, 1998, there were
91,886,256 shares of common stock, $1 par value, outstanding.

Part III incorporates certain information be reference from the definitive proxy
statement to be filed with respect to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May
12, 1998.

*In determining this figure, the Company has assumed that all of its officers &
directors, and persons known to the Company to be beneficial owners of more than
5% of the Company's shares, are affiliates. Such assumptions should not be
deemed conclusive for any other purpose.





                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.

                               





                                     Part I
Item 1.   BUSINESS

The Company
General

         United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc., a Virginia corporation,
(collectively with its subsidiaries, the "Company"), is a self-administered
equity real estate investment trust ("REIT"), engaged in the ownership,
acquisition and development of apartment communities primarily across the
Sunbelt region of the United States.

         Formed in 1972, the Company is headquartered in Richmond, Virginia with
regional offices in Richmond, Dallas, Atlanta, Orlando and Houston, and area
offices in the previously mentioned cities plus Columbia, Raleigh, Charlotte,
Tampa, Nashville, San Antonio and Phoenix. The regional offices are responsible
for the operation, acquisition, construction and asset management activities in
their respective geographic regions. The Company had approximately 2,100
employees as of March 13, 1998.

         The Company manages its properties directly, rather than through
outside property management firms. During 1997, the cost of internal property
management of the Company's apartment communities totaled approximately 3.2% of
rental revenue. In determining its cost of self management, the Company
considers all direct and indirect costs associated with the internal property
management function.

         The Company operates as a real estate investment trust under the
applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
"Code"). To qualify, the Company must meet certain tests which, among other
things, require that its assets consist primarily of real estate, its income be
derived primarily from real estate and at least 95% of its taxable income be
distributed to its common shareholders. Because the Company qualifies as a REIT,
it is generally not subject to federal income taxes.

Apartments and Markets

         At December 31 1997, the Company's apartment portfolio included 225
apartment communities having a total of 62,789 completed apartment homes and
1,064 apartment homes under development (See Item 2, "Properties."). The
apartment community is the Company's basic business unit and is staffed with
well trained property management personnel. The communities have a community
director, leasing assistants and a maintenance staff who oversee the daily
operation of the communities. Other than Dallas, Texas where 14% of the
Company's apartment homes are located, no other market has more than 6% of the
Company's communities. The Company's apartment communities consist primarily of
upper middle to moderate income garden and townhouse communities which make up
the broadest segment of the apartment market. Most of the communities are
considered to be "B" grade quality although the Company does own class A
properties that compete at or near the top of their respective markets. "B"
grade communities are generally either of 1980's construction, located in good
neighborhoods or 1970's construction in good neighborhoods where the apartments
have been, or can be, significantly upgraded and repositioned. Management
believes that these well located apartments offer the Company a good combination
of current income and longer-term income growth.

         The Company's apartment operations are divided into four geographic
regions, each of which constitutes a core operating unit . The Northern Region
includes Delaware, Maryland, Virginia and northern North Carolina. The Southern
Region includes Charlotte, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Tennessee
and Alabama. The Florida Region consists of the entire state of Florida, while
the Western Region includes Texas, Arkansas, Oklahoma, Nevada, New Mexico and
Arizona.





   In 1997, the Company designated 23 markets throughout the Sunbelt in
which it wanted to own and operate a significant number of apartment
communities. Geographic market diversification is important as it balances the
portfolio performance and makes the Company less susceptible to cyclical real
estate cycles and economies in a specific market. In a given year, the Company
will have some markets that are strong, many that are balanced and some that are
oversupplied. However, with its market diversification, the Company's aggregate
results of operations are anticipated to be balanced year to year. By the end of
1998, the Company plans to be an owner and operator in 30 major markets.

         Although there is no known move toward rent control in any of the
markets in which the Company currently owns apartments, the Company's ability to
raise rents to cover increases in operating expenses might be impaired should
rent control legislation be enacted. As the Company has expanded, attempts have
been made to avoid markets where the exposure to reduced defense spending is
believed to be high. Size and geographical diversification can smooth the
overall performance of the Company during natural real estate cycles.

         In the beginning of 1996, most of the southeast apartment markets were
in equilibrium with supply and demand balanced, however, occupancy began to fall
during the second half of the year which was primarily due to a combination of
factors which included: (i) slower job growth, (ii) an increase in the home
ownership rate and (iii) an increase in the supply of new apartments. Physical
occupancy at the Company's apartment communities averaged 91.9% for December
1996 and bottomed out in January 1997 at 91.6%. Occupancy grew steadily
throughout 1997 as these markets began to recover, and by December 1997,
physical occupancy had increased to 92.6%, one full basis point above the
beginning of the year. In 1997, the increased supply led to softness in certain
of the Company's southeastern markets, however, supply and demand in the
Company's markets are generally in equilibrium.

Business and Operating Strategies

         The Company seeks to increase shareholder value by (i) generating
growth in the operating results of its existing apartment communities, (ii)
acquiring apartment communities that will provide a good long-term investment,
(iii) developing communities in its existing markets which provide above market
yields, (iii) selling communities that no longer meet the its investment
criteria and (iv) financing its activities at the lowest possible cost of
capital.

         The Company's current strategy includes three major elements designed
to position the Company for the future which includes the following: (i) to
establish the Company as a national owner of apartment communities by entering
new markets, (ii) to achieve sufficient size in designated major markets by
continuing to grow in existing markets and (iii) to upgrade the portfolio by
selling 20% of the Company's apartment portfolio, in terms of asset quality and
location, in order to upgrade the overall quality of the portfolio to "B" grade.
The Company believes that being a dominant owner in a market has the following
advantages:

o        Being a local market leader.
o        Improving operating margins as operating costs are driven down through
         economies of scale and efficiencies in operations.
o        Efficiently market services to residents.
o        Benefit from utility deregulation by purchasing utilities in bulk and
         remarketing them to residents.
o        Building stronger local and regional teams of associates.
o        Increase acquisition and development opportunities.
o        Spread the risk of economic downturns by operating in numerous markets.
o        Create name recognition and loyalty.

         To fully execute this strategy, the Company will focus some of its
acquisition efforts on new markets in different parts of the country,
concentrating on opportunities that will create value for the Company. However,
because of the increase in prices for acquisition properties, the Company is
placing additional emphasis on development, as it provides added flexibility to
grow in its existing markets.




Acquisitions

         The Company seeks to acquire apartment communities that can provide
returns on investment in excess of the Company's cost of capital and that are
projected to provide first year weighted average returns on investment of at
least 9-9 1/2%. While the Company seeks positive spreads on its nominal cost of
capital, the ability to add value by repositioning the community, adding
features that provide higher returns on incremental investment and growing
non-rental income, can be more important than the current yield. The Company's
goal is to achieve a 10 1/2% rate of return by the third year of ownership.
During 1997, the Company acquired 28 apartment communities containing 8,524
apartment homes, net of one resold, at a total cost (including closing costs) of
approximately $342 million. Of the 28 apartment communities purchased, 27 were
located in the Company's major markets. All of the communities acquired offered
an opportunity for the Company to add features that would be revenue enhancing
and, therefore, add value. The Company expects to acquire approximately 8,000 to
10,000 apartment homes for an aggregate purchase price ranging from $350 million
to $450 million during 1998, excluding the merger with ASR Investment
Corporation. The 1998 acquisition activity will be focused primarily in Florida,
the Southwest and Northwest.

The following table summarizes the Company's growth during the last five years
(dollars in thousands)



(a)   Includes 14,320  completed  apartment homes and 675 homes under
      development acquired in connection with the South West Property Trust Inc.
      merger on December 31, 1996.

Mergers

        Prior to 1990, the Company was the only major publicly held
REIT focusing predominantly on apartment investments. Since then, a number of
new multifamily REITs have been formed. Some of these REITs may
seek to be acquired by larger, more strongly capitalized REITs that have
superior access to the capital markets. The Company has been a major participant
in this real estate consolidation process, having acquired apartment portfolios
in each of the last three years. The Company completed the South
West Property Trust Inc. Merger ("South West Merger") on December 31, 1996 which
contained 14,320 apartment homes located throughout the Sunbelt. The South West
Merger provided the Company with significant diversification beyond its
traditional Southeast and Mid-Atlantic markets, expanding the Company into
Southwestern markets. The Company intends to participate in the real estate
consolidation process by acquiring private and public real estate companies in
strategic mergers and portfolio transactions that meet the Company's objective
to increase size in existing markets or to expand geographically.

         Effective at the close of business on March 27, 1998, ASR Investment
Corporation ("ASR") was merged with and into a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Company. ASR owns approximately 7,500 apartment homes in the Southwest and
Northwest which satisfies the Company's objective of obtaining greater size in
its Southwest markets and gaining entry into new markets. The merger was treated
as a purchase for accounting purposes and had an aggregate purchase price
estimated at approximately $330 million, including closing costs.

Real estate under development

         Development activity is focused in certain of the Company's major
markets. With acquisition costs approaching replacement cost and the spreads
over the Company's cost of capital narrowing, building in selected markets
enables the Company to increase its return on investment. During 1997, the
Company increased its level of development activity, completing the development
of 1,067 apartment homes in five additional phases to existing communities and
one new apartment community. During 1997, the Company invested $52.2 million in
eleven properties under development, which includes four new apartment
communities and seven additional phases to existing



apartment communities. The Company plans to invest approximately $100 million on
the development of new apartment communities and additional phases to existing
apartment communities during 1998 which are anticipated to provide stabilized
returns on investment in the 10% to 10 1/2% range. At December 31, 1997, the
Company had three new apartment communities and two additional phases to
existing communities under development containing a total of 1,276 apartment
homes (212 of which were completed).

Existing Communities

         The Company's net income is primarily generated from the operations of
its apartment communities. During 1997, the Company's mature apartment
communities (those communities acquired, developed and stabilized prior to
January 1, 1996 and held throughout the annual reporting period) consisted of
127 apartment communities containing 31,519 apartment homes. These mature
communities provided strong rental growth of 3.8% which was coupled with only a
2.2% increase in rental expenses. Average economic occupancy and rental rates at
the Company's mature apartment communities (those acquired, developed and
stabilized prior to January 1, 1996) during the comparable periods are set forth
below:

                                     1997              1996             1995
                                     ----              ----             ----
Economic occupancy                   92.6%             92.8%            94.8%
Average monthly rental rates         $572              $540             $516

         The Company's strategic objectives include upgrading the apartment
portfolio through the addition of features and initiatives to the communities
that are appropriate for the market and which will support higher rents.

Value enhancing improvements plus improvements that substantially extend the
useful life of an existing asset are capitalized. A significant portion of the
Company's capital expenditures relates to an upgrade program that began in 1996
to modernize certain older apartment communities. This program, which primarily
involves updating kitchens and bathrooms, contributed to the rent growth at the
mature apartment communities during 1997 and will continue to give these
communities a competitive advantage in their respective markets. In addition,
several initiatives which are considered revenue enhancing are under way that
either allow the Company to increase rents by more than the inflationary rate or
allow the Company to pass expenses to residents including: (i) sub-metering of
water and sewer to residents where local and state regulations allow, (ii)
gating and fencing of apartment communities, (iii) installing monitoring devices
such as intrusion alarms or controlled access devices, (iv) enlarging fitness
centers, (v) adding business centers and (vi) constructing carports, garages and
self storage units.

Sales

         The Company continually undertakes portfolio review analysis with the
objective of identifying communities that do not meet long-term investment
objectives due to size, location, age, quality and/or performance. In 1997, the
Company implemented a plan to sell 20% of its apartment portfolio which did not
meet the Company's long-term investment objectives. During 1997, the Company
sold twelve apartment communities and one shopping center for an aggregate sales
price of $68.4 million and received net proceeds of approximately $64.0 million.
The average age of communities sold was 24 years, which was 13 years older than
the average age of the Company's 1997 acquisitions. At December 31, 1997, the
Company had 25 apartment communities containing 6,907 apartment homes included
in real estate held for disposition.

         Management has determined that by grouping communities and offering
them for sale as a portfolio is more efficient and provides greater
opportunities for disposition. As a result, the Company plans to sell
approximately $75 million of assets each quarter in 1998 and expects to complete
the disposition program by the end of 1998.

         In January 1998, the company sold a 2,406 home portfolio of five Texas
communities for approximately $65.6 million and has a second portfolio under
contract for sale. The proceeds from the property sales will be used to acquire
apartment communities and fund the development program.

Financing Strategies

         As a qualified REIT, the Company distributes a substantial portion of
its cash flow to its shareholders in the form of distributions. The Company
seeks to retain sufficient cash to cover normal operating needs, including
routine




replacements and to help fund additional acquisitions and development
activity. The Company utilizes a variety of primarily external financing sources
to fund portfolio growth, major capital improvement programs and balloon debt
payments. Bank lines of credit generally have been used to temporarily finance
these expenditures, and subsequently this short-term bank debt has been replaced
with longer-term debt or equity. The Company may also fund its capital
requirements through (i) the assumption of mortgage indebtedness, (ii) property
sales, (iii) common shares sold through the Company's Dividend Reinvestment and
Stock Purchase Plan, (iv) retained operating cash flow, (v) the issuance of
operating partnership units and (vi) the use of unused credit facilities. At
December 31, 1997, the Company had the following credit facilities outstanding:
(i) $200 million three year unsecured revolving credit facility (which includes
a $100 million competitive bid option which allows the Company to solicit bids
from participating banks at rates below the contractual rate), (ii) a $50
million one year unsecured line of credit and (iii) a $15 million uncommitted
line of credit with a major U.S. financial institution. At December 31, 1997,
the Company had $135.6 million of borrowings outstanding under these credit
facilities.

         During 1997, the Company completed the following financing activities:
(i) issued 4 million shares of common stock at $15.75 per share, netting
proceeds of $59.4 million, (ii) issued $125 million of 7.25% Notes, (iii) sold 6
million shares of 8.60% Series B Redeemable Preferred Stock at $25 per share,
for net proceeds of $145.1 million, (iv) raised $39.7 million under the Dividend
Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan, (v) assumed debt of $60 million in
connection with the acquisition of apartment communities and (vi) issued 849,000
Operating Partnership Units valued at $13 million.

         Depending on the volume and timing of acquisition activity, the Company
anticipates raising additional debt and equity capital during the next twelve
months to finance capital requirements while striving to minimize the overall
cost of capital, however, the 1998 acquisition and development activity is
expected to be funded primarily with the proceeds from the planned sales of
communities.

Competition

         In most of the Company's markets, the competition for residents among
communities is extremely intense as some competing communities offer features
that Company's properties do not have. Also, some competing communities are
larger and/or newer than the Company's communities. The competitive situation of
each community varies and intensifies as additional properties are constructed.

         When in the market for new acquisitions, the Company competes with
numerous other investors, including other REITs, individuals, partnerships,
corporations, pension funds, insurance companies, foreign investors and other
real estate entities. Although the Company has certain advantages because of its
substantial presence in its markets and its access to capital, some competing
investors are larger than and may have a competitive advantage over the Company
in terms of assets and other investment resources. During 1997, the competition
for both single property and portfolio acquisitions intensified which resulted
in lower acquisition capitalization rates. Management believes that the Company,
in general, is well positioned in terms of economic and other resources to
compete effectively and intends to maintain its pricing discipline while
continuing to pursue acquisitions that meet the Company's long-term investment
objectives.

Environmental Regulations

         To date, compliance with federal, state, and local environmental
protection regulations has not had a material effect on the capital
expenditures, earnings or competitive position of the Company. However, over the
past few years, concerns have been raised regarding the presence of asbestos and
other hazardous materials in existing real estate properties. In response to
this, on March 1, 1991, the Company adopted a property management plan for
hazardous materials. As part of the plan, Phase I environmental site
investigation and reports have been completed for each property owned by the
Company and not previously inspected. In addition, all proposed acquisitions are
inspected prior to acquisition. The inspections are conducted by qualified
environmental consultants, and the report issued is reviewed by the Company
prior to the purchase or development of any property. Nevertheless, it is
possible that the Company's environmental assessments will not reveal all
environmental liabilities, or that some material environmental liabilities exist
in which the Company is unaware. In some cases, the Company has abandoned
otherwise economically attractive acquisitions because the costs of removal or
control have been prohibitive and/or the Company has been unwilling to accept
the potential risks involved. The Company does not believe it will be required
to remediate any asbestos




materials at any of its properties as asbestos is managed in place in accordance
with current environmental laws and regulations. Management believes that
through professional environmental inspections and testing for asbestos and
other hazardous materials, coupled with a conservative posture toward accepting
known risk, the Company can minimize its exposure to potential liability
associated with environmental hazards.

         The Company is unaware of any environmental hazards at any of its
properties which individually or in the aggregate may have a material adverse
impact on its operations or financial position. The Company has not been
notified by any governmental authority, and is not otherwise aware, of any
material non-compliance, liability or claim relating to environmental
liabilities in connection with any of its properties. The Company does not
believe that the cost of continued compliance with applicable environmental laws
and regulations will have a material adverse effect on the Company or its
financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance,
however, that future environmental laws, regulations or ordinances will not
require additional remediation of existing conditions that are not currently
actionable. Also, if more stringent requirements are imposed on the Company in
the future, the costs of compliance could have a material adverse effect on the
Company or its financial condition. To the best of its knowledge, the Company is
in compliance with all applicable environmental rules and regulations.

Operating Partnership - United Dominion Realty Trust, L.P.

         On October 23, 1995, the Company organized United Dominion Realty, L.P.
(the "Partnership") under the Virginia Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act,
as amended (the "Partnership Act"). The Company is the sole General Partner of
the Partnership and currently holds an 89.4% interest. The Partnership is
intended to assist the Company in competing for the acquisition of properties
that meet the Company's investment strategies from seller partnerships, some or
all of whose partners may wish to defer taxation of gain realized on sale
through an exchange of partnership interests.

         The Partnership was organized under a First Amended and Restated
Agreement of Limited Partnership dated as of December 31, 1995 which was
subsequently amended in the Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited
Partnership dated as of August 30, 1997 (the "Partnership Agreement"). A summary
of certain provisions of the Partnership Agreement is set forth below. The
summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its
entirety by reference to applicable provisions of the Partnership Act and the
complete Partnership Agreement. The Partnership Agreement is filed as an exhibit
to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
30, 1997.

Admission of Limited Partners; Investment Agreements

         The Company presently intends to limit admission to the Partnership to
Limited Partners who are "accredited investors," as defined in Rule 501(a) under
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). Limited Partners
will be admitted upon executing and delivering to the Company an Investment
Agreement (the "Investment Agreement") and delivering to the Partnership the
consideration prescribed therein. In the Investment Agreement, the prospective
Limited Partner makes both representations as to his status as an accredited
investor and other representations and agreements regarding the Units (defined
below) to be issued to him, thus, assuring compliance with the Securities Act.
Any rights to Securities Act registration of the Common Stock of the Company
issued to such Limited Partner upon redemption of his Units (see "Redemption
Rights" below), will also be set forth in the Investment Agreement or a separate
registration rights agreement.

Units

         The interests in the Partnership of the Partnership's limited partners
(the "Limited Partners") are represented by units of limited partnership
interest (the "Units"). All holders of Units are entitled to share in the cash
distributions from, and in the profits and losses of, the Partnership.
Distributions by the Partnership are made equally for each Unit outstanding.





As the Partnership's sole General Partner, the Company intends to make
distributions per Unit in the same amount as the cash dividends paid by the
Company on each share of Common Stock. However, because Partnership properties,
which are the primary source of cash available for distribution to Unit holders,
are significantly fewer than properties held directly by the Company and may not
perform as well, there can be no assurance that distributions per Unit will
always equal Common Stock dividends per share. A distribution made to the
Company that enables it to maintain its REIT status (see "Management and
Operations" below) may deplete cash otherwise available to Unit holders. The
Partnership may borrow from the Company for the purpose of equalizing per Unit
and per Common share distributions, but neither the Partnership nor the Company
is under any obligation regarding Partnership borrowings for this or any other
purpose.

         The Limited Partners have the rights to which limited partners are
entitled under the Partnership Act. The Units are illiquid, they are not
registered for secondary sale under any securities are laws, state or federal,
and they cannot be transferred by a holder except as provided in the Partnership
Agreement and unless they are registered as such or an exemption from such
registration is available. Except as provided in any Investment Agreement or
other agreement with a partner, neither the Partnership nor the Company is under
any obligation to effect any such registration or to establish any such
exemption. The Partnership Agreement imposes additional restrictions on the
transfer of Units, as described below under "Transferability of Interests."

Management and Operations

         The Company, as the sole General Partner of the Partnership, has full,
exclusive and complete responsibility and discretion in the management and
control of the Partnership. The Limited Partners have no authority to transact
business for, or participate in the management activities or decisions of the
Partnership.

         The Partnership Agreement requires that the Partnership be operated in
a manner that will enable the Company to both satisfy the requirements for being
classified as a REIT and avoid any federal income tax liability. The General
Partner is expressly directed, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Partnership Agreement, to cause the Partnership to distribute amounts (including
proceeds of Partnership borrowings) that sufficiently enable the Company to pay
distributions to its shareholders that are required in order to maintain REIT
status and to avoid income tax or excise tax liability.


Ability to Engage in Other Businesses; Conflicts of Interest

         The Company and other persons (including officers, directors,
employees, agents and other affiliates of the Company) are not prohibited under
the Partnership Agreement from engaging in other business activities, including
business activities substantially similar or identical to those of the
Partnership. The Company will not be required to present any business
opportunities to the Partnership or to any Limited Partner.

Borrowing by the Partnership

         The General Partner is authorized under the Partnership Agreement to
cause the Partnership to borrow money and to issue and guarantee debt as it
deems necessary for the conduct of the activities of the Partnership. Such debt
may be secured by mortgages, deeds of Company, pledges or other liens on the
assets of the Partnership.

Reimbursement of General Partner; Transactions with the General Partner and its
Affiliates

         The General Partner will receive no compensation for its services as
General Partner of the Partnership. However, as a partner in the Partnership,
the General Partner has the same right to allocations of profit and loss and
distributions as other partners of the Partnership. In addition, the Partnership
will reimburse the General Partner for all expenses it incurs relating to the
ownership and operation of, or for the benefit of, the Partnership and any
offering of Units or other partnership interests, and for the pro rata share of
the expenses of any offering of securities of the Company some or all of the
proceeds of which are contributed to the Partnership.

Liability of General Partner and Limited Partners

         The General Partner is liable for all general obligations of the
Partnership to the extent not paid by the




Partnership. The General Partner is not liable for the non-recourse obligations
of the Partnership.

         The Limited Partners are not required to make further capital
contributions to the Partnership after their respective initial contributions
are fully paid. Assuming that a Limited Partner acts in conformity with the
provisions of the Partnership Agreement, the liability of the Limited Partner
for obligations of the Partnership under the Partnership Agreement and
Partnership Act will be limited to, subject to certain possible exceptions, the
loss of the Limited Partner's investment in the Partnership.

         The Partnership is qualified to conduct business in each state in which
it owns property and may qualify to conduct business in other jurisdictions.
Maintenance of limited liability may require compliance with certain legal
requirements of those jurisdictions and certain other jurisdictions. Limitations
on the liability of a limited partner for the obligations of a limited
partnership have not clearly been established in many states. Accordingly, if it
were determined that the right, or exercise of the right by the Limited
Partners, to make certain amendments to the Partnership Agreement or to take
other action pursuant to the Partnership Agreement constituted "control" of the
Partnership's business for the purposes of the statutes of any relevant state,
the Limited Partners might be held personally liable for the Partnership's
obligations. The Partnership will operate in a manner the General Partner deems
reasonable, necessary and appropriate to preserve the limited liability of the
Limited Partners.

Exculpation and Indemnification of the General Partner

         If acting in good faith, the Partnership Agreement provides that the
General Partner will incur no liability for monetary damages to the Partnership
or any Limited Partner for losses sustained or liabilities incurred as a result
of errors in judgment or of any act or omission. In addition, the General
Partner is not responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of its
agents, provided the General Partner appointed such agents in good faith.

         The Partnership Agreement also provides for indemnification of the
General Partner, the directors, officers and employees of the General Partner,
and such other persons as the General Partner may from time to time designate,
against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities (joint or several),
expenses (including reasonable legal fees and expenses), judgments, fines,
settlements and other amounts arising from any and all claims, demands, actions,
suits or proceedings, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative,
that relate to the operations of the Partnership in which any such indemnitee
may be involved, or is threatened to be involved, unless it is established that
(i) the act or omission of such indemnitee was material to the matter giving
rise to the proceeding and either was committed in bad faith or was the result
of active and deliberate dishonesty, (ii) such indemnitee actually received an
improper personal benefit in money, property or services or (iii) in the case of
any criminal proceeding, such indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that
the act or omission was unlawful.

Sale of Assets; Merger

         Under the Partnership Agreement, the General Partner generally has the
exclusive authority to determine whether, when and on what terms the assets of
the Partnership will be sold or on which the Partnership will merge or
consolidate with another entity.

Removal of the General Partner; Transfer of General Partner's Interest

         The Partnership Agreement does not authorize the Limited Partners to
remove the General Partner and the Limited Partners have no right to remove the
General Partner under the Partnership Act. The General Partner may not transfer
any of its interest as General Partner and withdraw as General Partner, except
(a) to a wholly-owned subsidiary of the General Partner or the owner of all the
ownership interests in the General Partner, (b) in connection with a merger or
sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the General Partner or (c) as
a result of the bankruptcy of the General Partner. A substitute or additional
General Partner may be admitted upon compliance with the applicable provisions
of the Partnership Agreement, including delivery by counsel for the Partnership
of an opinion that admission of such General Partner will not cause (i) the
Partnership to be classified other than as a partnership for federal income tax
purposes or (ii) the loss of any Limited Partner's limited liability. The
General Partner may not sell all or substantially all of its assets, or enter
into a merger, unless the sale or merger includes the sale of all or
substantially all of the assets of, or the merger of, the Partnership and the
Limited Partners receive for each Unit substantially the same consideration as
the holder of one share of Common Stock.





Transferability of Interests

         A Limited Partner generally may not transfer his interest in the
Partnership without the consent of the General Partner which may be withheld in
its absolute discretion. The General Partner may require, as a condition of any
transfer, that the transferring Limited Partner assume all costs incurred by the
Partnership in connection with such a transfer.

Redemption Rights

         Each Limited Partner has the right (the "Redemption Right"), subject to
the purchase right of the General Partner described below, to cause the
redemption of such Limited Partner's Units for cash in an amount per Unit equal
to the average of the closing sale prices of the Common Stock of the Company on
the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") for the ten trading days immediately
preceding the date of receipt by the General Partner of notice of such Limited
Partner's exercise of the Redemption Right. Subject to certain restrictions
intended to prevent undesirable tax consequences and assure compliance with the
Securities Act, a Limited Partner may exercise the Redemption Right at any time
but not more than twice within the same calendar year and not with respect to
less than 1,000 Units (or all Units owned by such Limited Partner, if less than
1,000). A Limited Partner that exercises the Redemption Right shall be deemed to
have offered to sell the Units to be redeemed to the General Partner, and the
General Partner may elect to purchase such Units by paying to such Limited
Partner either the redemption price in cash or by delivering to such Limited
Partner a number of shares of Common Stock of the Company equal to the product
of the number of such Units, multiplied by the "Conversion Factor," which is
1.0, subject to customary antidilution provisions in the event of stock
dividends on or subdivisions or combinations of the Common Stock subsequent to
issuance of such Units. Any Common Stock issued to the redeeming Limited Partner
will be listed on the NYSE and, if to the extent provided in such Redeeming
Partner's Investment Agreement or other agreement, registered under the
Securities Act and/or entitled to rights to Securities Act registration.

No Withdrawal of Capital by Limited Partners

         No Limited Partner has the right to withdraw any part of his capital
contribution to the Partnership or interest thereon or to receive any
distribution, except as provided in the Partnership Agreement.

Issuance of Additional Limited Partnership Interests and Other Partnership
Securities

         The General Partner is authorized, without the consent of the Limited
Partners, to cause the Partnership to issue additional Units or other
Partnership securities to the partners or to other persons on such terms and
conditions and for such consideration, including cash or any property or other
assets permitted by the Partnership Act, as the General Partner deems
appropriate.

Meetings

         The Partnership Agreement does not provide for annual meetings of the
Limited Partners, and the General Partner does not anticipate calling such
meetings.

Amendment of Partnership Agreement

         Amendments to the Partnership Agreement may, with four exceptions, be
made by the General Partner without the consent of the Limited Partners. Any
amendment to the Partnership Agreement which would (i) affect the Conversion
Factor or the Redemption Rights of the Limited Partners, (ii) adversely affect
the rights of the Limited Partners to receive distributions payable to them
under the Partnership Agreement, or (iii) alter the Partnership's profit and
loss allocations shall require the consent of Limited Partners owning more than
50% of the percentage interests in the Partnership. Any amendment that would
impose any obligation upon the Limited Partners to make additional capital
contributions to the Partnership shall require the consent of each Limited
Partners owning more than 50% of the percentage interests in the Partnership.





Books and Reports

         The General Partner is required to keep at the specified office of the
Partnership the Partnership's books and records, including copies of the
Partnership's federal, state and local tax returns, a list of the partners and
their last known business addresses, the Partnership Agreement, the Partnership
certificate and all amendments thereto and any other documents and information
required under Partnership Act. Any partner or his duly authorized
representative, upon paying duplicating, collection and mailing costs, is
entitled to inspect or copy such records during ordinary business hours.

         The General Partner will furnish to each Limited Partner, as soon as
practicable after the close of each fiscal year, an annual report containing
financial statements of the Partnership (or the Company, if consolidated
financial statements including the Partnership are prepared) for such fiscal
year. The financial statements will be audited by accountants selected by the
General Partner. In addition, as soon as practicable after the close of each
fiscal quarter (other than the last quarter of the fiscal year), the General
Partner will furnish to each Limited Partner a quarterly report containing
unaudited financial statements of the Partnership (or the Company and the
Partnership, consolidated).

         The General Partner will furnish to each Limited Partner,  within 75
days after the close of each fiscal year of the Partnership,  the tax
information necessary to file such Limited Partner's individual tax returns.

Loans to Partnership

         The Partnership Agreement provides that the General Partner may borrow
additional Partnership funds for any Partnership purpose from the General
Partner or a subsidiary or subsidiaries of the General Partner or otherwise.

Adjustments of Capital Accounts and Percentage Interests

         A separate capital account will be established and maintained for each
Partner. The General Partner shall revalue the property of the Partnership to
its fair market value (as determined by the General Partner, in its sole
discretion) in accordance with applicable federal income tax regulations if: (i)
a new or existing general or limited partner of the Partnership (a "Partner" or
collectively "Partners") acquires an additional interest in the Partnership in
exchange for more than a de minimis capital contribution, (ii) the Partnership
distributes to a Partner more than a de minimis amount of Partnership property
as consideration for a Partnership interest or (iii) the Partnership is
liquidated for federal income tax purposes. When the Partnership's property is
revalued by the General Partner, the capital accounts of the partners shall be
adjusted in accordance with such regulations, which generally requires such
capital accounts to be adjusted to reflect the manner in which the unrealized
gain or loss inherent in such property (that has not been reflected in the
capital accounts previously) would be allocated among the Partners pursuant to
the Partnership Agreement if there were a taxable disposition of such property
for its fair market value on the date of the revaluation.

         If the number of outstanding Units increases or decreases during a
taxable year, each Partner's percentage interest in the Partnership shall be
adjusted by the General Partner as of the effective date of each such increase
or decrease to a percentage equal to the number of Units held by such Partner
divided by the aggregate number of Units outstanding, after giving effect to
such increase or decrease, and profits and losses for the year will be allocated
among the Partners in a manner selected by the General Partner to give
appropriate effect to such adjustments.


Registration Rights

         Limited Partners have no rights to Securities Act registration of any
Common Stock of the Company received in connection with redemption of Units
except as provided in their respective Investment Agreements or other agreements
with the Company.

Tax Matters; Profit and Loss Allocations

         Pursuant to the Partnership Agreement, the General Partner is the "tax
matters" partner of the Partnership and, as such, has the authority to handle
tax audits and to make tax elections under the Code on behalf of the
Partnership.




         Profit and loss of the Partnership generally will be allocated among
the Partners in accordance with their respective interests in the Partnership
based on the number of Units held by the Partners.

Distributions

         The Partnership Agreement provides that the General Partner shall
distribute cash quarterly, in amounts determined by the General Partner in its
sole discretion, to the partners in accordance with their respective percentage
interests in the Partnership, except that the amount of cash distributable to a
Limited Partner who has not been a Limited Partner for the full quarter for
which the distribution is paid is subject to pro rata reduction. Upon
liquidation of the Partnership, after payment of, or adequate provision for,
debts and obligations of the Partnership, including any Partner loans, any
remaining assets of the Partnership will be distributed to all Partners with
positive capital accounts in accordance with their respective positive capital
account balances. If the General Partner has a negative balance in its capital
account following a liquidation of the Partnership, it will be obligated to
contribute cash to the Partnership equal to the negative balance in its capital
account.

Term

         The Partnership will continue until December 31, 2051, or until sooner
dissolved upon (i) the bankruptcy, dissolution, death or withdrawal of a General
Partner (unless the Limited Partners elect to continue the Partnership by
electing by unanimous consent a substitute General Partner within 90 days of
such occurrence), (ii) the passage of 90 days after the sale or other
disposition of all or substantially all the assets of the Partnership, (iii) the
redemption of all Limited Partners' interests in the Partnership or (iv)
election by the General Partner. Upon dissolution of the Partnership, the
General Partner will proceed to liquidate the assets of the Partnership and
distribute the proceeds remaining after payment or adequate provision for
payment of all debts and obligations of the Partnership as provided in the
Partnership Agreement.




Item 2.  Properties

Real Estate Owned

The table below sets forth a summary by major geographic market of the Company's
portfolio of apartment rental properties held for investment and held for
disposition (excludes real estate under development) at December 31, 1997.

See also Notes 1 and 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule
III-Summary of Real Estate Owned.




Included in the table above are 25 apartment properties held for disposition in
the amount of $154,162,187, net of accumulated depreciation in the amount of
$40,904,918. At December 31, 1997, the Company also has 1 shopping center and 3
other commercial properties in the consolidated balance sheet classified as real
estate held for disposition in the amount of $12,338,629, net of accumlated
depreciation in the amount of $3,955,900, which are not included in the above
schedule.

* Average Monthly Rental Rates for the Year Ended December 31, 1997, represents
potential rent collections (gross potential rents less market adjustments),
which approximates net effective rents.
These amounts exclude the 1997 acquisitions.

(a) In connection with the South West Merger, the Company assumed $88,573,613 of
REMIC financing encumbering 25 apartments communities.

(b) Represents a $39,000,000 secured note payable which encumbers 6 apartment
communities.





Item  3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         Neither the Company nor any of its apartment communities is presently
subject to any material litigation nor, to the Company's knowledge, is any
litigation threatened against the Company or any of the communities, other than
routine actions arising in the ordinary course of business. Some of these
routine actions are expected to be covered by liability insurance, and none are
expected to have a material adverse effect on the business or financial
condition or results of operations of the Company.

Item  4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS


Executive Officers of the Registrant

         The executive officers of the Company, listed below, serve in their
respective capacities for approximate one year terms.






         Mr. McCann has been the Company's managing Chief Executive Officer
since 1974.  Mr. McCann was elected Chairman of the Board in 1996.

         Mr. Schneider is the former Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the
Board of South West Property Trust Inc. (South West).  Mr. Schneider was
employed with the investment banking firm of Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette
until from 1967 until 1973, when he co-founded a predecessor firm to South West.
Mr. Schneider was elected Vice Chairman of the Board and Executive Vice
President in 1996 in connection with the merger with South West.

         Mr. Dolphin was first employed by the Company in 1979 as Controller. He
was elected Vice President of Finance in 1985 and has served as the Company's
Chief Financial Officer since that time. He was elected Senior Vice President in
1987 and Executive Vice President in 1996.

         Mr. Giannotti joined the Company as Director of Development and
Construction in September 1985. He was elected Assistant Vice President in 1988,
Vice President in 1989 and Senior Vice President in 1996.

         Mr. Sherman is the former President and Chief Operating Officer of
South West.  Mr. Sherman was in charge of South West's management division from
1973 until 1996.  Mr. Sherman was elected Senior Vice President in 1996 in
connection with the merger with South West.  Effective December 31, 1997, Mr.
Sherman was no longer employed by the Company.

         Mr. Johnston is the former Executive Vice President-Real Estate
Investments of South West, a position he held since joining South West in 1992.
From 1989 until 1992, Mr. Johnston was Senior Vice President of Property Company
of America.   Mr. Johnston was elected Senior Vice President in 1996 in
connection with the merger with South West.

         Ms. Surface joined the Company in 1992 as Assistant Vice President and
Legal Counsel, elected General Counsel, Corporate Secretary and Vice President
in 1994 and elected to Senior Vice President in 1997.

         Mr. Carter joined the Company in 1991 as an Assistant Vice President of
Apartment Operations. In 1992, he was promoted to Vice President of Apartment
Operations. In 1995, he was elected Regional Vice President- Northern Region,
and in 1997 was promoted to Senior Vice President and Director of Apartment
Operations- Northern Region.

         Mr. Landis joined the Company in 1996 as Regional Vice
President-Florida Region and was promoted in 1997 to Senior Vice President and
Director of Apartment Operations-Florida Region.  Prior to joining the Company,
he was Vice President of Asset Management and Property Management for
CRI/CAPREIT, Inc.



         Mr. Lamperski joined the Company joined the Company in 1996 as the
Regional Vice President-Southern Region and was promoted in 1997 to Senior Vice
President and Director of Apartment Operations-Southern Region. From February
1990 to August 1996, he was Vice President and Director of Property Management
for Steven D. Bell, a property management company located in Greensboro, North
Carolina.





                                    PART II

Item 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

         The Company's Common Stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange
("NYSE") under the symbol "UDR". The following tables set forth the quarterly
high and low closing sale prices per common share reported on the NYSE for each
quarter of the last two years. Distribution information for Common Stock
reflects distributions declared per share for each calendar quarter and paid at
the end of the following month.

COMMON STOCK
                                                               Distributions
                       High                Low                    Declared
1st  Quarter        $  15 5/8            $  14 1/8                 $  .24
2nd Quarter            15 1/4               14 1/8                    .24
3rd  Quarter           14 1/2               13 1/8                    .24
4th  Quarter           15 3/4               13 5/8                    .24

1st  Quarter        $  16                $  14 5/8                $  .2525
2nd Quarter            15 1/8               13 3/8                   .2525
3rd  Quarter           15 3/8               13 7/8                   .2525
4th  Quarter           15 1/8               13 5/8                   .2525

The Company determined that, for federal income tax purposes, approximately
72.7% of the distributions for each of the four quarters of 1997 represented
ordinary income to its shareholders, 24.9% represented return of capital to its
shareholders and 2.1% represented capital gains to its shareholders.

On March 13, 1998, the closing sale price of the Common Stock was  $13.9375 per
share on the NYSE, and there were 7,897 holders of record of the 91,886,256
shares of Common Stock.

The Company pays regular quarterly distributions to holders of shares of Common
Stock. Future distributions by the Company will be at the discretion of its
Board of Directors after considering the Company's actual funds from operations,
financial condition and capital requirements, the annual distribution
requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and other
factors. The annual distribution payment for calendar year 1997 necessary for
the Company to maintain its status as a REIT was approximately $.71 per share.
The Company paid total distributions of $.9975 per share for 1997.

SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK

         The Company's Series A Preferred Stock ("Series A Preferred") and
Series B Preferred Stock ("Series B Preferred") is traded on the New York Stock
Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "UDRa" and "UDRb", respectively. The
following tables set forth the quarterly high and low closing sale prices per
share reported on the NYSE for each quarter of the last two years for the Series
A Preferred and Series B Preferred. Distribution information for the Series A
Preferred and Series B Preferred reflects distributions declared per share for
each calendar quarter and paid at the end of the following month.




                                                                  Distributions
                             High                   Low             Declared
1st  Quarter              $  27                 $  25 3/4           $  .578
2nd Quarter                  26 7/8                25 1/8              .578
3rd  Quarter                 26 3/8                25 1/4              .578
4th  Quarter                 26 7/8                26 1/8              .578

1st  Quarter              $  26 7/8             $  25 3/4           $  .578
2nd Quarter                  26 5/8                25 5/8              .578
3rd  Quarter                 27 1/8                25 7/8              .578
4th  Quarter                 26 7/8                25 1/8              .578

On or after April 24, 2000, the Series A Preferred Stock may be redeemed for
cash at a redemption price of $25 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends
from the proceeds from the sale of additional capital stock (common or
preferred).

SERIES B PREFERRED STOCK
                                                                  Distributions
                             High                   Low             Declared
1st  Quarter                   --                   --                   --
2nd Quarter               $   25 1/2            $  25               $   .--
3rd  Quarter                  26 7/8               25 1/4               .5554
4th  Quarter                  26 5/8               25 7/8               .5375

On May 29, 1997, the Company sold 6,000,000 shares of 8.60% Series B Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Stock (Series B Preferred Stock). The Series B Preferred
Stock may be redeemed beginning May 29, 2007 at the sole option of the Company
at a redemption price of $25 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends from
the proceeds from the sale of additional capital stock (common or preferred).

The Company has a Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan under which
holders of Common and Preferred Stock may elect to automatically reinvest their
distributions and make additional cash payments to acquire additional shares of
the Company's Common Stock at a discount.



Item 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

         The following table sets forth selected consolidated financial and
other information for the Company as of and for each of the years in the five
year period ended December 31, 1997. The table should be read in conjunction
with the Consolidated Financial Statements of United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc.
and the Notes thereto included elsewhere herein.




SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA








(a)       The earnings per share amounts prior to 1997 have been restated as
          required to comply with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
          No. 128, "Earning per Share". For further discussion of earnings per
          share and the impact of Statement No. 128, see the notes to the
          consolidated financial statements.
(b)       Funds from operations ("FFO") is defined as income before gains
          (losses) on sales of investments, minority interest of unitholders in
          operating partnership and extraordinary item (computed in accordance
          with generally accepted accounting principles) plus real estate
          depreciation, less preferred dividends and after adjustment for
          significant non-recurring items, if any. This definition conforms to
          the recommendations set forth in a White Paper adopted by the National
          Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") in early 1995.
          FFO for years prior to 1995 have been adjusted to conform to the
          NAREIT definition. The Company considers FFO in evaluating property
          acquisitions and its operating performance and believes that FFO
          should be considered along with, but not as an alternative to, net
          income and cash flows as a measure of the Company's operating
          performance and liquidity. FFO does not represent cash generated from
          operating activities in accordance with generally accepted accounting
          principles and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund
          cash needs.





                                    PART II

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
         of Operations

Overview

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
Financial Statements and Notes thereto of United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc.
(the "Company") appearing elsewhere in this report. This annual report contains
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities
Act of 1993, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation,
statements concerning property acquisitions, development activity and capital
expenditures, capital raising activities, rent growth, occupancy and rental
expense growth expected in 1998. Such statements involve known and unknown
risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results,
performance or achievement of the Company to be materially different from the
results of operations or plans expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements. Such factors include, among other things, unanticipated adverse
business developments affecting the Company, and/or its properties, adverse
changes in the real estate markets and general and local economies and business
conditions. Although the Company believes that the assumptions underlying the
forward-looking statements contained herein are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could be inaccurate, and therefore there can be no assurance that
such statements included in this report will prove to be accurate. In light of
the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements
included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as
representation by the Company or any other person that the results or conditions
described in such statements or the objectives and plans of the Company will be
achieved.

The Company is engaged in the ownership, acquisition, development and management
of apartment communities across the Sunbelt. The Company's investment strategy
has focused on acquiring apartment communities in 23 targeted major markets,
however, the Company intends to expand geographically into other regions of the
United States and enter into several new markets during 1998, as appropriate
opportunities arise. The Company seeks to be a market leader by operating a
sufficiently sized portfolio of apartments within each market, and as such,
plans to significantly increase the number of apartment homes owned in most of
its major markets. The Company believes this market diversification increases
investment opportunity and decreases the risk associated with cyclical local
real estate markets and economies. At December 31, 1997, the Company owned 225
apartment communities containing 62,789 apartment homes throughout the Sunbelt,
including 25 apartment communities containing 6,907 completed apartment homes
included in real estate held for disposition. The following table summarizes the
Company's apartment information by market:






*        Average monthly rental rates represent potential rent collections
         (gross potential rents less market adjustments), which approximate net
         effective rents. These figures exclude 1997 acquisitions.

**       Economic occupancy is defined as rental income (potential rental
         collections less vacancy loss, management units, units held out of
         service, move-in concessions and credit loss) divided by potential
         collections (gross potential rent less management units, units held out
         of service and move-in concessions) for the period, expressed as a
         percentage.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
As a qualified real estate investment trust ("REIT"), the Company distributes a
substantial portion of its cash flow to its shareholders in the form of
quarterly distributions. The Company seeks to retain sufficient cash to cover
normal operating needs, including routine replacements and to help fund
additional acquisitions and development activity. For the year ended December
31, 1997, the Company's cash flow from operating activities exceeded cash
distributions paid to preferred and common shareholders and operating
partnership unitholders by $35.7 million. The Company utilizes a variety of
primarily external financing sources to fund portfolio growth, major capital
improvement programs and balloon debt payments. The Company's bank lines of
credit generally have been used to




temporarily finance these expenditures, and subsequently this short-term bank
debt has been replaced with longer-term debt or equity.

Operating Activities
For the year ended December 31, 1997, the Company's cash flow from operating
activities increased $47.8 million over the same period last year. This increase
was primarily a result of the significant expansion of the Company's portfolio
of apartment communities as discussed below and under "Results of Operations".


The Company considers its cash provided by operating activities adequate to meet
its operating requirements and payments of distributions to both common and
preferred shareholders and unitholders in the operating partnership.


Investing Activities
For the year ended December 31, 1997, net cash used for investing activities was
$345.7 million compared to $161.6 million for 1996, an increase of $184.1
million. The level of investing activities primarily reflects the levels of the
Company's acquisition activities and, to a lesser extent, capital expenditure
and development programs. During 1997, the Company significantly increased both
its development activity and upgrade program, which was implemented at its older
communities. For the year ended December 31, 1997, in connection with the
acquisition of real estate owned (excluding land purchased for development)
aggregating $344.4 million, the Company assumed debt and issued both common
stock and operating partnership units aggregating $72.6 million, compared to the
acquisition of $880.6 million of real estate owned shown net of debt assumed and
common stock and operating partnership units issued aggregating $734.8 million
in 1996.

Acquisitions
The Company seeks to acquire apartment communities that can provide returns on
investment in excess of the Company's cost of capital. These acquisitions are
typically projected to provide first year weighted average returns on investment
of 9-9 1/2% with the prospect for future cash flow growth and appreciation. The
Company calculates its investment as the purchase price plus average first year
capital improvements. The return on this investment is calculated by dividing
the investment by the sum of the rental income less rental expenses during the
first year of ownership.

During 1997, the Company acquired 29 apartment communities containing 8,628
apartment homes at a total cost (including closing costs) of $344.4 million or
$39,900 per home. The 1997 acquisitions included 16 apartment communities
acquired in separate and unrelated transactions and 13 apartment communities
acquired in three smaller portfolio transactions. Of the 29 apartment
communities acquired, 27 were located in the Company's major markets. The
apartment communities acquired by market were as follows:





              (a) In connection with the acquisition of seven apartment
                  communities, the Company assumed six mortgage notes payable
                  and one tax-exempt note payable aggregating $60.1 million with
                  a weighted average interest rate of approximately 8.4%.
              (b) In connection with the acquisition of four apartment
                  communities, the Company issued approximately 849,000 units in
                  the Operating Partnership with an aggregate value of $12.5
                  million.
              (c) Community was sold in October 1997.



During 1998, the Company seeks to acquire 8,000-10,000 apartment homes in
individual and portfolio transactions at an aggregate cost ranging from $350
million to $450 million. These acquisitions are expected to occur in the
Company's existing markets and designated new markets. In addition, the Company
plans to participate in the real estate consolidation process by acquiring
private and public apartment companies in strategic mergers or portfolio
acquisitions that meet the Company's objectives to increase its penetration in
its existing markets or to expand geographically.

On December 19, 1997, the Company executed a definitive merger agreement (the
"Merger Agreement") pursuant to which ASR Investment Corporation ("ASR") would
be merged with and into a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. At December
31, 1997, ASR owned and operated 41 apartment communities containing
approximately 7,500 apartment homes in the Southwest and Northwest. Pursuant to
the Merger Agreement, each share of the ASR's common stock was exchanged for
1.575 shares of the Company's common stock. The merger has been structured as a
tax-free transaction and will be treated as a purchase for accounting purposes.
The aggregate purchase price is estimated at approximately $330 million,
including closing costs. The merger closed on March 27, 1998.

Real estate under development
Consistent with the Company's acquisition strategy, development activity is
focused in certain of its major markets. During 1997, the Company increased its
level of development activity, completing the development of 1,067 apartment
homes in six additional phases to existing communities and one new apartment
community. During 1997, the Company invested $52.2 million in 11 properties
under development, which includes four new apartment communities and seven
additional phases to existing apartment communities.

At December 31, 1997, the Company had 1,064 apartment homes under development as
outlined below (dollars in thousands, except cost per home):



During 1997, the Company completed the following development projects:






During 1997, full lease-up at Brantley Pines, Oak Park and Paradise Falls was
achieved. In late 1997, construction on Providence Court was completed, and it
is currently in the lease-up process. These additions did not have a material
impact on the Company's financial results for the year ended December 31, 1997.

During 1998, the Company plans to fund approximately $100 million on the
development of new apartment communities and additional phases to existing
apartment communities which are anticipated to provide stabilized returns on
investment in the 10% to 10 1/2% range. The Company currently has three new
apartment communities and two additional phases under development and plans to
begin development on two new apartment communities in Phoenix, Arizona during
1998.

Capital Expenditures
For 1997, capitalized expenditures averaged $1,166 per home for all apartment
homes acquired prior to 1995. As it generally takes up to two years to complete
the improvement and enhancement process at acquisitions communities, the 1995,
1996 and 1997 acquisitions are excluded from these averages. The Company's
capital expenditures include the following: various exterior improvements
including roofing, siding, balconies, porches, garages, carports and storage
units ($289/home), various interior improvements including the upgrade program
and the addition of business and fitness centers ($222/home), carpet and vinyl
replacements ($201/home), various land improvements including parking lots,
carports and site lighting ($134/home), security alarms, gating and fencing
($133/home), appliances ($78/home), HVAC equipment ($46/home), sub-metering for
water and sewer ($34/home) and other improvements ($29/home).


During 1997, the Company invested $99.2 million on capital improvements to its
apartment portfolio. The Company capitalizes value enhancing improvements plus
improvements that substantially extend the useful life of an existing asset. In
addition to the Company's capital expenditures on new acquisitions, a
significant portion of capital expenditures relate to an upgrade program that
began in 1996 to modernize certain of the Company's older apartment communities.
These upgrades primarily involve updating kitchens and bathrooms. In addition,
several initiatives which are considered revenue enhancing are underway that
either allow the Company to increase rents by more than the inflationary rate or
allow the Company to pass expenses to residents including: (i) sub-metering of
water and sewer to residents where local and state regulations allow, (ii)
gating and fencing apartment communities, (iii) installing monitoring devices
such as intrusion alarms or controlled access devices, (iv) enlarging fitness
centers, (v) adding business centers and (vi) constructing carports and self
storage units. As a result of the continued upgrade program and initiatives
discussed above, capital expenditures increased approximately $46.1 million over
1996 when the average capital expenditure per mature apartment home was $832.
The Company expects 1998 capital expenditures to be at levels similar to 1997.


Disposition of investments

Real estate held for disposition

The Company continually undertakes portfolio review analyses with the objective
of identifying communities that do not meet the Company's long-term investment
objectives due to size, location, age, quality and/or performance. The Company
intends to sell 20% of its apartment portfolio, although specific properties
have not been identified as sales candidates. Generally, this will result in the
disposition of many of the Company's older apartment communities. These sales
will allow the Company to reduce the age of its existing portfolio, which should
result in lower operating expense and capital expenditure growth associated with
the older communities. Management has determined that packaging communities in
portfolios is more efficient and provides the greatest opportunities for
disposition, and as such, the Company intends to sell approximately $75 million
of communities each quarter through fiscal 1998 for a total of 7,000 to 8,000
apartment homes. The net proceeds from these sales will be primarily used to
acquire and develop newer apartment communities that will provide higher long
term returns on investment than the communities that are being sold.

During 1997, the Company sold 12 apartment communities containing 2,570
apartment homes and one shopping center for an aggregate sales price of $68.4
million and received net cash proceeds of approximately $64.0 million. For
financial reporting purposes, the Company recognized an aggregate $10.6 million
gain on the sales. Nine of these dispositions were structured to qualify as
like-kind exchanges under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue






Code, so the related capital gains totaling $14.2 million will be deferred for
federal income tax purposes. The 12 apartment community sales included the
August 1997 sale of a portfolio of six apartment communities containing 1,204
apartment homes, which had a weighted average age of 26 years for an aggregate
sales price of $34.7 million.


On January 20, 1998, the Company sold a portfolio of five apartment communities
containing 2,406 apartment homes, which had a weighted average age of 21 years
for an aggregate sales price of $65.6 million. The transaction was structured to
qualify as a like-kind exchange under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code,
so the related capital gain will be deferred for federal income tax purposes.
These five communities, all located in Texas, were acquired on December 31, 1996
in connection with the South West Property Trust Inc. Merger ("South West
Merger"), and accordingly, no significant gain or loss was recorded for
financial reporting purposes.





Net cash provided by financing activities during 1997 was $194.8 million
compared to $82.1 million for 1996. In connection with its 1997 acquisitions of
real estate owned, the Company assumed debt and issued operating partnership
units aggregating approximately $72.6 million compared to the assumption of
$387.9 million of debt and the issuance of common stock and operating
partnership units aggregating approximately $346.9 million last year.


Cash provided by financing activities
On January 28, 1997, the Company issued 4,000,000 shares of its common stock at
$15.75 per share for an aggregate value of approximately $63 million. Net
proceeds of $59.4 million were used to repay an unsecured credit facility
assumed in connection with the South West Merger.

The Company raised $39.7 million of new equity capital through its Dividend
Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan (the "Plan") during 1997 which included
$29.6 million in optional cash investments and $10.1 million of reinvested
dividends.

In anticipation of the issuance of unsecured debt in early 1997, the Company
entered into a $100 million (notional amount) Treasury rate lock agreement in
November 1996. On January 27, 1997, the Company issued $125 million of 7.25%
Notes due January 15, 2007. The Notes were priced to yield 7.31% which was 79
basis points over the 10 year Treasury rate at the time of issuance. The
interest rate protection agreement was terminated simultaneously with the $125
million Note issuance, and the Company received $1.5 million in cash. This had
the economic effect of lowering the interest rate on the Notes to approximately
7.14%. Net proceeds of approximately $124 million were used to curtail bank debt
and purchase apartment communities.




On May 29, 1997, the Company sold 6,000,000 shares of 8.60% Series B Redeemable
Preferred Stock at $25 per share. Net proceeds of $145.1 million were primarily
used to repay short-term bank debt.

Derivative Instruments
The Company, from time to time, uses derivative instruments to synthetically
alter on-balance sheet liabilities or to hedge anticipated financing
transactions. Derivative contracts did not have a material impact on the results
of operations during the twelve months ended December 31, 1997 and 1996.

On May 1, 1997, an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $83
million expired. This interest rate swap agreement effectively changed the
Company's interest exposure from a variable rate to a weighted average fixed
rate of 6.45% on borrowings outstanding under the Company's credit facilities.
No gain or loss was recognized on the expiration of this agreement.

At December 31, 1997, the Company had five interest rate swap agreements
outstanding with an aggregate notional amount of $45 million. These five
interest rate swap agreements effectively fix $45 million of the Company's
variable-rate secured notes payable to a weighted average fixed rate of 7.29%.

In order to reduce the interest rate risk associated with the anticipated
issuance of unsecured notes during 1998, the Company entered into a $100 million
(notional amount) fixed pay forward starting swap agreement with a major Wall
Street investment banking firm in July 1997. The transaction allowed the Company
to lock-in a ten year Treasury rate of 6.486% on or before September 9, 1998.
The Company anticipates replacing balances currently outstanding under its bank
line borrowings with permanent debt during 1998.

Credit facilities
On August 4, 1997, the Company closed on a new $200 million three year unsecured
revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility"), a $50 million one year
unsecured line of credit (the "Line of Credit") and a $15 million uncommitted
line of credit with a major U.S. financial institution. Under the new Credit
Facility, pricing is based upon the higher of the Company's senior unsecured
debt ratings from S&P and Moody's which are currently BBB+ and Baa1,
respectively. At these rating levels, contractual interest under the new Credit
Facility is LIBOR plus 42.5 basis points. The Credit Facility also includes a
$100 million competitive bid option which allows the Company to solicit bids
from participating banks at rates below the contractual rate. The Credit
Facility and Line of Credit are subject to customary financial covenants and
limitations.

At and for the year ended December 31, 1997, the Company had the following
credit facilities (dollars in thousands):




**       Represents the Company's unsecured revolving credit facilities with
         four commercial banks which were terminated on August 4, 1997 upon the
         execution of the $200 million three year unsecured revolving credit
         facility, therefore, there was no balance outstanding at December 31,
         1997.


The Company's liquidity and capital resources are believed to be more than
adequate to meet its cash requirements for the next several years. The Company
expects to meet its short and long-term capital requirements, such as balloon
debt maturities, property acquisitions, development activity and significant
capital improvements, primarily through the public and private sale of capital
stock and the issuance of medium and long-term unsecured notes payable. The
Company may also fund its capital requirements through (i) the assumption of
mortgage indebtedness, (ii) property sales, (iii) common shares sold through the
Company's Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase




Plan, (iv) retained operating cash flow, (v) the issuance of operating
partnership units and (vi) the use of unused credit facilities. As a result of
its investment grade debt ratings, the Company expects to use unsecured debt as
its primary debt funding source.


Depending upon the volume and timing of acquisition and sales activity, the
Company anticipates raising additional debt and equity capital during the next
twelve months to finance capital requirements, while striving to minimize the
overall cost of capital. During the second quarter of 1997, the Company filed a
shelf registration statement for approximately $675 million of debt and
preferred and common equity securities of which $486.7 million was unused at
December 31, 1997.

In February 1998, the Company issued 1.7 million shares of its common stock at a
gross sales price of $14.3125 per share to a Unit Investment Trust ("UIT"). Net
proceeds of $23.8 million were primarily used to curtail bank debt.


Year 2000 Conversion
The Company has recognized the need to ensure that its systems, equipment and
operations will not be adversely affected by the change to calendar year 2000.
As such, the Company has taken steps to identify potential areas of risk and has
begun addressing these in its planning, purchasing and daily operations. The
total cost of converting all internal information systems, equipment and
operations for the year 2000 has not been fully quantified, but it is not
expected to be a material cost to the Company. Much of the Company's internal
software programs have been purchased from third parties. However, no such
estimates can be made as to the potential adverse impact resulting from the
failure of third party service providers and vendors to prepare for the year
2000. The Company is attempting to identify those risks as well as to receive
compliance certificates from all third parties that have a material impact on
the Company's operations.

Funds from operations
Funds from operations ("FFO") is defined as income before gains (losses) on
sales of investments, minority interest of unitholders in operating partnership
and extraordinary items (computed in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles) plus real estate depreciation, less preferred dividends
and after adjustment for significant non-recurring items, if any. The Company
computes FFO in accordance with the recommendations set forth by the National
Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"). The Company considers
FFO in evaluating property acquisitions and its operating performance, and
believes that FFO should be considered along with, but not as an alternative to,
net income and cash flows as a measure of the Company's operating performance
and liquidity. FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and is not
necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs.

For 1997, FFO increased 65.3 % to $118.6 million, compared with $71.7 million
last year. The increase in FFO was principally due to the increased net rental
income from the Company's 31,270 non-mature apartment homes in 98 apartment
communities that were acquired and developed subsequent to January 1, 1996. For
1996, FFO increased 14.9 % to $71.7 million, compared with $62.4 million for
1995, principally due to the increased net rental income from the Company's then
12,914 non-mature apartment homes in 52 apartment communities.







Results of Operations


The Company's net income is primarily generated from the operations of its
apartment communities. For purposes of evaluating its comparative operating
performance, the Company categorizes its apartment communities into two
categories mature and non-mature. For the 1997 versus 1996 comparison, these
communities are as follows: (i) mature--those communities acquired, developed
and stabilized prior to January 1, 1996 and held throughout both 1997 and 1996
and (ii) non-mature--those communities acquired, developed or sold subsequent
January 1, 1996. For the 1996 versus 1995 comparison, these communities are as
follows: (i) mature--those communities acquired prior to January 1, 1995 and
held throughout the annual reporting period and (ii) non-mature--those
communities acquired and developed subsequent to December 31, 1995 plus four
apartment communities sold during this same period. The Company's apartment
operations are divided into four geographic regions, each of which constitutes a
core operating unit. Based on the total number apartment homes, the Northern
Region constitutes 33% of the Company's apartment portfolio and includes
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia and northern North Carolina. The Southern Region
constitutes 22% of the Company's apartment portfolio and includes Charlotte,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Tennessee and Alabama. The Florida
Region includes the entire state of Florida or 17% of the Company's apartment
portfolio, while the Western Region constitutes 28% of the Company's apartment
portfolio and includes Texas, Arkansas, Oklahoma, Nevada, New Mexico and
Arizona.

All per share amounts refer to basic earnings per share unless otherwise
indicated.

1997-vs-1996
For 1997, the Company reported increases over last year in rental income, income
before gains on sales of investments and minority interest of unitholders in
operating partnership, net income and net income available to common
shareholders. For 1997, net income available to common shareholders increased
$24.5 million, with a corresponding increase of $.12 and $.11 for basic and
diluted earnings per share, respectively, compared to 1996. The large per share
increases over last year are primarily attributed to gains recognized on the
sales of investments. Net income available to common shareholders for the year
ended December 31, 1997 includes aggregate gains on the sales of investments of
$12.7 million ($.15 per share). In addition, since the beginning of 1996, the
Company acquired and developed a total of 31,270 apartment homes in 98 apartment
communities (including 14,320 completed apartment homes in 44 apartment
communities acquired in the South West Merger) and sold 16 apartment communities
containing 3,222 apartment homes, representing a net 82% expansion in the number
of apartment homes owned during that period. These non-mature apartment homes
provided a substantial portion of the aggregate reported increases. However,
these increases were moderated in part due to the Company's financing activities
during 1997. During 1997, the Company financed its acquisition and development
programs primarily with common and preferred equity and the proceeds from
property sales rather than debt which was used to finance much of the 1996
acquisition and development programs.

1996-vs-1995
For 1996, the Company reported increases in rental income and income before
gains on sales of investments and minority interest of unitholders in operating
partnership and net income over 1995. Net income available to common
shareholders increased $1.8 million, with a decrease of $.01 per share compared
to 1995. Since the beginning of 1995, the Company acquired and developed a total
of 12,914 apartment homes in 52 communities (excluding those acquired in the
South West Merger) representing a 44.1% expansion in the number of apartment
homes owned during that period. These non-mature apartment homes provided a
substantial portion of the aggregate reported increases.



Total Apartment Communities
The operating performance of the Company's total apartment portfolio is
summarized in the chart below:




(1)      Net rental income for an apartment community is defined as total rental
         income, less rental expenses, less real estate depreciation.

(2)      Economic occupancy is defined as rental income (potential rental
         collections less vacancy loss, management units, units held out of
         service, move-in concessions and credit loss) divided by potential
         collections (gross potential rent less management units, units held out
         of service and move-in concessions) for the period, expressed as a
         percentage.

1997-vs -1996
Due to the acquisition and development of 31,270 apartment homes since January
1, 1996, the weighted average number of apartment homes increased 54.8% to
58,038 for 1997. This includes 14,320 completed apartment homes acquired in the
South West Merger on December 31, 1996. As a result of the increase in the
number of apartment homes acquired since January 1, 1996, the Company
experienced significant increases in rental income, rental expenses and real
estate depreciation for 1997.


1996-vs-1995
Due to the acquisition and development of 12,914 apartment homes since January
1, 1995, the weighted average number of apartment homes increased 20% to 37,481
for the year ended December 31, 1996. As a result of the increase in the number
of apartment homes acquired since January 1, 1995, the Company experienced
significant increases in rental income, rental expenses and real estate
depreciation for 1996.

Mature Apartment Communities
The operating performance of the Company's mature apartment communities is
summarized below. For the 1997 vs. 1996 analysis, there were 127 communities
with 31,519 homes that were classified as mature. For the 1996 vs. 1995
analysis, 114 communities with 28,430 homes were classified as mature.




1997-vs-1996

Mature apartment communities were all located in the Northern, Southern and
Florida Regions in 1997. The Company did not own any properties in the Western
Region until December 31, 1996. For 1997, the Company's mature communities
provided approximately 54% of the Company's apartment rental income and 52% of
its net rental income. During 1997, the Company's mature apartment communities
continued to generate rent growth greater than the pace of inflation and double
digit growth of other income. Compared to the same period last year, total
rental income from these apartment homes grew 3.8%, or approximately $7.6
million, reflecting an increase in




average monthly rents of 3.9% to $572 per month. Growth in rental income was
slightly offset by a .04% decrease in economic occupancy. In addition, other
income, primarily fee income, increased approximately $1.2 million or 17.6%.
Overall, economic occupancy bottomed out in January 1997 at 90.8% and grew
steadily through August before declining slightly to 92.3% for December 1997, an
improvement of 1.9% during the year. The economic occupancy declined due to the
weakening of certain major southeastern markets during the last half of 1996,
however, these markets are recovering. The Company expects to maintain rent
growth in the 4% range and economic occupancy in the 92% to 93% range during
1998.

For 1997, rental expenses at these communities increased 2.2%, or $1.9 million,
resulting in an improvement in the operating margin of 0.8% to 57.3%. The 2.2%
increase in operating expenses was attributable to higher personnel costs,
marketing and advertising costs and the Company's cost of self-management.
Personnel costs increased approximately $1.8 million, primarily due to
understaffing at some of its properties during much of 1996. Marketing and
advertising costs increased 33.9% or approximately $845,000 over the same period
last year as a direct result of softening in certain major markets as discussed
above. The cost of self-management increased $1.7 million as the Company
invested heavily in its personnel and technological infrastructure during 1997
in response to growth. Management believes that these additions will allow the
Company to compete more effectively and expand the number of properties owned in
major markets during 1998 and beyond. However, these expense increases were
offset by decreases in repairs and maintenance expense and utility expense.
Repairs and maintenance expense decreased 13.1% or approximately $2.0 million
primarily as a result of less exterior painting, extraordinary repairs,
mechanical repairs and the effect of the upgrade program. In addition, the
Company has taken advantage of some economies of scale due to its increased size
and some centralized purchasing during the 1997 period. Utility expense
decreased primarily as a result of sub-metering water and sewer where local and
state regulations allow. The Company's objective is to maintain rental expense
growth below 2% during 1998.

The operating performance for the Company's mature apartment communities for
1997 and 1996, summarized by geographic region is outlined below:




For the year ended December 31, 1997, depreciation expense increased partly as a
result of the upgrade, improvement and initiative programs in place at the
Company's mature apartment communities discussed under "Capital Expenditures" in
Liquidity and Capital Resources.

1996-vs-1995
For 1996, the Company's mature communities provided approximately 75% of the
Company's apartment rental income and 71% of its net rental income. Compared to
1995, total rental income from these apartment homes grew 4.2%, or $7.1 million,
reflecting an increase in average monthly rents of 4.6% to $540 per month. In
addition, other income, primarily fee income, increased $1.6 million or 33%. The
rental rate increases were offset by a 1.3% decline in economic occupancy to
92.8%, which resulted from a decrease in physical occupancy of 1.0% and an
increase in credit loss of .3%. The economic occupancy declined due to the
weakening of certain major markets during the last half of 1996 including
Richmond, Columbia, Greenville, Washington DC and Hampton Roads. The Company
attributed the market softness primarily to increased home buying.


For 1996, rental expenses at these communities increased 8.3%, or $6.0 million,
resulting in a decrease in the operating margin of 1.7% to 55.6%. The increase
in rental expenses is partly attributable to the severe winter of 1996 compared
to the relatively mild winter of 1995. Of the $6.0 million increase, $400,000
was weather related which included increases in gas, snow removal and repair
labor expenses. During 1996, the Company's mature apartments experienced
increases in most of its operating expense categories compared to 1995. Payroll
and



payroll-related expenses increased approximately $1.1 million or 7% due to
several factors: (i) increased salaries and wages in 1996 as several positions
were re-priced, (ii) tightening in the labor markets and (iii) overtime
attributable to the upgrade process discussed below. Exterior painting and other
exterior improvements, such as striping and sealcoating parking lots, accounted
for almost $1.1 million of the increase. In addition, real estate taxes,
security and water and sewer expenses increased $232,000, $427,000 and $416,000,
respectively, over 1995. For 1996, casualty insurance expense increased
approximately $406,000 over 1995 as the Company experienced several large
casualty insurance claims relating to hurricane and storm damage. This resulted
in a significant increase in insurance rates beginning with its July 1, 1996
policy year.


In 1996, the Company began the process of upgrading certain of its older
apartment communities in order to enhance rent growth over the long term. The
upgrades relate primarily to the modernization of the kitchens and bathrooms
with new appliances, cabinets, light fixtures, ceiling fans, shelving,
countertops, doors and floor coverings. Although certain of these costs were
capitalized, a portion were expensed. The process of upgrading contributed to
higher turnover costs and increased repair labor costs.


For the year ended December 31, 1996, depreciation expense increased $2.2
million or 6.5%, primarily as a result of capital expenditures. During 1996, the
Company had significant capital expenditures on several apartment communities
acquired during 1994.

Non-Mature Communities
For the 1997 vs. 1996 analysis, the Company's non-mature apartment communities
include: (i) 7,590 apartment homes acquired during 1996, net of one resold, and
a community acquired in 1995 and not stabilized due to significant
rehabilitation, (ii) 13,671 apartment homes acquired on December 31, 1996 in
connection with the South West Merger, net of one resold and one under
development, (iii) 8,524 apartment homes acquired since January 1, 1997, net of
one resold, (iv) 3,222 apartment homes sold since January 1, 1996 and (v) the
1,232 apartment homes developed since January 1, 1996 which is summarized in the
chart below (dollars in thousands):

Year Ended December 31, 1997 and 1996:




Year Ended December 31, 1996 and 1995:



1997-vs-1996
For 1997, the Company's non-mature apartment communities provided approximately
46% of the Company's apartment rental income and 48% of its net rental income.
Rental income, rental expenses and real estate depreciation increased from 1996
to 1997 directly as a result of the increase in the weighted average number of
apartment homes owned during 1997. For the year ended December 31, 1997, average
economic occupancy was 90.7%, and the operating margin was 57.9% for the
non-mature apartment communities.

1996 Acquisitions (excluding the South West Merger)
The 29 apartment communities containing 7,590 apartment homes that were acquired
during 1996 (net of one apartment community containing 122 apartment homes
resold and a community acquired in 1995 and not stabilized




due to significant rehabilitation) provided a significant increase in rental
income, rental expenses and depreciation expense for the Company's apartment
portfolio for 1997. For 1997, these apartment communities had economic occupancy
of 89.8% and an operating margin of 59.4%. The first year return on investment
for these communities in 1997, on an average investment of $319 million, was
9.0% (excluding one community under renovation). This reflects the
under-performance of nine apartment communities in the Greensboro/Winston-Salem,
North Carolina market that were acquired in August 1996 as part of a portfolio
transaction. Occupancy in this region peaked in August 1996 when the Company
acquired these properties and subsequently fell, reflecting an oversupply of
apartment product in this market. However, the Company believes Greensboro is a
good long-term market.


South West Property Trust Inc. (South West)
The acquisition of the 43 apartment communities containing 13,671 apartment
homes included in the South West Merger on December 31, 1996, net of one
apartment community resold and one under development, provided the largest
increases in rental income, rental expenses and depreciation expense for the
Company's entire apartment portfolio for the year ended December 31, 1997. The
return on investment for the South West properties was 9.4% during 1997. For the
year ended December 31, 1997, these apartment communities had economic occupancy
of 92.7% and an operating margin of 57.5%.


1997 Acquisitions, Development and Sales
Included in this category are the following: (i) the 28 apartment communities
containing 8,524 apartment homes acquired by the Company during 1997 (net of one
resold) which are projected to have a first year return on investment of
approximately 9.5%, (ii) the 1,232 apartment homes developed since January 1,
1996 and (iii) the 16 apartment communities containing 3,222 apartment homes
sold since January 1, 1996. The return on investment for 1997 acquisitions on an
average investment of $345 million was 9.3%.

1996 -vs-1995
For 1996, the Company's non-mature apartment communities provided approximately
25% of the Company's rental income and 29% of its net rental income. Rental
income, rental expenses and real estate depreciation increased from 1995 to 1996
directly as a result of the increase in the number of apartment homes acquired
during those years. For the 12,914 apartments in the 52 communities acquired and
developed since January 1, 1995, average economic occupancy for 1996 was 93.1%,
and the operating margin was 59.8%. During 1996, these communities provided
increases of $42.3 million, $16.9 million and $17.2 million, respectively, in
rental income, rental expenses and net rental income. For 1996, the 30 apartment
communities containing 7,712 apartment homes which were acquired during 1996,
provided rental income, rental expenses and net rental income of $27.1 million,
$10.6 million and $11.6 million, respectively, and the 1995 acquisitions which
consisted of 42 apartment communities containing 5,142 apartment homes provided
rental income, rental expenses and net rental income of $30.2 million, $12.1
million and $11.5 million, respectively. 

Interest Expense
During 1997, interest expense increased $28.2 million or $.02 per common share
over 1996. The weighted average amount of debt employed during 1997 was higher
than it was in 1996 ($1 billion in 1997 versus $647 million in 1996) which
accounted for the majority of the increase in interest expense. The weighted
average interest rate on this debt was slightly lower than it was last year,
decreasing from 7.6% in 1996 to 7.5% in 1997. This slightly lower interest rate
during 1997 reflected the fact that the weighted average interest rate on
short-term bank borrowings decreased compared to last year and the Company's
reliance on these short-term bank borrowings increased in 1997 compared to 1996
($74.6 million weighted average outstanding in 1997 versus $49.9 million in
1996). For 1997 and 1996, total interest capitalized was $2.6 million and $.5
million, respectively. The increase reflects increased development activity
during 1997.

For 1996, interest expense increased $10.2 million or $.10 per common share over
1995. The weighted average amount of debt employed during 1996 was higher than
it was in 1995 ($647 million in 1996 versus $512 million in 1995). The weighted
average interest rate on this debt was slightly lower in 1996, decreasing from
7.9% in 1995 to 7.6%. The lower interest rate during 1996 reflected the fact
that the weighted average interest rate on short-term bank borrowings decreased
compared to 1995 and the Company's reliance on these lower rate short-term bank
borrowings increased in 1996 compared to 1995 ($49.9 million weighted average
outstanding in 1996 versus $8.2



million in 1995). The Company funded its 1996 acquisitions and development
activity primarily with debt compared to 1995 when a combination of debt and
equity was used.

General and Administrative
During 1997, general and administrative expenses increased by $1.7 million over
1996. In 1997, the Company incurred increases in most of its general and
administrative expense categories which are directly attributable to the
increased size of the Company. The largest increases occurred in payroll and
payroll-related expenses and investor relations expense. General and
administrative expense as a percentage of rental revenues decreased .4% from
2.2% during 1996 to 1.8% during 1997 primarily due to economies of scale. During
1997, general and administrative expenses grew approximately 31% while rental
income grew by 60% over the same period last year.

During 1996, general and administrative expenses increased by $553,000 over the
same period in the prior year. In 1996, the Company incurred increases in most
of its general and administrative expense categories. The largest increases
occurred in payroll expenses, investor relations expenses and office rent which
are directly related to the higher administrative costs associated with
increasing the size of the Company. However, general and administrative expense,
as a percentage of rental revenues, remained relatively flat compared to 1995.

Impairment Loss
The Company's long-lived assets held and used are periodically evaluated for
impairment and provisions for possible losses are recorded if required. In
connection with the Company's evaluation of its apartment portfolio, during the
third quarter of 1997, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $1.4 million
relating to two apartment communities included in the Company's real estate held
for investment. These apartment communities were subsequently moved to real
estate held for disposition based upon management's decision to dispose of these
properties.

During 1995, the Company recognized a $1.7 million impairment loss associated
with management's decision to sell a shopping center at a discount as part of a
portfolio transaction.

Gains on Sales of Investments
During the year ended December 31, 1997, the Company recognized gains on the
sales of investments aggregating $12.7 million as a result of the following
transactions: (i) the first quarter sale of the Company's investment in the
preferred stock of First Washington Realty Trust, Inc. obtained as partial
consideration in the 1995 sale of four commercial properties on which the
Company recognized a gain for financial reporting purposes of $2.1 million and
(ii) the sale of 12 apartment communities containing 2,570 apartment homes and
one shopping center for an aggregate sales price of $68.4 million on which the
Company recognized aggregate gains for financial reporting purposes of $10.6
million.

During 1996, the Company recognized gains for financial reporting purposes
aggregating $4.3 million on the sale of four apartment communities, four
shopping centers, one industrial park and two parcels of undeveloped land. Seven
of the sales were structured to qualify as tax deferred exchanges which enabled
the Company to defer approximately $7.8 million of capital gains for income tax
purposes.

Dividends to Preferred Shareholders
Dividends to preferred shareholders totaled $17.3 million for 1997 compared to
$9.7 million for 1996. The increase in dividends to preferred shareholders is a
result of the issuance of six million shares of Series B 8.60% Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Stock in May 1997.


Dividends to preferred shareholders totaled $9.7 million for 1996 compared to
$6.6 million for 1995. The increase in dividends to preferred shareholders was a
result of a full year of dividends on the Company's 4.2 million shares of Series
A 9.25% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock in 1996 compared to a partial year
of dividends in 1995.



Inflation
The Company believes that the direct effects of inflation on the Company's
operations have been inconsequential.




Item 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

         See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule on page 44
         of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


Item 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         None.






                                    Part III


Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on May 12, 1998.

         Information required by this item regarding the executive officers of
the Company is included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in the
section entitled "Executive Officers of the Registrant".

Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on May 12, 1998.

Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on May 12, 1998.

Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         Incorporated herein by reference from the Company's definitive proxy
statement to be filed with respect to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on May 12, 1998.




                                    PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

         (a)      (1&2)    See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and
                   Schedule on page 44 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

                  (3)      Exhibits

         The exhibits listed below are filed as part of this annual report.
References under the caption "Location" to exhibits, forms, or other filings
indicate that the form or other filing has been filed, that the indexed exhibit
and the exhibit referred to are the same and that the exhibit referred to is
incorporated by reference.


         The Company agrees to furnish to the Commission on request a copy of
any instrument with respect to long-term debt of the Company or its subsidiaries
the total amount of securities authorized under which does not exceed 10% of the
total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.


Exhibits 10(i) through 10(viii) inclusive, are management contracts or
compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed as an exhibit to this
Form 10-K pursuant to Item 14(c) of this report.

      (b)Reports on Form 8-K





See accompanying notes.





                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY  TRUST, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                     (In thousands, except per share data)







                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (In thousands)



See accompanying notes.







                       United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc.
                Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
                    (In thousands, except per share amounts)






                       UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Organization United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc., a Virginia corporation, was
formed in 1972. The Company is a fully integrated real estate company which
owns, operates and develops apartment communities for its own portfolio. At
December 31, 1997, the Company owned 225 apartment communities containing 62,789
completed apartment homes located primarily throughout the Sunbelt states.

Basis of presentation The accompanying consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries, including United Dominion
Realty, L.P., its Operating Partnership, (collectively, the "Company"). As of
December 31, 1997, United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc. and its wholly-owned
subsidiaries had a 89.4% interest in the Operating Partnership. The financial
statements of the Company include the minority interest of the unitholders in
the operating partnership. All significant inter-company accounts and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain previously reported
amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current financial statement
presentation.

Use of estimates The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Federal income taxes The Company is operated as and elects to be taxed as a real
estate investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
"Code"). Generally, a real estate investment trust which complies with the
provisions of the Code and distributes at least 95% of its taxable income to its
shareholders, does not pay federal income taxes on its distributed income.
Accordingly, no provision has been made for federal income taxes.

Cash and cash equivalents All highly liquid investments with maturities of three
months or less, when purchased, are considered to be cash equivalents.

Real estate assets and depreciation On October 1, 1995, the Company adopted the
provisions of SFAS No. 121 AAccounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of@. The statement requires impairment
losses to be recognized for long-lived assets used in operations when indicators
of impairment are present and the undiscounted future cash flows are not
sufficient to recover the asset's carrying value. If such indicators are
present, an impairment loss is recognized based on the excess of the carrying
amount of the impaired asset over its fair value.

For long-lived assets to be disposed of, impairment losses are recognized when
the fair value of the asset less estimated cost to sell is less than the
carrying value of the asset. Real estate is classified as real estate held for
disposition when management has committed to sell and is actively marketing the
property. Real estate held for disposition is carried at the lower of cost, net
of accumulated depreciation or fair value less cost to dispose, determined on an
asset by asset basis. Depreciation is not recorded on real estate held for
disposition and gains (losses) from initial and subsequent adjustments to the
carrying value of the assets, if any, are recorded as a separate component of
income from continuing operations.

Ordinary repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Significant
improvements, renovations and replacements related to the acquisition and
improvement of real estate assets are capitalized at cost and depreciated over
their estimated useful lives.

Depreciation is computed on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
lives of the related assets which is 35 years for buildings, 10 to 35 years for
major improvements, and 5 to 20 years for fixtures, equipment and other assets.

All development projects and related carrying costs, principally interest and
real estate taxes, are capitalized and reported on the balance sheet as "real
estate under development" until such time as the development project is
completed. Upon completion, the total cost of the building and associated land
is transferred to real estate held for investment and the assets




are depreciated over their estimated useful lives. The cost of development
projects includes interest, property taxes, insurance and allocated development
overhead during the construction period.

Interest and real estate taxes incurred during the construction period are
capitalized as part of the projects under development to the extent that such
charges do not cause the carrying value of the asset to exceed its net
realizable value. During 1997, 1996 and 1995, total interest capitalized was
$2,634,000, $541,000 and $40,000, respectively.

Revenue recognition The Company's apartment homes are leased under operating
leases with terms generally of one year or less. Rental income is recognized as
it is earned, which is not materially different than on a straight-line basis.

Deferred financing costs Deferred financing costs include fees and other costs
incurred to obtain long-term debt obligations and are generally amortized over a
period not to exceed the term of the related debt.

Interest rate swap agreements The Company enters into interest rate swap
agreements to alter the interest rate characteristics of outstanding debt
instruments. Each interest rate swap agreement is designated with all or a
portion of the principal balance and term of a specific debt obligation. The
interest rate swaps involve the periodic exchange of payments over the life of
the related agreements. Amounts received or paid on the interest rate swaps are
recorded on an accrual basis as an adjustment to the related interest expense of
the outstanding debt based on the accrual method of accounting. The related
amounts payable to and receivable from counterparties are included in other
liabilities and other assets, respectively. The fair value of and changes in the
fair value as a result of changes in market interest rates for the interest rate
swap agreements are not reflected in the financial statements.

Gains and losses on terminations of interest rate swap agreements are deferred
as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the outstanding debt and amortized
into interest expense over the remaining term of the original contract life of
the terminated swap agreement. In the event of early extinguishment of a
designated debt obligation, any realized or unrealized gain or loss from the
swap would be recognized in income coincident with the extinguishment gain or
loss. There were no gains or losses on terminations of interest rate swap
agreements recognized by the Company for the periods presented.

Any interest rate swap agreements that are not designated with outstanding debt
or notional amounts of interest rate swap agreements in excess of the original
amounts of the underlying debt obligations are recorded as an asset or liability
at fair value, with the changes in the fair value recorded in other income or
expense (fair value method).

Interest rate risk management agreements The Company enters into interest rate
futures contracts to hedge interest rate risk associated with anticipated debt
transactions. The Company follows SFAS No.80 "Accounting for Futures Contracts"
which permits hedge accounting for anticipatory transactions meeting certain
criteria. Gains and losses, if any, on these transactions are deferred as an
adjustment to the carrying amount of the outstanding debt and amortized over the
terms of the related debt as an adjustment to interest expense. The fair values
of interest rate risk management agreements are not recognized in the financial
statements. At the time the anticipated transaction is no longer likely to
occur, the Company would mark the derivative instrument to market and would
recognize any adjustment in the consolidated statement of operations.

Earnings per share In 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
Statement No. 128, "Earnings per Share" (Statement 128). Statement 128 replaced
the calculation of primary and fully diluted earnings per share with basic and
diluted earnings per share. Unlike primary earnings per share, basic earnings
per share excludes any dilutive effects of options, warrants and convertible
securities. Diluted earnings per share is similar to fully diluted earnings per
share. All earnings per share amounts for all periods presented, and where
appropriate, are restated to conform to the Statement 128 requirements. The
early extinguishment of debt does not have an effect on the earnings per share
calculation for the periods presented. The affect of the conversion of the
operating partnership units is antidilutive and is therefore not included in the
following calculations. The weighted average effect of the conversion of the
oerating partnership units for the years ended




December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 was 317,120, 68,502 and 0, respectively. The
following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earning per
share (dollars in thousands, except per share data):



Investment in marketable equity securities In connection with a shopping center
sale in 1995, the Company received marketable preferred stock with a fair value
of $7.7 million on the date of receipt. In January 1997, the Company sold the
preferred stock and received $9.9 million in cash and recognized a $2.1 million
gain on the sale of investment for financial reporting purposes.

Minority interest Capital contributions, distributions and profits and losses
are allocated to minority interests in accordance with the terms of the
individual partnership agreements. Operating Partnership Units can be exchanged
for cash or shares of the Company's common stock on a one-for-one basis, at the
option of the Company.

Stock based compensation In October, 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (Statement
123) which provides an alternative to APB Opinion No.25 in accounting for
stock-based compensation plans and is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 31, 1995. The Company has elected to follow Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB 25) and related
Interpretations in accounting for its employee stock options because the
alternative fair value accounting provided for under Statement 123 requires use
of option valuation models that were not developed for use in valuing employee
stock options. Under APB 25, because the exercise price of the Company's
employee stock options equals the market price of the underlying stock on the
date of grant, no compensation cost has been recognized.

Pending accounting pronouncements In February 1997, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued SFAS No. 129, "Disclosure of Information about Capital
Structure" (Statement 129), which establishes standards for disclosing
information about an entity's capital structure. Statement 129 is effective for
periods ending after December 15, 1997. The adoption of Statement 129 did not
impact the Company's capital structure disclosures as the Company was already in
compliance with Statement 129.

In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 130
"Reporting Comprehensive Income" (Statement 130) and SFAS No. 131 "Disclosure
about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information " (Statement 131) which
are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1997. The Company
will adopt Statement 130 and





Statement 131 with the fiscal year beginning January 1, 1998. Statement 130 and
Statement 131 do not have a material impact on the financial results or
financial condition of the Company, but will result in certain changes in
required disclosures. Management is evaluating the additional disclosure
requirements for the Company upon the implementation of Statement 130 and
Statement 131.

2.  Real Estate Owned

The Company operates primarily in 23 separate markets dispersed throughout a 15
state area. At December 31, 1997, the Company's largest apartment market was
Dallas, where it owned 14% of its apartment homes. Excluding Dallas, the Company
did not own more than 6% of its apartment homes in any one market.

The following table summarizes real estate held for investment at December 31,
(dollars in thousands):








The following is a summary of real estate owned by market at December 31, 1997
(dollars in thousands):

Real Estate Held for Investment by Market
(Excluding real estate under development)





                      UNITED DOMINION REALTY TRUST, INC..
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Real Estate Held for Disposition (B)



(A)           There are 31 apartment communities encumbered by two REMIC
              financings and one note payable-secured aggregating  $127.6
              million.

(B)           Real estate held for disposition contributed net rental income
              (rental income less rental expenses and depreciation expense) in
              the aggregate amount of approximately $19.5 million for the year
              ended December 31, 1997. The Company expects to dispose of these
              properties within the next twelve months.

In connection with the Company's periodic evaluation of its apartment portfolio,
during the third quarter of 1997, the Company recorded an impairment loss of
$1.4 million relating to two apartment communities included in the Company's
real estate held for investment. These apartment communities were subsequently
moved to real estate held for disposition based upon management's decision to
dispose of these properties.

The following is a reconciliation of the carrying amount of real estate held for
investment (dollars in thousands):



The following is a reconciliation of accumulated depreciation for real estate
held for investment (dollars in thousands):



   *  Includes $752,000,  $629,000 and $503,000 for 1997, 1996 and 1995,
     respectively, classified as "Other  depreciation and amortization" in the
     Consolidated Statements of Operations.




3. Acquisitions

During 1997, the Company acquired 29 apartment communities containing 8,628
apartment homes for a total cost of $344 million, including closing costs and
three parcels of land for development at an aggregate cost of $4 million. In
connection with these acquisitions the Company assumed mortgage debt of $60
million and issued 849,000 Operating Partnership Units valued at $13 million. On
December 31, 1996, the Company acquired South West Property Trust Inc. in a
statutory merger (the "South West Merger"). South West Property Trust Inc.
consisted primarily of real estate assets valued at $560 million which included
14,320 completed apartment homes and 675 apartment homes under development. In
connection with the South West Merger, the Company issued 22.8 million shares of
its common stock valued at $14.125 per share for total market equity of $322
million, assumed debt and other liabilities of $246 million and incurred
transaction costs of $4 million for total consideration of approximately $572
million. No goodwill was recorded in connection with this transaction. In
addition to the South West Merger, during 1996 the Company acquired 30 apartment
communities containing 7,172 apartment homes in separate transactions at a total
cost of approximately $321 million, including closing costs. In connection with
these acquisitions, the Company assumed $138 million of secured debt, issued 1.7
million shares of the Company's common stock valued at $24 million, assumed
unsecured debt of $25 million and issued 136,000 Operating Partnership Units
valued at $2 million.

Information concerning unaudited pro forma results of operations for the years
ended December 31, 1997 and 1996 are set forth below. For 1997, such pro forma
information assumes the acquisition of 17 apartment communities containing 5,659
homes at a total cost of $219 million, as if the transactions had occurred on
January 1, 1996. For 1996, such pro forma information assumes the following
transactions occurred on January 1, 1996: (i) the South West Merger, (ii) the
acquisition during 1996 of 20 apartment communities containing 5,157 apartment
homes at a total cost of approximately $213 million and (iii) the acquisition of
17 apartment communities containing 5,659 apartment homes at a total cost of
approximately $219 million.



The unaudited information is not necessarily indicative of what the Company's
consolidated results of operations would have been if the acquisitions had
occurred at the beginning of each period presented. Additionally, the pro forma
information does not purport to be indicative of the Company's results of
operations for future periods.






4. Notes Payable-Secured

Notes payable-secured, which encumber $849.3 million or 34% of the Company's
real estate owned, ($1.7 billion or 66% of the Company's real estate owned is
unencumbered) consist of the following at December 31, 1997 (dollars in
thousands):



Fixed-Rate
Mortgage Notes Payable Fixed-rate mortgage notes payable are generally due in
monthly installments of principal and interest and mature at various dates from
June 1998 through November 2008. These notes payable carry interest rates
ranging from 7.00% to 9.63%. During 1997, the Company assumed six fixed-rate
mortgage notes payable aggregating $48.5 million with a weighted average
interest rate of 8.51% in connection with the acquisition of apartment
communities.

Tax-Exempt Secured Notes Payable Fixed-rate mortgage notes which secure related
tax-exempt housing bond issues mature at various dates through December 2025.
Interest on these notes is generally payable in semi-annual installments. During
1997, the Company assumed one tax exempt note payable in the amount of $11.5
million bearing interest of 8.10%.

REMIC Financings In connection with the South West Merger, the Company assumed
two fixed-rate REMIC Financings which bear interest of 7.01% and 8.50% and
mature on December 10, 2000 and February 10, 2001, respectively. The Company
makes monthly installments of principal and interest over the term of the REMIC
Financings. Principal balances at maturity are expected to be $36.5 million and
$41.7 million, respectively.

Secured Notes Payable Secured notes payable consist of a $39 million
variable-rate secured senior credit facility and a $6 million variable-rate
construction note payable, both of which mature in August 1999. The
variable-rate secured notes payable bear interest at LIBOR + 1% or 6.63% at
December 31, 1997. The Company has five interest rate swap agreements
aggregating $45 million under which the Company pays a fixed-rate of interest
and receives a variable-rate on the notional amounts. The interest rate swap
agreements effectively change the Company's interest rate exposure on the $45
million secured notes payable from a variable-rate to a weighted average
fixed-rate of 7.29%.

Variable-Rate
Secured Notes Payable Two of the variable rate secured notes payable consist of
construction notes payable, both of which mature in August 1999 and bear
interest at LIBOR + 1% or 6.63% at December 31, 1997. The third variable rate
secured




note payable is a mortgage note payable which matures in March 2001 and
bears interest of 7.15% at December 31, 1997.

Tax-Exempt-Secured Notes Payable    At December 31, 1997, the Company had one
variable-rate tax-exempt mortgage note outstanding which matures in December
2002 and carries interest of 5.43%.

The aggregate maturities of  secured notes payable for the five years subsequent
to December 31, 1997 were as follows (dollars in thousands):







5.   Notes Payable-Unsecured

A summary of notes payable-unsecured at December 31, 1997 and 1996 is as
follows:


(a)           Payable in six equal principal installments of $7.4 million.
(b)           Payable in annual principal installments of $2 million, of which,
              the final installment is due November 1998.
(c)           Includes $6.2 million and $5.6 million at December 31, 1997 and
              1996, respectively, of deferred gain from the termination of
              interest rate hedge transactions.
(d)           Debentures include an investor put feature which grants the
              debentureholder a one time option to redeem debentures at the end
              of 10 years.

In November 1996, the Company entered into an interest rate protection agreement
for a notional amount of $100 million in anticipation of issuance of debt early
in 1997. The interest rate protection agreement was terminated simultaneously
with the issuance of $125 million of 7.25% Notes in January 1997. The Company
received $1.5 million in cash on the settlement which had the economic effect of
lowering the interest rate on the Notes to approximately 7.14% over their ten
year term.





Information concerning short-term bank borrowings is summarized in the table
that follows:



The underlying loan agreements contain certain covenants which, among other
things, require the Company to maintain minimum consolidated tangible net worth,
as defined, and maintain certain financial ratios.

At December 31, 1997, the Company had in place a syndicated three year $200
million unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility") of which
$136 million was outstanding at December 31,1997. The Credit Facility will
expire on August 4, 2000. Borrowings under the Credit Facility generally bear
interest at LIBOR plus 42.5 basis points. The Company is also required to pay a
fee of .175% of the committed amount. This fee and the interest rate are both
subject to change as the Company's credit ratings change.

At December 31, 1997, the Company had a $50 million interim syndicated 364 day
credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement') expiring on August 3, 1998. There were
no borrowings outstanding under this Credit Agreement at December 31, 1997.
Borrowings generally bear interest at the LIBOR plus 47.5 basis points. The
Company is required to pay a fee of .125% of the committed amount. This fee and
the interest rate are both subject to change as the Company's credit ratings
change.

At December 31, 1997, the Company had a $15 million unsecured line of credit
with a commercial bank, of which $.6 million was outstanding at December 31,
1997. Currently expiring on June 30, 1998, this credit facility is renewable
annually by mutual agreement between the Company and the bank. The line is
subject to periodic bank review and requires the Company to maintain a
depository relationship with the bank, however, there are no formal compensating
balance arrangements. Borrowings bear interest generally at negotiated rates in
line with borrowings under the Company's revolving credit facility.

The Credit Facility and Credit Agreement are subject to customary financial
covenants and limitations.






6. Financial Instruments

Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The following disclosures of estimated fair value of financial instruments were
determined by the Company using available market information and appropriate
valuation methodologies. The carrying amounts and estimated fair value of the
Company's financial instruments at December 31, 1997 and 1996, both on and
off-balance sheet, are summarized as follows:



The following methods and assumptions were used by the Company in estimating the
fair values set forth above.

Cash and cash equivalents The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents
approximates fair value.

Investment in equity securities At December 31, 1996, securities
available-for-sale were carried at fair value based upon market quotations.

Notes payable Estimated fair value is based on mortgage rates and tax-exempt
bond rates believed to be available to the Company for issuance of debt with
similar terms and remaining lives. The carrying amount of the Company's
variable-rate notes payable-secured approximate fair value at December 31, 1997
and 1996. The carrying amounts of the Company's borrowings under short-term
revolving credit agreements and lines of credit reasonably approximate their
fair values.

Interest rate swap agreements Fair value is based on external market quotations
from investment banks.

Interest rate risk management agreements Fair value is based on external market
quotations from investment banks.

Derivative Instruments
Interest rate swap agreements At December 31, 1997, the Company had five
interest rate swap agreements outstanding with an aggregate notional amount of
$45 million. These agreements effectively fix the interest rate on certain
variable-rate secured notes payable to a weighted average fixed rate of 7.29%.
These contracts have a weighted average maturity of 3.6 years and mature at
various times from May 2000 to July 2004. On May 1, 1997, an interest rate swap
agreement with a commercial lender expired with a notional value of $83 million
which effectively changed the Company's interest exposure from a variable rate
to a weighted average fixed rate of 6.45% during the first four months of 1997.
The Company's credit exposure on swaps is limited to the value of interest rate
swaps that are favorable to the Company at December 31, 1997. At December 31,
1997, the market value of interest rate swaps in an unfavorable value position
to the Company was $547,000.


At December 31, 1996 the Company had six interest rate swap agreements with an
aggregate notional amount of $122.2 million outstanding and had a net fair value
which was unfavorable to the Company of $589,000.

For all periods presented, the Company had no deferred gains or losses relating
to terminated swap contracts.




Interest rate risk management agreements The Company deferred gains of $3.0
million in 1996 related to the termination of interest rate risk management
agreements used to hedge $200 million of medium-term notes issued in 1996. These
agreements had the economic impact of reducing the interest rate from 7.95% to
7.61% over the ten year term of the Notes.

The Company deferred gains of $1.5 million in 1997 related to the termination of
an interest rate risk management agreement used to hedge the issuance of $125
million of Notes issued in 1997. This agreement had the economic impact of
reducing the interest rate from 7.31% to 7.14% over the ten year term of the
Notes.

In order to reduce the interest rate risk associated with the anticipated
issuance of unsecured notes during 1998, the Company entered into a $100 million
(notional amount) fixed pay forward starting swap agreement with a major Wall
Street investment banking firm in July 1997. The transaction allowed the Company
to lock-in a ten year Treasury rate of 6.486% on or before September 9, 1998.
This interest rate risk management agreement had an unfavorable position to the
Company of $5.6 million at December 31, 1997.

The Company has not obtained collateral or other security to support financial
instruments. In the event of nonperformance by the counterparty, the Company's
credit loss on its derivative instruments is limited to the value of the
derivative instruments that are favorable to the Company at December 31, 1997.
However, such nonperformance is not anticipated as the counterparties are highly
rated, credit quality U.S. financial institutions.

7. Income Taxes

The differences between net income available to common shareholders for
financial reporting purposes and taxable income before dividend deductions
relate primarily to temporary differences, principally real estate depreciation
and the tax deferral of certain gains on property sales. The temporary
differences in depreciation result from differences in the book and tax basis of
certain real estate assets and the differences in the methods of depreciation
and lives of the real estate assets.

All realized gains (losses) on sales of investments are distributed to
shareholders if and when recognized for income tax purposes. Since 1980, gains
aggregating approximately $30.0 million have been deferred for income tax
purposes and are undistributed at December 31, 1997.

For income tax purposes, distributions paid to common shareholders consist of
ordinary income, capital gains, return of capital or a combination thereof. For
the three years ended December 31, 1997, distributions paid per common share
were taxable as follows:



8. Employee Benefit Plans

Profit Sharing Plan

The "United Dominion Realty Trust, Inc. Profit Sharing Plan" (the Plan) is a
defined contribution plan covering all eligible full-time employees. Under the
Plan, the Company makes discretionary profit sharing and matching contributions
to the Plan as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors. Aggregate contributions, both matching and discretionary, which are
included in the Company's consolidated statements of operations for the three
years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 were $646,000, $600,000 and
$536,000, respectively.




Stock Option Plan

The Company's 1985 Share Option Plan, (the "Plan"), authorizes the grant of
options, at the discretion of the Board, to certain officers, directors and key
employees of the Company, for up to 4,200,000 shares of the Company's common
stock. The Plan generally provides, among other things, that options be granted
at exercise prices not lower than the market value of the shares on the date of
grant. Shares under options which subsequently expire or are canceled are
available for subsequent grant. For options granted prior to December 12, 1995,
the optionee has up to five years from the date on which the options first
become exercisable during which to exercise the options. For all options granted
subsequent to December 12, 1995, the options have 10 year terms and typically
vest on December 31 of the year subsequent to grant.

Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is required by
Statement 123, and has been determined as if the Company had accounted for its
employee stock options under the fair value method of accounting as defined in
Statement 123. The fair value for these options was estimated at the date of
grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted
average assumptions for 1997, 1996 and 1995:



For purposes of the pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the
options is amortized to expense over the options' vesting period. Statement 123
is applicable only to options granted subsequent to December 31, 1994,
consequently, the pro forma effect is not fully reflected until 1997. The
Company's pro forma information is as follows: (in thousands, except per share
amounts):






A summary of the Company's stock option activity during the three years ended
December 31, 1997 is provided in the following table (in thousand of dollars,
except per share amounts).



The weighted average remaining contractual life on all options outstanding is
7.9 years.  Approximately 2,586,500 of share options had exercise prices between
$14.25 and $15.38, and approximately 812,100 had exercise prices between $11.56
and $13.63.

The weighted-average fair value of options granted during 1997, 1996 and 1995
was $1.35,  $1.43 and $1.58, respectively.

9. Shareholders' Equity

Preferred Stock Both Series A and B Preferred Stock have no stated par value,
with a liquidation preference of $25 per share. With no voting rights and no
stated maturity, the preferred stock in both series is not subject to any
sinking fund or mandatory redemption and is not convertible into any other
securities of the Company. All dividends due and payable on the Preferred Stock
have been accrued or paid as of the end of each fiscal year.

Officers' Stock Purchase and Loan Plan Under the Officer Stock Purchase and Loan
Plan, certain officers have purchased common stock at the then current market
price with financing provided by the Company at 7.5% interest only. The
underlying notes mature beginning in November 1998. A total of 582,500 shares
are available for future issuance under this Plan.

Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan The Company's Dividend
Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan (the "Plan") allows common and preferred
shareholders the opportunity to purchase, through reinvestment of cash
dividends, additional shares of the Company's common stock at a discount. As of
December 31, 1997, 3,915,493 shares of common stock had been issued under the
Company's Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. Shares in the amount of
84,507 were reserved for further issuance under this plan at December 31, 1997,
and 10,000,000 additional shares of common stock were registered for sale on
January 16, 1998. During 1997, 2,852,231 shares were issued under the Plan for a
total market equity value of approximately $39.7 million.




Purchase Rights On January 27, 1998, the Board of Directors authorized a
Shareholders Rights Plan (the "Rights Plan") which will become exercisable only
if a person or group (the "Acquiring Person") acquires or announces a tender
offer for more than 15% of the outstanding common stock of the Company. Upon
exercise, the Company may issue one share of common stock in exchange for each
Right. Each Right will entitle the holder to purchase for $45 one thousandth of
a share of Series C Preferred stock or, at the option of the company, the
Company's common stock having a value of $90.

10. Unaudited Summarized Consolidated Quarterly Financial Data
Summarized consolidated quarterly financial data for the year ended December 31,
1997 is as follows (In thousands, except per share information):






Summarized consolidated quarterly financial data for the year ended December 31,
1996 is as follows (In thousands, except per share information):



The 1996 and first three quarters of 1997 earnings per share amounts have been
restated to comply with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128,
"Earnings per Share".

11.   Subsequent Events

On December 19, 1997, the Company executed a definitive merger agreement (the
"Merger Agreement") pursuant to which ASR Investment Corporation ("ASR") would
be merged with and into a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company which would
continue the geographic expansion of the Company into the Western region of the
United States. At December 31, 1997, ASR owned and operated 41 apartment
communities containing approximately 7,500 apartment homes in the Southwest and
Northwest. Pursuant the Merger Agreement, each share of the ASR's common stock
will be exchanged for 1.575 shares of the Company's common stock. The merger has
been structured as a tax-free transaction and will be treated as a purchase for
accounting purposes. The aggregate purchase price is estimated at approximately
$330 million, including closing costs. The merger, expected to close on or about
March 27, 1998, is subject to ASR's shareholder approval and customary
regulatory and other conditions. There can be no assurances that the transaction
will be consummated.





SCHEDULE III.
Summary of Real Estate Owned




(a) The aggregate cost for federal income tax purposes was approximately $2.3
    billion and $1.9 billion at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

(b) Represents a $41,494,601 REMIC financing encumbering 12 apartment
    communities.

(c) Represents a $47,079,012 REMIC financing encumbering 13 apartment
    communities.

(d) represents a $39,000,000 notes payable-secured which encumbers six apartment
    communities.

(e) The depreciable life for all buildings is 35 years.

(f) The Company's long-lived assets are periodically evaluated for impairment
    and provisions for possible investment losses are recorded if required. The
    following properties have a provision for possible investment loss recorded
    as follows: (i) The Ledges - $300,000, (ii) Patriot Place - $257,000 (iii)
    Covington Crossing - $1,100,000, (iv) Gloucester Exchange - $775,000 and (v)
    Meadowdale Office Park - $300,000.


